-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sins of a Solar Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sinsofasolarempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dangerously addictive and enjoyable space strategy.
 Real-time gameplay feels original and fresh.
 Epic feel with titanic battles.
 Excellent single- and multiplayer gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Games can take a very long time to resolve.
 You won't get a lot of sleep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 4,984 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Developer: Ironclad Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 4, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This isn't just the first great strategy game of 2008. It's also an absolute must-have if you love 
 space strategy. 

  There's a blissful nirvana strategy gamers yearn for, even though experiencing it usually involves 
 a considerable loss of sleep along with a steep drop in productivity for days on end. Sins of a 
 Solar Empire is one of those rare games that can deliver an incredibly addictive experience that 
 devours a healthy chunk of your life, and you won't mind a bit. Not bad for a debut game from a 
 relatively small developer. Ironclad and publisher Stardock should be proud, because they've delivered 
 one of the most original, compelling strategy games in recent years.  

  Let's get this clear: Sins isn't anything like a typical turn-based space strategy game such as 
 Galactic Civilizations or the granddaddy of the genre, Master of Orion. Instead, this is a real-time 
 game -- but don't let that make you think that it's Command &amp; Conquer in space. Though it's in 
 real time, Sins unfolds at such a leisurely pace and can happen on such a gigantic scale that you'll 
 easily manage five or six gigantic fleets at a time as you battle across multiple star systems 
 that contain dozens of worlds.  

           This medium-sized map comprises only a single star system. Larger maps in the game contain 
 up to five, linked together by wormholes.      

  The game is set in a distant future where the Trader Emergency Coalition -- an alliance of various 
 human worlds -- bands together in the face of two threats. The first is the Advent, an offshoot of 
 humanity that has embraced an alien philosophy and has come looking to spread the word by force. 
 Even direr is the Vasari, a mysterious alien race that seeks the annihilation of both factions. 
 Sins lets you play from the perspective of any of the three factions, which are approximate mirrors 
 of one another.  

  Like many space strategy games, the action begins with you in control of a single planet, and from 
 there you must explore the rest of the system worlds, locating planets to colonize, as well as 
 resources that you can exploit to fuel your research and ship-building needs. Sins isn't as ambitious 
 as other space strategy games that task you with taking over a galaxy; instead, the action is limited 
 to a maximum of five local stars, each with a network of planets around it. Travel among planets 
 is limited via strict space lanes, so some planets are natural choke points. Planets themselves 
 come in four varieties. Terran and desert planets can be colonized easily, but to settle ice and 
 volcano planets you must research the appropriate technology first. Asteroids can also be colonized, 
 but they're so small that they can support only tiny populations, making them ideal for outposts. 

  To support your expansion, you'll have to build a plethora of vessels. Scouts explore the planetary 
 systems, locating ideal worlds to colonize with colony ships, as well as providing advance warning 
 on incoming enemy fleets. Warships come in three classes. The smallest are frigates, and they include 
 frontline combatants, siege vessels that can pummel planets with nuclear weapons, and missile platforms. 
 Then there are larger cruiser-class vessels, such as escort carriers that can deploy squadrons 
 of fighters and bombers to heavier warships. The crme de la crme, though, are the capital ships, 
 which you can build only a handful of. Capital ships are huge, expensive, and powerful, but they're 
 also like the characters in a role-playing game in that they can level up as they gain experience, 
 making them more powerful and unlocking unique and potent abilities. The ability to gain experience 
 creates a powerful dynamic, as you want to get your capital ships into fights so they can level 
 up, but you also want to protect them from danger, because the loss of them can be devastating. 
 However, if you get a task force of high-level capital ships and smaller vessels together, you'll 
 have a force to be reckoned with.  

           Like characters in a role-playing game, capital ships become more powerful as they level 
 up.      

  Good strategy games force you to constantly make decisions about where to allocate your resources, 
 and Sins does an exceptional job of this, mainly because you'll usually find yourself having to 
 juggle where to invest your precious resources. There are three resources in the game: money, metal, 
 and crystal. Money is generated by having large planetary populations or by building trade stations. 
 Metal and crystal can only be harvested on small asteroids. Building warships or structures, making 
 planetary improvements, and conducting research consumes large amounts of these resources, and 
 usually you'll have a shortage of at least one of them, which forces you to make some difficult 
 decisions.  

  It's also possible to engage in a bit of diplomacy, though Sins takes a different tack than a lot 
 of other strategy games. You can do the standard diplomatic maneuvers like declaring a nonaggression 
 pact or forming an alliance with someone, but to do so, you've got to prove your worth to that 
 faction by pursuing missions it puts toward you. For example, one faction might task you with destroying 
 a certain number of defensive structures of another faction. Successfully completing the mission 
 will earn you favor, though not completing the mission will earn disfavor. In order to form an 
 alliance with any faction, you'll have to complete several missions for it.     

   

  Then there's the pirate system, which is a brilliant way of waging war by proxy. The pirates are 
 third-party raiders who launch attacks periodically. You can influence whom they attack by raising 
 the bounty on one of your opponent's heads. However, this creates an eBay-like bidding war, where 
 factions are trying to either get the bounties off of their heads or put them on opponents they 
 really need attacked. The danger is that when you bid, you actually put money into the pot that 
 you can't withdraw, even if you lose. That means that if you get into an astronomical bidding war 
 and win, the bad news is that in the next round, the opponent already has a mountain of money in 
 the auction that you have to overcome. The other danger is that the more money there is in the 
 bidding, the bigger the pirate attack will be. It's a pretty slick system, though its one flaw 
 is that it requires you to babysit each auction when it happens, a process that takes a minute 
 or two. Given that attacks happen every 10 or 15 minutes, this is an activity that takes away from 
 the overall pace of the game.  

           The tech tree will demand your attention, as you can research better weapons, armor, new 
 ship classes, and much more.      

  All of this sounds like it might be a handful to handle in real time, but Sins unfolds at a stately, 
 almost leisurely, pace. The action is fast enough that you're constantly busy making decisions, 
 but it's rarely frenetic to the point where you're overwhelmed. To help you manage a huge empire, 
 there's an innovative empire tree on the side of the screen that gives you an outline of all of 
 your planets, fleets, and factories. Let's say you have a fleet battling in a distant system and 
 taking losses. Without zooming away from the battle, you can select a nearby shipyard and start 
 ordering up replacement ships that can automatically join the fleet. With the empire tree, it's 
 relatively easy to manage multiple fleets consisting of dozens of warships each.  

  If Sins has a downside, it's that larger-scale games will easily take hours upon hours to resolve. 
 Medium-size maps will chew up six to eight hours, often to the point where you will be looking 
 at the clock and wondering just how effective you're going to be the next day on about three or 
 four hours of sleep. Larger games can take even longer at the default speed settings. Things would 
 end a lot faster if there were alternate victory conditions or if the artificial intelligence would 
 surrender after it clearly has no chance of winning. Instead, you have to pulverize each enemy 
 position before the game ends, a process that can take a while. One thing that you can do while 
 you're finishing someone off, though, is to work on accomplishing achievements. The game has its 
 own achievement system that rewards you for remarkable performance, such as wiping out a certain 
 number of enemy capital ships or settling a pirate base. One dastardly achievement challenges you 
 to win without researching a single military technology.  

  The game features random maps and scenarios, but one thing that's missing is a campaign. Still, 
 Sins of a Solar Empire is an excellent single-player game and one that translates well into the 
 multiplayer realm, especially since it's a lot harder to beat a human opponent than it is a machine. 
 The built-in server browser connects to Ironclad Online, where it's easy to create a multiplayer 
 game or join up with others. The one thing to keep in mind is that, for the sake of brevity, it's 
 usually best to go with small maps in order for the game to resolve in one sitting. Though it's 
 possible to save a multiplayer game, it will take a considerable amount of dedication and scheduling 
 by all parties involved to tackle a huge game.  

           Did someone say achievements? If you want to go for 100 percent, you can try pursuing 
 some of these challenging tasks.      

  Finally, the game's visual presentation is excellent. It's not a graphically flashy game, but it 
 works on many levels. The ship designs look cool up close, and watching fleets slug it out is always 
 fun. Pull the camera back, and ships and squadrons are replaced by distinctive icons, giving you 
 the big picture even when you've zoomed out and are looking at a solar system as a whole. The interface 
 is also quite elegant, and it scales nicely to a wide variety of display sizes. The audio and sound 
 effects aren't quite as distinctive, and the music provides some decent sonic wallpaper.  

  In sum, Sins of a Solar Empire is an absolute must-have if you enjoy strategy games. It's an addictive, 
 deep game that elevates space strategy to new levels. At the same time, it provides a fresh, original 
 take on one of the oldest and most revered subgenres in all of strategy gaming.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (262 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blackjack002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Few RTS games have impressed me as much as Sins of a Solar Empire. The game has a superb level 
 of customization of maps and opponent styles which makes this game endlessly playable. The graphics 
 are superb on most up-to-date computers and the sheer size of fleets and empires that can be built 
 is impressive as are the battle scenes. The enemy AI is challenging, the game interface is intuitive, 
 the economy component of the game is integrated well with the combat and diplomacy and is a seamless 
 part of the gameplay. The story is not a major factor in the game but it does flesh out the background 
 sufficiently enough for the game to make sense of the game environment. While it is an impressive 
 game by any measure Sins requires a serious time commitment in order for the game to really get 
 going and sometimes the sheer scope of the game can be overwhelming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  My friend bought this game for me as a gift. He asked the a worker at a Russian store, What is 
 the best strategy game you have." Which, he replied," Sins of a Solar Empire."
  
  One of the best cosmic strategy games there is. If you dont like slow moving strategy games, don't 
 purchase this game. 
  
  Single player : Saddly no campaign. Also, a meagre 3 races, we excpect more these days. You choose 
 a map, a race, the picture of your commander, and begin. You start out with one planet, one frigate 
 port, and 2 workers. Everything occurs in space in this game. Saddly, you can't set foot on a planet 
 with infantry or stuff like that. All of your units are space ships. The resources consist of credits, 
 metal, and crystal. You can buy or sell crystals on the criminal market. Also, you may pay pirates 
 credits to attack a specific race. The more money there is to target one race, thats the one the 
 pirates are after. Overall, great strategy and pretty fun. 
  
  Multiplayer : Pretty fun. Except you and your ally ( if you have one ) start out very far off and 
 if you need help. Forget about it. Most of the time your on your one and allies don't come in with 
 huge fleets and help you out. 
  
  Sound : Excellent audio and beggining. The beggining cinametic starts out pretty well as it covers 
 what is happening in this game and what it is about. Some of the best audio youll get in a while 
 of gaming.
  
  Graphics : Superb quality of spaceships and buildings. Planets are a bit blurry. ( I have all my 
 graphics/video settings on maximum. ) Although sometimes my game freezes and in about 5 minutes 
 crashes after being frozen the entire time. Even ctrl alt delete wont get you out of this mess. 
 
  
  Again, overall, a great game with great strategy lacking a few minor things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  So I get straight to the point of reviewing it along with the "Entrenchment downloadable expansion" 
 the game has evolve so much that I really need to make a review out of this.
  
  this is a real time strategy games unlike any others out there.
  
  1. Graphics and models -- 
 this one is okay, depending on your point of view of the spaceship models. each faction has a unique 
 look, explosion effects are amazingly good, lasers and plasma always look fantastic when it fires!. 
 (you need to zoom in to see them in full glory) .
  
  2. Gameplay -- just like in any other RTS. build, harvest, research and conquer!. However, the 
 Spaceships lifepoints are tough, specially the capital ships. luckly the ai ships are all in auto-fire 
 and choose thier best targets. Most special abilites are also autocast, but can be turn on/off. 
 
  
  One battle will take 4 to 6 hours of gameplay, serously as structure and ships are tough, and so 
 do the planet bombarding takes some time. However, this has been improve in the patch. with +/- 
 speeding up your game up to maximum of 8x times. but the game is pretty much unpredictable.
  
  3. Sound -- Music are okay, some are cool, some are just weird. sound effects are great. no 
 problem with that. 
  
  4. Story -- None, only gives you an intro to explain a little background of the solar empire war. 
 the entire game is a skirmish / multiplayer mayhem.
  
  5. Strategy -- very unpredictable even against AI random. depending on what map you play, some 
 has more crystal than metal or vise versa. there is always a black market for you to buy metal 
 and crystal at more expensive rate. Strategy is even deeper with "Entrenchment Expansion".
  
  Entrenchment Downloadable Expansion.
  1. Additiional Starbase, you are now able to build 
 a starbase on each gravity well, you can even build it on your enemy territory. :) I always set 
 the game at High Resouces. ( available on patch update and Entrenchment)
  
  2. Gameplay Strategy has totally change, as starbase can have multiple upgrades like Hangar/ Wepean 
 / Hull / Trade port / culture and more. each faction starbase has unique upgrades. research tree 
 now becomes 4 instead of only 3. 
  
  3. additional long rage units for killing structures are added, you might need it to destroy a 
 fully upgraded Starbase, as a fully upgraded starbase can be a force to recon with, you are also 
 able to deploy mines. Strikecraft-Carriers are now more usefull, so you can attack a starbase at 
 long range. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a RTS game from Ironcald Games set in space. First of there is no single 
 player campaign; there are only scenarios which you can play against a computer of different difficulty 
 settings. Second it has a multiplayer option so you can play with friends; the catch here is that 
 this totally sucks. It sucks because even the smallest map or should I call it scenario will take 
 you few to several hours to finish, so in practice multiplayer is basically useless, since no one 
 in their right mind would want to play 2 or more hours battling out in a single map.
  Essentially you start a multiplayer game and never finish it. To be fair though, rushes are fairly 
 successful, but rushes in Sins of a Solar Empire means at least 20 minutes of play, so from every 
 position you look at it, it's a long game.
  
  With useless multiplayer you would think there would be a lengthy single player campaign for players 
 to enjoy and to keep them busy playing for several days or more, but no. There is no single player 
 campaign even though with the slow gameplay this game screams for it, instead there are at least 
 30 scenarios which are basically just random maps that can be created with the build-in map editor 
 in just under 10 minutes, so it seems the developers work ended with the final unit model they 
 did. 
  Let me tell this again, you can create maps with the build-in editor in under 10 minutes yourself, 
 this means the developers did not do their job fully, and they released a game unfinished with 
 just a ton of maps and no campaign or playable multiplayer.
  Essentially all you get is a skirmish mode with 30 or so maps that you can play against a computer 
 that last for hours, can you imagine the fun here!?
  
  But enough about the bad things, the game has actually some positive things. One such element is 
 the upgrade system, its similar to an RPG style upgrade system but with a bit more personal favor 
 specific to this game. There are a good number of ships each having a specific role, for example 
 some excel at close combat, other at support and others as fodder.
  The pirate system which lets players add bounty to one another is pretty unique, though I feel 
 not perfectly incorporated into the game.
  Another element that sucks is the culture thing, you can build buildings that essentially spread 
 out your culture to other worlds, but this is as useless as spending money building colony ships 
 to fight specific was ships.
  
  Also the balance is not quite up to pair, I've noticed that you end up having way too much metal, 
 in comparison to credits and crystals. Maybe it's just maps specific, but the maps I've played 
 tend to have more metal that crystal and credits really depend on your planet count and army count.
 
  The more army you have the more credits it consumes.
  
  Next on line is graphics and few words here also: You end up playing the game zoomed out 90% of 
 the time, at which point all the units and buildings are not seen, the only way to see units is 
 from a left sort of a mini-display on the left side of the planet, which shows all the units present 
 around that planet.
  Buildings are seen in a same way, the difference being that the mini-display is below the planet.
 
  In order to actually see units and buildings as dots you need to zoom-in at least 50% from the 
 max out zoom-out position, and to actually see the units in their 3D form you need to zoom in very 
 close, at which point you don't see anything else that is happening in the star system and knowing 
 that you might be controlling 10 or more planets/colonies you end up playing the game in max zoom-out 
 80% of the time.
  
  Though the unit and buildings graphics are good, the fact that you only see them in their 3D form 
 20% or less of the time is like playing a 2D game.
  
  This game definitely has potential, since even if a single map is played for hours it can still 
 maintain its fun a lot of times. Having said that this game still desperately needs a single player 
 campaign, maybe around 30% faster gameplay and a more dynamic map layout system, so you are not 
 playing 80% of the time maximally zoomed -- out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiztan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Solar Empire is extremely nice and fun. I think Im getting the hang of it because it does take 
 a bit of time figureing out how to do economy, military and research.
  Ive played it for a week and Sins of solar empire is EPIC ! HUGE and an awesome thing you can do 
 is configure it for just the right difficulty. You dont have to worry about enemies attacking you 
 while youre learning the game. You can then step up the difficulty a little bit by little bit so 
 you can very easily and gradulally learn how to kill anyone who gets in your way of ruling the 
 galaxy.
  The controls are excellent, you can quickly go from planet to planet with just a couple clicks 
 of a mouse wheel or button.
  Basically its way nicer and easier than Homeworld pertaining to controls, graphics and fun factor.
 
  Single player can be played without the dvd, multi-player on a lan is one dvd per 2 players and 
 internet play you need the dvd.
  Ive started my first 100 planet 10 player game taking place in, it looks like 5 solar systems. 
 
  Simply a very cool game, I recomend Sins of Solar Empire
  Sincerely ,
  David Starr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: querrec3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  What is the big deal with Sins?? I bought it, played a bit of it.. its sterile, and there is so 
 much zooming in and out that you never see any of the supposed graphics. I felt that I was playing 
 something akin to Sid Meiers Alpha Centauri... except that I enjoyed Alpha a lot more! The main 
 issue I found, apart from the sterility and boredom was that zooming into and out of planets was 
 down right annoying.. you end up staying in the zoomed out mode to play it which means that all 
 you see are little dots and triangles moving about and blowing up planets... BORING!
  
  Another thing.. all factions seem to be pretty much the same, and theres only a handful of them! 
 
  
  The Good: None that I can think of.. 
  
  The Bad: Zooming out to play
  Boring and long 
  No satisfaction from winning...
  Game either too easy or too hard.. no in 
 between
  Graphics are not great
  Resembles games of the 1990s
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64tHeGeCkO64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire; where could I start. Its an epically great game that excels in economic 
 and military strategy with very simple yet addictive gameplay, the controls are easy to learn (there 
 pretty much the same as your typical rts.) , the building and researching is easy to get a hold 
 of and the combat couldn't simpler. Its fun to watch huge battles involving a wide range of ships 
 from tine strike craft dropping the smallest of bombs to huge capital ships shooting massive ion 
 bolts at one another. There may be no story mode however I couldn't imagine more entertaining skirmishes 
 on any sci-fi rts, there isn't really any need for a story all the game is put into these awesome 
 skirmishes that you could play on from 1 hour and a half to 3 months online with your friends or 
 simply by yourself slaughtering the pathetic AI on the setting you wish.
  There are some graphical let downs, when your ships shoot and there target is at an angle the turret 
 or cannon on your ship wont move however the missile/laser will still be shot in the direction 
 of the target, the planets aren't all that great to look at, however I all the complaints about 
 the planets being all the same distance from the sun are just excuses to not buy the game, all 
 the planets are well spaced some higher, some further away than others from the sun. 
  The three different races that you are able to play as are similar in the aspect of research yet 
 they research certain things with different amount of resources and some of the technologies are 
 slightly different, all the ships are pretty much the same disappointingly, however they look so 
 cool that it shouldn't really bother you all that much unless you like all the races to be totally 
 different. All in all the races are similar yet different at the same time.
  Friends and foes; The world of relationships is very tricks, one slip up and your friend may turn 
 to foe and in the case of Sins come and blow the hell out of your planets. Yet on the brighter 
 side do a favour for the fellow empires within the galaxy and they may turn foe against one of 
 your enemies and blow hell out there planets, or they may even establish trade routes with you 
 if you trade ports. Trade ports are a vital part of any empire if you want to have a decent income 
 of credits, but if you don't have a proper trade route, meaning its blocked off by hostile planets 
 then your trade ships probably wont get far and your income of credits will only becoming from 
 the taxes you collect at your planets, and even then if the planets population is low it may even 
 be taking credits away from your glorious industrial giant that is your empire. Alliances are a 
 huge part in the military as well, your allies will support you if you are being over powered and 
 you should do the same for them or their opinion on your empire may change, dramatically. Making 
 vision deals with other empires is also a good way to explore the galaxy without actually having 
 to do anything, just think all you have to do is do a few missions for the other empire, which 
 will most likely be simply giving a few bits of metal or crystal to them then ask them for ship 
 vision and there you have it, your own personal explorer that you don't even have to pay, isn't 
 that just great.
  Sins of a Solar Empire is defiantly worth getting if:
  
  No.1: You simply need a new game and you think that Sins looks like it may occupy you for a while.
 
  
  No.2: You loved the homeworld series yet you think perhaps it could do with a bit more UMPF!
 
  
  No.3: You've never had a sci-fi rts before and you've always wondered what one is like.
  
  No.4: You generally love rts games and you enjoy the Sid Meier's games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolation7
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Off the top of my head:
  
  Pros: Excellent gameplay. Enticing real time economy, and politics.
  
  Cons: Long multiplayer 
 matches that end with someone ditching in the Nth hour; Very simple graphics; No single player 
 storyline?!
  
  Definately worth buying, just keep in mind its not better than C&C or HW.
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah 100 word minimum to post blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angre_Leperkan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Remember, way back, in the good ol' year 2006, when all of that publicity started with Star Wars: 
 Empire at War? They said that the game was going to change the genre of space strategies, and in 
 a way, it did. It introduced a galactic-scale battle for space battling, making the scope larger 
 and more immersive. Well, Sins of a Solar Empire does it again by taking it a step further, without 
 a frustrating addition like the land battles for Empire at War.
  
  For Sins of a Solar Empire, you start off with a few constructors who can build a whole range of 
 buildings. Using them and some research, plus a few unfriendly incursions into nearby planetary 
 gravity fields, you are able to build up a massive armada of Capital ships, Frigates, and corvettes. 
 The game play of Sins of a Solar Empire is similar to Galactic Conquest in Empire at War. For those 
 who didn't play it/don't remember it, Galactic Conquest was a map of the galaxy, and you could 
 move ships from planet to planet. When enemy forces met on a planet, you were brought into the 
 actual game map. Well, in Sins of a Solar Empire, there are no loading screens between the Campaign 
 Map and the battle screen: The Campaign Map IS the battle screen. You can zoom in and out on each 
 individual system, and easily send your fleets from one system to the next with a simple click 
 or two. Your forces move in real time by tunneling through hyperspace, and unlike in Empire at 
 War, when the battle is over, it doesn't go back to an overview of the planets, as you control 
 that yourself.
  
  One of the only flaws of Sins of a Solar Empire is the complete lack of story altogether. The only 
 story involved in this game is the intro movie. That's it. Each game you play is essentially a 
 skirmish in a galaxy. This causes the game to lose some of the depth that draws you in at first. 
 There is such great potential for a good story here: One faction being pushed back by two relentless 
 enemies, one who is out for revenge from a long ago grievance, and another who is running from 
 a nightmare creation of their own making. However, these circumstances are not presented at all 
 in the game, as there is no connection between battles.
  
  Overall, the epic scale of the battles, with hundreds of ships, and the depth of the game play, 
 even without a story behind it, are enough to give this game a great rating in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Zaus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a fun space RTS. I played galactic civilizations, and have to say that this is a nice 
 modern update of that snail pace turn based game. However, sins is missing something very needed. 
 That is a story line. After the original opening movie you are left to select a map to play on 
 with no other incentive than a list of achievements (like win as an alien, win as the trader corporations, 
 win as the psychic god lovers, etc) . When it comes down to it after you have won your first solar 
 system, there is no incentive to go on. This could be because it took an agonizing amount of time 
 to finaly defeat the computer (that somehow was able to purchase 4 capitol ships despite only having 
 one planet left) . Galactic civilizations was slow, clunky, and slightly annoying, but at least 
 it kept you playing because you were interested in story line. Without a reason to care about the 
 race you are playing. You end up asking yourself why am I playing this game. Then you simply turn 
 it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optiplex523
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  i wouldnt put in the exact same category this game with say for example dawn of war 40k. maybe 
 both are real time and strategy games but obviously they are in a different subcategory. i would 
 say maybe that sins of a solar empire is a real time tactical game, just like supreme commander. 
 you play the game mostly looking at icons instead of focusing in the units closeup action like 
 in dow or command and conquer. at first i was a bit taken aback, probably because i was expecting 
 something like dow, but after playing solar empire a bit, i liked it. 
  you are one of three races, control an initial planet and you have to develop a couple of stuff 
 about it, you build some orbital structures build ships and research stuff to improve your logistics 
 or your military stuff, paying with money (credits) , metal and crystal; by way of warp speed lanes, 
 expand to other planets which you colonize with a special ship after probably fighting for it. 
 you can have tiny fighters or bombers that spawn from structures or ships, also you have frigates, 
 cruisers and battleships that can level up and improve their abilities. and basically you got to 
 wipe out your enemies' empire. i have yet to play multiplayer and havent played with the bigger 
 maps, but so far so good. its got very nice and pleasant cosmic graphics (you can see the evolution 
 of the flares in the orbs of the stars) and nice wallpaper that looks like a real star system picture. 
 battles are nice too if u close up. you get some relaxing new age or classical type music. and 
 sound effects are nice also. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaship
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Well Sins of a Solar Empire offers 3 factions to fight in different maps of your choosing. The 
 cool thing about this is that the map you play in is huge. There are many planets to conquer and 
 even when there aren't, the space is bigand that you can go intoa cinematic mode that can allow 
 you to enjoy the view of the amazing graphics. The tech trees and resources are like pretty much 
 any other strategy game though. The thing that stands out about the game though is that it's very 
 long. Since the map is huge you need to zoom in a lot to see your unit. Sometimes it's so small 
 it doesn't even seem like a lot of action for a fleet. There are achievements that you can acquire 
 from playing many games and the map designer is amazing. You can make from a small solar system 
 to a huge map with many planets. The reason why the game is long is because it takes a long time 
 for units to get some places so you won't be seeing much action for a while at the start. And that 
 you first need to wait for ships to be made and upgrades and tech trees to advance. You also need 
 to watch out for pirates that might attack you in the black market. The AI's can be tough even 
 on easy mode but thats the fun part of the challenge. It can get annoying with enemy scouts going 
 into your planets and then running away but overall it's a pretty awesome RTS space game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  
  Huge disappointment
  
  I barely escaped wasting fifty bucks on "Spore" because rather than getting caught up in the media 
 frenzy around that electronic version of the Edsel, I waited to see what the reactions of the gaming 
 community were. Glad I waited. 
  
  I did the same thing with Sins of a Solar Empire, which just goes to prove the old saw about the 
 bear. (Sometimes he gets you and sometimes you crap in the woods  no, wait. Sometimes you crap 
 in the woods and the bear gets you. Yeah, that's it) . 
  
  Do not buy this game. It is the mutant offspring of a tactical turn based simulation and a fast-twitch 
 real time simulation. Galactic Civilization meets StarCraft meets Homeworld. The results are ugly. 
 You cannot pause. You cannot offer the same diplomatic options to your rivals as they can offer 
 to you. Fleet control is horrendous. Resources are unlimited, so that the game always devolves 
 into one great big zerg-pit battle. The tech tree is stunted and painfully familiar to anyone who 
 has played just a few space-based games. The graphics are adequate, but it is hard to enjoy what 
 little you can of the space battles as you must hover at a far enough distance to make sure your 
 repair ships haven't decided to play hero and charge the enemy dreadnaught for reasons unknown. 
 
  
  This game is awful. I enjoyed Galactic Civ and its progeny, so had good feelings toward StarDock. 
 I am editing this review and rating to reflect the excellent customer support I received from Stardock 
 on this game. They bent over backwards to retain me as a loyal customer and that deserves recognition. 
 Doesn't make me like the game any better, but in fairness, while it was not for me it may well 
 be right up other's game-alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a 3D space RTS. I love this game! When you first get it, it may be hard 
 to win or even complete a game, but if you have enough patience, you can easily amass a fleet large 
 enough to take on an enemy. I would recommend downloading the demo before buying, as it is almost 
 a complete version of the game, and makes it easy to tell whether the game is for you. Sometimes 
 the vast size of the play area is daunting, and it is annoying when you have to move fleets across 
 an entire galaxy, but the graphics are great, and the game is designed really well. I loved the 
 3D aspect of it, and the cinematic mode, which allows you to turn off all labels and enjoy the 
 view. Updating the game is easy, because Stardock adds updates through its online service, Impulse. 
 I haven't gotten to play the multiplayer yet, but if its anything like the single player game, 
 it should be great. 
  
  P. S. This is my first review, so I'm sorry if it's not written as well as it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalaxyCluster
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Other than the fact that the planets are so tightly clumped together, and follow the same orbital 
 path... a major design flaw... this game is solid. But I can't play it anymore. The system layouts 
 are totally unrealistic. Nice game, but extremely poor attention to detail. It's a shame because 
 all it would have taken is a realistic solar system to sell me on this. But Stardock is not the 
 only one failing to pass this small test. Nexus: The Jupiter Incident passed the test, but the 
 game is too trial-and-error to be enjoyable. Sins is so close, yet so far away. I do, however, 
 like the idea behind this game. It's sort of a cross between Civ and AOE. The graphics and sound 
 are outstanding. And you really don't need a bohemoth of a rig to play this. Perhaps Stardock will 
 make a sequel and create a realistic universe where the player acutally feels like they are in 
 space. Until then, it's on my shelf gathering dust. I can't bring myself to waste time on a game 
 that lacks realism. But you be the judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VX-77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Good points:
  1. Rich graphic. I wish ingame zoomed view of ships will show your faction's selected color as some 
 sort of logo lining not just colored ships icon. Also, add diversification to weapons color so some 
 weapon will not be recognized by the player identical. It will also help to improve cosmetic image 
 and put a sense of power when you see multiple of different colors of beam produced by different 
 beam weapons.
  
  2. Can be modifiable. Well it is easy to mold your own mod with it but Total Annihilation is the 
 most moddable game I knew. I hope it will be easy creating and adding 3rd-party stuffs for Sins 
 of A Solar Empire just like for Total Annihilation game.
  
  3. Attractive gameplay. I loved playing it!
  
  4. Can operate well on my comp. It hold resemblance 
 to Supcom camera and UI but don't need uber comp to run. 
  
  Bad points:
  
  1. Well, this game is dangerously addictive and it will cause you to lose sleep if you can't control 
 yourself.
  
  2. Game music are limited in number and unattractive. It is decent but not good enough for this game.
 
  
  Suggestions:
  
  
  1. Add steal other race techs or ship or facility ability. I'm sick of the same units after playing 
 20+ hours of this game.
  
  2. Weapon graphic needs improvement especially beam weapons. I don't like the same color for beam 
 weapons when Beam Defense and Illuminator ship are firing at the same target. The beam color should 
 also have different color tones when capship with it gains more level (darker color tones = more 
 powerful laser, i. e red = weak, green = medium , purple = powerful) . The rockets explosions also 
 need to be more intense.
  
  3. Put more mobile defense platform.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tingkagol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is going to kill me. Really, it's going to starve me, give me headaches from too much 
 computer radiation, etc.
  
  I was pretty much just an innocent gamer before this. I would play for a good 1 or 2 hours, and 
 would go and do something else. Well, this game changed that. Installed it, loaded it up, went 
 through the tutorials (which was too confusing) , and played right away. I was still very confused 
 about the game mechanics, but I played on anyway. Built me some ships, figured why I can't build 
 any more of them, travelled through hyperspace to other neighboring planets, did research, scoured 
 planets' surface for artifacts, etc, etc... next thing I know, I've been playing for almost ten 
 hours straight!
  
  The good thing about this game is that it's complicated. Why a good thing? Because it's not complicated 
 in the sense that its elements are impossible to understand, but complicated that it has too much 
 content, too much to discover, and when you discover how this game works- the Sins of a Solar Empire 
 universe and everything about it- it suddenly makes sense.
  
  I can understand why some people won't get into this game. This game gobbles up a huge chunk of 
 your time before you can even consider it enjoyable. So I guess if you're looking for a quick play, 
 go play Starcraft.
  
  I gave it a 9.5 because I value replayability- and this game has "play me again" written all over 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnumneon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  To those who are reading this I just wanna tell there is nothing bad in this game except:
  
  It takes long time before you can really get into an imperial clash.
  
  Well that's the 
 bad thing. It's not fast pace.
  
  BUT
  
  the game is so great and I really love this game. Its just take too long to be played on the zenith 
 of its action but the game really gives a different RTS never before seen...
  
  I'll understand those who say this game is quite abysmal or even worst anyway we have different 
 likes and this game is a great game for the people who really wanted a one of a kind RTS ever.
 
  
  This game is the greatest RTS along with the World in Conflict game... I love this one and it should 
 really worth the greatest score.
  
  First of all I want to congratulate the founders of this game you are so great and smart to think 
 of such a splendid rts idea!
  
  This game won the best RTS game of 2008, well if Im not mistaken...
  
  
  
  Grats^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunkenwarlord1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  the game is tough. the battles are long and graphics are great but the ai is just to good. the 
 battles consist of ships fighting but the ai always seem to have more ships then what your have 
 you can make your own maps and everything putting every single detail you would like in, and have 
 up to 700 planets over 15 star systems. you will play this game for hours but accomplish nothing 
 at all over the spam of 5 hours. the game is long with tons of interesting ships at your disposal. 
 the TEC, Advent and the Vasari Empire all have their own different ship which means every teams 
 has it advantage and disadvantage. the ships have to be researched to make them better and earn 
 better ships like the crusader. the tech trees for every team is different consisting of bribing 
 pirates or researching defence structures every thing is unique with every team. 
  
  THIS GAME IS WORTH PLAYING!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moridin239
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Sins of a solar empire is a real-time space strategy game. 
  
  As it is, a Real-Time strategy game is hard to make on such a large scale, as most strategy games 
 include some form of micromanagement. However, SOASE has done this really well, having an easy 
 to pick up and play game that is a little slower than other RTSs. It takes no more than 1 or 2 
 games to learn the controls and nuances of how to play the game. However, there are a couple of 
 faults that I have noticed.
  
  1) When I say it's slow. Its SLOW: 
  
  It took me around 10 hours to finish a single game in a moderately sized map against a single computer 
 player. Granted, I made a few mistakes which made me take a little while, but the game has a much 
 slower pace than the typical RTS.
  People who have played said typical RTSs like Starcraft, Warcraft, etc will find this pace to be 
 mundane and will have to adjust.
  
  2) There is practically no story:
  
  In the beginning of the game they have a short, uninteresting cut-scene which talks of some outcasts 
 returning with strength "while the empire is still weak". However, they say nothing about what 
 happened or what will happen. For those of you who need a good story to drive you through a game, 
 this isn't the game for you.
  Also there is no single player campaign, limiting the game to player vs. computer skirmishes and 
 pvp play.
  
  3) Lack of complexity:
  
  This has a somewhat mixed opinion. SOASE is a much simpler game than you would first take it to 
 be. This can be a good thing, or a bad thing, depending on how you take it. You can pick up the 
 gameplay easily and it won't boggle your mind, but at the same time it seems too simple sometimes, 
 with nothing really original or innovative.
  
  So apart from these 3, SOASE is a very good game for reasons mentioned earlier. The story was my 
 main disappointment, but if you don't mind that and love Strategy/Space games, Sins could be for 
 you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sik567
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Great graphics and you don't need a 500$ graphics card, 3 different races, big research tree that 
 is unique to every race, almost flawless (very few bugs) , great multiplayer, non-playable pirate 
 faction that can turn the tide of the battle (you can pay the pirates to hunt down enemy ships, 
 you can also buy resources from the black market) .
  Some bad things are a short storyline, no campaign (this game needs one.) , very predictable and 
 easily defeated AI, if you want to experience real SOASE, play online. The battles on larger maps 
 with like 7 star systems can become hours long! You often have to defend two planets at the same 
 time against enemy attack.
  
  There is a lot of strategy involved, you have limited amount of structures per planet you can build 
 so you have to think ahead what to build. Large fleets cost a lot so you need a strong economy. There 
 are multiple ways to defeat the enemy, you can bribe pirates, nuke their planets, use your huge 
 fleet, or spread your culture so their planets start to rebel. It takes a long time to master all 
 the three races. They are very different and have different strong and weak sides. The TEC have 
 a strong economy. The Advent have the strongest shields. The Vasari have the most advanced space 
 travel.
  
  Overall a great game, You should play this game if you like RTS. Totally worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I wasn't quite sure what to think. To be quite honest, 
 I've had it since April and I still don't quite know what to think, it definately has its moments. 
 That's for sure.
  
  Lets start with the major problems with this game:
  
  A. Only three factions to play from
  
  B. Can become overwhelming if the computer becomes too 
 smart and launches simultanious attacks in completely different galaxies.
  
  C. There's no on-planet view.
  
  D. Not enough variety in planets.
  
  And finally the last 
 most major problem, no story line. Okay, there's a short clip right before you get to the main 
 menu that gives you a little backround as to why you trying to turn these aliens into space dust. 
 After that the game just lits you have at it. 
  
  Good things:
  
  A. Bombarding a planet with nukes is rewarding
  
  B. Watching your ships close up launching 
 into hyperspace is awesome.
  
  C. No clear definition of a "good" or "bad" guy, so you don't have to feel guilty about picking 
 one faction over another. They all have reasons to be attacking each other that are quite understandable.
 
  
  D. Nice crisp graphics.
  
  E. Does a good job of alerting you of when enemies are coming, letting you set up your defenses 
 in the few seconds before the attack.
  
  F. The different ships for each faction look like they would have been built by their race
  
 
  What all this boiles down to is that Sins is a very good game that could still use a bit of work 
 but is still a very well put together game, Ironclad Games has earned my thumbs up, Congrats!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serdertroops
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a great space RTS. Personally, I played EaW and I really wanted to see 
 a game that could allow me to play galactic space strategy in real time. Sins is teh first game 
 to do that.
  
  Graphics:
  They are pretty good for a RTS. They are nto as good as Tom Clancy's : End War. However they are 
 still nice looking. The tactical like we saw in Supreme commander is also avaible and between you 
 and me, you will rarely get your camera close enough to see the graphics in a battle since the 
 tactical view gives you a view of the entire battlefield.
  
  Races:
  The game is made of 3 races: the Advent, the TEC and teh Vasari. Most of the unit type is the same 
 for the race, for balancing purpose maybe. The races' ships all have different abillities, hull, 
 shield and attack point. That is what makes this game really fun, even thought the races look the 
 same if you only look at the type of ships, they are all very different and you will play for a 
 hundred hours at least before being able to play well with the three of them.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ironclad games made a good job in the gameplay. They put an Empire Tree that allow 
 you to see all that happens in your empire which is a must in that type of game. The galactic view 
 is also great and you can have all the information you want on a ship or a planet just by putting 
 your mouse over it. THe ressources are at a rate of X/seconds. This allow you to always have money 
 coming in and since ressources are made from colonisating planets and building extractors on asteroids, 
 you can focus on ressearch and fighting. The pirates also add another tactical factor to the game 
 sicne they can destroy an undefended planet if you don't watch them.
  
  
  In Overall, Sins is a must have for all Space RTS fans since its the 1st of its kind and can gives 
 you a good headake on finding what strategy to adopt when you jsut started playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire has got to be one of the best RTS games I have played that takes this genre 
 to a whole new level. This game adds all of what an RTS should be and adds a Civilization IV feel 
 into the game by adding diplomacy and managing an Empire.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very good, adding alot of mechanics to the game giving a wide variety of strategys 
 to take down other Empires. This game also involves Diplomacy, An AI player will give you a mission 
 and whether or not you accomplish do they like you or not. The AI in the game is very good its 
 almost like talking to a real person by sending messages of thanks for the METAL! and asking for 
 Alliances to be made with you. this game outshines other RTS games by adding all of these great 
 features. The only down side to this game is that you dont get a single player campaign that would 
 have been helpful for giving more info on the three races backstories.
  
  Graphics 
  The graphics in this game are superb! even though that the Recommended System requirements are 
 so low but the game looks great by adding light affects and the looks of the other planets are 
 also a thing of beauty.
  
  Replayability
  This game whether your playing on or offline is very good and the replay value is very high. the 
 game gives you alot of options for you whether your playing Advent or TEC it will take you a while 
 before you can grasp another race because they are so diffrent.
  
  Conclusion 
  Whether your new to the genre or an old school vet you have to love this game. good graphics great 
 replayability and adding stuff that other devolpers thought was impossible this game is worth the 
 $40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creativedevilaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Although I haven't played the game much, or not enough to write a review, certain points are clear 
 by just the beginning of the game...
  ...
  Unconventional Story.
  ...
  Its highly addictive game at the first place.
  ...
  Now, if U r into Strategy games (Space-Strategy) , 
 this is a must-try (in fact, must-have) Strategy game.
  ...
  Agreeing to the fact that it takes alotta time to complete missions; but then, U get the actual 
 feeling of being there in the huge Space - in Real Time!
  ...
  The game is flawless.
  ...
  Extremely detailed gameplay.
  ...
  Graphics is just right (works great even if U don't 
 have a "high-end" graphics card) .
  ...
  Just that the destruction of a Unit or Structure takes longer that usual time.
  ...
  And there 
 are few points where you feel the game to be very naive.
  ...
  Overall, this Game really is an Amazing piece of FUN!
  ...
  JUST GO FOR IT!!!
  ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:24 pm PT
Review:  OK JUST GET THE GAME I LOVE ITS SO REVELOSENARY. WH OO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O HO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O 
 O OO O O O O O O O O OO OOO O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O 
 O O O OO O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a fun game to play especially online. It is a space strategy game thought 
 Star Wars and Star Trek Nerds/Fans/Dorks should love. And you dont have be any of those to enjoy 
 this game. The Game has no campaign or story. It has what most people would call standard play 
 and Online. The game ranges from tiny 1 vs 1 maps to huge 8 player maps that span across several 
 solar systems just as big as ours. The game is mostly fun to play online since you can strategize 
 with other people. It also has a freinds list which is nice. The game gets kinda boring after a 
 while though. The gameplay is very repetitiive however yuo spell that. But it keeps you going for 
 a long time do to it having several maps and it has stuff to research. The game is overal a fun 
 game but not worth the money in my opinion. But if you like to play strategy games more then me 
 you will love this game more then me. I almost forgot to mention that this game does not have any 
 land battles but the space combat makes up for it. You can build space buildings (i dont know what 
 else to call it) to research and build more ships. There also isnt very much strategy so if you 
 like games like Medieval 2 total war and Company of Heros where you can do all kinds of strategizing 
 this isnt for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Yes, its a good game with great looks but it really isn't that much fun. I went into this game 
 with exuberance, but found it extremely difficult to get started. Exceedingly difficult in fact. 
 I can't point to one direct cause but the tutorial wasn't very helpful for me. The game is really 
 amazing in terms of the vastness of it. I refer to the sheer size of the battlefields when I say 
 vast. Maybe that it what makes it seem so overwhelming at first. I like a game that you can learn 
 quickly and you really can't pick-up and play this game. Another point is that it seems to play 
 slowly, the units speed is pretty slow and thats a real pain for me. There is a lot of strategy 
 in it though which is a plus. Overall its a good game that is worth buying but it takes too long 
 to learn how to play. Thats the only reason for the 7. Else it looks great and is a pretty cool 
 concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: utdagny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Sins is a great game, but most people don't realize that the REAL Sins game is online multiplayer, 
 playing against real human opponents instead of mindless, predictable, dumb AI. More people need 
 to discover the "Ironclad Online" button and play the real Sins game. It's fun to actually play 
 with human teammates and to be able to coordinate attack strategies and to have teamwork.
  
  Contrary to popular belief, it doesn't take as long to play as some people think. For example, 
 a 3v3 on the large random single star map is normally decided within an hour-and-a-half or less. 
 It is true that there are some excellent and very tough experienced players out there, but there 
 are still lots of newbies.
  
  Some of the problems associated with the online multiplayer game are the occasional minidump crashes 
 (which you can live with) and the difficulty people have with hosting if they haven't configured 
 their router properly. The upcoming 1.1 patch will fix the hosting issues so that anyone can host 
 easily.
  
  Come join the online multiplayer community today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude3506
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game. It takes a large amount of concentration and strategy. However, it can 
 be a bit slow. The games take a long time, especially for an RTS. they can take 3 hours or more, 
 depending on how many players (and skill) .
  
  This has to be the best space game I have played, but since it is a space game it has to be epic. 
 The game starts off pretty slow, and there is practically no story (besides the intro) . Which means 
 the only thing to it is multiplayer, and since I'm not much for online multiplayer in RTSs. I don't 
 play that much, but every once and awhile I'll get play with friends. And its fun then. 
  
  Graphics aren't bad, but they aren't amazing either. It can be pretty, and you have to love the 
 effects of a huge space battle.
  
  You may have to learn how to multi-task, because, at the end of the fight, there is usually a couple 
 fights going at the same time.
  
  The teams are great, I would say. They do each have their strong and weak points, and you have 
 to base your strategy on these strong points. Depending on which team you are against you will 
 have to change strategy. There isn't a large amount of selection either. 3 teams. And they are 
 very different, different enough that you may never actually find a team that is good for you.
 
  
  You may want to play with a friend to learn it at first. Then hit online.
  
  In all, this is a special game, but I really have to be in the mood for it. But if you want a deep, 
 technical strategy, you may like Sins of a Solar Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you a story. I was at a LAN at my friend's house, and I drank one of those "5 hour 
 energy" drinks (They do actually work by the way haha) . Well he fell asleep, and I was bored, so 
 I decided to play Sins, a game I had recently bought but hadn't really played it much yet. I had 
 played for maybe a couple of hours, which, if you know anything about Sins, you know is a miniscule 
 amount of time. So I decide to play it, and next thing I know, it's 6 in the morning, and I'm just 
 finishing up a 7 hour game. I didn't even notice the time flying, and even though I lost the game 
 in the end, I had a sense of accomplishment and fulfillment, a feeling that made me want to play 
 the game more, and more, and more.
  
  Gameplay- Excellent. The gameplay is immersive to the max. The only problem is starting games, 
 which can take quite a bit of time to pick up in the beginning, but once things get moving, they 
 never stop. This is a game you have to be in the mood to play though, because like I said, it takes 
 a while for the pace to pick up at the beginning, so if you aren't really in the mood to play this, 
 chances are if you do start a new game, you'll just save it and quit after a few minutes. When 
 you are in the mood though, you'll end up realizing that you just spent several hours playing one 
 game. Building your fleet and researching can get almost dangerously addictive, and it really forces 
 you to make decisions and balance out your play style, as to have a good economy, you have to build 
 large fleets and wage war, but fleets also cost extremely large amounts of money in the end game, 
 so you must balance your play. Each planet you own also only allows a certain amount of structures, 
 so you have to strategize which structures will be placed on which planets. It really is top notch 
 gameplay, and a strategy lover's dream.
  
  Graphics- They definitely aren't the best graphics in the world, but they do look somewhat decent. 
 Really though, you are hardly ever zoomed in to the point where you can see the dated textures, 
 and the level of zoom you are usually at, the graphics do look really good.
  
  Lasting Appeal- There are already dozens and dozens of maps, but the ability to create your own 
 maps just adds endless oppurtunities, and Stardock has even released the Galaxy Forge, the tool 
 they used to make the maps in the game. 
  
  Value- It's not even selling at full price, which means any self respecting strategy fan will buy 
 it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockiFin
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Sins has one of the best interfaces for a 4x game letting you get immersed into managing your fledging 
 empire towars the Totalitarian regime all budding Dictators dream for. 
  
  Space combat is superbly managed allowing you manage tactically and then zoom in to see your minions 
 carry out your varied commands no matter how insane.. The infrastructure in Orbit is managed well 
 however Planet side you get the feeling this is extremely 2 dimensional each planet relies on obrital 
 installations to defend it construction industry and populations seem nothing more than statistical 
 manipulation and you dont get the feeling your really developing the world. discovering artifacts 
 long forgotten is nothing more than a post it note on the GUI which seriously undermines the true 
 value of such finds. 
  
  All in all this is a good game addictive for sure however its more a panzer rush than a true strategic 
 challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  To prove that this and any other game that I give a 4 or less score to, that I think it is horrible 
 and I am not "trolling"; I will mail my copy to the first person that asks for it... Seriously. 
 I am not trying to run a scam or pick fights; I just want to help someone make a decision whether 
 or not to spend $40+ on a game. I believed in all the hype and was dissapointed.
  
  On with the review...
  
  The game is really slow going; most of the trailers I saw were just 
 clips of the cinematic filler, not the actual game play. The graphics are nice, but you have to 
 zoom in real close to appreciate it, which makes it impossible to play that way. So you have to 
 zoom way out to the point where everything is basically a bunch of colored shapes; lots of eye 
 strain. The ships move at a snails pace and the fight scenes should have been a lot better. This 
 game feels more like work then fun.
  
  If you are looking for a faster paced strategy game get Supreme Commander one or two, skip this 
 one. 
  
  
  P. S. I apologize to whom I may have offended for the Ritalin comment the last time I reviewed this 
 game, I went a bit far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_boneplayer1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire takes place in the future (I guess) you can become the TEC, Advent, or the 
 Vasori. Your objective in the game is to defeat your opponents before you die yourself. You will 
 have ships and your economy will be the crystals and the metal supply in your empire. Their ar 
 espace pirates in the game, so if you want to play a little bit dirty, get a bounty on your biggest 
 nemisis. You can make allanicies and take over the planets of some of the neutral people. Its also 
 fun when you go to the online play to try to take over against real live players. Its an very addictive 
 game and one you need to get very soon. I just hope this review will help you in the long run and 
 make you feel the same way I do about the game. Now, I will put a lot of a's. a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The creators of Galactic Civilizations are back, this time with a hard hitting space strategy to 
 change the genre completely.
  
  Stardock, the creators of Gal Civ, an immensely addictive turn-based strategy, pulled together 
 some of the same ideals for Sins of a Solar Empire, their new lovechild between a turn-based game 
 and an RTS. Polish Sins off with an extra coat of beauty, simplicity, scale, and technology, and 
 the gaming world receives something unexpected, but instantly loved.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire begins with three factions, the Trader Emergency Coalition (the humans under 
 attack by the Vasari and the Advent) , the Vasari (a high tech race on the run from an unknown enemy 
 that consumes their worlds and fleets at an ever increasing rate) , and the Advent (a race of beings 
 evicted from their home world by the TEC, seeking vengeance with powerful psychological technologies) . 
 Theoretically, each faction does not have any alliance with the other.
  
  However, the player does not get to pan out this relatively interesting storyline, as Sins has 
 no campaign mode. Instead, players choose from a variety of scenarios to battle in, changing the 
 player count, AI level, faction, etc.
  
  This would be one of the downsides of Sins of a Solar Empire. Stardock feeds the fans bits and 
 pieces of a fascinating story, but then cuts it off, leaving only theory and skepticism behind. 
 The idea was to "create your own story" through the preset or random scenarios. No matter how much 
 fun this is, a campaign would have added endless depth and closure.
  
  Anyway, onto the game itself. Each faction has different technologies players can research, but 
 all three are essentially divided into "Civilian" and "Military," the former increases culture 
 and allows trade while the latter powers up your fleets and unlocks new ship designs. Once you 
 set your scenario (you can even make your own using the Galaxy Forge in the game) and adjust the 
 settings (such as allowing Pirates, which, for a bounty, will attack the player with the highest 
 bounty after 20 minutes) , you begin the game with a single home planet and are tasked with dominating 
 the solar system (s) .
  
  For a relatively beautiful game, Sins does not require much to run. I constantly find myself gaping 
 at the roaring fires of different suns, or laughing as my Capital Ships tear through enemy frigates. 
 The graphics are simply wonderful.
  
  Speaking of Capital ships, various vessels may be trained for each faction. Among these are the 
 Capital ships, which cost the most, take up the most "fleet supply" (a limited supply of points 
 that can be upgraded further for a decrease in your daily earnings) , cost "crew points" (you can't 
 just simply build one fleet of Capital ships, you have to have specialized crews to man them) , 
 but are the most powerful ships in the game. These ships even act as "hero" units, gaining levels 
 with more kills. With each level, your Capital ship (s) may learn new abilities (such as "Rail Gun" 
 or "Destructive Nanites") and gains an increase to weapon attack damage, shields, and health. Pretty 
 sweet!
  
  As for the gameplay, it acts much like a turn-based strategy, but is in "real time." You don't 
 wait for other players, nor do you click an "end turn" button. It's all RTS. Yet, it's still a 
 very hard-to-put-down experience. The hours will fly by. Trust me.
  
  The multiplayer, albeit fun, can take an incredibly long time. A small match between two players 
 can take several hours, while massive free for alls can take significantly more than that. Unless 
 you're willing to dedicate your entire day to playing Sins, prepare for saving the match (which 
 you can do) and coming back later. Even still, reorganizing your game with each respective player 
 remains a daunting task on its own.
  
  So, despite the lack of a campaign and VERY long multiplayer matches, Sins soars with flying colors.
 
  
  Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to get back and dominate a few more solar systems.
  
  Sinsplayers Anonymous, anyone?
  
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bew199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Now those of you who likes the Star wars empire strategy game will love this and possibly those 
 of you who play star craft among other things.
  
  This game REQUIRES more that the requirements if you want the full penitential, mainly due to the 
 fact that i have .4 ghz, more than required the recommended ram, better video card, and the direct 
 x needed, along with windows XP and the game still rarely but does crash on me. the computers can 
 be set to a variety of difficulties and talents, i would also like to add the races are kinda a 
 rip off of the starcraft ones with little difference.
  
  Now the game takes place in space (go figure) and there NO story mode, none, zip, nada, so if your 
 looking for replay value you got the best. you build all your technology requirements and ships 
 in space but then it comes to mind... space is HUGE where do you build your stuff? in orbit over 
 planets of course! you kill the inhabitants or enslave them , sometimes both, and then get them 
 to do your bidding for reduced prices and faster rates, now going from planet to planet would take 
 hours and normal speed so phase lanes between planets (and stars) were made to get from point A 
 to B.
  
  With all these features and minor complications when computers on easy spam one ship and its ability 
 that can easily kill a computer from overload, its a realitively balance game that requires alot 
 of spare time and thought..... oh also there's achievements to make it worth playing and there's 
 ONLINE (omg!) just dont go on it if you have dial up.... please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgoduti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Just to be warn you, I'm not the biggest space RTS/empire builder game player of all time. But 
 I do have a brain and I have been playing games for almost 14 years now.
  
  I just can't get my head around this one. I am all excited about the release of this, hearing the 
 great reviews, seeing the beautiful screen shots, getting pumped about a different type of game. 
 It was even one of the reasons (albeit small) that I bought a brand new computer that would be 
 able to handle the graphics of this and others like it. Maybe if it weren't for all this I wouldn't 
 have been let down so hard.
  
  To start, the game-play is recycled. Builder ships and basic 'infantry-type' ships are just the 
 start, but its rock-paper-scissors from there on out. Discounting, of course, the big fleet commander 
 you get for technically free in the beginning that counts as just one big rock. But other than 
 that, building and waiting for slow amounts of resources to trickle in is all you get for the first 
 10-30 minutes of the game. You could venture off and settle some new worlds, but you don't have 
 much of a fleet to fight random colonists and defend against pirate raids that will probably get 
 to you since you don't have any resources to buy them off!
  
  So let's say you made it past the beginning stage and you've assembled your fleet. Time for those 
 amazing screen shots, right? Well, no, not all the time. Playing the game that close up is technically 
 impossible unless your ships are engaged in combat already. In which case, you're just watching 
 dotted lines and missles fly in the space between them. For the rest of the game you're zoomed 
 out in 'god-mode' building and moving your ships from planet to asteroid to... the sun? This makes 
 all your and the enemies ships and buildings appear as little primary colored icons. So technically, 
 its icon wars for the rest of the game.
  
  And back to those ships. Feeling bored with one of the three races offered by Sins? Well, no problem, 
 just switch over to one of the othe... oh wait. They're all the same. No difference between them 
 except name, look, and the annoying persistent voice acting you get from clicking on and moving 
 each and every one. 
  
  So now that you can't enjoy the beautiful ships view graphics of the universe, or mix up game play 
 with different races' ships, or even see your ships, how about that tech tree? I'll give it to 
 Sins they have a wonderful tech tree.... to look at. Not that you'd be able to get enough resources 
 from a 12 planet solar system to buy ships, buildings, and research for each of these annoyingly 
 specific techs. You'd probably have to skip over the lower count planet systems and go straight 
 to the 64 planet, multi-system maps to be able to enjoy the higher tiered techs. Or you could just 
 wait patiently, twiddling your thumbs, watching icons move across the screen until you've got enough 
 crystal at a rate of .02 per second to buy the tech that upgrades crystal recovery to .03 per second.
 
  
  I'd save your money on this one... it'd be a Sin to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggsett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Sins of a solar empire is epic and really alot of fun. Now the start may be a little boring building 
 stuff and all this small battles but the mid to end game is epic but you won't get much sleep, 
 graphics are not great but good, the game itself deserve a own genre since it combines empire building 
 with real-time battles.
  There is no campaign though but a single skirmish is like a campaign especially when you have 10 
 players/AI with 5 solar systems. AI are great but could use some really small polishes here and 
 there, battles are great to watch and the game is great overall, it is very balanced and has great 
 tech trees which is kinda based on the personalities of the race you are playing. There are some 
 bad things like when you come later into the game you find out that the ships are basically the 
 same just with other names and weapons, the game is highly moddable if that is what you wanted 
 to hear there are already Star Trek and StarGate mods getting developed,
  Sound and Music is incredible. With all of that bI recommend everyone to buy the game and start 
 playing
  
  Good Luck
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oversight99
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This is an absolutely amazing RTS game. It has all the detail you love from any turn based game 
 such as Galactic Civilizations, with the increased excitement that real time gameplay adds to the 
 genre. Graphics are exceptional, the control scheme (while different) is excellent. The only missing 
 feature is a campaign mode. It feels like we're missing out on some story because of this, but 
 the game is still one of the best space genre games I've played to date.
  
  The learning curve can be kind of steep, but its steady and you learn more each game.
  
  Overall, 
 well worth the money and time to learn.
  
  A summary:
  
  Controls - Different but very nice once you learn them. A mouse wheel is almost required here, 
 as the zoom function is essential to easy control.
  
  Interface - Also different, but exceptional and groundbreaking. Once you learn to recognize the 
 icons for different structures, you can easily command your entire empire without having to zoom 
 to individual systems.
  
  Forces - There are three separate forces, with minor differences between each. The differences 
 are enough to change the gameplay, but this definitely isn't like the three unique sides in some 
 other games.
  
  Graphics - Excellent. You can zoom in so the size of a capital ship is about the size of a quarter 
 or zoom out to see three systems. Ships become icons at extreme wide angle, allowing you to easily 
 tell basic type.
  
  Ships - The ships are pretty standard. The notable exception is the capital ships, which are wonderfully 
 detailed. The experience system for capital ships adds a nice twist.
  
  Resources - The resource system is detailed, without requiring a lot of micro. In fact, the system 
 is fairly macro only. I particularly like that your military is essential to supporting a lot of 
 your resource gathering.
  
  Story - It looks like there is a great story background, but it doesn't show up much in the game.
 
  
  Movies and cutscenes - Okay without being great. A little hard to follow at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianDohmen
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  To get a good view of what Sins of a Solar Empire has to offer, you have to play for several hours.
 
  At first it seems a bit dull with no single player campain. Though it came to my senses that this 
 game is multiplayer build.
  
  Even so, witch leaves it marked as SINGLE PLAYER ONLY for training against the AI, it takes several 
 days to master the game and play against human adversary's.
  
  The best thing in the game are the modification options. It lets you customize almost every availeble 
 aspect of the game engine. This makes room for a broad and dedicated mod comunity.
  
  The fast paced game original can thurn into an epic scaled game at the thurn of a few modifications.
 
  The maps can be made incredibly huge with stars and planets, wormholes, gasgiants, astroids, whatever 
 you want it to be in the map creator option of the game's user interface.
  
  Graphicaly this game looks blazing for a multiplayer space game, mod the graphics and it even looks 
 better then it already is.
  
  Sounds are pretty standard though the music is not bad, its just to much Star Wars scented. Obviously 
 not a bad choise for inspiration though not original.
  If you dont like the music, just mod the whole thing and make your own sound tracks if you like.
 
  
  Combat seams rather un-tactical at first glanse but if you play for several hours you come to see 
 that this game has a deep strategic meaning and tactical desisions make the most of good player 
 or a master of mixed unit tactics.
  
  Altough modification wil make this game even more strategic. Hardmodding could break the game's 
 esential intentional playstyle and its your choise of bringing these kind of modifications to the 
 mod comunity.
  
  Like stardock says: "Show us what you got!!"
  And i rest my case.......
  
  If you like strategic space games and like to mod. Do not hesitate 
 to buy it, its worth every single penny in your purse.
  If you dont like thse genres, then what the heck are you reading this for?!?!
  
  lol ;)
  
 
  Cya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that I'm a space strategy junkie who will play anything with ships and planets, 
 I really didn't enjoy SoSE as much as I thought I would.
  
  After hearing so many great things about the game, maybe I was just expecting too much.
  
  
 Its your classic space expansion game. There planetary systems that have resources to be mined, 
 and infrastructure to be created that will help to build your fleets. Its all about expansion, 
 economy and war fare, which sounds like a good classic mixture, but it just wasn't new, different 
 or exciting.
  
  I found myself not enjoying the whole Piracy aspect of the game - it was more annoying that it 
 was "random" and it is such a common space strategy game feature that it just felt old and worn. 
 Yes, they had the bid system that allowed you to "buy" pirate raids on your foes, but even those 
 were hard to really see the real benefit of spending resources on versus building your own infrastructure. 
 Of course, the Pirates are always more advanced than you in the beginning so an early raid is devastating, 
 even though it didn't seem that way when it was visited upon a rival.
  
  I really didn't like that you couldn't customize the ships. When certain ships gained experience, 
 you could "upgrade" those ships with a few buffed abilities, but it just didn't satisfy my desire 
 to control the outcome of ship to ship combat. Speaking of that, the combat felt like it was extremely 
 "canned". Maybe it was a lack of skill at the game, but the combat itself was mostly just a matter 
 of numbers and making sure that you didn't leave your arse too open in any one area. Ship combinations 
 didn't seem to matter too much, though I know people have said they matter greatly. I just didn't 
 see it, even though I fell that I tried every combination available. It always came down to numbers. 
 As soon as the enemy was outnumbered, it would run away and an annoying game of chase the planet 
 hoppers ensued.
  
  I suppose I still long for the days of Master of Orion II, where you could outfit your ships with 
 an awesome array of weapons that had different effects. You could make everything from one shot 
 / one kill juggernauts to swarms of shield killing gnats that opened the way for your larger ships 
 to decimate the ranks. What you brought to the battle and how they were outfitted really mattered. 
 I haven't seen that in a space strategy game (with the exception of Starfleet Command 3 released 
 in 2002) in the longest time.
  
  Overall, this game only barely fills the hole that has been left by games like Moo2 and SFC3, but 
 in the end, it just comes up lacking in my opinion.
  
  Its very much like the other Stardock Galactic Civ games. In fact, I can only think of a few differences 
 off the top of my head, and they don't add up to a ton of difference, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatgaminglife
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Overall solid game for the strategist. It takes awhile to get everything upgraded and you start 
 off really limited on your resources. Although, it is still a fun and make your life FLY BY FAST 
 game. Good graphics, decent gameplay, takes a little while to get use to, and really deserves at 
 least an 8.0 for overall creativeness. I wouldn't recommend this game to everyone. Especially those 
 who love fast-pace. It does take awhile to get going. However, it is better than watching paint 
 dry. I haven't yet tried the multi-player. I'm sure it will be okay. Worth at least 30 to 40 hours 
 of your life. Currently $30 in stores now. Give it a shot!
  
  Those that think this game is worthless probably should not have bought it to start with... Most 
 reviews on here are very useful. So be warned "those that seem to love bashing games that aren't 
 in your genre to start with." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurrrinen
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Honestly i dont know what to say... how could this game be an editors choice?
  
  I started playing the tutorial as i always do and by then the game still seemed to be very promising, 
 cool intro movie and all that. Tha game seemde pretty deep and unfolding once the tutorial was 
 completed and i couldnt wait to pla more... to may horror i noticed that there was no campain! 
 aah well its not the hole world but I cant imagine why they made a kinda cool plot in the intro 
 when there actually isnt a plot at all.
  
  Dont get me wrong i dont judge a game for missing a storyline, but it certanly makes it more dull.
 
  
  So i start a sp game to get started and slowly begin to build my small empire. after a few hours 
 i realize that that the game isnt what it shuld be.
  it is basically a grindig of frigates and a constant bribeing of pirates and the battles (exept 
 for being fun to watch the first few times) are quite dull... since it is mostly a fact of numbers, 
 capital ships and how regulaly you can send in more reinforcements. 
  
  simply put this game lacks any deph whatsoever... this applys both for gameplay and story. It lacks 
 the very essence that makes a game good, enyoyable, lasting and heck... even rememberd.
  
  Though its not all bad: 
  the grafix are quite good and the concept is among the best in my book 
 and i for one dont complain about the slow phase in my opinion RTS games has become faaaar to fast 
 phased the last few years (just compare the old classic rts games like c&c with c&c3. by the time 
 you get you have built your 1st war factory in the original you propably have lost/won in c&c3) . 
 
  
  it just simply dont feel finished. the complete game almost feels like a demo of any other rts.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redwolf22
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar empire is a game that claims it is a new genre of stratagy gaming, but its just 
 a regular RTS. Don't let that stop you playing it though, because a few tweaks and nice features 
 makes it unique in its own way.
  
  The scale of the game is unmathched; you are able to view your solar systems in a small galaxy, 
 and, with a few scrolls of the mouse whell, you zoom in lightyears to an individual trade ship. 
 Its impressive stuff. 
  
  The "small" scale maps ,10-20 planets, play like a regular RTS (Which i find dull after to many 
 years of C&C) You gather resources, build a mass of ships and crush your enemy. But, the large 
 scale maps are truely strategic, you have to build and manage an empire, balance your fleets to 
 make sure they are not spread out to thin, and attempt to create temporaliy alliances with other 
 factions.
  
  This all takes ages, with even the smaller skirmishes taking hours, so its not for the people who 
 like action packed fights (Which there are when to mighty fleets meet) . There is options you can 
 use to speed up gameplay, which I would even recomend to people with the patience of the DaliLama, 
 because you could find yourself watching the entire LoTR trilogy as you painfully wait for ships 
 to travel to differnet systems.
  
  So all in all, its a great game, worth playing, and the only thing that lets it down is the lack 
 of a campagn (though an expansion has been promised) . Its the kind of game that, even if you don't 
 get an immersive experience from it, you can come back to it after a few months and still enjoy 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwholmes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I'm very surprised that "Sins of a Solar Empire" has remained on Gamespot PC's 
 "Most Popular PC Games Available Now" list for so long. It boggles my mind that a full 6 months 
 after its release, it's still as high as #6. My only explanation is that this is the slow time 
 of the year for PC games.
  
  I've been into space strategy since the original Master of Orion and was very excited about "Sins", 
 but it left me totally cold. I played it diligently for a couple of weeks, but for most of that 
 time I was forcing myself to keep going, hoping I'd discover some aspect or angle that I had missed. 
 But no such luck.
  
  After a rather brief initial learning curve during which the game seems promising, it quickly winds 
 down into a tedious, predictable grind. There's no depth, no variety, no characters, and no storyline 
 to keep your interest; and while space battles are potentially epic in scope, you're more of a 
 spectator than a participant. The game simply has no personality. I've had more fun balancing my 
 checkbook.
  
  Still, it does have decent graphics and nice production values, so it doesn't deserve a total thrashing. 
 Maybe it can be salvaged in an expansion pack. But in the meantime, I'd much rather play a nice 
 game of MOO2 or even replay the Star Control series -- which perhaps says something about the undue 
 emphasis placed on technology over good design these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride_of_Hiigar
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  First Impression of the Game is very impressive and gives you an impression that there is a long 
 single player campaign. However the is little or no single player modes in the game, but to hell 
 with it. The game is so much fun, it takes around 1 hr just to completely upgrade their fleet and 
 to construct it. The game is very slow paced and is totally fun. From the point of start you are 
 always looking for something to do and always find work to do. This game does take some time to 
 master and is difficult to master too.
  However not all is well and good. When starting the game there is a huge introduction to the background 
 of each race and what history they have. This made be excited to finish the game with each race 
 but was very disappointed that there was no reference to the races or a storyline plot.
  Basically if you have a deep background for each race you need a story to follow-up, but was crapped 
 up. This game would have got 9.59 or 9.8 in my books, but the pointless use of introduction crashed 
 the party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Hart
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  I am very glad to say that the game has been improved on wonderfully since beta. The developers 
 have done exactly what all developers should do when incorporating Open Betas into their development 
 process.
  
  Let's start with Graphics. One word here, prettyfull. And yes I know that's not a real word. The 
 Ships look much better than the previous Betas. Bump mapping and all, but for those of you on machines 
 that should be in a museum there are options to turn all that stuff down. The planets are the best 
 looking planets I have ever seen in a 4X game. I love the fact you can see the transports flying 
 over the planet. All the laser affects look top notch, explosions look good and the warp effects 
 look spectacular.
  
  Now to the meat of the review. In my beta review I said the action was a little dry. This is true 
 for games on small maps. It's a little boring simply clicking attack and watching the lasers fly, 
 thankfully you can set the game speed before you start the game so I select fast if I'm on a small 
 map. Where the game really gets exciting is in the huge games. Where you can have five, ten even 
 twenty battles happening at the same time. You'lll go crazy trying to fight one battle then the 
 enemy jumps into your home system with a load of ships and starts beating the crap out of your 
 home world. Though thankfully the AI is competent enough for you to simply tell them who to attack 
 then run away to deal with other problems.
  
  Unlike Galactic Civilizations 2, you cannot design your own ships. Instead you have three main 
 types: Capital Ships, Cruisers and Frigates. The Capital Ships are essentially the Battlestars 
 of Sins of a Solar Empire. They look amazing, they're about 5 times the size of Frigates and they 
 move, sound and look huge. They take long turns and they sure can take a pounding. I often find 
 myself just watch one of my Capital ships take on 5 enemy frigates, watch the lasers deflect of 
 it's shields and watch the volley of missiles it releases onto the enemy.
  
  The Cruisers are the mid-ships of the game. They all have very specialized roles, some launch fighters, 
 repair other ships and some specialize in specific combat types. You get these about mid-way through 
 a game. You don't get any of these when you begin, you must research all of them.
  
  The Frigates make up the bulk of your fleets. You start off with Scout, Colony and light frigates 
 when you begin. Scout's aren't good for anything except exploration. Colony Ships are used for 
 colonizing, I'm sure you could've worked that out. The great thing about them though is you can 
 use them more than once, they don't disappear. Light Frigates will probably be the only thing in 
 your first fleet except for your Capital Ship. They are basic ships, they just go pow pow with 
 their lasers. The other Frigates you have to unlock. Some specialize in rockets, some in flak and 
 some in planetary siege.
  
  Diplomacy is perhaps one of the best parts of the game. Mainly because it is not an after thought 
 to the game and it is nothing to do with negotiating. The geniuses behind the game have developed 
 a diplomacy system that creates Peace from War. Basically the other AI in the game will give you 
 missions. If you complete them, they like you more. If you don't they like you less. The missions 
 can range from anything from "Give me 1000 metal" to "Kill 10 ships of the Vasari Conclave". Then 
 if the AI like you enough you can offer a treaty which can be a treaty of Trade, Ship Sight, Planet 
 sight, Cease Fire or Peace.
  
  Another Unique feature in the game is the Pirates. No not the pirates with eye patches. Basically 
 they're essentially a neutral faction, kind of. They don't have planets, though you may at some 
 point find a Pirate Base. Basically they appear in a system and attack everything in it. But to 
 stop this from being merely an annoyance, you can affect who the pirates attack. You can place 
 a bounty on the faction you want the pirates to attack, and others can add bounty to you. So your 
 essentially bidding for the pirates' services.
  
  One of the most evolutionary things in the game is the Tech Tree. It is much more interesting than 
 the one in Galactic Civilizations 2. There are rarely any repeats in it, most of it unlocks new 
 things than simply making your current stuff better and everything you unlock feels worth it, you 
 can really see the effects of it. It has been improved a lot since the beta, it is now organized 
 into 4 Catagories. Military, Civics, Fleet Logistics and Artifacts. Military is all things that 
 go pow or ka-pow, it unlocks new ships and better lasers. Civics varies a little, some of it's 
 to do with mining, planets etc. And then you get ones which increase Jump range or let you use 
 wormholes. Fleet Logistics is all to do with how many ships and Capital Ships you can have. And 
 Artifacts are things that unlock special technologies, you find Artifacts from exploring planets, 
 I'll get to that later.
  
  The other key part of Sins is Empire building. The space in the game is divided into sectors, each 
 of which has a planet, star, asteroid, asteroid field, wormhole or lightning storm. If you own 
 the planet or asteroid you can build structures around your planet to about half the radius of 
 the sector. This is so that when enemies jump in they aren't destroyed immediately by your defenses. 
 The buildings are divided into two types, Logistics and Tactical. Logistics is Mining, Research 
 and bulding. Tactical is all your defenses. The actual planet you own can be upgraded, a larger 
 population so you gain more tax, increased planet health, exploration which discovers Artifacts, 
 Logistic building capacity and Tactical building capacity.
  
  The sectors are separated by large amounts of space. These are traversed by your ships using their 
 jump drives. Now don't fool yourself, these take awhile to start up. So don't think that having 
 one fleet will be able to defend three or four planets. When a battle starts you'll be screaming 
 at your ships to "Hurry the **** up!" and kill the enemies. So you will always want to keep at 
 least a few ships around your planets to defend. I found this out the hard way.
  
  Overall, Sins of a Solar Empire is a must play game. You will find yourself being sucked into this 
 game, you'll start playing then realize you've four days of the real world. You can't miss this, 
 yes it may have some flaws but you need to play it just to say you've tried it. And this is most 
 definately a candidate for my GotY 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahmid_milad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  i never really liked space Futuristic Strategy games but SSE is somehow different because it looks 
 real in term of its game play Experience and there is tons of ships to choose from, a clever interface 
 and there is some features like pinning important planets can become handy, AI is fine however 
 it sometimes has it down like retreating from its home planet even if was the bigger fleet . there 
 is a some factors to add depth to the game like Pirates and a double edged sword they can for you 
 or against you but they too stupid which spoils the fun and also it will great if the game has 
 a more convincing story to tell cuz from where am seeing it more like a cartoon story than to be 
 called a plot, but the strong points of the game is its amazing graphics without sacrificing performance 
 and the big upgrades list and of course its diverse capital ships Arsenal although some races has 
 a stronger ships than others and also some strategic weapons that some have and some that are not 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monstermonster
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Lets be honest, we've been there and done it with regard to this type of game. 
  
  Having said that, Sins of a Solar Empire does it really quite well and if you become hooked, I 
 wasn't, you could be left without a real-world life, late night and a massive yearning to get back 
 into space every time you have to step away. Not as addictive as Civilisation 4 but if real time 
 strategy is your bag you will not be disappointed
  Graphically its up there with the best, especially when you zoom right in on a major interstellar 
 battle, the attention to detail is great.
  The pirate system is quite an innovation and adds an element of depth that makes the game play 
 more rewarding
  The audio and sound effects aren't wonderful but the you don't play this type of game to be blown 
 away by the sounds
  If you are new to the genre I would suggest having a look at some game guides as the opposition 
 can be rather unforgiving if you are poorly prepared for their arrival.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  ... and really, without a campaign, I can't fairly rate this game above 7, because it's lacking 
 the most important thing for a strategy game - a feeling of a achievement beyond knowing that I 
 can simply outsmart a rudimentary AI at making strategic decisions.
  
  Even text-only mission briefings and a few variations on random maps which have increasing difficulty 
 would have sufficed to make me happy! : ( There is plenty of value in the game as it stands, but 
 in today's busy world, it's hard to find the justification to sit down for a four hour session 
 just to win at a random map against one or two AI players.
  
  As for everything else... it's simply amazing quality from an indie developer. The graphics are 
 simple but dramatic. The music is very atmospheric - right down the little touches such as battle 
 music playing when you zoom to a contested planet, but peaceful music when you zoom to the nearby 
 peaceful one. 
  
  The maps can get very cluttered with competing amounts of information, armies, units, progress 
 reports - but the game is very good at sorting them, and it's easy enough to find a specific unit 
 or place. In fact, the simple fact that the game allows you scroll the mousewheel to switch between 
 galaxy and planet views is sheer elegance as far as control goes.
  
  The gameplay is not 100% intuitive - the multiple research tabs, my initial inability to understand 
 how pirates worked, and playing two full games without realising what trade ports did are examples 
 - but it can still be picked up in a single session, and the tooltips are good enough that it doesn't 
 require you to strain your brain to wrap your head around the game's dynamics.
  
  In short: despite being a real time game, Sins of a Solar Empire is effectively the same as all 
 those turn based strategy games you've played before - Civilisation, Alpha Centauri, Age of Wonders. 
 The gameplay is slow and methodical, but lets you be thoughtful and becomes simply addicting once 
 you grasp the game basics. But, like these games, you are essentially only contesting the same 
 random challenges over and over again... and even if you ramp the game speed up, it's a big timesink. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3monicd34th
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for those who like short, medium, or INSANELY LONG GAMES. Because of the customizable 
 gameplay, you can have a quick One on One game, or a Free for all game with more than nine people! 
 The gameplay is smooth, with a learning curve of maybe a day or two. This is my prime PC game currently. 
 It makes you feel like a true commander, ordering Massive fleets of ships to attack, defend, Raid, 
 and everything in between, while building a thriving economy, and handling Diplomatic issues with 
 other Empires. A TRULY INCREDIBLE GAME! Another thing I love about this game is Amazing balance 
 between economy and Military. It's just PERFECT! The Ship types are very well balanced, and call 
 for a good strategist to not just spam out a thousand weak frigates because it's cheap. A good 
 fleet, with balanced fleet, can take down a planets infastructure quickly, so think before you 
 build. The research is fun, unlocking new ships, abilities, etc etc. Thank you Stardock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slitherdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is an ideal multiplayer game -- vast, deep, fun. However, the lack of a 
 single player campaign is inexcusable, especially in a powerfully promising game such as this one. 
 
  
  A single game can last for hours -- that's how vast and 'immersive' is this game. The acquisition 
 of resources -- and the option of buying from the black market is just the start of how deep this 
 strategy well goes. Like a true galactic empire, every action, it seems, will yield strategic consequences.
 
  
  Additional features such as the pirate attacks and diplomacy add tasty flavors to the game. You 
 can essentially control the attacks of your enemies by balancing these two aspects. 
  
  Visually, the game is impressive not because of the 'wow' factor, but due to the little touches 
 in the game. Fighter ships are almost invisible when beside the Capital ships. Units are represented 
 by icons when in 'galactic' view. And the explosions are delicious -- watching that enemy flag 
 ship go boom in a ring-like nuclear explosion is sweeeeeeeeeeet.
  
  Now, on to the bad stuff.
  
  The units are forgettable. The units between races don't pose 
 that much of a difference -- you can play any race with essentially the same approach and you'll 
 do fine. The smaller ships are even more forgettable -- essentially, you can win against easy and 
 even normal opponents using only your capital ships.
  
  But the biggest criticism against this game is the lack of a single player campaign. I mean, seriously... 
 what were they thinking? Most of the time, the really good games, the ones you remember even as 
 years pass by since you've played the game, are propelled by a plot. The plot drives the game. 
 It shapes its character. Instead of a one-dimensional (albeit superb) multi-player game, a single 
 player campaign would have improved this game's greatness exponentially.
  
  All in all, Sins of a Solar Empire is a great game to pass away the time. But you won't spend time 
 preparing strategies for this one while you're waiting in line for the bus.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moleman2341
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is still a good game, despite the fact that it does contain anything dramatically 
 new than some of its predecessors like the already mentioned Homeworld. The game itself is fun 
 to play and the interfaces make playing easy. When I first played I found the AI quite difficult 
 as I didn't really know what I was doing. 
  
  Playing it more got me some good practice and I improved. If you aren't into the RTS in space, 
 then depending on your skill level you might find it hard the first few times you play through. 
 I was on the whole happy with the AI; at times they did some dumb things which have since been 
 patched up with new patches, but a challenge none the less. 
  
  So if you enjoy real time strategies in space and you're looking for a stunning visual experience 
 you'll enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curseofpoopdog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I have too say that when I first saw this game i thought that it was going to be just another long 
 waste of time. That was until I saw the stardock symbol in the corner of the advertisement and 
 I nearly relieved myself of all substances consisting within the confines of my bowels (figure 
 it out if you didnt catch it at first) . They had already gotten me with Galactic Civ 2 and now 
 they were going to take more time from my life. I love you stardock. 
  When I first picked up this game and got it running I did what i do with most games like this, 
 go through the tutorial and crank the size up to the max, and thats where this game shines. The 
 sheer epic scale of this game will have you playing on one map for months, especially if you are 
 playing against live opponents. The Micro managing is minimized through a genius system that allows 
 you to manage all ships and planets from one option screen, though after long games it does clutter. 
 The graphics and sounds are superb, on higher end rigs they are simply breathtaking. For me there 
 were only 2 problems with this game, 1: as i said before on the bigger map the micro management 
 window clutters the screen as you gain more and more planets, and 2: NO STORY!!!!!!!!, i was so 
 disappointed when they seemed to set up a great story and when i go to single player i find no 
 story.
  Overall i feel that stardock has done a masterful job and if they fix the few problems that i stated, 
 they will have an almost perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalek200
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is an extremely good game, I thought Supreme Commander would have the largest scale in an 
 RTS for a few more years. But then along comes this.
  Basically it is galactic domination, you build a fleet, conquer all the planets and then finish 
 off your enemies. But there is a lot more to it than that.
  You have pirates to deal with, enemy culture to stop (and your own to spread) , capital ships to 
 get promoted, missions to keep your allies happy (if the teams are unlocked) and various other 
 things.
  At the start of every match you start with a planet, a frigate factory and some construction ships 
 (around the planet are some asteroids with metal or crystal on) and from there within a few hours/days 
 you can have conquered as many solar systems as you want in a map each with as many planets as 
 you want in it. The map creator is simpler than the ones from AoE and other olde RTSs.
  You have 3 currencies to collect, crystal and metal (which you get from building extractors on 
 asteroids) and taxes (which you get from your planets) . You can build refineries and trade ports 
 if you want to, (personally i find these very useful) to boost your income.
  A rather annoying thing in this game are the pirates as they can destroy small fleets and defences 
 if they come in force. But luckily you can put bounties on other players so they attack them instead.
 
  As each race you have a large tech tree to research things from, to get these you first have to 
 build at least one research lab.
  The capital ships in the game are a very useful. Each race has 5 different classes of capital ship 
 to choose from. There is a limit of 16 capital ships (which I often find is more than enough to 
 win) . These can all get promoted to level 10 at which point they will have 4 abilities (3 at level 
 3 and 1 at level 1) have high shields and high hull points. These are rather similar to the heroes 
 from Warcraft 3 so people who liked that aspect of it would probably enjoy this bit.
  Finally there are the three races. The TEC are your average human, personally i don't like them 
 much but my brother never plays as anyone else. Then there is the Advent who are humans who have 
 psychic powers. And finally the Vasari who are the only aliens in the game and did once rule most 
 of the galaxy but are now running from one of their own creations.
  As i said before this is an awesome game and i would recommend it to most people but if you buy 
 a game for the campaign this is not for you as this dosn't have one, also if you are looking for 
 the 3d aspect from other space games such as Homeworld then prepare to be disappointed because 
 it is lacking in any control over that (the ships do have a tendency to go up or down of their 
 own accord occasionally) . Just a couple of let downs, but all of the positive things by far outweigh 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3forever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  If you ever played games like C&C3 or any other RTS game this is a lot better than any other! 
 
  
  Game play: The game play is awesome and its surprisingly not too hard to order your ships around 
 or build something because of the Empire Tree.
  It allows you to select any ship or building from anywhere without clicking on it itself. The zoom 
 scale is really big and when I say big I mean HUGE! The AI is pretty hard even on easy mode!
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good though there should be more songs.
  If you zoom in on your 
 ships you can hear them firing at the enemy and everything.
  
  Story: This game has a pretty good story but there is no campaign. If it did that would be cool 
 but there isn't.
  
  Replay Value: 10 After you complete all the scenarios you can just start a random map or make your 
 own which is really cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is really that rare occurence in the gaming industry, something really new. It is addictive 
 and engrossing and while many influences can be felt it can't really be compared to anything else 
 because it really is a new genre even if it is one borne of a fusion of other genres rather than 
 something that came out of nowhere.
  While you can see a lot of the gameplay was inspired by hegemonia and shows inflluences from RTS 
 and Trun-based classics, it has really been developed and stream-lined very well into something 
 that just plays really unlike anything else.
  The pacing is oddly perfect, I somehow manage to jump around keeping up with upgrading planets 
 and managing minor task forces in the time it takes my major fleets to reach their targets without 
 ever really feeling like I'm having to wait around a whole lot, I could wish there was just a little 
 more customization available but it wouldn't really be practical until the late game when you've 
 pretty much tapped out the tech tree and you're down to exclusively major fleet actions so there's 
 less to keep track of.
  The lack of campaign really makes sense if you look at this as more a game like Civilization or 
 Galactic Civilizations where campaigns end up feeling more like add-ons since the core gameplay 
 stands on its own so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  you can have so many ship in a war that it nice the resource is a lack to game-play having to wait 
 more then 5hour to have half of upgrade in multi-player also there is lot of galaxy option even 
 a small game of just war domination can be 3 hour like any stardock game
  Galactic Civilisation II that ad no multiplayer but Ethic & way to do thing economy : and lot of 
 war i just hope they ad a feature for more fast game so then you could play online with lot of 
 people and have fun in a big war
  cause if you let the other build a nice defense gonna take you forever to win i play some game 
 on small that durations is 15 hour of game-play before total conquest of enemy resource and planet 
 there is also when you jump to another star system so more planet. 
  then you must collect those resource protect them to have like 4.5 crystal income and metal 9.0 
 + that is slow lol
  
  so i hope they make a new one with different gameplay for multiplayer
  like a TWO with more race 
 & tech
  always fun to have diversity
  well this game is good to buy and i hope try it in future when i get a 1920x1200 monitor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aswoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game. Playing it is a nice way to waste a few hours and I do admit that it 
 is rather immersive when the game gets going. I can't say that I am a great fan of their left-screen 
 short display of your planets. This gets rather cluttered on huge games.
  
  More important, however, I do feel that it is missing a huge element in not having a campaign. 
 Although the mechanics are very good, it lacks the final element to suck you in with campaign missions 
 - where you feel like you are continually progressing rather than playing one game after another. 
 There's otherwise no sense of great accomplishment at the end. Rumor has it that version 2.0 will 
 have campaign missions, which hopefully is true. However, you can't help but think that these guys 
 rushed the product a touch by completely leaving a huge element out of a polished product.
  
  It's rather a disappointing attestment to the business nowadays that PC games are rushed to 
 market with publishers expecting that they can continually put in updates rather than just getting 
 it right from the beginning.
  
  Despite all of this, I must say that Sins is a fantastic strategic RTS. I'm less of a fan of click-fests 
 and more enjoy the empire building concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_256
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Must have? Why do people think they can say that any game with spacy background is a must have 
 for space strategy lovers?
  
  1 This game is not a must have.
  A lot less somplicated than Gallactic Civilizations, Homeworld, Jupiter conflict or any other game 
 out there. In fact, the game is so simple, it's almost an arcade.
  
  Economy:
  There is no economy. What resources you have are only scarse in the beginning of the game. By the 
 time you are ready to attack, you'll have more minerals and credits than you can spend. 
  
  Maps:
  The size of even the smallest map is so huge that it takes considireble amount of time 
 to reach your opponent, much more even to lacete him. In fact, if you try to rush the ennemy, by 
 the time your fleet gets to the system, your ships will be outdated and outnumbered.
  
  Strategy:
  Because it's much easier to deffend your empire than to attack, almost always you'll 
 finish all your research and upgrade all your planets before you'll make a move on an enemy. Almost 
 infinite suplly of resources means that the game will last untill someone quits.
  
  The game its self is apsurdly simple. There are 3 types of civilian buildings - Unit Factories, 
 Resource gathering, Research labs. Sounds ordinary to strategy games, but when you have 10-15 systems 
 looking exactly alike exept the color of the planet, you lose the urge to continue.
  
  Millitary structures are like civilian, few and boring.
  
  Battles:
  Capital ships are the 
 only thing realy fun about this game. In deed with out them the game would not be playable at all. 
 You can use normal units ofcourse, but if your fleet gets whiped out it'll be many many many minutes 
 before you can repeat the attack. On latge maps it can take an hour to get from one end to another. 
 So most of the time you'll be playing with your Cap ships, and using normal units in wall on wall 
 battles.
  So yea, Capital ships are like heroes in WarCraft 3, same 4 skills 3 available right away, 4th 
 only at hihger level. LAME!!!
  
  Tell you what else is lame. As I got to some serious battles in this game (and that take a lot 
 of time) , the game reminded me of dota in slow motion. Where your nirmal units are a constant sream 
 of mobs running to wards an opponent, and you are a hero playing with a bunch of Cap ships formed 
 into a single fleet. Game devs give no credit to blizzard. 2X LAME!!!
  
  Normal units come in 2 sizes. Frigates and Crusers. Refer to Homeworld for this one, as it's about 
 the same - Flak, Long range, Ordinary type weapons.
  Crusers are a bit more fun, as they are like severely nerfed capital ships.
  
  Also, when talking 
 about map size, IT IS NOT an actual space between objects, eg "homeworld" style distance from A 
 to B. It's more like:
     You decided to move to system B
     Relocation commencing, Units will pop up in system B in 20 minutes.
  - This is when you can 
 technicaly minimize the game and browse internet for 20 min, if you leave the sound on, you'll 
 know if some enemy is moving towards your sector.
  
  So all this bullcrap about week and month long games on huge maps.... what they didnt say is that 
 98% of the game is downtime.
  
  
  But wait! Theres more! The solar system is made of many pocket maps (Planets) with huge wait times 
 of traveling between them.
  Now let's talk about the space around the planets.
  Theres is enough for structures and even some space to park a small fleet, but NOT enough to have 
 a collision of Attacking and a Deffending fleets, especially towards the end game when fleets become 
 super masive.
  More often than not, the battles look like two phananxes fighting in melee.
  All you can do is keep pressing those Cappital ship "ability" buttons.
  
  
  THE GOOD!!!111!!! oneone
 
  
  The game looks nice!
  
  Overall:
  The game is a wonderful idea, but not in a practical maner. Can be a wondeful game, just needs 
 a lot more work before a release.
  In general, I've seen a lot better games getting shafted by gamespot. As a long standing fan of 
 RTS and Space Strats, I give this game a 6.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicman07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest 4x (explore expand exploit exterminate) space strategy game ever and 
 in my opinion the only 1 worth buying. 
  It is set in the future where the Vasari (a group of aliens fleeing an unknown enemy) , the TEC 
 (humans who had a thriving trading civilisation) and The advent (a group of aliens that use psychic 
 abilities) fight it out in an all out war for the universe.
  
  Pros
  -great game
  -easy to learn if you have played other strategy games
  -the first space based rts worth buying
 
  
  Cons 
  -continual crashes known as mini dump errors
  -you need a powerful system to play with any good graphics
  -too hard to make allies and too 
 easy to lose them
  -no singleplayer campaign.
  
  Apart from all of that This is the greatest space strategy game ever +i cant w8 for the expansion 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMatter70
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game a couple weeks ago and it is so much fun. My favorite kind of game is slow 
 paced rts, and Sins falls right into that category. The only complaint I have against it is that 
 it has no campaign, but otherwise it is sooooo awesome. My favorite race is Vasari, but they're 
 all pretty fun. It also has a sweet soundtrack for it. I haven't done any online multiplayer yet 
 but I'm sure it's awesome too. I had a friend come over and play on one of my other computers over 
 my LAN, it was really smooth and worked great. Another cool thing is that it doesn't take the cd 
 key to install it, the only reason they have a cd key is to create your online account. So that 
 makes it very nice if you have more than 1 computer in your house and like to play with friends 
 over LAN. The only reason I gave it a 9.5 is because there's no campaign, otherwise it would have 
 gotten a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  I can't describe how great this game is. All of the factions may seem the same but trust me they 
 aren't. THe Advent have shields and capitol ships as their strength. Tec have the best superweapon 
 and the strongest armor. Vasari are a bit of a balance between the two with great weapons. The 
 graphics are amazing and the gameplay will last for hours. thanks to the new speed settings though 
 you can shorten it. The AI at higher levels is very hard to beat and like online play which is 
 a little dead in this game for good reasons ( that it is so long to play and so immersive it just 
 doesn't work well) The only bone to pick about this game is that is takes so long to play it can 
 get dull sometimes but otehr than that to hate this game is to hate strategy. THe gamew has so 
 many different tactics that you could take years to describe them all. Not to mention the number 
 of ships you can control. If you do it right you can get enough to block out the sun literally. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antirelic
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  If every 4x game had graphics of this caliber, I'd probably be unemployed and living with my parents. 
 Unfortunately, it seems like any game that has good graphics and camera control, lacks any real 
 depth. The technology trees are short, which means that you do not need to worry about a strategy 
 on moving forward with technology. The diplomacy in the game is pretty bad... not at all in depth. 
 The AI is not horribly challenging either, its either feast or famine, victory or defeat. The battles 
 are also not very challenging either. Its a race to destroy the other sides capital ships before 
 they destroy yours. The lack of in depth ship design is a real drag. There is no customizing ships, 
 so no upgrading of fleets... very flat as far as content goes. If your looking for a challenging 
 4x that will take you hours and hours to beat... dont look here. Also dont look here for replayability 
 because its not their either.
  
  Overall, this is more of a starcraft than a MOO2, but without the role playing and rewarding plot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  In Sins of a Solar Empire, you are the leader of a civilization embroiled in a galactic war, fighting 
 for the survival of your entire race against relentless foes. A game of Sins of a Solar Empire 
 can range from 30 to 100 planets in size, spread out among up to four different solar systems. r 
 entire race against relentless foes. An expanding empire requires resources to power its ever-growing 
 war machine and economic engine. Sins of a Solar Empire has three primary resources; Metal, Crystal 
 and Credits. Building structures on planets and in-orbit will help you maximize your income and 
 ability to support larger and larger fleets of ships. Build Planetary Infrastructure
  Increase your tax revenue, and your ability to support your growing fleet and structures in orbit. 
 Amass and Command Huge Fleets
  Build fleets of capital ships, cruisers, frigates and support vessels to ravage enemy defenses 
 and worlds. Manage your ships in battle to obliterate enemy forces and fight your way to victory. 
 Research Advanced Technology and improve your ships weapons, unlock more advanced ships and structures, 
 and discover new ways to exploit your resources by investing in technology research. A player who 
 effectively manages the technology tree will be a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield. 
 This strategy is one of the best out there and worth playing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotenks123321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is Extremely fun. The three races that are in the game are very different 
 and will fit most people's needs.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is the best part. You can play this game at parties and everybody has a 
 good time. It is also a good time killer because the games can take anywhere from 30 minutes to 
 10+ hours.
  
  There is massive scale and it's a very great feeling to be fighting alongside your ally with massive 
 armies battling against enemies.
  
  The game also supports modding the game. You can download other people's mods and it becomes very 
 fun.
  
  There is no single player campaign though, but there is an intro telling why the three races are 
 fighting. 
  
  Also there are quite a few technical issues and the game crashes every once in a while. Although 
 there are patches and guides on how to fix theses errors.
  
  Although, once you get past all of the bad aspects of the game, it turns out to be an amazing experience 
 that is extremely fun to play. The scale the game is on is massive and it is an overall awesome 
 experience and I would highly recommend buying this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Pbody
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review and I have played a number of games before and believe i have a good feel 
 for a RTS game.
  
  This is a great game with real time game play similar to Empire at War but you are always in a 
 battle, I love how you have to siege planets to control them and the epic space battles that you 
 have to fight. The game play is awsome in every aspect. I would not change a thing about how you 
 play the game.
  
  But the down fall for this game is that it does feel like they created a game that plays well and 
 then decieded to stop there and not add anything. There is no point in getting this game unless 
 you dont mind long multi player battles and repetive skirmiages that have very little point. The 
 intro movie feells like a teenager made. Its pictures that have some movement but are just other 
 pictures moveing (when you see it you will understand) . This game could have a GREAT campaing if 
 they created one. They could have indepth story on the struggle of the terrans and also could make 
 a sequal with the arrival of the aliens unknown enimies. It just gets dull and boring after a few 
 battles
  
  The game play is amazing though and if you want a RTS to waste some time on this is a great game 
 to do it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire, at first glance it looks like a low-budget title. But think again, once 
 you put your hands into this, its really worth your time, all 24 hours of it. That's the length 
 of one game (jokingly) .
  
  The game looks complex, but if you're familiar with strategy games, and you go through some of 
 the tutorials, you'll get the flavor of it.
  
  The gameplay is deep, not only do you build structures, and units then attack your foes, but also 
 establish civilizations to some extent. Once you acquire a planet, you can make it grow. You can 
 make diplomacies with other factions, and even trade with them. 
  
  This game takes place in space, and thats a huge advantage. Why? because you have lots of space. 
 Unlike other RTS games, you build structures on the ground with limited space, and/or snap on a 
 grid. Sins has alot of space for you to build what you need with an "orbit ring" around each planet, 
 acting as a barrier. Sins also has a grid but doesn't snap on. You place your structures where 
 you want.
  
  There are plenty of upgrades, ranging from amour for your structures and units, to the culture/policies 
 of your planet.
  
  Have you ever played Warcraft III, Starcraft or Command & Conquer, and thought, i want to build 
 an empire, with an economy and population. Well in this game, you will get that. You can either 
 play it like Starcraft, build then attack, or take the time into capturing planets and watching 
 your empire grow. It's a refreshing and innovative experience. That's extremely rewarding.
  
  The game also has multiplayer, with big maps, containing large amounts of planets, going against 
 a friend or two, with their own empires takes fun to a whole new level. The game does not have 
 a single player campaign, which isn't a big disadvantage but having one would be nice, to understand 
 units, structures, and the game in general alot more.
  
  Although the graphics and sound aren't phenomenal, this game doesn't require them to be. The asteroids 
 when zoomed in, you can see some normal mapping, units and structures when zoomed in, have sharp 
 textures. Sounds include unit phrases, explosions, and weapon sounds, especially when bombing a 
 planet, it is quite earth shattering (literally)
  With many units on screen and maps containing up to 100+ planets, the game runs smoothly on a Geforce 
 8600 GTS.
  
  With games, such as Command & Conquer 3, Supreme Commander, and Universe at War, where they have 
 the graphics and sounds. Sins of a Solar Empire takes the alternative route, with gameplay, that's 
 innovative and rewarding. With a single game stretching for hours on end, this game will keep you, 
 and your buddies up all night.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooleooooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I started off first by following the game through development. Then reading the reviews on Game-spot. 
 I was completely impressed on many aspects the game had to offer.
  
  This game does not have a great story... heck it has no story. So if you have no internet and were 
 looking for a intuitive story you bought the wrong game. Even in singleplayer though some fun things 
 i found were: Small-Medium sized maps were a great challenge. Ships, and the environment (Space) 
 were done so flawlessy. Everything looked very smooth.
  
  This game is not like Galactic Civilizations, you cannot beat your opponent through diplomacy. 
 Its just like Homeworld 2, collect resources (and scout out were more are) , scout were the enemy 
 is, build warships to destroy enemy, and/or if your not fast enough upgrade your tech tree to get 
 more powerful units.
  
  This game is definitely gonna suck up your life. In contrast to games like Galactic Civilizations, 
 Homeworld 2, and Hegemonia (i think thats the spelling) . Id say the average play time; even on 
 a small map would be maybe 2 hours. The game will require you too really think, so if you don't 
 like thinking hard, go back to C&C 3 (or more simpler RTS games) .
  
  Graphics look nice on a decent rigged PC. Ships looked ok, kinda repetitive though. The Nebulae's 
 and wormholes look radiant. I like the camera feature, the ability to scroll out to galactic view 
 seamlessly is very nice. 
  
  If you dare go to Multiplayer, i hope you can dedicate many hours, heck even days to win. The longest 
 one i went with was 8 hours, man that went on forever. In my humble opinion, and to anyone who 
 reads.
  
  Id definetly think on buying the game. 
  
  Sincerely, Kev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire, a game were the player controls one of three civilizations to expand, research, 
 and conquer. Its game play mechanics are very hard to get control of at first and even on an easier 
 level you could end up felling rushed but, as you spend and put more and more hours into the game 
 it begins to fell fun. The game has 2 basic research slots warfare and civilization, or something 
 on that line. You can pretty much go in and research what ever pleases you, but you have to build 
 up research stations these take up a supply point under you logistics for these types of structures.
 
  
  The structures in the game are built by research more logistic slots on your planet and by selecting 
 either a war building or social building, these are under different slots. After this you can just 
 pretty much place them on the space plane within you gravity well. A gravity well is the gravity 
 pulling things to stay around your planet the further away you get from your planet the less gravity 
 is pulling on it, this gets us to another important part of the game, phase jumping.
  
  Space is a really spacey place and if you just want to float along to other planets in Sins than 
 the game would take you hours not to mention the hours actually playing the game. The way you phase 
 jump is move you desired ship outside of the gravity well then you click on the desired planet 
 as long as it is connected to the original planet by a phase lane. A phase lane is strategic importance 
 to the game without them you would not have chock points or trade routes, the make the game harder 
 and more fun as you progress through destroying an enemy planet one at a time.
  
  In Sins of a Solar Empire there are 3 races for you to choose from each with their own agenda but 
 very minor differences, they are the TEC, Vasari, and the Advent. Each race has its own agenda 
 on how the universe should be ran, for example the Advent feel they need to spread their ideology 
 of gods or god to other races, while the Vasari are running from an unknown enemy. When play each 
 race they are very similar and different making it easier and harder at the same time. Although 
 the game does not have a campaign for these three races it just makes it for you to be a little 
 more imaginative, but for all you bring-downers of this game just because it does not have a campaign 
 have no fear it will come out with one in the sequel.
  
  The game play in sins is just stunning there are just so many options you have when going against 
 an AI player or a real human player across country. It is a newer idea and breaks the line between 
 RTS and strategy. This game is the one giant leap for mankind of the gaming world it will open 
 the doors for thousands of other games like it. Complemented with great graphics and a pretty open 
 world of gaming Sins of Solar Empire is a knockout hit and receives a great report from the TUBE 
 MISTER.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabled_SPARTAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing and gameplay is very entertaining. Map designer and multiplayer are very well 
 made. Large scale battles can get HUGE. Over 400 units fighting each other at one time is quite 
 remarkable. The detail in the units is also very remarkable. The selection of units is diverse 
 as well as the planets and stars. There can be over 40 planets in a given match. More then one 
 way to conquer the universe is also another way to play. Non-violent culture spread and culture 
 rebelion are non violent ways to remove your enemies.
  
  Some cons however, is the very high learning curve. I'd say it would take you about 4 hours of 
 gameplay to fully understand how to do everything. Also, the game takes a VERY long time. One match 
 lasted 6 hours for me.
  
  I have never played an RTS before and I love it. The requirements are not too demanding so you 
 shouldn't worry about crappy frame rates. The game has had a recent price drop so i HIGHLY suggest 
 this game for a PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the game was fun to play for a change in pace and I enjoyed the space setting. 
 How many games out there that have three resources to gather, a small selection of units, and upgrades 
 from tech tree? Sure this formula is fun and works, but I believe some of the other reviews are 
 greatly inflating the difference having a space setting makes in a game. If this game had Orcs 
 and Elves or Tanks it would have been justly slapped with the label of 'been there and done that'.
 
  
  If you play a larger map or if you like to turtle you will find two of the three end game technologies 
 over powered. One allows you to destroy an enemy's planet from a building on your planet. Upgrading 
 planets get expensive fast and rebuilding them is more expensive than building the super weapon. 
 Another race has the option of a building that allows fleets to move from point to point, by passing 
 the normal space lanes in its own territories. This is my personal favorite as it allows concentration 
 of forces and ability to apply force quickly over a large map. The third super weapon is pointless; 
 an influence victory over a planet takes to long and is relatively easy to counter.
  
  The only new thing I see about this game is its scale. If you like playing with many other players 
 on an enormous scale with potentially days of non stop game play then this is the game for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuka115
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i didn't know what at all to expect, and after i installed it, like an 
 idiot, i didn't do the tutorial and jumped right into a medium sized map with hard ai. It was a 
 little difficult to figure out just what to do at first so i just built a large amount of Cobalt 
 light frigates and took 4 planets. Just after taking the fourth planet a huge fleet showed up that 
 was obviosly not mine and destroyed my first fleet. So I built a second fleet as quickly as i could 
 and was again massacered while trying to take the planet back. Then the other ai fleet showed up 
 and took my other planets i finally said screw it and stayed at my home planet and just built up 
 my fleet waiting for theirs. Then it came, and it was a gloriously long battle but eventually they 
 completley destroyed my fleet and everything else. By the end of it i wasn't mad or anything in 
 fact i enjoyed every second of it. That is just a small taste of what could happen to you. Hopefully 
 it will go better.
  
  The graphics in the game are good and the amount of ships you can have is unbelivable. The battles 
 with the large amount of ships is spectacular as well.
  
  The sound is ok i don't really notice the music though, which i have a small problem with since 
 i love a good soundtrack.
  
  Another problem i have is that they don't elaborate on the story with a single player campaign, 
 but i can overcome that flaw by having just an epic skirmish that will last a couple days.
  
  Overall i would say this is an excellent game that is ridiculously epic in scale and can be 
 extremley long as well, if you want it to be, and even if you are losing it is still one hell of 
 an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 021294
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is incredible. breathtaking detail for a RTS, yet it can still be played on P. C. s that 
 are a few years old. there are heaps of reasearch optians different to each race. maps can be huge, 
 so large it takes up to 10 hours to mop up the last enemy. there is a black market, pirates with 
 an innovatrive bounty system. and an exelent diplomacy board where treaties, gifts and missions 
 are organised. the capitol ships even level up like in RPGs! most vessels have special abilities 
 and some can deploy fighters that look awesome when you zoom in. this game has everything but a 
 campaign. the ships all look really cool but every race has its distinctive look. because the scale 
 is so huge, people think is would be hard to handle everything, however the empire tree down one 
 side of the screen makes it quite easy. i recomend it to every one. beleive what they say, it's 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord455
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Sins is fun to play, especially against humans. Nothing to call home to Mom about, but definitely 
 worth buying if you like space RTS games, I guess it has a few SESG features.. don't expect a whole 
 lot there. 
  
  This game reminds me of Warcraft 3 in outer space. Ship movement and battles play like Homeworld.
 
  
  PROS:
  Fun real time fleet battles
  Smooth game play, multiplayer games are my fav
  Nice scenery, music, and sound effects.
  Game challenge and speed is adjustable
  
  CONS:
 
  Not as deep as I was hoping.
  Research tree kinda short and a tad boring.
  The differences between the 3 races didn't "do it" for me
  Building up your empire is uninspiring.
 
  No planet surface action.
  
  You start with one planet that has a ship factory. You build ships, structures that surround your 
 planet, and a make few upgrades to the planet itself. 
  
  Colonize new planets, do research, build up your fleets, defend your planets and destroy the other 
 players no new concepts really. But that's ok I suppose. There's mods and a map maker. There's 
 more to the game, mostly like-able, but Its not really worth mentioning here.
  
  Worlds connect to each other via space lines. ( not all worlds are connected to each other) . Larger 
 boards have multiple star systems that you can go to when you do the proper research.
  
  Ships come in 3 sizes:
  -frigate (small) , cruiser (medium) , capital (large) .
  
  The capital 
 ships lvl up unlocking a few abilities that cap out, like warcraft 3.
  
  Ship types:
  -ranged, melee, carriers, scouts, defensive, support, planet bombers, colonizers.
  
  All 3 
 races have the same basic ship types.
  
  Real time battles are fun to watch, I still like watching them.
  
  AI is ok, there are some 
 nice adjustments you can give them like making them aggressive or fortifiers, plus the difficulty 
 levels can be changed, everything can be randomized. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  First of all I am a mediocore SESG fan myself. I played several games in this genre and wich I 
 quite enjoyed playing as well. 
  
  Dissapointments: 
  There are only 3 actual playing races and ofcourse and what mainly differs are the ship designs. 
 Yes there are some lame differences like human shielding tend to be somewhat inferior but they 
 make up for that in durable hulls so HP on ships are generaly the same. The big difference actualy 
 comes in capital ship abilities I guess that is also where the small scale of RPG elements come 
 to shine. Overall do not expect an entirely different feel/gamplay when you start playing another 
 race they are virtualy the same actualy. Another thing I feel I should point out is that capital 
 ships actualy are the dominant power in this game, not really the small ships. Another part I found 
 lacking was the way to customize your empire. Unlike many other games in this genre you are able 
 to customize and often design your ships wich was one of the most enjoyable parts of the game for 
 my taste. 
  
  Enouch about the cons now lets discuss the key element in the game what makes it different from 
 the rest of the SESG. 
  - Ofcourse such as already pointed out is the realtime part of the game wich is quite rare. The 
 developers also did a great job on developing the gameplay so it's actualy quite playable. The 
 sad thing about it though is that it took away a lot of the micromanagement of the game wich probarly 
 made SESG's as enjoyable as they where for me. 
  - The RPG elements is probarly what makes the game a lot different from the rest, although because 
 of it I cannot stop thinking about the classes. You sort of got the nuker, tank, healer, dps and 
 buffer. The ships sort of level like in Warcraft 3. If it levels you get a ability point you can 
 spend in for example stronger shields better nukes or an entirely new ability. In the end however 
 when you reach max level all the abilites will be taken so it takes away the feel of being able 
 to customize anything. This brings sort of a double edged blade in consideration. Fact is that 
 SoaSE is one of the first if not the first to bring those elements to it's genre, yet where this 
 inspiration comes from is obviously not their idea. 
  - The strategy in the game is also somewhat lacking, it's basicly just a bit more complicated then 
 rock or scissors but none the less it's rock paper scissors. This ship is good against this ship 
 and this goes against this. Yet this element is completly swept away by the dominance that capital 
 ships have in this game especialy in endgame. 
  
  This all being said, it's true the developers have brought a lot of new elements to the SESG genre, 
 but they missed many of the basics in doing so. It is best to describe this game as a hybrid RTS/SESG 
 wich makes it somewhat original, yet most of the elements are obviously not the deveolopers ideas. 
 
  
  Considering the game costs 20 dollars it's a fair deal, yet because of the extremly high grade 
 Gamespot gave it you will very likely expect to much of this game. To keep the story short think 
 of it as a Warcraft 3 in space empire simulation without the story elements. 
  
  Graphics 7/10
  Gameplay 8/10 
  Replay 6/10
  Sounds 6/10 
  Mysic 6/10
  Multiplayer 7/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 6
Date: May 12, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  When I read some of the descriptions of this game, I expected something with the tactical depth 
 of Nexus: The Jupiter Incident or at least X3, and the strategic flexibility of Galactic Civilizations 
 2. Instead, I got a game that had only a taste of the former two. Units are the same old: just 
 a set of ships of different size groups for each race (I think there are about 3) . The only ships 
 that can be customized are capital ships, and even then it is just a "perk" that you can choose 
 (additional ability or whatever) once in a LONG while that constructs automatically (no need to 
 dock) . One would assume that with customizable units being out in RTSs (not including RTTs) by 
 1999, repeated later in other games, and available in 4X games PRODUCED BY THIS COMPANY, these 
 guys would get it right by 2008. But they don't. But the tactical shallowness does not stop there.
 
  
  This game also manages to make base defense construction boring and ineffective. You can only "support" 
 a few structures around each planet. Can't imagine why. Can't get enough hourly employees to feed 
 the coal engines of the turrets? With planet sectors being large and easily attacked from any direction, 
 this makes defense construction next to impossible to do effectively, especially if you actually 
 need to allocate those slots to other structures.
  
  That said, the game actually has good re-playability and strategic strengths. You can generate 
 worlds with many, MANY planets and stars, letting you play as much as you want. Unfortunately, 
 it still gets old fast if the heart of the game (the tactical battles) are dull and linear. I guess 
 this is the exact opposite of Faces of War: great skirmish re-playability, but no content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  In fairness, Sins of a Solar Empire wasn't hyped that much. That's why i was wondering what kind 
 of game this was one day when i saw it on the Gamespot's TOP TEN MOST POPULAR for today. So, me 
 being an RTS fan, i quickly ran to the nearest gaming shop and bought my copy. And i have to say, 
 i am not dissappointed. 
  
  STRONG POINTS:
  
  -Highly addictive gameplay
  -Reasonable difficulty
  -Deep Empire managing
  -Will keep you busy for as long as you need 
 (Depending on the game size)
  -Great cinematic space fights
  -Gives off an atmosphere
  -Extremely fun playing online with other people
  -Learning curve is just right. New players will 
 have an easy time learning the mechanics of how to play
  
  WEAK POINTS:
  
  -Can give you a migrane from long hours of gameplay
  -The hardes difficulty will challenge you. 
 Good micro-managing is a MUST if you're going to go up against the hardest AI.
  -Pirate raids happen to frequently
  -AI players will ask you to do quests for them a little to 
 frequently as well. (Sometimes absurd quests.)
  -Friendly AI can be easy to trick because you can send an entire fleet to their home planet and 
 they won't even defend it because they believe that they're you're "FRIEND" which can lead to an 
 easy betreyal when you two have finished off all the other computers. 
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is an excellent game which can challenge even the most hardened veterans 
 of RTS games. However, even though this game is amazing in a lot of aspects, it does have its faults. 
 Also, this game will most probably only appeal to those who have long attention spans, who love 
 managing empires of sort, and who love space games. If you are a space RTS fanatic, then this is 
 without a doubt a MUST for your gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 6
Date: May 11, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it takes a special effort to put me to sleep while playing a game, but Sins manages it perfectly. 
 I picked the game up expecting the 'deep gameplay' I've read about and was sadly disappointed by 
 a game I've played hundreds of times before but with a different title. Collect resources, build 
 a fleet, research tech to collect resources faster and build a bigger fleet, go kill things. Yawn. 
 The biggest problem I had was that none of the research or advancement is done with any kind of 
 snap. Click a research button and watch the progress bar advance until POOF, you can now click 
 the next button. Ship and structure construction is boring too. You start with a transparent structure 
 that slowly becomes solid as the progress bar advances. I'm getting sleepy just thinking about 
 it. If you've played Homeworld, you've played this game. Ten years ago I can see this game getting 
 the stellar reviews it's been recieving, but there's nothing new or innovative here. There is no 
 real single player campaign or story, you get to choose a selection of pre-made maps and work your 
 way through them if you can tolerate the tedium. Most of the multiplayer consists of cranking out 
 as many ships as possible and bombarding your opponent faster than he can bombard you. I wouldn't 
 even waste money on this game when it drops to $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutherb
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I will try to keep my comments short and to the point...
  
  Positives: Among the space strategy games that are out there, SOASE is relatively easy to learn, 
 has a nice interface and does not overwhelm the player with information. It also avoids requiring 
 the player to micromanage fleets and planets, which has been a major drawback of games of this 
 genre. These factors make it quite accessible to players of all skill levels.
  
  Negatives: Oh, there are many... here are just a few...
  
  There is no ship customization which 
 is one of the most enjoyable aspects of other space strategy games. There are only three factions, 
 with small research trees. The differences among the factions are not very dramatic and this fact 
 significantly detracts from the replay value of the game. In addition, there are no randomn events 
 or very threatening races -like you have in games such as Master of Orion- which helps keep things 
 interesting. Frankly, I got bored with this game after only playing three games.
  
  There is no campaign option which introduces you to the various factions and their differences. 
 This omission makes it harder for players to identify with a particular faction and makes them 
 even less interesting. 
  
  Space battles. One word: boring. Plus it's often hard to tell what significant difference a particular 
 technological innovation is having on your ship combat capabilities.
  
  AI: easily beaten. Please consider the fact that I am no strategy genius either. A psychotic, crack 
 smoking chimpanzee can easily beat me at any card game.
  
  Your relationships with other factions are largely driven by your ability to perform certain missions 
 for them. Many of these are not possible to carry out given your military capabilities, which negatively 
 impacts your relationship with a faction if you are not able to complete the mission. It would 
 seems to me that alliances, trade deals and taking a friendly posture toward a particular alliance 
 should carry greater weight in this game.
  
  An interesting idea that is not well executed in this game is an independent pirate faction. Basically 
 there is a bidding system to have pirates attack another faction. The pirates attack every few 
 minutes which gets quite annoying after a while, requiring you to regularly check out who has placed 
 the highest bid. They also never seem to attack in numbers that really make a significant difference. 
 After playing for a while, I simply shut off the pirate option. The pirates could have been used 
 to do far more interesting things such as disrupt shipping lanes, coordinate an attack with another 
 player, etc.
  
  Conclusion: This space strategy game has several good things going for it, but also has some significant 
 shortcomings. I feel that Gamespot significantly overrated this game. In no way does it deserve 
 a 9 rating. Nonetheless, anyone interested in space strategy games should find this game somewhat 
 interesting and refreshing. However, I would wait a few months until the price goes down before 
 purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blades7558
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 9/10 the gameplay is very good its subtley addictive. you'll start out playing a map 
 and figure youll just play a little bit.... then 3 hours later you have hunger pains so bad you 
 almost pass out. (belive me i did it)
  
  Game design:9/10 the design is great. the fact that there are pirates on every map is kind of annoying 
 along with the fact that you have to pay them off every 15 mins. The technology tress are a bit 
 bunched up i think. the discriptions are at the most tedious to read through (thanks for the pause 
 button) 
  
  Graphics: 7/10 the graphics were okish.. but i have a few complaints.. firstly when you zoom in 
 on the ships they are not artistic masterpeices.. but they are ok just a little more design would 
 be nice. but the zoomed out veiw is pretty nice if i do say so my self.
  
  Sound 10/10 the sound was very nice, each race had different acents and each capital ship has its 
 own personality, its neat the gun sounds are authentic (as authentic as futuristic weapons can 
 get) i found it neat to watch my ships bombard an enemy planet and i could see everyshell explode 
 and make its own sound.
  
  Overall:9/10 its a great game, go buy it and love it long time. you won't be dissapointed. i look 
 forward to hours upon hours of fun yet to come
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Sins isn't anything like a typical turn-based space strategy game. There's that 'magic' ingredient 
 strategy gamers live for, even though experiencing it usually involves a considerable loss of sleep 
 along with a steep drop in productivity for days on end. Sins of a Solar Empire is one of those 
 rare games that can deliver an incredibly addictive experience that devours a healthy chunk of 
 your life!!! Play it once and, you won't mind a bit.
  
  The game is set in a distant future where the Trader Emergency Coalition -- an alliance of various 
 human worlds -- bands together in the face of two threats. The first is the Advent, an offshoot of 
 humanity that has embraced an alien philosophy and has come looking to spread the word by force. 
 Even direr is the Vasari, a mysterious alien race that seeks the annihilation of both factions. 
 Sins lets you play from the perspective of any of the three factions, which are approximate mirrors 
 of one another.
  The action begins with you in control of a single planet, and from there you must explore the rest 
 of the system worlds, locating planets to colonize, as well as resources that you can exploit to 
 fuel your research and ship-building needs. Sins isn't as ambitious as other space strategy games 
 that task you with taking over a galaxy; instead, the action is limited to a maximum of five local 
 stars, each with a network of planets around it. Travel among planets is limited via strict space 
 lanes, so some planets are natural choke points. Planets themselves come in four varieties. Terran 
 and desert planets can be colonized easily, but to settle ice and volcano planets you must research 
 the appropriate technology first. Asteroids can also be colonized, but they're so small that they 
 can support only tiny populations, making them ideal for outposts. To support your expansion, you'll 
 have to build a plethora of vessels. Scouts explore the planetary systems, locating ideal worlds 
 to colonize with colony ships, as well as providing advance warning on incoming enemy fleets. Warships 
 come in three classes. The smallest are frigates, and they include frontline combatants, siege 
 vessels that can pummel planets with nuclear weapons, and missile platforms. Then there are larger 
 cruiser-class vessels, such as escort carriers that can deploy squadrons of fighters and bombers 
 to heavier warships. The "Big Dogs" are the capital ships. Unfortunately you can build only a handful 
 of these big guns! Capital ships are huge, expensive, and powerful, but they're also like the characters 
 in a role-playing game in that they can level up as they gain experience, making them more powerful 
 and unlocking unique and potent abilities. The ability to gain experience creates a powerful dynamic, 
 as you want to get your capital ships into fights so they can level up, but you also want to protect 
 them from danger, because the loss of them can be devastating. However, if you get a task force 
 of high-level capital ships and smaller vessels together, you'll have a fleet to be reckoned with. 
 Like all GREAT strategy games that force you to constantly make decisions about where to allocate 
 your resources, and Sins does an exceptional job of this, mainly because you'll usually find yourself 
 having to juggle where to invest your precious resources. There are three resources in the game: 
 money, metal, and crystal. Money is generated by having large planetary populations or by building 
 trade stations. Metal and crystal can only be harvested on small asteroids. Building warships or 
 structures, making planetary improvements, and conducting research consumes large amounts of these 
 resources, and usually you'll have a shortage of at least one of them, which forces you to make 
 some difficult decisions The game features random maps and scenarios, but one thing that's missing 
 is a campaign. Still, Sins of a Solar Empire is an excellent single-player game and one that translates 
 well into the multi-player realm, especially since it's a lot harder to beat a human opponent than 
 it is a machine. The one thing to keep in mind is that, for the sake of brevity, it's usually best 
 to go with small maps in order for the game to resolve in one sitting. Although it's possible to 
 save a multi-player game, it will take a considerable amount of communication, scheduling and dedication 
 by all parties involved to tackle a huge game.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is an absolute must-have if you enjoy strategy games. It's an addictive, 
 deep game that elevates space strategy to new levels. Sins provides a fresh, original take on one 
 of the oldest and most revered sub-genres in all of strategy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargfx
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Sins is a good RTS, but not a great one, there are too many areas where it falls short, which is 
 a shame, because the bits that work are really awesome.
  
  Sure, theres no single player campaign, but RTS campaigns are mostly badly written stories that 
 are there to simply join one map to another. This game gets rid of that, and just lets you play 
 maps. which I like. Going from the intro, the story would be pretty boring run-of-the-mill stuff 
 anyway.
  
  The Good :
  
  Great graphics, although nothing ground breaking, whats there definately works. beautiful backdrops, 
 nicely textured (although a little low-detailed) ships, fantastic planets, complete with orbital 
 traffit lanes, docking ports, the works. Enough research options and pre-requisits to make you 
 think about which path to go down.
  Gameplay itself is a little slow, the first few games I played I got a little bored. But that was 
 my own fault. when I started playing, I made one main fleet, and a few scout fleets. WRONG. about 
 5 games later I realised that a good general rule of thumb is 1 main fleet per planet and 1 scout 
 fleet per asteroid. suddenly the game was no longer boring. managing multiple giant fleets and 
 multiple planets, things became frantic. I love it!
  
  The Bad :
  PIRATES ATTACK. Possibly the stupid part of the entire game. every 10-15 minutes pirates attack, 
 you can up the bounty on your enemy to have the pirates attack your enemy, otherwise they will 
 attack you. this is a cool idea, unfortunately its just plain annoying. Pirates do not seem to 
 have to obey the gravity-well to gravity-well system jump rules. while you and you enemies must 
 pass through each planets gravity well from the furthest to the capital at the centre. Pirates 
 will turn up at your capital with no warning.
  Supposedly the amount of bounty dictates the size of the pirate fleet. no amount of planetary defenses 
 can handle some of the Pirate fleets, meaning you need to leave fleets of ships at every planet, 
 alongside your planatery defensive. not to combat the enemy, but to combat pirates. I wish you 
 could turn them off
  View controls while they work well, can still become super frustrasting, when trying to select 
 smaller units in crowded areas. The empire bar quickly becomes a giant scrolling mess of hundreds 
 of icons. having to micromanage the bar thats supposed to help you micromanage is very annoying.
 
  
  Conclusion :
  Despite the above mentioned problems, this game is extremely enjoyable. but you first must shed 
 your preconcieved ideas on how to play RTS games and get used to the much larger scale this game 
 offers you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksoss
Rating: 4
Date: May 4, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this game seeing the great reviews it has been getting from gamespot and many users. It 
 was a total letdown. Mind you, I was interested only in single-player gameplay and not multiplayer. 
 
  
  The game takes only a short while to learn. It doesn't have very many gameplay features, just develop 
 your planet and pump out ships. And wait. And wait and wait and wait. I started out with a gigantic 
 random map with +100 planets and 5 stars. You'd think after a while your navy would be strong enough 
 to quickly wipe out all in its path, but that doesn't happen. Even with the patches and the game 
 going at 8X speed, everything just moves EXTREMELY slow. It really becomes awesomely boring. 
 
  
  The game doesn't have a single-player campaign either, so all cool names and icons for ships or 
 research are pretty meaningless. And look-wise, the only thing really worth seeing in this game 
 is the backdrop of space; admittedly, the stars, nebulae and the vastness in shades of blue or 
 green, look beautiful. 
  
  That doesn't justify the rest of this fruitless, boring game however.
  I don't recommend buying 
 it. Certainly not for single-player. For if you do, you'll be missing your wasted time more than 
 your wasted money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyheim
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most addictive RTS's I've ever played. Its massive scale allows 
 you to play for weeks on the same game. The 3 races of the game are all fairly diversified and 
 unique. One of this games strongest features is the ability to save multi player games over the 
 internet. This allows you to play a game over consecutive weekends with your friends. The games 
 graphics are also excellent, watching the massive battles that this game allows is just spectacular. 
 The map creation system is very advanced yet simple you can decide what kinds of planets are in 
 a solar system, how many players start in a solar system, how many planets are in a solar system 
 and what kind of anomalies exist. Everything in this game is easy enough for a beginner to learn 
 quickly and deep enough for masters to enjoy. The only part of this game that could stand significant 
 improvement is the diplomacy system it is rather simplistic. Overall this game will keep you playing 
 for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffon_926
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that came to mind when playing this game is: "Wow, look at the scale." The best 
 way to describe Sins is that is has spaceship combat similar to Homeworld or Nexus: The Jupiter 
 Incident, empire building like Galactic Civilizations, and large scale battles like Supreme Commander 
 (SupCom) . Its very simple to learn, anywhere from 10-30 minutes, but it is difficult in the use 
 of intricate strategies. It often presents questions like "What focus should my battle-fleet be: 
 Combat, bombardment, fighters, etc.?" and "How should I attack the enemy without leaving a huge 
 hole in my defenses?" and finally "What should this planet's focus be: resources, production, research, 
 or defense?" If you use the wrong strategy, make a mistake, the AI is smart enough to capitalize 
 on it. Another godsend about this game is the relative ease of micromanagement. The player can 
 get along without focus on the empire while supervising a critical battle. The game also has a 
 unique interface that allows you to access to any individual part of the empire. It takes awhile 
 to get used to but it is the most useful tools in any modern RTS. Graphics are respectable, but 
 its not Crysis or SupCom, but it runs higher settings well on lower end machines. The game is relatively 
 free of bugs, thanks to considerable foresight of the developer to hold extensive open beta testing. 
 This is the only REAL TIME (not turn based like Civilization IV) strategy game I know of where 
 multiplayer games can be saved, which is also godsend when large maps can take months to play. 
 The only problem is the lack of a scripted single player campaign, not much depth to the story, 
 but this is going to be remedied soon (I hope) with Stardock's announcement of an expansion. The 
 game is still incredibly fun without one. Like Gamespot said, prepare for insomnia when playing 
 this game, which is a testament to its greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcbizzle28
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  After I tried the demo of this game, I immediately went and picked up a copy. For a company that 
 is producing its first game this is unbelievable. For a RTS this is the best I have come across 
 in awhile. The game play is a weird combination of fast and slow paced real-time. You are quite 
 limited to the amount of upgrades on the experience tree mainly due to your amount of crystal yielded 
 per sec, yet the amount of upgrades is quite vast. I found that money and metal are easy to come 
 by, but crystals are the most difficult to harvest in large amounts. Overall the graphics are just 
 okay. However, the ability to real-time zoom in and out makes up for lack of individual detail 
 of your fleet, planets, and stations. The sounds in the game flat out suck. You can only hear explosions 
 and the other general havocs of war when zoomed in all the way. This is most likely due to a purposefully 
 simulated Doppler effect the developer incorrectly implemented. Overall this is a reinvented fresh 
 look at the RTS genre on the PC. You also don't need a super computer to max out all settings to 
 see what this game is truely made of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codemonkee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I am one of the many people who has been disappointed with the lack of a really solid RTS space 
 sim. This game finally feels like a solid space strategy game that could have been even better. 
 What it lacks in a story it makes up for in game play. 
  
  Played both the Demo and the Full game and I will say that the 1.4 patch does speed up the gameplay 
 quite a bit. Revised Black Market and resource gathering makes it easier to get a good size fleet 
 up and running fast. You can choose to hang back, defend your part of the solar system and horde 
 resources, or you can build small fleets and conquer entire solar systems. And in large scale matches, 
 once you and your allies have wiped out the competition, you can continue your game to wipe out 
 the pirate threat, or declare war on your ally and erase him from the map.
  
  The Different races all specialize in one area more than another, but they also are easy enough 
 that you can play a match as any of them and still do well.
  
  I am disappointed that there wasn't a story to go along with this game. It seems like they had 
 a solid story building and then scrapped it for a multiplayer experience. Not a bad choice, but 
 a campaign mode would have been nice, and probably is what holds this game back from being one 
 of the best of all time. 
  
  Either way this game is highly recommended if you are a PC gamer and want a new twist on the RTS 
 side. Plus the $$ is coming down everywhere I've looked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encablossa
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't complete, only 3 races and it's pathetically slow. I had it and I sold it a week 
 after. It was addicting at the start due to the space concept. But it soon became pointless and 
 boring. Extremely limited strategy as all the races has similar units and abilities. Multi-player? 
 Forget about it, this game is so slow it would take at least 5 hours for a single game between 
 2 players. Most people here only emphasize the good points in the game, in reality this game is 
 far from complete. It doesn't even have a campaign or a story for crying out loud!
  
  The most disappointing aspect is the lack of strategy. For example as a vasari, the only viable 
 option is to go for returning armada to win the game. Not enough units and the upgrades are ridiculous 
 and generic. Try it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hossein_e
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Sins of solar empire may be one of the pioneers of this kind of game, but it has many defects.
 
  1-at its very easy mode, Al is very clever. you are a man being and can think to one stuff in 
 one moment, but Al is very high speed processor and can do many in one moment. so if this game 
 had "turn base", or" very active pause" mode, it was more interesting. you have to think to you 
 empire and battles at a moment.
  2-despite very interesting view, it is very confusing. specially in more than 20 planet.
  3- 
 the battles are not delicious.
  4-not so different factions or players. there are only 3 faction and they have different shape 
 not very different ability.
  
  at end if it compares with game like Total war series game, this game is not good to satisfy your 
 power-like sense.
  but i suggest you to have an experience about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blckblt5400
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire combines many of the concepts of other RTS space combat games while introducing 
 several unique spins. They have developed an original storyline, with three races that have special 
 advantages and disadvantages. The graphics are great, and the achievements will have you playing 
 for hours. You can choose to play on any size star system, ranging from a one star with a few planets 
 to multiple stars with dozens of planets, asteroids, wormholes, etc. The game interface is truly 
 unique, allowing you to swich between ships, planets, or solar systems with little effort.
  
  Like other RTS games, Sins employs resource gathering and technology development. However, 
 most of the resource part is completely automated, and the technology research can be queued so 
 you can focus on expansion and conquest.
  
  Stardock has been good about listening to player feedback, and have already come out with a fourth 
 patch. The only thing missing from the game is a Campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If you have read some of my past reviews then you know I just write in basic catigories, Hope it 
 helps some of you on your first impressions. 
  
  1.] Graphics- Well not the best we have seen in a RTS but we can see the DEVs havent slouched on 
 this note. Very solid good textures nice draw distance.
  
  2.] Sound- I run a X-fi fatality and I dont notice nothing really remarkable on this subject. But 
 that dosnt mean the sound is bad just not great.
  
  3.] Gameplay- I have to say that I didnt think I would like this game this much. You manage every 
 planet individually with structures around the gravity of the planet and upgrade your population 
 and make trade routes from other planets.
  This reminded me so much of a turned based game just as you manage all your stuff. But this all 
 happens in real time though.
  The battles can become really frushtraiting when fighting the AI as if they sense they are going 
 to loose a battle they simply jump away to another planet.
  also on battling you can amass a good size fleet full of frigates and capital ships. Its really 
 nice to look at when you have 150+ fleet shooting the @#$%
  out of an enemy's Planet or base. 
  There is also a pirate faction that will harass you but you 
 can increase bounty's on another enemy's head to keep the heat off yourself. 
  
  4.] Value- Overall good times playing this one. Like I said I never expected to like this game 
 so much but there i was up until 3:00 am on a work day not knowing the time, just to sucked into 
 the game..../ stoped writing to play SINS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathcruiser
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Even on smaller galaxies it takes a little time to get everything up and running, but once you 
 do, it seems that you never stop. The resource system is a little disapointing but overall the 
 economic system makes sense, you must expand even if only for the extra logistical space for upg 
 buildings. I wish they added a little more to the techs, maybe some exclusive ones so you'd have 
 some choices to make :)
  
  Play it multiplayer for weeks on end if you've got a couple of machines and some friends with lots 
 of time lol
  
  Some customization to ship designs would've been nice too but how much can you do in an RTS anyways.
 
  
  Most of time you can just build the heavy BS to do most of your fighting, I found the other capitol 
 class ships to be rather useless.
  
  The AI is suprisingly well done, they'll offer you missions from time to time, anything from give 
 me money to destroy some ships of my enemy - boosting you're relationship with them - leading to 
 cease-fire and even alliances! **Don't worry, you can still attack your allies through pirate bounties, 
 just hope they never find out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Di0nysus80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Stardock put together such a massive RTS with this game that when I found myself 
 starting out I was a bit overwhelmed. Once I got through the tutorials the game start to feel a 
 bit more manageable. Right away though I realized one crucial point missing from the game - a single 
 player storyline. Ok ok, so I know it might not be crucial to some, but call me old fashion (I'm 
 27 btw) , I like to have a more hands on experience as to what is happening in this universe that 
 I'm playing in. On top of that, it takes forever to finish a game, for some this might be right 
 up their alley, but as for me I don't have the time for matches that last over 15 hours, especially 
 when I'm only able to play an hour or so a day. Hell I forget sometimes what happened in the solar 
 system the night before, which always ends up being a bad thing. While so far I've been a bit rough 
 on this game, I have to say that the scope with which you can do battle is immense. I'm talking 
 upwards into the 500's of all sorts of ships: small, medium, large and extra large. And all very 
 easily managed, it's quite an accomplishment. I recommend this game to any RTS fan, especially 
 those who are more into strategy then just who can build a certain unit the fastest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  In the presence of a great game, it is easy to forget just how much had to go right in order for 
 the game to be branded as great. This is certainly one of the better games out there and will probably 
 remain so for quite some time. 
  
  This game successfully integrates several great elements making the whole greater than the sum 
 of its parts. There are very few epic-scale space RTS out there and many of them fail in striking 
 the right balance that makes for immersive gaming. With all that said, I'll get right down to the 
 negatives since the positives seem to have been discussed in several other reviews. 
  
  Sins of a solar empire's lack of a singleplayer campaign just amounts to laziness imho. With the 
 3 very different sides, its difficult to understand what sets them apart without a proper storyline. 
 Most games usually gradually ease in the players to their game through the campaign mode, but without 
 one you feel like you've been thrown into the deep end with sins of a solar empire. This increases 
 its learning curve quite abit, however the game is still fun enough to encourage you to ignore 
 that fact. Though you can't help but feel like a part of the game is missing.
  
  For a 2008 game, the graphics are good but could've been better (much better) . The ability to zoom 
 up close to ships is very nice, but the ship textures seem alittle bland and could've used alittle 
 more details. It also seems that everything explodes pretty much the same way, the lack of different 
 explosion animations is also concerning, as capital ship explosions look just like smaller ships 
 and the various explosions of other space station explosions, with a different scale. Weapons fire 
 also doesn't seem to be synched very well with the firing animations either. The interface could've 
 also used more attention, while it does a good job of presenting the game it can get rather clunky 
 towards the latter parts of the game. These issues and others fall under polish work and could've 
 made the game much more enjoyable to play.
  
  Since the battles are so much fun to watch unfold, it is easy to notice all this issues as they 
 detract from the overall enjoyment. Nevertheless the game is still alot of fun to play and watch 
 despite all these issues. However i don't think it deserved the full 9.0 score. It would've been 
 a truly awesome game had it recieved alittle more polish work and a proper singleplayer campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  To be quite honest, Sins of a Solar Empire doesn't come close to holding up to past space "strategy 
 games" which this one is not. It's an RTS with an AI that is so relentlessly stupid that you can't 
 make heads or tails of what it's thinking half the time.
  
  There is one and ony one component to this RTS -- combat. That's really all this is all about which 
 is a major disappointment. If you're expecting something with depth to it then pass on it as fast 
 as you can.
  
  It's not that combat is a bad thing but when it's your first resort in every dealing you have with 
 everyone, it becomes a bit tiresome. Diplomacy is trashed in this game by virtue of the fact that 
 everyone hates everyone from the start. That wouldn't be so bad but gaining favor requires such 
 a ridiculous set of circumstances it's not worth persuing.
  
  Out of all this though, the piracy system is the worst of the lot. First of all, you won't find 
 a homebase for pirates. They just seem to pop out of no where in droves and if you want any chance 
 at all of stopping them then you have to make sure that you're not #1 on the bounty list by paying 
 them off. The worst of it is, that doesn't even matter. They'll still attack you anyway. Yeah, 
 yeah they're pirates you may say. Well if that's true then why is anyone PAYING THEM FOR ANYTHING!
 
  
  Getting back to diplomacy, what makes it so annoyingly stupid is that diplomacy is a one way street. 
 The first diplomatic gesture you get from rival factions is to pay them off 1000 credits which 
 in the early stages is a TON of credits. The only problem is you get a sliding scale payoff for 
 your 1000, they'll twist the hate knob 17% so now you're only greatly spurned rather then full 
 tilt hated. 
  
  The real kicker is the second request is for you to go destroy a rival's ships which would not 
 be so bad but usually you have no idea where they are and second, you're poor! You can't afford 
 the ships to do the job!
  
  This coupled with the piracy payoffs leaves very little room for exploration which really is what 
 gives you any chance at all of keeping up. But never fear, you need not worry. No matter how fast 
 and how well you expand you can be sure that your enemies (which is everyone) will still send droves 
 of ships down on one of your colonies to wipe it out. How creative! How quaint! How very stupid.
 
  
  The most bothersome aspect of the single player scenarios is that the competition is getting a 
 huge handicap from the start which was evidenced by the fact that the first planet system I vistited 
 had 7 frigates already there which is impossible for you to match because of the time it takes 
 for you to produce that many units.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, this game runs smoothly and the graphics are nicely done but it really 
 needed to be turn based and I'm sorry it wasn't because as an RTS, it's a bit too difficult to 
 circumvent the AI which is a shame. Unfortunately Homeworld 2, Imperium Galactica 2 (which was 
 over three years ago) make this effort seem rather cheesy by today's standards. My take -- pass on 
 this one. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a new Space Strategy game from Ironclad Games, and the game deserves 
 all the ratings it has, because this game is truly an addicting, strategic, and unique game created 
 today.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is just homeworld but the map has been expanded into 2, to 5 star galaxies, linked 
 by wormholes. This about the gameplay that are noteworthy is that the fact that every planet you 
 colonize has an effect on your income. There are 2 research buildings, (this is for the Vasari 
 race, the other races have a similar upgrade tree) the temple of harmony, and hostility, the harmony 
 building is for upgrades to your resource income rate, and the hostility is for your fleet, the 
 harmony building is the most interesting because it has upgrades that keep your colonies from uprising, 
 (yes, be careful of not paying attention to your colonies, because if you don't, your allegiance 
 with the colony might be lost, and you might loose the planet) and it lets you travel to the furthest 
 galaxies, to expand your empire. The most annoying aspect about the game is that it takes a LONG 
 time to finish the game, even on the medium maps, (i haven't finished one game yet, and had it 
 for a month) , Another cool thing that added is the battle of diplomacy, you can politically battle 
 your opponents, using backdoor deals, and if you want, you can send pirates to raid your opponents 
 base. In ways you don't have to totally worry about one resource running out, cause you can buy 
 the resource with money if you have the money. As mentioned before, you have a hostility and harmony 
 building, you have to develop both, and not just concentrate on both, because if you just concentrate 
 on hostility, you will not have enough money to develop the strong ships, but if you develop only 
 the harmony, then you will not have any defense against enemy ships.
  
  Graphics wise, it does a very good job, fleets look great, you can see the small details of the 
 ships you have, explosions look fantastic, and they even leave debris behind when something explodes. 
 The zoom effect in this game is done very well in this game, it looks so natural when you zoom 
 out of the games star systems, and its all relatively easy to control. Lighting is done well enough, 
 its not essential to these types of games, but it helps, the engine also helps tell you what galaxy 
 or star system your on due to the change in color.
  
  Sound, the voice acting is done very well, every faction has there own distinct voice, and if you 
 get into the thick of battle, your can hear the great sound of battle with lasers, rockets, and 
 flak guns have at it, and it all sounds great, probably even better with surround sound.
  
  The value in this game is BIG, The long play times are to take you weeks to finish off, the game 
 does not have a singleplayer, but the skirmish alone is great, and multiplayer might just be the 
 best of all, but as said before, it'll take you a long time to resolve one game, mp is best stuck 
 to people who have ALOT of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad900
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that, despite it's claims, Sins of a Solar Empire is not a 'Real Time 
 4X' game. It's an RTS. It's an amazingly fun RTS with a large tech tree and more depth than most, 
 but it's still an RTS. Those going in expecting something along the lines of 'Galactic Civilzations 
 in real time' will be sorely dissappointed. However, those going in looking for a fun strategy 
 game (with amazing graphics, I must add) will not have to look anywhere else.
  
  As I stated before, the game makes claims of being a 4X game in the vein of Galactic Civilizations 
 or Civilizations franchises. It offers in evidence the multiple paths to victory, the diplomacy 
 system, and the system of exploring and developing planets. While it does, in theory, have all 
 of these, they offer far less depth than one would imagine. For example, you can build up your 
 civilization's culture to strengthen your own worlds and destabliize your enemies. You can even 
 cause the enemy planet to slowly lose loyalty and revolt. However, that does little to nothing 
 if the enemy has a fleet orbiting the planet, as you still must 'capture' the planet using a colony 
 ship, necesitating military force to secure the planet under your control. So there are multiple 
 ways to move towards victory, but in the end it will still usually come down to big fleets of ships 
 destroying each other.
  
  But the thing is, that's not always a bad thing. These big fleet battles are one of the best parts 
 of the game. Strike fighters launched from carriers will swarm around large capital ships, darting 
 in to fire a barrage of lasers before rolling out and turning for another pass. Capital ships will 
 fire enormously powerful lasers of swarms of missles, tearing through enemy ships. Debris will 
 fly from destroyed craft, polluting the battlefield. Even just watching them unfold can be entertaining. 
 However, that's probably what you'll be doing most of the time: watching. The abilities each offered 
 by your ships don't give you much control over assigning targets or telling them where to move. 
 On the default setting, ships will generally move too slowly for you to pull off complex tactical 
 movements. Also, despite the 3D camera panning ability, the ships fight on a 2D plane, making it 
 play out more and more like a typical RTS. So your control over these battles is limited, at best.
 
  
  Depending on what you're looking for, the AI will either be great or sadly lacking. For those interested 
 only in combat, the AI can do a good job of giving you a challenge. It'll hire pirates to attack 
 you, build up effective fleets and, for the most part, use them effectively. There are some times 
 when they seem to 'glitch' and just continually have one fleet phase jump between two planets, 
 but those incidents seemed to be few and far between. However, they are lacking in areas besides 
 combat. The diplomacy system is where their main shortcoming lies. The idea is that the AI offers 
 you missions which you complete for money, increased 'friendship' or both. These can range from 
 donating metal to destroying x number of ships from another player. However, these missions can 
 be troublesome, as they're all timed and some are difficult to complete (such as destroying defensive 
 structures, which the AI doesn't seem to do very often) . Other times, they'll give you a mission 
 to destroy the ships of someone you're already allied with. The system for proposing alliances 
 and trade agreements also a bit strange. On more than one occasion I proposed a ceasefire and was 
 rejected, only to have them propose the same thing literally seconds later.
  
  You may notice I'm nitpicking here. That's because most of the game is so fun and entertaining 
 that these small things just stand out all the more. The feeling of building up a conquering fleet 
 and watching them swarm into an enemy system, enormous capital ships in the front, is simply awesome. 
 The large battles you can engage in are, as I've already stated, great fun. The graphics are excellent, 
 even on low end computers (another great fact is that this game can run on very old or low end 
 systems) . The tech tree offered by each empire is unique enough to offer a new experiance, but 
 still balanced and equal. Similairly each empire has a distinct 'feel', with different strengths, 
 weapon types, and such. The tactical zoom is another great aspect, giving you the ability to zoom 
 all the way from the wing of a strike craft all the way out to a galaxy (or multiple galaxy) wide 
 view of each planet. The 'phase jumping' system of traveling from planet to planet adds to the 
 strategy, creating choke points and making connecting planets much more valuable, but it also means 
 that most of the map is just useless and unreachable dead space between planets.
  
  Most of my complaints have been about the single player aspects. That's because the mutliplayer 
 is a great experiance, whether or not you're playing with friends. Building and breaking alliances 
 with other players is everything that doing the same with the AI is not. The pirates come into 
 play even more, as you can put bounty on empire whom you're technically at peace with, adding a 
 degree of treachery.
  
  All in all the game was a great experiance detracted from mainly by the fact that it tries to be 
 a complex 4X game when in reality it's a very fun RTS. It's addictive to play once you get into 
 a game, and moments like watching your fleet configure itself into formation before a phase jump 
 to an enemy planet will effectively make up for the lack of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantsplace2004
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd like to say that a lot of the people who have reviewed this game clearly have no clue 
 what their talking about. "Then why should we listen to you", somebody may ask, well because I'm 
 not an idiot. Now that thats out of the way, onto the game...
  
  ----Story ----5.0
  
  This is the one place where I must admit the game lacks, so I figure I might as well get the worst 
 out of the way first. The story is lacking because it doesn't really exist: unless, that is, you 
 count a game manual and a web site with a section discussing "lore". Normally this would hurt a 
 game tremendously, however, in the case of Sins, it can be overlooked considering the quality of 
 every other aspect of the game and the online multiplayer functionality. Basically, all your missing 
 out on is cut scenes, which undeniably would have been a compliment to the epic feeling of the 
 game, thus I mark off a couple points. 
  
  ----Gameplay ----9.4
  
  The overall gameplay of this game is great. Everything is very easy to use and the controls are 
 intuitive to anyone whose ever played an rts before. Because of Sins' leisurely pace, it relatively 
 easy to set up a working empire and network your planets in a working manner. By building up your 
 empire first and developing a working economy you will have resources to build your fleet and start 
 some epic space battles. This game is one that requires you to think in terms of "what benefits 
 me most?" and weigh your options before acting, especially since at the beginnings of matches it 
 can be difficult to procure enough resources for everything you wish to accomplish. The interface 
 is very easy to use whether researching tech or managing your fleet. Anyone that complains about 
 bad controls or a clunky menu system is missing a few brain cells as the entire game can be played 
 with just the mouse, I have not had to use hotkeys in this game yet, but they are available to 
 those who prefer keyboard based interface. Overall, easy to use menus, simple controls, and a balanced 
 game.
  
  ----Graphics ----9.0
  
  The majority of people are satisfied with the graphics, as am I, but for those who think they aren't 
 up to today's standards, stop expecting crysis quality in an RTS. Extreme graphical quality and 
 scale are two opposite sides of a spectrum, you can favor one over the other but you will always 
 make compromises. Since this is an RTS, scale is obviously the more important factor, so some sacrifices 
 have to be made in order to create a functional game. This game is huge, and considering this, 
 the graphics, when zoomed in close to your capital ships and other vessels, are still high quality 
 and are by no means reason to mark down this game, kudos to the developers on finding a balance. 
 All in all, quality graphics that give up very little for scale.
  
  ----Sound ----7.5
  
  The voice acting and music is just okay, but again, this is an RTS and its understandable when 
 all the units you click on respond by saying, "Yes commander?". I am exaggerating a bit, but the 
 voice acting is nothing special. The music, on the other hand, is tasteful and unobtrusive. The 
 majority of the game, a calm, peaceful melody plays as you manage your economy and build your fleet. 
 Then, when some computer or other player shows up on your doorstep, the music shifts to an edgy, 
 combat theme that is fitting for the occasion. One nice touch is that as you zoom out from a battle 
 the peaceful music returns, so you won't be distracted by the battle between two weakling scout 
 ships or the numerous conflicts you teammates get wrapped up in. In general, good sounds and music.
 
  
  ----Overall score ----9.0
  
  This game deserves the 9.0 that Gamespot and I give it because it delivers specifically what it 
 meant to, a real-time epic space RTS. Although the story is weak this is not really the main focus 
 and may be fixed with an expansion. The gameplay is easy to understand-once you do the tutorials! 
 I am telling your right now, this is not a game where you blow off the tutorials, otherwise you 
 may end up confused and writing a bad review like numerous other people on here.- The entire game 
 can be played with just the mouse, really helping to condense the controls. Graphics are high quality 
 and the scale of the game is immense. Sounds are nothing special, but since this is an RTS they 
 don't weigh in that heavily on the overall game quality. 
  
  If you want a huge real-time space strategy game, look no further, this will definitely be a satisfying 
 break from the plethora of other generic RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to see the endless praise this game obtained, so I picked it up after a few weeks 
 of waiting. Unfortunately, I was not pleased once I started to play. A few points I'd like to make:
 
  
  1) Learning curve is pretty steep. I went through all of the tutorials, but even then, nothing 
 seemed as intuitive as other RTS games. 
  2) Units carry little signficance on the "large" scale the game creates. It seemed I was always 
 managing a colony of ants, not a group of ships. Once you have to zoom out solar systems to see 
 what is going on, I lost interest. I want to see the details of the battle. Zooming in did little 
 to rectify this concern.
  3) Games take too long. You should be able to get a game going and complete one in an hour to 1.5 
 hours. These games took forever. I lost patience too many times and ended up putting myself an 
 hour behind my anticpated completion time.
  4) Graphics were not impressive. 
  
  I went back several times to see if I was missing things and made some progress, but ultimately 
 disliked the game. I'm giving it a 7.0, because I feel it warrants it, but for my play style it 
 just wasn't up to par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Real Time Strategy is certainly not an unfamiliar genre among many gamers since the era of Dune 
 and C&C. Back then, the only good strategy in Real Time Strategy games was to "create more units 
 than your enemy, then you shall prevail". Although this still is one of the best ways to defeat 
 your opponent, this is not necessarily true with the modern RTS games, and it certainly isn't with 
 Sins of Solar Empires either.
  
  The first look of this game reminds you of Star Wars: Empire at War. The space map looks similar, 
 and way you travel from one planet to another is very similar too. However, Sins of Solar Empires 
 come with much more than what Star Wars: Empire at War could offer. Sins of Solar Empire has one 
 unique concept of Capital Ships. The Capital Ships are much bigger than any other ships in the 
 game, deals more damages, and has special abilities. You can think of these ships to be the hero 
 units in Warcraft 3 if that makes it easier. The ships also level up as it gains more experience, 
 and you can select additional abilities it can use. These ships are certainly the difference makers, 
 and the game has nice restrictions to balance out its supreme power.
  
  The size of the maps are quite humongous, and the biggest default maps contain 5 solar systems. 
 That means you see 5 stars in the map, and each map is associated with around 10 to 30 planets. 
 It is also possible to create much bigger maps, and it certainly is possible to have a really epic 
 space battles.
  
  Space Pirates do play an interesting role in the game, although I don't really like the idea of 
 that. What they do is simply attacking an empire they wish to attack, and only way to stop them 
 is to bribe them. This forces you to constantly check the status of pirates and it is certainly 
 a distraction (unnecessary distraction in my opinion) . I didn't like the pirate runs just because 
 there is a pirate run every few minutes, and the fact that you can bribe them 5 seconds before 
 they launch to change their target is just not interesting. If you're rich in resources, you'll 
 always be able to stop their runs towards your empire.
  
  This game does offer good enough visual effects to make you believe it's a modern game. It is not 
 as stunning as Crysis, but still is above average, and I don't think you'll find the most problems 
 out of the graphics. My favorite part is when your ships line up at the outer orbit of your planet 
 and getting ready for hyper speed jumps. They just look nice, and even just watching them doing 
 it is enjoyable.
  
  Sins of Solar Empire, however, does not deserve the rating it got for the lack of single player 
 campaign. When you have a 3 huge factions with a nice set of tools and game maps at your disposal 
 in a RTS game, it almost amazes me how they decided to release the game without one single player 
 campaign. Because at the end of a huge battle or game, you have nothing to show except for the 
 achievement medals you might have won. You don't have the feeling of accomplishment nor a nice 
 cut scene.
  
  Overall, it is a nice game, and quite immersive as it is, but because of the fact it lacks single 
 player campaigns can keep this game on your shelf rather than your CD driver. Unless you're an 
 extreme fan of epic galactic battles, I don't think you'll enjoy this game for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that you could play in a marathon, hour after hour after hour, etc, etc, etc... 
 You learn what you have to have before you can do what you want. The graphics are good, a good 
 video card is required, so be sure to practice a lot of 3-Dimensional flying. Don't think in 2-Dimensional, 
 you will lose quickly. Think of all of you ships, don't concentrate on just a few. Don't assume 
 that when the other ships are home, that they are safe. Usually they are not. Watch your supplies, 
 and your supply lines. Remember to establish a fully working industry on your home planet and established 
 planets. I would recommend this game to all who wish to work on their ability to establish, control 
 and keep their little corner of the galaxy and eventually expand it as well as their influence. 
 Good luck to all who wish to conquer their universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monke86
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a RTS game based in the future in outter space. it has 3 playable races: 
 
  Trader Emergency Coalition (TEC) -which are Humans
  Advent - which is a religious sect of humanity which was cast out long ago only to return and wage 
 war with the TEC
  Vasari-the alien race that the TEC were at war with before the Advent came
  
  Though this game 
 does have 3 races, they are almost exact mirrors of eac other in game play, in the way that they 
 build close to the same things. The differences being the cost, names, and abilities of the capital 
 ships. So its easy in the way that if you get the hang of one, you'll easily understand the other 
 with just a few tweaks to figure out.
  
  Story-N/A
  
  Yeah that's right, this game has no real sense of story aside from the manual, the opening cinematic, 
 and the website under the lore section there is nothing once you actually play the game that is 
 story driven. That's right, no character development, no long cinematic's, no  
 solid form of a story line. So its different from the traditional in the way that a single player 
 campaign to learn all 3 races is not given. its pretty much load up and go straight to the game 
 play. However there is a rumor that this could change with a patch/expansion, so this is subject 
 to change.
  
  Game play-8/10
  
  Okay so minus a campaign or story, the game play is what needed to strive, and it did a great job 
 of excelling at it. Now understand this game does not reinvent the wheel, nor is it Homeworld or 
 C&C in space. The real thing that stands out is the relative ease of the game and how it can be 
 picked up relatively fast to those new and old to RTS gaming. You start off with one planet in 
 your control, and have to go out and colonize other planets and asteroids. Just like other RTS's 
 you gather resources from metal and crystals extractors. The maps can range anywhere from a star 
 with a few planets around it, to several starts with over a hundred planets to conquer. Now this 
 is one of my gripes with the game: The games on the larger maps can take ages. However, some prefer 
 this and take the opportunity to colonize sever planets, and create a thriving economy before going 
 out and engaging with players.
  Economy wise, this game can be frustrating in the way if you don't own enough planets, or if your 
 spending the big bucks on expensive ships, you could feel a bit wondering where your money goes, 
 and then overwhelmed by a player when went cheap and brought a horde of cheap ships to overwhelm 
 you. Other times you'll find your self trying to choose which ship or planet structure you need 
 to build immediately, or which research you need to get the upper hand, and with proper management 
 of your economy you can either sow ease into it, or just try to rush into it leaving you with superior 
 tech, but no cash flow to build it with.
  Planets also have a role to play in the way that certain planets hold certain advantages. One is 
 that some planets (like a terran planet) will give you more tax income due to it having a higher 
 population, while the volcanic planets are relatively sparse in population but make up for it with 
 materialistic gains such as metals or ore extractors having more to gain. Planets also have the 
 disadvantage that you can only travel from planet to planet by way of a single lane, meaning that 
 if a planet is being attacked, and its several planets away you need to jump planet by planet to 
 get to it instead of directly to it. This is made up by the fact that if you create a planet that 
 every ship needs to go through (choke point) , then you'll be free to build your empire behind that 
 planet, seeing that to get to your area you need to pass the choke point, and if the choke point 
 is well defended it will be near impossible to pass it.
  Now for the bread and butter for the majority of people: blowing stuff up. This game is notched 
 full od ships to bash in your opponent, with the ability to upgrade the amount of ships you can 
 control, its easy to see hundreds vs hundreds of ships locked in a battle of attrition. There are 
 3 types of ships:
  Frigates-make up the majority of the fleets. these ships range from planetary bombers, long range 
 fighter, scouters, colonizers, and the basic front line ships of battle.
  Cruisers-The next level of ships, usually come in the forms of frontline support vessels, carrier 
 ships, and frontline battleships that can take a pounding and hold its own versus several ships 
 till help arrives.
  Capital Ships-The flag ships of the game, these are the frontling ships that can devastate a planet, 
 or take on several ships at once with relative ease. my only gripe with this is if it's a all powerful 
 battle ship, shouldn't it be able to devastate frigates like a knife cutting butter, but w/e
  Now with battle the true advantage is the advancement in tech tree. its easy to see a slightly 
 outnumbered crew to win out thanks to there advancement in tech.
  The final thing ill cover in game play is planet defense. other than having ships to defend it, 
 a planet can have hangers that house fighters to defend it, or stationary cannons to repel attackers. 
 These are handy on trips out trying to conquer other planets, and a player or pirates attack an 
 unsuspecting planet. These defensive abilities sometimes work, in the way that a planet may cause 
 someone to retreat but they wont totaly devistate opponents, and since after you send one force 
 in a retreat to what what amount you need to over take it, the defenses can be overwhelmed. However 
 they serve to kill time till you can grab a force go back and defend your attack when needed.
 
  
  
  Graphics-8/10
  
  The graphics are a bit lacking. The planets themselves are lacking in total overall detail, but 
 its nice to be able to see the volcanic planet with a decent amount of detail, the terran and ice 
 planet leave something to be desired. 
  The ships themselves are a bit underdone, while detailed somewhat well at the highest settings, 
 the ships still look the same as most RTS's. However i can understand this seeing that if you bring 
 your full force and your opponents bring the full force it can be a choppy lagfest, even on some 
 of the better computers.
  The better thing graphicaly are the many outliying strcutures placed outside your panet, zoomed 
 in, the detail is apparent, and most all of these structures are well made.
  Graphically, its somewhat suprising to see much activity at zoomed out to get a good look at the 
 solar system you control. The zoom control it self being just right being able to zoom in to see 
 those bullets or lazers fire across the battlefield, or to zoom out to see several star systems.
 
  
  Music-7/10
  
  at first it gives just the right tone for the game. with either the just basic relaxed tone of 
 nothing realy going on in the planet, to the battle theme once you get into it. its easy to change 
 music from zooming in to the nothing going on music on one planet, to zooming out then zooming 
 into the planet where you and your oppenet are locked in a battle for a planet. the music is welomed 
 by most as not being to load or annoying to realy bug or frustrate anyone. However the game music 
 can become dull and repetative over time, but by then your either worried by a massing fleet, or 
 just completly ignoring it by then to notice the music. Thought at first the games music is fine, 
 it eventually feels like it lacks a true soundtrack like other games, however this is a common 
 issue with most RTS's and can be over looked.
  
  
  Online community- 5/10
  
  What?! a bad score! and such a low one!! relax there is a reason why its so low. The big reason 
 being in that for one the games online can take litterly hours on end to finish or to get to the 
 peak of the conflict. Its hard enough to finish a game, and even then some people chose to hold 
 back for ages to build up that juggernaught of an army to unleash, which if the settings are at 
 low speeds to reaserch (which i have found sometimes people do this to get a more epic feel for 
 the game) could take up some much time it could just frustrate people to leave games and find new 
 ones. So the low score isnt so much because of the game play (although 3 or more full fleets on 
 one planet can make a computer lag... badly) , but its more due to peoples willingness to stay on 
 and dedicate the time to finish the game. I can blame them, i got things to do to.
  
  
  Overall-8/10
  
  
  Sins might have some time issues, however its smaller issues can be ignore 
 since the core gameplay mechanics are just so well put together that its easy to ignore. For an 
 easy game that can be picked up and be understood relatively fast, its worth a pick up. If some 
 day a patch or expansion is made to add a very good story (hopefully a good one) , then this game 
 can be an easy 8.5 or even a 9. Other then that, i recommend atleast takeing a look at the game 
 for the vets of RTS's, and a good play around for the new people to get eased into the RTS gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoR4Me
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Read the review deck, 'nough said. But since this site makes me write a 100 words, I'll just blather 
 about how I love this game. First off, graphics, they are awesome when maxed out. Second, gameplay, 
 I've never seen something as good as this. I play a lot of Real Time Strategies that are nothing 
 but claimers. All talk, no substance. But this game delivered. It was well worth getting and waste 
 my life on. I've only had for about a month and have already put in over 60 hours. I can't believe 
 how inovative it is. Getting to control a fleet in real time across several star systems, while 
 the AI is coming to attack or stop your tyranic onslaught. It is just out-of-this-world awesome. 
 ANYONE who has played this game and likes a good RTS would most definitely agree with me. If you 
 haven't gotten this game yet, you really should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eltanan23
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time, except I didn't realize what I was waiting for 
 until I played it. It's basically, at heart, a RTS in the theme of Starcraft. 3 races? Check. Building 
 units and defensive structures to lock down resource-heavy areas? Check. Researching new technology 
 to unlock more powerful units and abilities? Wow, is that ever a check! There's so much to research 
 (uniquely for each race) that it starts to feel less like Starcraft and more like Civilization! 
 It's not turn-based, but it doesn't need to be. 
  
  It's not a clickfest at all. The atmosphere of the game, as well as the sheer scale, are reminiscent 
 of Homeworld. Zooming in to the point of a tiny strike craft dominating the center screen, and 
 pulling back so far that you can see the whole galactic cluster is a simple scroll of the mouse 
 wheel. This cannot be stressed enough- the -scale- of this game, as well as the ease of zooming 
 through it, is simply amazing. I haven't seen a game zoom in and out this well since playing Railroad 
 Tycoon 3. And the ultimate bane of RTS games everywhere- endless, tedious micro-managing- is not 
 an issue here, either. Your units (and especially, capital ships, which are like Hero units from 
 Warcraft 3) actually use their abilities -intelligently- without having to be told. Sure, you -can- 
 micro-manage if you really want to (and sometimes, it's fun!) , but on the whole, it's completely 
 optional. Which is great, when you want to set up an assault, and then watch the whole thing from 
 the perspective of a bomber strike craft (my favorite) as it makes strafing runs in and out and 
 between all the larger frigates and cruisers.
  
  In other words, if you're at all a fan of RTS games, and space battles in particular, you really, 
 really need to play this game. One final point needs to be stressed here- The system requirements. 
 What needs to be stressed is the lack of them. You can turn up the graphics if you like, high detail 
 textures, bloom effects, the whole works... or you can turn that off, and the game will STILL run 
 just fine on a 4-5 year old PC. Heck, you could probably even run this on an old paperweight of 
 a laptop if you got creative enough.
  
  There need to be more PC games done this well. Kudos to Stardock for distributing it so hassle-free, 
 and extra extra kudos to Ironclad for producing such an incredible product. I'm going to be playing 
 and replaying this game for a long time. I could go into a tangent here about the amazing map designing 
 tool or the extreme modability, but that would take too long. I need to get back to playing it.
 
  
  One final note, though- After you learn to play the game, be sure to check out the 'Sins Plus' 
 mod by Uzii, available through the official forums. Seriously, that guy should be on the official 
 development team. Amazing work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresX7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is just simply a very fun game to play and just makes you play more and 
 more. Some people say they dont understand the game or they cant conquer planets etc. its too hard 
 for them. Well, thats why Sins has tutorials to go through and actually you can learn how to play 
 very quick. The graphics are amazing. You can detect out of which material the ships and buildings 
 are made from, because the light reflects of the material, giving it a nice effect, especially 
 in the advent faction. Gameplay is simply fun and online play is highly addictive. You wont even 
 realize what time it is. For me 2v2 games are the best, because you and youre team can built trade 
 routes, attack an enemy planet together, support each other, give credits and resources to each 
 other and built a lasting empire. The planets are very unique, because of the different types, 
 but they could have been a bit larger. Capital ships, the strongest of all ships are customizable, 
 so you can choose which abilities it should learn when it levels up.
  
  What is also very important to me is the community and the company who made the game. Stardock 
 and Ironclad listen to the players feedback and almost always release a new patch and updates, 
 to keep the game fun to play. A patch called 1.1 will be released soon, which will include ultra 
 high graphical options and a new Expansion is on its way. So there is always something to be excited 
 about with Sins.
  
  Buy the game and join hundreds of other players in the galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttypc
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I will go out and buy it for 50 dollars. I would say more like 25-30 dollars. It's 
 almost like Homeworld. The only difference is that there is no mother ship. It does pull you in 
 and it is surprisingly challenging. I don't think they should have hyped it up because it is very 
 similar to other games. I know for sure Starcraft 2 will easily be able to top this game. At first 
 I didn't think it was going to be so much fun, however it is simple to play once you play for a 
 while. The Demo mission could be a little longer.
  
  Gamespot needs a minimum of 100 words and 800 characters. So  
 that should be enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The moment I started my first skirmish game, I could see that this was going to be a hard one to 
 figure out. If you've got a lot of time on your hands, then go for this game, but for the rest 
 of us who simply want a good old-fashioned RTS game, it's not worth it. Don't get me wrong though, 
 Sins is probably a good game, but it's the differences that make it what it is, and you have to 
 be a fan of space strategy to actually enjoy it. 
  
  To be honest, the menus are clunky, controls are difficult to master and the camera is the absolute 
 worst. Time moves slowly in Sins, which is something that could make the impatient person pull 
 their hair out. It's kind of a circus. Your units are scattered everywhere, you struggle to keep 
 track of what you have conquered and where, and generally, you feel confused the entire time you 
 spend playing. 
  
  While not up to today's standards, Sins has some pretty good looking graphics. They could've done 
 better with the textures and effects though, such as exploding ships and smoke effects. It's not 
 a bad graphical display, but it's not great either. 
  
  The music is probably what kept me playing. Sins features some excellent dynamic music which changes 
 as the game progresses. For example, if you encounter hostile forces, you will immediately start 
 to panic as the music draws you into the game. Very well done. Unfortunately, things like unit 
 taunts and other sound effects are poor, and didn't really impress me. 
  
  I guess Sins of a Solar Empire is of some value to those who simply can't live without a space 
 strategy game. Also, don't expect too much of a storyline or any single player campaign. Multi-player 
 with this game could be interesting, but I haven't tried it and probably never will. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  For those who fancy turn-based space strategy games, and who don't mind wasting 
 a few hours to learn the game's clunky control system, Sins of A Solar Empire might actually be 
 a little enjoyable. However, those who prefer a simple, yet powerful RTS such as C&C3, Sins just 
 won't cut it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whizzard9992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  What I liked most about this game was that I could dive right into it, and I knew right away that 
 I liked it. There was no 30 minute learning curve where I "wasn't quite sure."
  
  Pros:
  +++ Not like any other RTS +++
  + Excellent random map generation increases replay value
  + 
 Economy remains level throughout the life of game. Owning massive resources doesn't guarantee victory.
 
  + Great technology trees
  + Excellent User Interface reduces normal tedium of empire management, especially late in the game.
 
  + The pace of the game is perfect. It's not a click-fest like most RTS games become.
  
  Cons:
  + Empire defenses are weak with very limited options. 
  + Game can be unbalanced. Kamikaze 
 rushes to planets with siege craft can cause massive damage and be very hard to fend off.
  
  Notations (neither good nor bad) :
  + Games can be long
  
  
  There's a lot to be said 
 of this game, but really, if you're a fan of strategy games, you need to pick up this game. You 
 won't regret it. 
  
  It has the "feel" of a turn-based strategy game in a lot of ways because you have ample time to 
 think through your decisions, yet you're still pressured to make decisions with some haste. Capitol 
 ships gain experience, which is a great plus. Pirate raids allow you to keep your enemy busy or 
 distracted and adds a new and interesting strategic element to the game.
  
  Really, just buy the game. This is sure to be a classic for any strategy fan; something you'll 
 have to pick up from time to time and lose sleep for a week :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  We all know what strategy games are and what we have to do in a strategy game, but try playing 
 sins of a solar empire without making through some aspects of the tutorial... its a very complex 
 game with a lot of depth and details that many of the real time strategy games lack. The majority 
 of the real time strategy games does not have half options that sins of a solar empire have, you 
 are now thinking, "so sins of a solar empire its probably a turn based strategy", its true that 
 turn based strategy has more depth and a lot more options because you have "time to think" while 
 in real time strategy games the action its always rolling and the enemy can atack you anytime unlike 
 the turn based ones where the enemy will atack only when its his turn and will never atack during 
 your turn. Sins of a solar empire stands in the middle of the two sub-genres of the old strategy 
 genre but its no doubt a real time strategy game but sometimes the action gets a little slow and 
 there are lots of options in the game that makes it look a turn based.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Sins of a solar empire its not a flashy game with that kind of graphics that you look and think 
 "wow awesome", however the graphics in the game work perfectly and to the ones who like the genre 
 will love sins of a solar empire presentation, the planets and ships are a delight for the space 
 maniacs (I'm not a big fan of this setting but I have to say I was really surprised) .
  So in resume, even if your not a lover of space and sci-fi setting you will be very impressed with 
 the feeling of being in space because it looks really big and the airships sometime are just an 
 ant in the middle of a immense space with big planets, but I'm sure no one will look to the graphics 
 in the game and say "Oh my dear god, this is the best looking game I have ever seen in my whole 
 life".
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If i was to describe everything you can do in sins of a solar empire then I would probably write 
 more than 100 pages of review, so I'll just point some good and unique (or better than seen previously) 
 features.
  For anyone waiting sins of a solar empire to be a fast paced rts game like C&C or starcraft you 
 are completely wrong, combat its still an important feature in SOASE (I will call this to the game 
 cause of the extense name) , but it does not require your constant attention, its like you don't 
 need to babysit the battles.
  The balance between economic and military expansion its very well done by SOASE, in most RTS games 
 when you expand your territory it results in more recourses available, but in this game when you 
 conquer another planet its actually a drain before you have infrastructures and population in the 
 planet.
  The pirates are another interesting thing, they are controlled by the computer and are hostile 
 to all other factions, but the cool thing its that you can put a bounty on them and they will atack 
 other factions, the other factions can also raise the bounty so they will atack you instead of 
 them, this is a military and economic feature at the same time.
  Since the game its a lot complex it would be very dificult to just jump in the game and play it, 
 but the good tutorial and a very good interface prevents you from getting lost in what your doing.
 
  Another cool thing its that you can wage war to the other faction with diplomacy, you don't need 
 to atack them (but this continues to be the fastest way) . Probably the worst thing about SOASE 
 its that the battles can take a really long time, the first time you got to a map it took me 5 
 hours to finish my opponent, in multiplayer this is a major factor for people just go away sooner 
 than expected.
  
  Sound:
  
  Honestly, there is nothing to say about this, there are good sound effects and some good ambient 
 music, nothing extraordinary and nothing that stands out in this aspect.
  
  Value:
  
  Many people will be complaining because the game does not have a really single-player campaign, 
 only a skirmish mode where you play against other factions and of course the multiplayer mode, 
 the multiplayer has that big problem I stated at the end the gameplay section, about the single 
 player you'll find that skirmish its very interesting and can last a long long time each game, 
 if you have someone to play the multiplayer you will probably enjoy the game more that other people, 
 but the skirmish its very good (or I must say the game its very good because skirmish its just... 
 war) the depth and complex of the game really rewards you everytime you play it and with a long 
 long battle it will become more and more rewardable.
  
  Overall:
  
  All real time strategists should get this and all the turn based strategists as well. Its the first 
 great strategy game to come by in 2008, I just hope to see some expansion set or at least a sequel 
 to this, even if you like fast paced strategy games like C&C I'm sure you will enjoy this great 
 strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrluntman89
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I love space, i love RTS games, so why do i not enjoy SOASE? 1. its to long 2. its to straightforward. 
 you go through the game, same units every time=no real strategy. its a huge map, which could have 
 been good, but its to much. the game plays at such a slow pace you could fall asleep. In the end, 
 its all about numbers. The game is nice to look at, and it is interesting, at the beginning, to 
 explore. but are you rewarded for exploring? no. no strategic bonuses for ice planets or volcanic 
 planets. 
  
  this game has some great ides, they just need a LOT more depth. with the slow pace of the game, 
 in the next one they either need to give you more stuff do do when your doing nothing, or just 
 make the game a little faster. I really wanted this game to be good. i loved the inter-planetary 
 strategy in Empire at War, and i really hoped this would improve. when it comes down to it, i dont 
 care that it is so original, its just boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ward_keith
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I haven't been this sucked into a game since Starcraft or the first time I played Half Life. I 
 bought it because I heard good things, decided to play one Saturday afternoon, next thing I know 
 I was playing for 6 hours, made a sandwich, and the next time I looked up at the clock I had been 
 playing for a total of 12 hours. And it never felt like I was playing that long. Although the game 
 isn't perfect, I think the resources on a couple of the maps need to be balanced out, when you 
 have 10 crystal mining fields and only 3 metal fields I would say that is a little off balance. 
 The tutorials are really basic, they could be evolved a little more. I could see new comers to 
 this genre being a bit frustrated with the skills tree and the other panels. I do have to say the 
 graphics are great, the detail you get when you zoom in is awesome. Although zooming in that close 
 isn't practical to game play, but it is still fun to watch if it is a small battle. Over all the 
 game play is a 9, graphics is a 9, tutorials a 7, but if you are an avid RTS this won't matter 
 much. The way the game just pulls you in a 10. Add it all up and divide and you get an 8.75, but 
 I'm going to add .25 for just being plan fun game, with a total score of 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripahi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  For the first time I played sins, I tought to my self:"You are going to get so addicted to this 
 game that you lose all your friends and loved ones."
  I got addicted alright but luckily my friends and loved ones still hang around. Awesome graphics 
 and great gameplay, what more could anyone want from an game?
  Short loading times suprised me completely, geme is so epic sized that I tought that loading would 
 take half an day.
  Factions are cool and well balanced, altough little alike. Everyone should be able to find their 
 favorite from these (mine is Vasari.)
  Looking at the screenshots I tought that my hardware would need an update, but to my suprise game 
 goes pretty smoothly on my low performance pc (I can hardly play crysis.)
  After playing sins it was hard to get myself playing anything else, no other strategy game gave 
 me that epic feeling and tools for sneaky long term planning and backstabbing. Anyone who has ever 
 liked strategy games should try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkjessedlove
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The opening sequence graphics are fantastic! I actually paid attention to them and listened to 
 the narrative. Setup is not too difficult... I just wish the characters to chose from were not all 
 male! Hope this does not mean they do not think girls will want to play the game! I did. I liked 
 it I want to return as soon as I can. This is the type of game you need to have a lot of time to 
 play. I don't see that as a problem.. You can also , in a way, customize the game for yourself. 
 The further you get into it the more you can alter. It would be easy to get lost in the game and 
 lose track of all time. I am one of those awful people who don't read game directions or do the 
 tuts... I did really well, even if I had to be a guy! I led my force, created treaties, fought of 
 f enemies and had pretty decent scores and badges/medals. I was playing the demo and look forward 
 to buying the game and playing mulitplayer online, I hope! Give it a try, you may do the same! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wireless_Evil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is one of those games that tries to change the formula, that most other 
 games have adhered to. It is a real-time strategy game, with the features of most turn-based strategy 
 games, like diplomacy and research. The RTS aspect of the game is slowed down enough for you to 
 be able to make decisions while having one or two fleet battles.
  
  There are three races in Sins of a Solar Empire, and all of them play differently. For example, 
 the Advent focus on culture and strength in numbers, whereas the TEC focus on balance. Each race 
 also has a different tech tree, allowing them to build certain ships and structures earlier. There 
 is also diplomacy in the game, however it mostly includes the computer ordering you around like 
 a slave, before you can actually engage in treaties.
  
  Though the diplomacy may be lacking, the AI is no slouch. Fleet AI is truly marvelous and takes 
 loads of micromanagement of your back. Ships attack those which they are strong against, and use 
 abilities effectively most of the time, although one time, my capital ship thought it was a good 
 idea to colonize a planet with a good deal of bombers around it. The computer also knows how to 
 run when outnumbered and to protect their capital ships.
  
  However, this game really shines in its user interface. On the left of the screen, there is a list 
 of planets that you own and planets which you have ships stationed at. Double clicking on them 
 automatically zooms you to that locations. You can also assign fleet leaders so you don't have 
 to cycle all the way to a capital ship to use its abilities.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is a good game, considering it had a small budget for its development. However, 
 it lacks any campaign mode of sorts, which is something that would have benefited this game. This 
 game may not appeal to everyone, so try the demo before buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon_freman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  please let me to begin with giving thanks to makers of this game . i am so happy for i see that 
 some makers have the new thinks about games . and i understood that some games have somethings 
 more than other games and they absorb you in the game so the makers of this game have loyalty to 
 say them lots of thanks . you should play this game for long time to undersatand the game attracts 
 . this is not the serious sam or duke nukem ,no no this is the game with the special law's .the 
 graphic of this game is not very fantastic but is enough for the game and makes gamers happy . 
 sounds and speeches and voices and the musics are very good too. this game make you happy and if 
 you play it you wont be upset and angry so i offer this game to all of the gamers. i like all the 
 time games of the electronic arts games and i never like the games which ea did not make thembut 
 this is the game more different other games and as i say it has special law's . so know the law's 
 play the game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallwhitemocha
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I have fond memories of RTS games from my Jr High and High School days. Command and Conquer, Dune, 
 Star Craft, HomeWorld and yes, even Homeworld 2. But with college and then becoming a somewhat 
 productive member of the American work force I lacked the time to play these games on account of 
 the high cost in time investment.
  
  So when I took a much needed vacation I decided to pick this game up and give it a go. I've lost 
 the better part of my 2 weeks off playing this game and I can't even accurately describe why. SoaSE 
 is a fun game, don't get me wrong, but I've played better and it possesses key flaws that with 
 any other game would prevent me from playing after the first day. 
  
  The biggest beef I have with this game, and the same many others have, is a lack of campaign. Which 
 is disappointing considering the excellent set up the games intro gives us. There was a great deal 
 of potential for the developers to exploit story wise but they, for reason known only to them it 
 seems, didn't. Had they included a campaign I perhaps could justify the lost hours. Warhawk pulled 
 it off but then it's a pick-up-and go type of game. SoaSE is not. The lack of campaign makes it 
 all seem pointless, like putting in 70 hour work weeks with nothing to show for it.
  
  My other issues with the game is the inability for th AI to realize it's defeated; its beyond tedious 
 when I have to conquer a dozen planets before the game ends, the predictable and largely ineffective 
 pirate attacks; they only have 2 types of craft and attack in regular intervals and announce their 
 attacks, and the more or less useless diplomacy tree when playing against the games AI; they never 
 accept and really what point is there?
  
  Yet, considering all this I still find myself spending hours on end ammasing fleets and conquering 
 worlds. And I don't know why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I was very doubtful of whether this game was deserving of it's 9.0. When I started playing it was 
 like what Homeworld II should have been (I gave Homeworld II a bad score) . I was blown away by 
 the innovative Capital ship system and I loved the twist the pirate faction brought to the game. 
 I had an empire that spanned a dozen planetary systems (each with it's own economy) and yet getting 
 things done wasn't tedious. The enemy, even at normal level, was a formidable opponent. The every 
 battle I fought (in the later stages of the game) usually had armadas with at least two hundred 
 ships duking it out. The battles were epic, yet such epic battles were easy to wage. Everything 
 about the gameplay was superb. But I've got some bad news...
  
  I've played a lot of strategy games in my time. I've been chased by sandworms from Dune. I've played 
 all (and I mean all) of the C&C and Red Alert series. I've fought against Kane, the Zerg, Chaos 
 marines, and the Necrons. I've forged alliances with the Bentusi to crush the Beast pandemic. All 
 of these memorable battles, I've been privilieged enough to be told a wonderful story. 
  
  Here's the bad part: But what I found to be the biggest weakness in "Sins of a Solar Empire" was 
 the lack of a campaign. Every space battle that I won wasn't as sweet due to it not having a story. 
 The game doesn't even give me a cutscene (other than the intro) . The battles are epic but at the 
 same time completely meaningless. There are no heroes or villains. I've read some reviews criticizing 
 "SoaSE" not having any story and I can't help but agree with them. Story can be left out of MMO 
 shooters but not a strategy game.
  
  I felt playing a strategy game without a story is like waging a war with nothing at stake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodd76dog
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This isnt close to the worst RTS I've played and I've played lots. The way the ships move the time 
 it takes to destroy ships, the camera control, is all wrong. Editors Choice. yea right. More like 
 NO choice. Ok now lets get serious. The game didnt do it for me. I played it about 3hours and after 
 learning the controls and everything I realize this game is missing a lot and just isn't fun. The 
 fact you can colonize a big rock is stupid. Most Rts require mining and building units this is 
 all search and destroy. I have a list of RTS you need to try to get a feel of what is real space 
 RTS. Hegemonia, Conquest, Homeworld 2, Hegemonia Solon heritage. These are my favorite. Back to 
 the game. If you think about it the lay out of the game isnt bad just need to make the fleet managable 
 from the unit window. The formation could also be added for a little more control. In RTS game 
 pace is important and feel that the game pace isnt right. The speed to produce ships is right but 
 the pace for fighting other ships isnt. The Dog fights are long and still. The only real movement 
 is the small fighter ships. The bigger ships also got to turn around to engage in combat with other 
 ships. The is a big problem cause the big ships turn very slow. There isnt a story line nor a real 
 reason to play the game. So sorry for the review but it is what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundman10f
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is like no other game I have ever seen. It takes a route that is different 
 then other classic space empire games (like Masters of Orion 1 & 2, and Galactic Civilization 2) . 
 It is a RTS, which plays like a turn based game. In other space empire games you slowly explore 
 while researching advances in weapons, ship tech, planet developments, and other fields of research, 
 while slowly building up small fleets of ships only to have to upgrade or scrap them later for 
 newer more advance ones. You sit there for long periods of time before really getting in to big 
 battles and wars that you have a chance at winning. With Solar Empire battle begins as soon as 
 you make it out of you home world. It can be a game that is fast paced but last for a long time. 
 It is also a fun game when fighting small battles early on to take a planet or large decisive battles 
 to crush another empire and gain his planets to get the clear cut economic edge to finish off the 
 other empires. 
  
  It has a good political system that is the easiest and almost the best of all, but it does need 
 a little more to it. The pirates can be a good tool, but can hamper new comers from really getting 
 in to the game. I absolutely love the ships and the fleet diversity over all. But from race to 
 race there seems to be not much difference in weapons. The tech is very nicely done and really 
 diverse for each race. The AI is good, but not very brave at lower settings. I found when first 
 playing the game on the easiest level settings the AI would retreat all of its ships from a planet 
 I attacked when I was close to having the numbers advantage. But who keeps playing it on easy anyway. 
 The higher AI levels are more challenging, and thinks very strategically. I have had it attack 
 one of my planets with a small force and when I sent my main fleet to reinforce that planet the 
 AI attacked with its big fleet at the planet where my main fleet was.
  
  It is a really good game and is very addictive. When I play I lose all track of time and get sucked 
 in to playing it for hours. But as I have already have shown it is not with out its flaws. The 
 lack of some kind of campaign or story line leaves it feeling like a Command & Conquer game with 
 only multi-player and skirmish modes, which is not good for a RTS. In conclusion despite a few 
 flaws that can be over looked this game is a really good one. I am giving it a 9.0 for being innovative, 
 creative, addicting, and a new take on two different game types. If they makers plan of turning 
 it in to a franchise rather then a one time game they better improve some of its flaws for the 
 next version to be worth getting or it will not have as high of a rating next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: illuminutty
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  To me this game is a micromanagement nightmare.
  Half of the time you have no clue what you're doing, where you're at, how many ships you have, 
 or which technology to research. Although the scope of the game is nice, it really feels huge... 
 but the downside is that everything you have looks so incredibly small.
  
  I for one don't enjoy having to hunt and peck for my things, nor do I enjoy trying to keep track 
 of so many details that instead of a game it becomes a chore.
  
  Not the type of game for people that just want to have fun without needing to keep a spreadsheet 
 on resources, levels, ships, technology.
  
  I'll take MOO ANY day over this game. It's just WAY too involved and a true nightmare to keep up 
 with even the dumbest computer opponent.
  
  This is perfect for anyone that doesn't need to sleep, work or have an actual life AWAY from the 
 computer. I honestly have much better things to do than burn out brain cells with this. Games are 
 supposed to be fun they aren't fun if there's too much work involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdog11297
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  To start off I must confess this is my first review, so I apologize if I miss anything.
  
  After having watched the trailer (and laughing hysterically at the narrative attempt) , I bought 
 the game impulsively after I saw it on the store shelf, hoping that it would revive my enjoyment 
 with RTS. I must say, that it passed my expectations by far (were my expectations low? probably, 
 I'm still laughing at the trailer) .
  
  Music:
  Not the greatest, but an enjoyable variety of space-themed music. Some techno-like, some not so 
 much, but the transition of slow, fluid sounds to quick, suspenseful melodies during combat was 
 a lot of fun to listen to.
  
  Graphics:
  Easily one of the most detailed RTS out there. Zoom in to see the windows on strike-craft, and 
 then zoom all the way out to see all of your planets in the same screen. Color-coded icons are 
 used for each ship/planet/structure when viewed from a distance. Skyboxes are also very detailed 
 and colorful, and fade away the further your camera is from the center of the galaxy; each one 
 gives a different feeling and personality to the map. Ships are very cool to look at, and each 
 race has a distinct look to it's units. Combat is amazing to watch.
  
  Gameplay:
  Slow to start, but can be fun once things get rolling. Interesting twist with addition of Pirates 
 that will attack the race with the most bounty on their heads (which can be turned off with the 
 first patch) . The Empire Tree on the left of the screen makes it easy to keep track of all of your 
 planets and fleets all at once. The Achievement section is interesting, and gives you some outside-mission 
 goals to reach, but isn't that great of an incentive.
  
  It's basically MOO meets Homeworld (if you haven't played either, you should drop this and go play 
 those) . Start off with one planet and barely any resources, build up your empire, explore the nearby 
 stars, and destroy (or ally with, then destroy) the other races you come in contact with. Really 
 not much to it.
  
  Controls are very easy to use, but sometimes complicated, as it seems that almost everything has 
 a hotkey, and sometimes multiple actions share a single hotkey depending on what you have selected.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Each mission starts off very slow because of the lack of income and resources to begin expanding. 
 There is no single player campaign whatsoever, which is kinda sad, as I'm sure this game could 
 really shine with one. There are only 3 races, and despite a different look of each one, the types 
 of ships and structures are almost exactly the same (even the research trees are very similar, 
 just named differently) . The diplomacy section could use some work as well, as not once would any 
 AI race agree to peace/trade/vision offers (other than taking my resources and money. they do that 
 well.) The voices of units are a decent touch but are repetitive and are kind of lame. 
  
  Overall I think SINS is a great RTS and fun to play, but only if you have hours and hours to spend 
 playing, even on a small map. The concept isn't new but the implementation of classic ideas mixed 
 with some new ones was almost flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killergecko7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Sins is an awesome game The graphics are awesome, the zooming is smooth, and who honestly doesn't 
 want to rule the galaxy? The adjustable difficulty means it can be played by a wide variety of 
 skill levels and the game is deep enough for all kinds of strategies. The menu system has even 
 been designed so you only have to actually open three or four menus, the rest is just on the main 
 screen. The learning curve is a couple of games to learn the game, and another few to get better 
 at the multitasking the game demands. The game tends to try to stop you from micro managing, which 
 on a game of this scale (4 or 5 planets to 10 solar systems) . That being said, the game has it's 
 drawbacks: pirates tend to get annoying after the first twenty or thirty minutes into gameplay, 
 and some of the cost for improvements late in the game get ridiculous. (but they are cool (launching 
 rockets to other planets etc.) ) There also isn't really any story except the opening cinematic. 
 Once you have the hang of it though, Sins of a solar empire is an immensely satisfying and addictive 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BetterThanLife
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is cut and dry RTS, it doesn't look like an RTS as we're all used to them, due to the 
 massive void that space is, but at its heart the game is an RTS and plays just like any other RTS. 
 I was had by the 4x lie they touted, just warning others before they join the bandwagon this game 
 seems to be generating.
  
  Above all don't buy the hype, it's not ground breaking in anyway, it's a very tried and true RTS 
 formula that dates all the way back to Warcraft 2, only in space.
  
  That being said, the game visually does look nice and runs well. It feels polished, doesn't seem 
 rushed or anything and the production quality is pretty high.
  
  Just don't expect the game to play like Master of Orion 2 or any game similar to that, it simply 
 doesn't, and when they claim its like other 4x games, only its an RTS, that's a flat out lie, MOO 
 2 and others like it are far better games if your into that style of game, rather than RTS. It's 
 RTS pure and simple.
  
  Just because Stardock made/published something, doesn't automatically make it gaming gold.
  
 
  Lastly, if you love RTS, I have no doubts this is a really solid game for you, just wish I was 
 into em enough to enjoy it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Even at launch with teams unlocked the AI was pretty fantastic, now they've patched it so the AI 
 on all settings can be a real challenge. the game offers a very comprehensive and broad spectrum 
 strategy experience and once you learn the ins and outs it is down right addictive. fantastic capitol 
 ship management, and creative planetary defenses, multiplayer game saves so you can play a 100 
 planet conquest esque game with a friend, games that will take you months to complete.
  
  THE BAD:
  Though it is evident that extensive back story and art design was put into the game 
 and it's races it's sad that there is no tried and true story campaign to flesh it all out for 
 you starcraft style.
  
  THE RANT (unsensored blog style stream of conscious skip to break down if it's to much for you)
 
  
  Ok so i'll say it i'm a huge homeworld fan, i always thought games like galactic civ were cool 
 but i just hate turn based stuff it's too detached feeling for me. this game tries to incorporate 
 homeworld and galactic civ together with a slight empire at war tint. ok so like a game like homeworld 
 you have fighters and you have battlecriusers here known as capitol ships, thing is that capitol 
 ships come in quite a few flavors and at that they are upgradable. the upgrades create a leveling 
 feeling and you'll become really attatched to a level 10 dreadnaught after 8 hours of play. everything 
 inbetween fighter and capitol ship is well represented generally speaking. i do have issue with 
 some things though, the concept of shields is one well used but it's rather sad when a big clash 
 of ships happens and the battle takes so long to resolve usually one guy runs after the first couple 
 ships crumble he realizes he's gonna loose and retreates, it's rather frustrating that this happens 
 so often and you can't really do much about it. i really feel like life on middle class ships is 
 far to high. the whole flow of a individual battle is really weak. that aside the grand scale and 
 structure of the game is fantastic, the balance of economic style play with offensive military 
 base developement is perfect. another problem i had with the combat is that it plays out on a 2 
 plane like empire at war, you can't manuever you ships in true 3D, and that for me was a huge problem. 
 space games in 2D are like a total war game to me or any other strategy game why even be in space 
 if not for 3D strategy!!!!! ok moving on, the AI with teams unlocked will totally mess with you, 
 forming alliances and shifting treaties is a blast and so much fun, but the AI will betray you 
 if you betray them, so i back stabed a AI oponent and that broke our treaty. 2 hours later they 
 reopen peaceful negotiations, then after we declare a cease fire they move in on my home world, 
 i didn't notice i had bigger fish to fry, when they had totally arrayed themselves inside my gravity 
 well they opened fire, ending the peace, and my part in the game simotaneously i lost in about 
 3 minutes i couldn't respond fast enough. this game will draw you in if you let it, you'll look 
 past all the features youwanted, and all the stuff that isn't done well and you'll loose your self 
 in the game, teams unlocked with treaties flying around and alliances shifting it's a real blast. 
 i guess i feel like this game deserves a good score since it stole a solid 8 hour piece of my life 
 that i didn't notice was passing me by. this is similar to supreme commander in that it's difficult 
 to master easy to love. i'm always THE BREAKDOWN
  GRAPHICS:
  good and impressive in how the game uses a camera system similar to supreme commander in that you 
 can seemlessly zoom in and out. varied yet consistent art design also helps.
  8
  GAMEPLAY:
  a great conglomeration of many good ideas into one realtime package just missing 3D 
 strategy.
  8
  SOUND:
  arguably a very weak part of the game many sounds feel canned and weak, like beta place holders.
 
  6
  VALUE:
  even with a campaign missing the game is still a great value, one game will take 8-20 hours
  
 9
  TILT
  i really think this game is pushing in alot of the right directions, and with expansions or future 
 sequels this franchise should cement it's self as a new standard in the genre.
  9
  FINAL SCORE:
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to this game its just a scirmish game with multiplayer there is no single 
 player component no story nothing to make you feel like these ships are more than just lights on 
 your screen. Seeing these ships as just icons on a list for most of the game also prevents you 
 from feeling like you are playing an epic game with lots of giant space ships battling it out. 
 They just feel like toys. Especially since battles take so long to actually kill something. Long 
 battles of attrician where its not clear what tactic caused you to win or lose your ships simply 
 died first and there is no lesson to learn.
  
  The developer should be ashamed of allowing a game to be made that feels like a sand box with alot 
 of toys in it. This is good for a Sims game but not for an RTS. We need the story to make the ships 
 more like characters.
  
  Make these battle ships actually lethal rather than toothless dogs that take 30 seconds to kill 
 a single frigate.
  
  With so many good RTS games how could they leave out the single player campeign. I totally want 
 my money back too bad there wasn't a demo before the game came out, but there is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I first tried this game aday or so ago but found myself bored with it quite fast because for the 
 first few hours nothing really happens, its all abit empty. 
  
  Luckily i again picked it up this morning and had a long sitting with it, and I'm happy to say 
 it is pretty good, if you have all day to spend. You'll have a pretty nice armada, with which you 
 can have some epic battles. There is a nice range of ships each offering unique abilites, but I've 
 not noticed any Rock, Paper, Scissor mechanics which unfortunatly means mass producing cannon fodder 
 is an effective tactic.
  
  The AI is good, they'll attack, retreat, send scouts and attack when your fleet is away somewhere 
 else, causing havoc before you can finally reach them. Unfortunatly there is no story aside from 
 an Intro movie which basically says its all out war. Aside from that, nothing, atleast not what 
 i've found. This is a big negative for me, as I love to have a reason for fighting unless I'm doing 
 multip-player.
  
  Graphics are nice, sounds are decent, but not great and the battles are pretty epic with enough 
 units, perhaps let down by the way weapons don't really look like there doing alot of damage.
 
  
  Just before i end, letme make it clear that i think Homeworld 1/2 are far superior, not just because 
 of the Y axis, but also because the fighting is more intense and tactical close up, whereas Sins 
 of Solar Empire focuses on moving your units to planets, then overpowering the enemy there.
  
  Oh and make sure you use the blackmarket to sell crystals/metal, it really helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that should have been a great game but just falls short because there 
 are parts that just seem unfinished.
  
  The combat engine in itself is great and very challenging. Graphics and sound are both ok.
  
 
  Diplomacy - This is the biggest failing in my opinion. Every race out there can hold their hand 
 out for you to give them coin, resources or take out their enemies why then can't you ask them 
 for the same?
  
  Storyline - a very brief slide show at the start of the game and that is it. No real connection 
 between the maps. You do not have missions just maps. They really could have learned from Supreme 
 Commander on this one.
  
  This could have been the top game in their genre and is fun to play for a short while but does 
 not have the long lasting appeal for me. If it had that story line that would draw you in then 
 perhaps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Being a hardcore RTS gamer, I came across this game and after seeing a unbelievably bad trailer 
 I stayed away from it...... For a while.
  
  After the game got released, and when I noticed the praise it was getting, I decided to pick it 
 up reluctantly.
  
  To put it simple, I was pleasantly surprised. This game delivers. The 4x scale works beautifully, 
 and while the game moves at a insanely slow pace (which might put some people off) , you are entertained 
 and are always have things to do. But this does not mean that the game is frantic, which is a problem 
 that plagues many RTS games, even the great ones. The game allows you to take your time in making 
 your decisions but at the same time gives you more than enough stuff to do to keep you entertained.
 
  
  It is addictive, and the first time I played it I spent all day playing it without even noticing 
 its all I did that day. Its probably the longest time I have spent playing a RTS game.
  
  Combat is not micro-intensive, but the bigger battles are epic Just looking at the battles makes 
 you stare at your monitor in awe.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and while there is nothing visually mind-blowing in this game. The 
 graphics simply "work". The best thing of all is that virtually any machine out in the market today 
 can run this game, yes, its THAT well-made.
  
  And finally, their lack of DRM and anti-piracy methods is a joy. I don't have to find myself sticking 
 a CD each time I want to play, I don't have a limited amount of licenses like Bioshock has. I don't 
 have to logon each time I want to play the game like in Company of Heroes : Opposing Fronts.
  
  Too many times legitimate copies of games I have bought have refused to run on my machine due 
 to absolutely insane anti-piracy methods that have already been cracked. It is a joy to be able 
 to play a game that does not make me go through all the "standard" hoops which are frankly, quite 
 idiotic.
  
  Excellent gameplay, absolutely mind-blowing preformance, and great graphics, and innovation make 
 this a must have for RTS gamers looking for some fun this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingJord
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo out of boredom. 
  
  I'm not a big RTS fan. I played Dune 2, Warcraft, Warcraft 2 and Starcraft. I played WC3 as well 
 but didn't get far...
  
  This is the first strategy game I've played in many years and I'm instantly hooked!
  
  The 
 learning curve at the beginning isn't steep like most games in the genre. It is very easy to follow 
 the tutorials and jump right into the action. As you learn the basics, there is so much depth that 
 opens up to you.
  
  The tech trees are deep and drastically effect the game. The AI, while lacking at times, will keep 
 you on your toes. The missions that AI teams offer you are fun and it's addictive trying to complete 
 them in order to forge alliances to help keep you on top of the action.
  
  The ease of zooming in and out from looking at individual objects to the gravity well (local battlefields) 
 to star maps to the galaxy to the universe is easy and quick and is definitely one of the strong 
 points of the UI. The summary window on the left is also very intuitive and helpful.
  
  Capital Ships gain levels and abilities as you use them. They are very powerful and make a great 
 centerpiece for each of your fleets. 
  
  Resources don't deplete, so unlike some games, you don't have to expand in a hurry. You do need 
 to expand somewhat, in order to have enough planets to build enough research facilities, but once 
 you are comfortable in your corner, you can be thorough and patient in figuring out when to strike.
 
  
  As a stranger to RTS, and someone usually opposed to climbing the steep learning curves, I've found 
 this game easy to learn and so far a lot of fun trying to master! Worth the $40!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ayame1182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  At first I was kind of impatient with this game because of all the little things you have to learn, 
 and how long each game lasts... so I wouldn't realize at first what all I was doing wrong. BUT! 
 once I sat down and played a couple of games, which consisted of a few hours of gameplay, and after 
 I went through all of the four tutorials I was doing consistantly better each time. 
  
  I know I'm making it sound like it takes alot of time but each game really does take about an hour 
 or so... it all depends on your learning curve AND which size map you choose. The small maps are 
 the ones I was playing. The medium maps can take a couple more hours to completely wipe out and 
 the large maps can take a whole day pretty much and that is with 2 people playing it (in a team) 
 so I would imagine it could take even longer if it is just one person playing. BUT it may be a 
 good idea to try a large map with only a few enemies at first, just so you can check out all the 
 things you can research and all the upgrades they have available. 
  
  There are several different types of ships for each of the three factions/races you can choose 
 and different upgrades/research as well. It is wonderful all the differences they put in (in my 
 opinion) and the graphics can be VERY beautiful especially if you have a good computer.
  
  Once I started getting the hang of it, it began to really grow on me and I was able to start enjoying 
 the Great Graphics and zooming in and out of all the battles and explosions... you can zoom pretty 
 far out and enjoy the view of the solar system you are in. Now, I've been playing it every day 
 for about a week and can't stop! I even got my husband into it and we've been playing teams which 
 is a lot of fun. 
  
  There are also Capitol Ships which can level up as you destroy your enemies in combat. There are 
 original Capitol Ships for each race/faction and they have a lot of really neat abilities. There 
 is a lot to learn but it is so much fun once you start to get everything down.
  
  I Definitely recomend this game to anyone with a few extra hours of time on their hands at least 
 once every other day. There is a lot more that I haven't described but I think my review is long 
 enough as it is. JUST TRY IT! YOU WILL ENJOY IT!!!!
  
  "Dangerously addictive and enjoyable space strategy Real-time gameplay feels original and fresh 
 Epic feel with titanic battles Excellent single- and multiplayer gameplay." is what Gamespot said 
 about it and I can't argue one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute fantastic i have been waiting for a game like this for years. The game is 
 an example of playing and having fun without looking at some imba PC killing graphics. The graphics 
 are neat tho and you dont require a next gen PC to run it smooth!
  Down to the gameplay itself, the game doesnt has the old RTS formula in it: farm resources, build 
 up your base and army, destroy your enemy and win.
  The game is a little more complex than that.
  You have to conquer plantes & their resource asteroids 
 to increase your wealth / resource income. You have to defent yourself from pirate attacks 
  (free XP =) ) . You can pay the piartes to attack your enemy instead of you.
  And ofc you can 
 build your capital ships with special unique abilities.
  
  Since the game has lots of features in in, you will find yourself a lot of times in long lasting 
 games finding your enemy can take up to more than 1hour and then to finaly beat him it may take 
 1-2 hours more.
  Sof if you like games where you dont have to rush your enemy this game is defently for you. This 
 game has eat a lot of my time already and it can be a lil frustarting if u lose in the end....
 
  
  Since you have to research a lot of things to be able to colonize different plantes (artic colonization= 
 to colonize ice plantes) or to be able to expand your fleet and stations arround your plantes and 
 the resources are gathered realy slow in the beginning, u can get bored really quick.
  
  What for me is missig in this game is a mod to reduce certain researches upgrade cost and time 
 (fleet expansion, colonization, ....) to make the game more battle intense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vertigem
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my first ever review for a game, I dont usually feel a need to tell people something that 
 I wouldn't find in other players reviews. But on this one I need to share my own point of view.
 
  
  As an old school player I have this nasty habit of being unforgiving to games that fail to innovate, 
 and even worse, lose depth and quality to older predecessors. I played this game for some days, 
 until I realised I had IMPERIUM GALACTICA II stored in my games vault forgoten under a ton of more 
 recent games.
  
  Ok, you can moan that this is another guy complaining about the "good old days", but what if I 
 tell you that this game has even worse graphics than IG II? Thats right, its not just the gameplay, 
 its the sound, the graphics, the depth... I'm shocked about all the hype around this game, the 
 review team of Gamespot should go look for IG II and understand that you need to be a bit more 
 unforgiving to publishers that fail to start over where the great ones left. 
  
  To give you an idea:
  
  3\10 - Graphics - 2d all the way, improvements to planets and research 
 its all small icons that lighten up... ridiculous in 2008. (IG II is fully 3d baby...)
  
  4\10 - Sound - Bearable and very basic, might as well play it listening to your Ipod.
  
  5\10 
 - Gameplay - Can be a good time killer, but in the end you'll regret the lack of plot and substance. 
 It's a dry strategy game with no depth, people need to understand that depth isn't just a long 
 science tree...
  
  All I can tell you is go play Imperium Galactica II and understand that you where sold a cheap 
 and uninspired clone of things that where done better in EVERY way YEARS AGO.
  
  Regards
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I was a god at Age of Empires 2 in its day, and the exposure to a simple RTS by today's standard 
 5 years ago is practically comparable to a C&C fan starting this game for the first time. It has 
 nearly all of the total war series's intellectual quality mixed with the awesomeness of an RTS 
 frontline.
  
  Graphically, this game holds up rather nicely. The environmental display is gorgeous, and battles 
 (especially with the cinematic camera enabled) are nearly equally enticing. For a strategy game, 
 you're really getting the practical nirvana of visuals. Voice acting, while limited in dialog, 
 is decently spoken, and the score compliments the game well, but don't expect the great sounds 
 of stealth action.
  
  Gameplay-wise, SINS is a shining star. Effective money management is the key to victory; spending 
 appropriate funds on research, colonization, frigates and cruisers, defense, and mercenaries properly, 
 with an insight to the changing of circumstance, rewards the player greatly. The fighting, especially 
 on large-scale maps, is intense, but there is a noticeable limitation on soldier variety. The "counter 
 this with that" which is so familiar to RTS and turn-based fans alike isn't much to be found here, 
 and instead is more of a measure of volume. While that doesn't sound appealing, if there was much 
 more depth to the combat, micromanagement would be insurmountable. In advanced stages, players 
 will find themselves having to leave AI in charge of spaceship confrontations while you either 
 bid on space pirate assaults, construct planetary defense, or debate over what piece of research 
 in the massive tree is appropriate at the moment.
  
  The epic qualities of this game does work to its disadvantage at times; there is no campaign, and 
 while that looks like a real letdown, the sheer scale that a campaign would require would kill 
 many a player from the amount of time spent playing. And while there is no constant hotkey mashing 
 and the desperate movement of maps as you bolster your base and look after your assault force, 
 there's still quite a bit of quick-paced frustration, even in a game as slow-paced as SINS. Overall 
 though, practically anyone with a love of strategy absolutely must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Got the game on a torrent cause i know i woudnt waste my money on a game that i might not like. 
 
  So i get the game and i wasn't in2 it.
  
  Now im a huge fan of rts
  Rise Of nations... Starcraft... C&C... you name it. I just was not into this game at all. It was 
 boring and space strategy just isnt my thing. But a lotta ppl seem to like it so i guess if your 
 into that type of stuff go ahead. But if you've never played something like this before i wouldnt 
 just go out and buy it. 
  This is not a game for everyone so this probably isnt the best review for ppl that are looking 
 for aspects of the game. I just went into tutorial and tried to play a little bit and i got really 
 bored. It's pretty straight forward but i wasn't to impressed whatsoever. So if your looking for 
 a totally amazing space strategy game go and get it. But this is not your everyday game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbose22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  One of the most enjoyable aspects of the game are the extent to which one must manage their civilization.
 
  
  A capable leader will need to have a stable economy, military, and know how to manipulate those 
 pesky pirates.
  
  The grandeur of the space battles makes every fight thrilling, and the capital ships bring awe 
 to the battlefield.
  
  The way that colonization works in the game will remind many players of Civilizations, however, 
 intricacies are prevalent in Sins of a Solar Empire which make the game all the more enjoyable, 
 as working out the best way to expand an empire turns out an incredible variety of different strategies 
 for different players. 
  
  The only regrettable thing is that the game does not provide a campaign, although there are pre-generated 
 scenarios and histories for each of the races. Be prepared for long and engaging hours of play, 
 the game will surely draw you in, so don't be surprised if you can't finish a match in just one 
 sitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  5. Multiplayer
  
  
  
  1. Technically the game is perfect. For over 50 hours of gaming (single player) it crashed only 
 one time. I haven't found any exploits or bugs.
  
  2. The game is really beautiful. With all the settings at High and AAx4 you can practically view 
 every detail on a ship or an orbital structure. And you can zoom to see the whole galaxy in matter 
 of seconds. I have noticed a slight decrease in FPS when about 100 ships started to shoot each 
 other over one of my planets, but it only happened when i zoomed to see the battle closely.
  
  3. Well the game itself doesn't offer any story. You have 3 fractions and you try to take control 
 over the galaxy. There is no campaign or something like that. If you want to know more you have 
 to go to the official site of the game. The campaign is replaced by the achievements table. The 
 achievements are practically missions in mission. Like destroy certain kind of ships during game. 
 Or gather certain amount of recourses. Complete all the achievements can be challenging and sometimes 
 provides a lot of fun. 
  
  4. The gameplay is what makes this game what it is. It is not something original. It takes the 
 best from 4X and RTS strategies and combines in one prefect whole. Something many games tried but 
 couldn't do. (Star Wars - Galactic Empires for example) . The 3 races aren't so different from each 
 at first look, but when you play a little you noticed that they have very different approach to 
 the game. After patch 1.03 and many balance changes the races are almost equal. The capital ships 
 (which are something like heroes but you may have 20) are one of the most funny thing in the game. 
 You can practically win a game with only capital ships. Also this is the first game in which you 
 can actually win via diplomacy and without combat. My experience in strategies often tells me that 
 the WARPATH is better and faster but not here. Diplomacy is crucial to survival and winning in 
 Sins of a Solar Empire.
  
  The only problem here is the speed. An average game last about 2 hours at most. If you play at 
 the smallest available map. A game with like 50 planets takes like 7 hours even more. I don't want 
 to imagine a map with many stars and like 100-150 planets. I personally think that i slight increase 
 in the game speed will make a game a lot better. Because now the simple waiting to gather enough 
 resources to make the next upgrade is annoying. It almost made me stop playing the game at first. 
 Also the game is really hard to master. There is a lot of techs, units etc. The planet management 
 is realized very good. You can place your structures automatically via the galaxy map or by yourself 
 while in close view.
  
  5. I haven't played the game in multiplayer yet but I'm sure that the game speed will take its 
 toll. I can't imagine an 12 hour multiplayer game. No one will stand it.
  
  
  I strongly recommend playing this game. If you have the nerves to take the little slow rhythm of 
 the game it is really incredible experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananasFoster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I'll just go ahead and give this game a 10. Since Master of Orion (and before that the text-mode 
 classic Anacreon) I've found space-empire genre very satisfying and addictive. This is the kind 
 of game that I get the most value out of: Infinitely replayable. There is a lot of depth to the 
 complicated rock-paper-scissors combat tactics, and the build-order and empire-growth maximization 
 strategies are satisfyingly deep and complicated.
  
  The graphics and zoom-in-zoom-out interface work very well. The game runs well on moderate hardware 
 and looks great on a new system with a good video card.
  
  The unit AI and game design does a good job of balancing micro-management and smart behavior: Units 
 will generally attack the right enemies according to their strengths and weaknesses. There are 
 several automation options that control unit or group behavior, and options to automate structure 
 placement at the expense of optimal micro-management.
  
  Combat is paced well so that you can usually retreat if outnumbered or bring in re-enforcements 
 before it's over. In general, the real-time nature of the game does not overwhelm the strategy 
 that I like from turn-based games.
  
  I like that there is an active forum community that participated in Beta testing and that Ironclad 
 has issued 3 patches already to address bugs and game-play balance. Very Blizzard-like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:53 am PT
Review:  While I admit when first I heard of the game a year ago, like so many other hidden gems, I didn't 
 think much of it.
  
  However shortly after release and after deciding to play it I was most obviously proven otherwise 
 to an extent. Perhaps because my first play was with a friend in online mode.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in SinS are quite easy to get used to and remarkably well fitting, 
 the 3D design is similar to that of EVE's techniques of modeling and texturing which gives it a 
 nice, smooth and shiny look. Which is pleasing both to the eye and the PC. While the graphics aren't 
 the main attraction they serve well, because most of the time you'll be too busy dealing with co-ordinating 
 your game from a zoomed out view to have time to stare at how everything unfolds or is done. The 
 different "solar system" lighting effects look quite beautiful and space-like, with the exception 
 of a few skyboxes which sort of, and this is just a personal opinion, look sloppy and uninspiring. 
 Variety is a bit of a shortcoming in this aspect.
  
  Sound:
  
  The audio features a memorable main theme and alright'ish action music during battles. Gunshots 
 and engine sounds aren't exactly as memorable or enjoyable however and lack the punch but, as mentioned 
 you'll be too busy playing to notice it much. Also a little bit more variety of faction sounds 
 and unit sounds wouldn't have hurt.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is a mixture of, SW Empire at War, and well lets just add Homeworld, and I guess almost 
 any other game which involves managing planets and fleets, a personal note being Star Wars Rebellion. 
 Now comes the reason as to why you wont notice the sounds or graphics much, because you'll be zoomed 
 out at a far distance for effective gameplay, zooming between planets and solar systems, the gravity 
 wells of planets and the larger scale battles which simply can't fit onto a close up 3D view due 
 to the IMMENSE physical scale of the game.
  
  Planets are gigantic, ships are huge but are nothing in scale if you zoom out a bit, ever felt 
 so small and insignificant? The gameplay itself consists of building up infrastructure and industry 
 on planets, a fleet, moving to the next planet, conquering through either colonization or a rain 
 of nuclear fire and repeating the process (rinse and repeat) for as many planets as there are (which, 
 as even the developers say, is infinite, if you got the patience for it you can have THOUSANDS 
 of planets, tho not as many ships, but that's what mods are for) . The tech tree seems quite huge 
 at once, you got 3 branches with 3 sub branches, but you quickly get the hang of it and it wont 
 seem so huge after a while. There is also the option of capturing worlds through influence via 
 propaganda, this works at a very slow rate but is a solid tactic for those who love to turtle, 
 or for those trying to fend off the enemy doing the same to you.
  
  The game has 3 factions which is a bit of a shame as there could be at least 1 or 2 more for variety, 
 none the less they balance and play well all the same. There is a fair variety in ships for each 
 faction but you'll quickly begin to see yourself just amassing the same type of ship over and over. 
 Tho the developers have given the ability to level up your capital ships and give them special 
 abilities, to break the mold a little bit and make certain ships be more specialized against a 
 certain threat at a given time.
  
  Also, albeit mostly for looks and kicks you can name your capital ships and your planets as you 
 please.
  
  The AI isn't at all times that great, the MOST annoying thing (and this is with the latest patch 
 which at the time of this review is 1.03 tho there is little hope it'll see a fix) is that they 
 run away constantly, you pop in with a big fleet expecting a cinematic display worthy of a sci-fi 
 series but you instead get a few shots off to see the enemy flying away already. Realistic, sure, 
 why fight if you're screwed.... but not too pleasing. And the lack of a, excuse the Star Wars here, 
 Interdictor cruiser to keep them from fleeing is a shame.
  
  Multiplayer is excellently implemented, games can be saved and resumed at any time and it's great 
 fun to play with friends against AI or against each other for dominance. 
  
  Overall:
  
  A solid and fun sci fi RTS, worthy of many mods to come and hours of gameplay. It may not be 
 breaking ground in every aspect, but it is certainly worth looking into for those in need of a 
 long time killer with excellent potential with future patches and mods to come.
  
  If I would have to nitpick, it would be that the gameplay gets repetitive quite fast, some more 
 variation in the mechanics of building around and on planets would do a world of wonder.
  
  8.5 of 10 - Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  You can rotate your view all around planets, ships, asteroids,...
  Researches are for Hostility, Harmony, Fleet and Artifacts.
  Hostility is to upgrade shields, 
 weapons, to unlock new designs,...
  Harmony is to upgrade population, faster materials gain,....
  Fleet is for Military, how much 
 ships can you support, how many Capital ships you can have,...
  Artifacts are gained from exploring planets, gives random bonuses.
  
  In play there are Computer 
 pirates, leveling there union and killing the person in game with the highest Bounty on it's head.
 
  Pirates are easy to kill as long as you won't stay far away with researches, they are for slowing 
 down your army not to really destroy you.
  
  Few different nations, all different ships, planets,.....
  There's black market to help you get 
 materials, for example, you have 10 Crystal mines and 0 Metal mines, you click on Black market 
 and trade Crystal for Metal....
  
  You can get a whole view of the galaxy, there's one or more sun, some planets, some asteroids, 
 Wormholes....
  Easy to move your view.
  
  Ships move fast between the planets, Hyperspace...
  
  It's a good multiplayer game, as your 
 games lasts a long time you can save your game, next day you get on, load the game and wait for 
 the opponent you had a day before and play.
  You can send materials to your allies, you can ally/war other players,....
  Can be really long 
 fights if you're trying to colonise other players planets, as you and he will be bringing reinforcements 
 from your planets, the winner will be the one with more materials.
  Fights can last for more hours too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webspyder777
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  With all of the rave reviews I was expecting an amazing game and found myself sorely disappointed. 
 Anyone comparing this game to GalCiv or anything in the Master of Orion series seriously needs 
 their heads examined. This game is just a rehash of every other RTS on the market. There's nothing 
 innovative or new. There isn't even a storyline to immerse yourself in. The graphics are even pretty 
 laughable. If you have it zoomed to a point where you can actually see anything that is going on 
 then the ships are simply monochromatic icons. To view them in all of their 3D rendered glory, 
 you have to zoom in so far you can't even see what they are shooting at or what is shooting at 
 them. Diplomacy is another joke, though at least this one is a new joke. Diplomacy is handled based 
 on performing missions for computer based players. You have no choice whether or not to accept 
 a mission. They simply set you on a task and you either do it and reap the rewards (improved relations 
 and credits, metal and crystal) or ignore it and suffer a relations hit when it expires. Of course 
 these missions almost always involve attacking someone, often someone who isn't even actively aggressive 
 against you, so it can prove problematic at best. Is it worth playing? Sure, its an entertaining 
 enough time killer. Is it worth $50? Not hardly. You could get just as much, if not more, enjoyment 
 out of revisiting any of a hundred other RTS the came before this one. Save your money people, 
 this game is NOT all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizlaq
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  i finished one of the smaller maps and now i'm really groping in vain for a reason to start playing 
 a new scenario.
  
  there are so many positive reviews that i still wonder what the hell... what is it that others 
 like so much about it? did i miss a point somewhere? or did i simply play so many RTS games that 
 i don't get enthused by yet another xyz-craft clone? 
  I don't know. If you disagree with my opinion and think like I've overlooked some serious traits 
 and facts, feel free to message me and I'll try to reflect on your opinion in this review.
  
  
  CONS
  the game lacks substance. 
  - there is no story/campaign to suck you in
  - 
 there are no exceptional difficulties once you understand a few basic principles
  - the fights are deliberately slow and un-action-like (which i don't consider necessarily bad, 
 but as there are very few strategic features involved - you basically smash any force using sufficient 
 numbers - it's not much fun once you've been through a number of battles)
  - the research is too fast and you easily encompass most of its branches
  - the diplomacy is 
 laughable (the pirates being a nice addon, yet even this starts to be more of a nuisance later 
 on)
  - unbelievable, but it isn't 3D ;)
  - cant even start comparing it to GC2
  - lacks the atmo, originality and generally positive tilt of homeworld
  
  
  PROS
  - the 
 graphics are clean an swift
  - sound is passable
  - the UI is neat - thanks to which the learning curve is just about right
  - the "slowed real-time" 
 concept is not a bad idea
  
  
  
  can't say i didn't enjoy the first scenario though. i was thrilled and couldn't break away from 
 the computer for some eight ours. but hey, once this game was finished, there was nothing much 
 left in the game for me to enjoy - i've seen it all.
  in that one (relatively) short mission i've seen and researched all (or most) of the research tree, 
 built all the ships and structures, i've upgraded all of the capital ships nigh to the cap and 
 i had time enough to notice, how insignificant the differences between the playable races are.
 
  i even went that far, so as to begin another scenario, playing for a different race, but it all 
 boiled down to "uh-uh, so this is the alternative to RaceX's scout, this to RaceX's carrier, aaah, 
 and isn't this essentially the same thing like RaceX's anti-fighter frigate?" I know this is common 
 in many games, but here, somehow, it was too obvious to bear. same for the research tree.
  
  in the second game, i simply built two capital ships, punched in the production of a vast number 
 of random smaller ships and went off to harass the enemy. after conquering two planets i gave up, 
 asking myself why i'm playing more of the same.
  
  as for the large-scale / economical strategy, it mostly consists of building "influence" structures 
 and resource boosters. don't expect anything sophisticated: in my first game, i once had to reload 
 a very early save for i didn't build any of these influence-specific structures, thinking in my 
 naivity, that a powerful fleet controlling most of the universe beats all. now, let's put aside 
 the fact that in reality sheer military might IS the remedy to all of your troubles (terrorism 
 aside (now, that would be some new strategical feature!) ) - i like games that prevent you from 
 mindless armament, but here this is not the case. you just build that damn influence structure 
 and that's it, you're safe ;) .
  anyways, i'm still trying to imagine what it was like, a military superpower that i was - was wiped 
 off the solar system by undefined cultural stuff - puppets, comedians and popmusic, i guess.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchist54
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The reason why I gave it a 9 was the fact that it was like a space risk type game. Im a big fan 
 of RTS games so I so have a some what biased opinion. I would definetly give a chance though. 
 
  
  Graphics wise this game is in no way anything special. It has the options that look like when you 
 set this game to max it'll be amazng but Homeworld 2 (a couple years old) has better graphics. 
 Yet for most RTS games you dotn really need graphics. Like Rise of Nations was only a mix between 
 2D and 3D. Yet that game was awesome. 
  
  Game play has much depth. You can be there forever trying to upgrade everything you need. 
  
 
  Battles are fun and can get very large. 
  
  I recomend the game for mid to high up RTS gamers. Its long and borning so for most RTS players 
 who just like action, I would just stick with Command and Conquer kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is one of the best space strategic rts ship combat games I have played. 
 Now it is not perfect, that is why I have given it a 9, lol. There are some small things that make 
 a big difference for me. Things like the menus being see through so you can see what is happening 
 while you chose what to research and such. That way you don't have to pause the game while doing 
 other things. Now I would like it if you could research economic, military, and strategic all at 
 the same time. One of the reasons I like the game is because I play Games Workshop table top game 
 Battle Fleet Gothic. The two games are similar, but I wish SoaSE was more like BFG. I would like 
 it if the ships had structure instead of health. Were they would have damage to the structure of 
 the ship. The same old shield, armor, and health is getting old. By that I mean were the shield 
 take damage until they are down, then the health takes damage. The armor just lessens the damage 
 taken. I liken it to a tank being hit with enemy fire, you can hit a main battle tank many times 
 without killing it but if you hit it just right you may cause major damage. Anyone who has played 
 SSI Steel Panthers or Combat Missions will understand, and if you have not played those games you 
 should, hehe. I would like it if you were not forced to take the jump line between planets, but 
 that doesn't make me dislike the game. I would like it if there was some planet combat instead 
 of just bombing planets. The limit on tactical and logistical slots is kind of small but I think 
 it can be modded so you can build defenses that might be able to stand for at least a little while 
 against a fleet. All total I think it is a solid 9, the ability to mod it relatively easily helped 
 put it at 9 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doom
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I fail to see the tactical importance of the planets. They seem to be for tax income and thats 
 about it unless you find an artifact. But holding a particular planet over another does not seem 
 to be a factor in this game. I find it kind of blah just jumping from planet to planet fighting 
 for territory and thats it. I wish there were random occurences in the game as well like black 
 holes, comets slamming into your planets hurting your economy, planet uprisings, things like that. 
 Other than that, the game is very entertaining and easy on the eyes. Need to get over that port-forwarding 
 thing though... that sucks. Ironclad needs to create a server so that people can play without reconfiguring 
 their routers. Took me a while to figure it out, and if you are too, I suggest you look up Port 
 Forwarding on youtube. com. Being able to see what people are talking about was a big help for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andromeda7M31
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a perfect RTS, when you are looking for something new. When I mean new, 
 I mean that it is a different kind of RTS, because of the fact that it is set in space. There are 
 dozens of Units and structures you can built in amazing visuals. You can see the star in your solar 
 system, your Home- planet, and your fleet going into Hyperspace ( Light speed) and more. The ships 
 are made with great detail and cool sound effects. the Space battles are fun too, with all the 
 guns and lasers flying in space and you can also go into movie mode, in which it looks even more 
 amazing. I like how the developers structured the game. You can built a Science lab (which looks 
 like a space station ) in order to research new technology and you can built mines on Asteroid, 
 to get Metal and Crystal. There is diplomacy and a black market, so there is more to do, then just 
 flying your fleet around. However, they could make it more complex for more game experience. I 
 recommend Sins of a solar Empire to everyone, especially RTS Fans.
  
  Graphics : 9
  Game play: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Fun Factor : 10 !!!
  
  All together a 9.5 Game
 
  
  UPDATE.. WITH THE NEW PATCH 1.1 nor rated 10 !!!! BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfasher
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  I'll start with my overall thoughts-
  Overall, this game is a complete and huge letdown. I can't describe how excited I was when I heard 
 there's going to be a new entry to the space-RTS genre, and one that's going to try and blend Homeworld 
 and Master of Orion together into one game (two of my favourite-all time games) . I also can't describe 
 the sheer and total disgust I felt when I started playing the game and learned it's got less depth 
 than The Sims. I'm sorry, but I just can't wrap my mind around the idea of a game of this genre 
 having NO SINGLEPLAYER CAMPAIGN. I truly can't. The only reason I played the game after learning 
 this was that this is one of my most favourite game genres. 
  Anyway, to sum it up, for me, the no-campaign issue alone is enough to not play this game, but 
 the lack of depth just puts another nail in the coffin.
  Overall, it feels like the people who designed this game aren't fans of other games of this genre 
 (yes, I know it's Stardock) , and to me that says it all.
  
  Graphics:
  Pros:
  -Great engine. Very detailed graphics- amazing background (nebulae, galaxies, etc.) ; 
  -Ships 
 look good (not as amazing as Homeworld ships looked when it shipped, but still very good) . Hulls 
 are nicely detailed, and each faction has a distinct feel to it
  -Very easy on your rig. Like other reviewers said, you can play this game on virtually any computer 
 (the graphics quality you'll get will vary depending on your GPU, but other than that there's almost 
 no difference) . To check it, I installed the game on both my main PC (dual core 6600 with 4gb RAM 
 and 8800GT GPU) and my downloads PC (Pentium 4 with 1gb RAM and a GPU so ancient i don't remember 
 what it is) , and the only difference was in graphical quality and a slight lag in HUGE battles 
 on the slower PC.
  
  Cons:
  -Planets. I don't understand what the designers were thinking to themselves when they designed 
 the planets. They look like some 3-year old drew them in paintbrush and then had a seizure while 
 still holding the brush for good measure.
  -Explosions aren't all that great in the sense that you don't actually see stuff falling apart 
 (like in FreeSpace 2 for example) . When something gets destroyed then yes, there is a great looking 
 explosion, but the object just disappears without any continuity or relevance to the object it 
 was before exploding. And the debris is always the same.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros:
  -Very streamlined. Easy to learn and pick-up on.
  -Good report system; makes sure you stay on-hand 
 with everything that's going on.
  -Good-looking and designed research menus.
  
  Cons:
  -Each galaxy is completely 2D. This is an indescribably stupid design flaw.
  -Side-menu, although 
 being very helpful for management, is also VERY annoying. Once you have a big empire it gets more 
 and more tedious to navigate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoeCrusher
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is very similar to Hegemonia Legions of Iron 2002 (look up Gamespot's review) . 
 Yes as many reviewers have indicated it is using many of the ideas which have now become standard 
 for the genre. However, I have yet to see anyone comment on its similarity to Hegemonia. That game 
 limited the number of ships you could have at once, travel was restricted to wormhole lanes and 
 it was real time with a relatively relaxed pace. So from that perspective neither game degrades 
 into a click fest, nor is there as much emphasis placed on rushing strategies that many multiplayer 
 games suffer from.
  
  What Sins does well:
  There are three main aspects that Sins does very well for a real time strategy with large maps. 
 Firstly, it does a great job of allowing you to see at a relative glance what is going on in your 
 empire. Secondly the slimed down tech tree and limited planetary upgrades do cause the game to 
 place more of an emphasis on overall strategic play. Finally diplomacy was also refreshing in that 
 there was a clear cost benefit decision when deciding whether or not to complete missions for other 
 empires.
  
  What I didn't care for:
  My biggest complaint with sins is that it failed to really catch my imagination. Somehow I always 
 felt very detached from what was going on and the game never really held my undivided attention 
 for very long. I also will state that I dislike micromanaging in real time and against a competent 
 human opponent that is necessary to do in order to get the most out of your capital ships.
  
  My Opinion:
  Sins is a solid 4X space game that most people will enjoy. That is especially 
 true if you are a fan of RTS games. The game doesn't deserve the 9.0 given to it by Gamespot, instead 
 I would rate it about a 7.0/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Sins is an RTS but not in the traditional sense of the word meaning its like civilization or rome 
 total war but in real time all the time. The game is extremly time consuming and sometimes can 
 interfre with daily function because of it. That wont be a problem if you dont mind doing 8 hour 
 matches. One thing that impresses me still is the AI which can be downright brutal. For instance 
 i had just conquered the last planets on one side of the solar system so my Armada was far away 
 from my other planets on the other sid of the solar system. They attacked me at my most vulnerable. 
 The planets they attacked i didnt really expect to be attacked so they were undefended. They didnt 
 capture any planets but they bombed 2 of my planets into uncolonization. I had to sent my fleet 
 back and clean the mess up then i got pissed off and SLAUGHTERED the last three planets they possesed 
 with my Armada of hundreds of cruisers and frigates. And 16 capital ships. One thing that gets 
 annoying because they are so smart is the fact that they can recognize when they cant win so they 
 retreat and you never get to see some nice battles because your fleet is much better. I personally 
 like to keep my fleet in one gigantic Armada but some may like to split it up into smaller fleets 
 and do it that way which is probably faster but sometimes less likley to succeed if they are heavily 
 defended. Some of the biggest battles in the games the ones that have hundreds of ships on each 
 side are a fireworks show from little pops from frigates exploding to titanic explosions that send 
 shockwaves from a captal ship exploding. The battles can look quite different since each of the 
 3 races use different technology in battle. I personally like the Advent they kick ass but the 
 others are just as good. You can zoom to the close up view of a fighter all the way to viewing 
 the entire galaxy in just a roll of the mouse wheel. Thats saying something when each induvidual 
 ship is nicley detailed. My PC plays the game at Maxed settings and i dont get any framerate hitches 
 except once when i got a massive fleet to raid the pirate base. And it wasnt crippling either. 
 My PC is average so you should be able to play it fine with most pc's out there which is very nice. 
 They game is 40$ which is a great deal. In the empire management you have to manage the planets 
 buy building structures and upgrading them. You just click which stucture you want to build and 
 choose where you want it. Its easy to que units all you have to do is click on a planet and start 
 clicking which ones you want. You collect taxes from your planets. The resources in the game are 
 money metal and crystal they are all used for all but a few things. Its cool how specific planet 
 types have different amounts of resources. A ice planet is going to have 4 crystal asteroids to 
 mine. While a volcano world is going to have 4 metal asteroids to mind. Terren worlds are the most 
 valueble since you get the most credits from taxes since they have higher populations and are more 
 easily diffended since you can put a lot of automated defense turrets around them. This is the 
 kind of strategy game a lot of people are going to like. Buy it if you think you are one of them 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Strategy games are becoming rare now days, and one can rarely see any kind of space fight RTS. 
 The last space RTS I played was Homeworld 2, and since then I have never seen a title that attempts 
 to bring the space simulation once again, until this game came out, and this game has done it.
 
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  It's good graphics for RTS game that revolves around building spaceships and destroying planets. 
 The most enjoyable moment for me when playing this game is when I get to fight my huge armada with 
 other player's armada, or shooting down planets. You can't deny graphic plays a large role when 
 you are watching missiles, lasers, and huge bombs exploding everywhere as you rotate your cameras 
 around to watch the fight.
  
  Sounds - 8
  
  Everything is good, except when playing single player, computer AI player telling me "You will 
 pay for this" over and over again after not doing their request gets tiring and you'll eventually 
 start ignoring their words. For me I wanted to go to war against them just because of those.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Great gameplay. It gives exactly what you want for a fan of space simulation, 
 or just RTS fan. Again problem for me occurred with diplomacy in single player, where there was 
 no way to ally with one computer and stay neutral with other computer as they keep demanding me 
 to kill the other computer if I want good relationship with them.
  
  Tilt -
  
  One thing that I didn't like was the option to make the whole game much faster or quick gameplay. 
 It usually takes at least 3 hours to finish one game against 2 computers on fast mode. It takes 
 forever to research all technologies even with fast research mode. If there was a option to make 
 everything MUCH faster and allow MUCH faster gameplay, I would be very happy. However, it's incredibly 
 addictive as you sit down on your computer for hours waiting for research to finish, or simply 
 move your ships to another planet to watch the battle or bomb the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  After playing the Galactic Civilizations II, I thought I would try Sins out. I read various reviews, 
 both gamers and "professinals" and thought I'd try it out. 
  
  The first complaint is when ordering from their site, if you want to download and have a copy shipped, 
 they want $20 for shipping and handling! Hmmm maybe they're shipping the DVD in diamonds. I chose 
 just to download as the other items included in the box didn't seem to be useful. The download 
 was in 2 parts - Stardock which took forever to install - and then the game.
  
  It was a smooth process and I had no problems installing. I fired up the game and set the video 
 settings on the highest levels (I'm running Crossfire) . After a cursory look at the command mappings, 
 I started the 4 tutorials.
  
  The tutorials are VERY BASIC. If you can win the first game after only the tutorials, you're a 
 game god or a liar.
  
  The first game was small, and I got my butt kicked. The graphics are excellent and sounds was great. 
 The process for moving your view around the map was pretty intuitive and I eventually figured things 
 out - like you don't need a bunch of colony ships (unlike GC: II) and I didn't need 2 shipdocks. 
 I slowly learned a lot about the play and some about strategy. After claiming 2 astroids and an 
 ice planet, things started looking up. Then, I got attacked and it all went to hell. The computer 
 opponent, after hurling an insult at me - something about eating missles for breakfast - cam e 
 at me with 3 or 4 captial ships and oodles of frigates. The capital ships where huge compared to 
 my Cruisers - they had over 3500 hit points, about 2000 more than me, and 3 weapon systems where 
 I had 1. I started poking around the research into logistics and such and think I found some technology 
 I should have researched. Next time I will.
  
  After spending 3 hours until after midnight playing, hardly blinking, and not refilling my adult 
 beverage (which may have had an impact to the outcome) I called it quits and went to be. BUT, the 
 game didn't stop. As I lay in bed I kept thinking about this game, how I could have done things 
 differently, and how I needed to do some more poking around the technology tree. Maybe I shouldn't 
 have been so passive and attacked early? Maybe I should have built up a strong defensive force 
 and lured the enemy to my homeworld? Maybe I should just go to sleep and play again tomorrow. I 
 opted to #3.
  
  Overall, I think this will be a fun game. I don't usually play against human players, but so far 
 this will be challenging and addictive. It's not perfect, but I didn't see any bugs that interferred 
 with game play. I would recommend this game, although like any game, it's not for everyone. Too 
 bad there isn't a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain292
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Sins, my heart skipped a beat. It was my Homeworld 3. I thought it was impossible, 
 that someone would actually make a new space-based strategy game. But when I pinched myself and 
 looked, it was true. There, in front of my eyes. Sins of a Solar Empire. After a lengthy period 
 of trying to figure out what it was, I finally got it. I installed it, battled with the learning 
 curve of the game that took awhile to figure out, due to it being left out in the tutorials (I'm 
 lookin' at you, pirates) , and finally got down to playing it.
  
  I love it. I can't quite comment on how the game's graphics look on high and such, as I can only 
 run it on medium settings, but even on medium, thems is some purrty ships.
  I only have a few minor problems with the game:
  -Lack of a campaign: I know many people have 
 groaned about this, but when a game with so much story potential like this comes out, only to have 
 next to no storyline other than the manual, the "Lore" part of the Sins website, and the opening 
 cutscene... there was nothing. A missed opportunity.
  
  -Odd voice acting: I'm not sure if anyone else shares these feelings, but if I were trying to figure 
 out what the crews of my TEC ships would sound like, I'd pick something else a little more... exciting? 
 The Cobalt voice is probably the worst... a whiney, high-pitched tone that I'd expect coming out 
 of a drive-thru box, not a war frigate in space.
  
  -In-game map creator: The built-in map creator works pretty well, for just a bunch of slide bars 
 and drop-down menus. But if you really want to do anything with it it just feels.... broken. The 
 lack of tooltips for all of the options in the creator hinders any creation process. Also, the 
 Phase Length slider seems to be completely ineffective, where, with the slider one way or another, 
 the end result is the same. Terribly long and boring Phase jumps. Also, the complete lack of ability 
 to add worm holes anywhere hinders it as well. Besides that, I think it's a good tool to use.
 
  
  -Lack of 3D movement: Last time I checked... all space is three dimensional. So... why is it my ships 
 only move in two dimensional spaces? Sure, they'll get in nice boxes for me when I tell them its 
 time to phase, but besides that, there's nothing.
  
  These are all superficial flaws in the game, however. The good of the game more than makes up for 
 the bad. It's the first real space strategy game since Homeworld, and it was done pretty well. 
 The ships are neat, the story (whatever there is of one) has potential to bloom, amd the absolute 
 size and the immense playing fields is a fresh addition to what was before a limited concept. The 
 entire gameplay just screams "We gone done good" and my lost sleep is a sign of that.
  
  So good on the little guys who made this, and who are still improving on this, and who listen to 
 their fans. I can predict many more hours of lost sleep ahead for myself, and for the thousands 
 of people giving into their Sins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Remember Civilization? Remember thinking "Just one more turn" and then it's 2 hours later? I guess 
 for the younger gamers out there you could replace that with "World of Warcraft" and "Just one 
 more quest".
  
  Anyway, if so, you have the requisite knowledge you need to understand how addictive this game 
 is.
  
  I had read some good reviews about this game, and decided I should get it. I must say I was a bit 
 worried for about the first hour or so that I just threw some cash down the drain. The enjoyability 
 of this title is not immediately apparent when you start playing.
  
  Thinking back on it, I'm guessing it's because I didn't know what I should have been doing, and 
 also didn't know about the fast forward button to make those long space flights go by faster. A 
 lot of time in my first game was spent simply waiting on resource stocks to build up enough to 
 buy that ship/upgrade/structure I needed at the time.
  
  The game itself is simple in concept. Wipe out everyone else on the map. You have planets which 
 support your population, structures which are built around planets and can perform tasks such as 
 ship building and research. Finally you have your fleet consisting of many special purpose frigates, 
 colony ships, scouts, and of course capital ships.
  
  The capital ship system is virtually IDENTICAL to the hero system in Warcraft 3. Each ship gains 
 levels, and each level allows you to buy a special skill, of which there are 4. You can only buy 
 the last one when you are at level 6 (just like Warcraft 3) . You can't even get level 2 of a skill 
 until you are level 3, and level 3 of a skill until you are level 5 (just like Warcraft!) .
  
  In reality, this works very well. As your capital ships gain levels they become incredibly 
 powerful. However, unlike Warcraft 3, if they get destroyed, thats it. No resurection - you start 
 again! Fortunately they have so much armour that you can normally get away from the bad guys in 
 plenty of time.
  
  The rest of this game pans out much like many other strategy games. Control key planets and resources, 
 choke off supply lines for the enemy, and manage hostiles in your empire. It's pretty, well implemented 
 and addictive.
  
  The only downside is the lack of planetary combat (all planet combat is resolved via bombing the 
 planet from above) . The enemy seems to have a pathological obsession with targeting colony ships, 
 even at the expense of turning their back on your primary fleet and getting blown away. There are 
 a few other niggly AI issues, but nothing that will detract from the gameplay all that much, or 
 can't be fixed in a future patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietje
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is just outright great. It might not have a classic campaign mode, but nobody seems to 
 play those alot these days anyways.
  It more than makes up with great AI, the first real changes in MP-gaming...
  
  Hell, how long 
 did it take developers to notice we want to save? THANKS STARDOCK!
  
  All included races are well balanced yet still different and fun to play, although it does indeed 
 take a bit of getting used to. If you start out as TEC (kinda human like former trading federation) 
 your happy with a strong economy, your backbone to enlarging your empire. But with Advent or Vasari 
 you aim for more direct or in-direct to direct measures.
  
  It's an all out fun and entiscing game to play. If you like space, or rts or just like the vids 
 of this game. Then just check it out, not too expensive, not to next gen grap, just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blah321a
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a RTS in space. It has no single player campaigns. The AI on the hardest 
 setting is too easy for a decent RTS player. Most of the game's value is in its online play. I've 
 played quite a few sessions online and a few things became apparent: 
  
  Sins online play requires a much larger time commitment than other RTS. 1v1 game can take over 
 2 hours and 3v3 game can take 4 hours, even longer if you want to get a recorded win. At first 
 I thought the slow pace was a good thing. It turns out most of the first hour is too slow, waiting 
 for resources to trickle in. The late game is the typical RTS frantic micro management bursts. 
 Even the slowest speed setting does not prevent the micro rush, but makes wait time in between 
 battles longer. The long time commitment becames a serious problem because the game has connection 
 problems, game drops & crashes, and a game breaking bug that is easily exploitable.
  
  The game setting is space and looks epic, but only on appearance. The game is 2D only except graphics, 
 and battles happen at jump points only. Each jump point/planet is a circle battle field. The game 
 makes no use of popular RTS concepts that could add strategic and tactical depth. No 3rd dimension/height, 
 no terrain effects, no zone of control, no flanking, no local fog of war within a battle circle. 
 A good tactic in this game is to take ships being targeted and move them straight through opponent 
 ships, then circle back. This will cause opponent ships to turn & move, drastically reduce their 
 damage outputs. A player micro this well will win a lot of lopsided battles.
  
  To play online, at least one player in each game needs to modify the network settings to become 
 the host. This is a problem for people who do not have control over their network firewalls & routers. 
 If the host player losses connection, lags out, has a game crash, or decides to quit, the game 
 cannot continue and becomes dead for every player. Because Sins online games take a long time, 
 this happens much more frequently than in other RTS. A typical experience is after spending an 
 hour playing build up, the game goes dead and there was hardly any interesting battles fought, 
 an hour wasted.
  
  There is also a major game bug that the developers knew for weeks, and still did not fix. The market 
 buy/sell feature in game is broken. It gives out more credits/resources to players than it should. 
 Two players can give each other infinite resources whenever they like. What makes this worse is 
 that the bug shows up for every player, not just people intend on exploiting it. The hard fought 
 4 hour battle you just played? It may have been decided by the bug and not player strategy. 
  
  The game breaking bug affects every Sins online player, yet Stardock kept quiet for weeks and 
 pretended it didn't exist. When confronted with it, Stardock claimed the bug does not ruin game 
 play, instead of fixing it immediately. An infinite resource bug in an online RTS does not ruin 
 game play?! You be the judge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic huge space battles, unique factions, plenty of replay value, a lot of content, 
 addictive Gameplay, can run on a wide variety of computers.
  
  The Cons: You will lose sleep.. a lot of it, longer learning curve, mission/diplomacy sys isn't 
 that great, no random events or planet interactions.
  
  Sins of a solar empire or "sins" is the first game that successfully blends rts with 4x Gameplay. 
 In the genre of space empires and conquering the galaxy, you usually have to include a turn button 
 so the scale and pace of the game isn't overwhelming. However Ironcald and Stardock have decided 
 to throw the turn button out the window and create a game on a galactic scale while keeping the 
 real time pace easy so you can manage everything. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cons
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I going to start with the cons because this game is fantastic and I want to get this section over 
 with. However it does have a few minor shortcomings that would have made this game truly great.
 
  
  Diplomacy/missions:
  Enemy factions or allies will periodically give you missions to complete to improve your standing 
 with them; This is in the form of a %. These missions are generic and there is almost no variety 
 at all, the first mission a faction assigns you is almost always give X amount of resources as 
 a gift to them. That great if you want to please a nearby faction to become allies, but in early 
 game its robbery. If you don't complete any mission they give you within the time limit you lose 
 standing with themBasically it pisses them off and you have to constantly complete their missions, 
 or any treaties like an alliance or trade rights will get revoked if your standing drops too low. 
 Thankfully the penalty for failing a mission is half of what you would gain in standing had you 
 completed the mission. Other missions include attack either civilian or military targets (ships 
 or structures) that belong to a certain faction, which again is a double edged sword because if 
 your playing on a big map and your enemy is on the other side of the solar sys it can take a while 
 just to find the enemy planet with the correct mission structures or ships; Let alone get their 
 and destroy it in time before the mission timer runs out. Locking teams at the beginning setup 
 before the game starts eliminates missions, which can be good if you want a FFA match and don't 
 want your enemies ganging up on you. On a positive side note you can ping a planet or object and 
 your allies will respond either to defend or attack depending on the thing you pinged, you can 
 consider this missions that "you" send out.
  
  Events/planetary interactions:
  Although just a minor complaint, I believe this game would have benefited from events because it 
 would immerse you deeper into the game. I don't mind that this game is a straight up rts with some 
 4X aspects, but you never get to know or even have to option to know anything about your planets 
 society etc. In real life events would happen, disasters for instance. The planets statistic just 
 show the necessary info, like planet HP, population, tactical and logistic structure capacity, 
 and minor random bonuses you may have discovered.
  
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Good
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Space Battles and AI
  
  Alright the part you've been waiting for. The space battles are amazing! So far I haven't seen 
 such space battles in any game like this. When big battles consisting of more than 100+ ships occur, 
 your gonna want to zoom in and watch this movie unfold. Missiles fly and find their targets, lasers 
 and projectiles are traded back and forth, while both opposing fleets close ranks and mesh together 
 in one big mess, but it's not something to worry about. You don't even really have to control the 
 battle and every action, the AI takes care of almost everything, you only need to worry about the 
 big decisions. Most abilities are set to auto cast, and the AI knows when to use them and who to 
 use them on. Yes generally ships in combat sit still unless pursuing a retreating enemy, but that's 
 not a con at all. These battles can last for minutes; the only problem so far is the AI often retreats 
 when confronted by a larger more superior force, even if the friendly/enemy ship ratio isn't that 
 big. But they do stand their ground when they need to. And after the battle debris will remain 
 for a short while from all the destroyed ships. 
  
  *****The rest of the review will be very detailed, almost going over every aspect of the game. 
 I'll try not to make this dry and boring
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story
  The story 
 doesn't extend beyond the opening cinematic and what's in the manual, and both of these sources 
 tell almost the same thing. There's isn't a single player campaign, so you won't see a cinematic 
 ending after winning a scenario/skirmish. There's the (TEC) Trader Emergency Coalition, the Advent, 
 and the Vasari Empire.
  
  TEC
  It started with the "Trade Order", a group of human colonies that banned together for economic 
 stability. Early on emissary's came upon a world searching for more trading partners, what they 
 discovered was a group of humans who's practices of science advancement and social behavior was 
 unacceptable. The Trade Order basically said get the hell out you freaks! And so the entire population 
 was forced to leave into uncharted space. The Trade Order lived in relative peace, war was something 
 you read in history books, and any present day disputes were settled in courts. 
  Then the Vasari Empire showed up and swiftly obliterated any human world they found, the Trade 
 Order could do nothing to stop them. That's why the Trade Order created the TEC, to combat this 
 threat and beat them back and maintain the defensive line. They actually started to win after building 
 war ships and eventually became a strong military presence in the galaxy. Until their ancient enemy 
 returned and attacked the rear, undefended colonies, they now they call themselves the Advent.
 
  
  Advent
  Their history begins even before the creation of the Trade Order. They started out as different 
 groups of humans seeking spiritual freedom, All members of the Advent are know collectively as 
 "The Unity" because their advancements in technology include neural augmentations etc. allowing 
 any Advent to communicate or share feelings threw their minds. After they were forced into exile, 
 they began to focus even more on their practices for the next 1,000 years, while anticipating the 
 day they would return to enact revenge on the Trade Order. With their resources almost exhausted 
 they decided now was the perfect time to returned with their frightening weapons and technology 
 far beyond anything the Trade Order could have imagined, so they could remove them and reclaim 
 what was lost.
  
  Vasari
  They once ruled hundreds of other races and control much of the galactic core. Most aliens they 
 encountered were primitive and peacefully brought into the fold, while the more advanced species 
 were harshly enslaved. They prefer to rule each planet from orbital space cities in case of rebellion. 
 10,000 years ago a Vasari world fell silent, so the dark fleet was sent in anticipating a simple 
 rebellion, but never returned or reported back. More worlds fell silent including the Vasari home 
 world, it was then that the Vasari pulled back its fleets to mass together an attack this mysterious 
 foe. A single ship reappeared at an outer colony in Vasari space; the colony boarded the ship and 
 found everyone completely mad with fear. After that they decided "screw this! Were getting out 
 of here while we still can." And so the remaining Vasari fleet jumped away from Vasari space. never 
 to see it again. They would only stopped to resupply and leaving warning beacons like a trail of 
 breadcrumbs. But no matter how far they travel, those warning beacons fall silent, their enemy 
 hot on their trail.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  Scenarios
  When ever you start a game whether it's single or multiplayer, you can choose from 
 small, medium, large, and finally huge maps. These maps consist of planetoids that vary in number 
 from 15 to over a hundred depending on the size of the map, The game ships with over 25 pre made 
 maps, but you can create your own custom ones or you can select the random map (small, medium, 
 large, huge) and it will randomize everything so it never appears the same way over and over. 
 
  
  You can even adjust the speed the game plays at from slow, normal, and fast. So everyone can enjoy 
 this game, from gamers who like quick 30 minute matches to those of you who want that epic 10-20 
 hr galactic conquest!
  
  Example of an early game: You start out each game with 1 Terran planet, your home world. You have 
 2 constructor ships and 1 frigate factory capable of producing both frigates and cruisers. You 
 should start out by building up available mines around the planet, and then build a capital ship 
 factory to produce your 1st FREE cap ship; the rest will cost you a lot of resources. You should 
 then start by building scout ships and explore the galaxy, then build up attacking ships and expand 
 using a colonizing ship that captures planetoids for you, and start researching economic tech. 
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Resources, Black Market and Pirate bounty sys
  
  There are only 3 resources: Metal, Crystal, 
 and Credits. Actual planets and some asteroids will generate credits through taxes, the higher 
 the pop cap the more money you receive per sec. Crystal and metal are on asteroids orbiting planetoids 
 which again vary in # and type depending on location. Only planets and asteroids can be captured. 
 Some planetoids like space junk and gas giants are uncapturable but may contain asteroids that 
 can be captured by the colony ship (TEC, and Advent) or for the Vasari its scout ship. These generally 
 give a crap load more resources per sec.
  
  Black Market: no you don't have to travel to a location or build a building to use this, its available 
 from the start, just click on the skull tab and your there. It has 2 sections, 1 is the market, 
 and the other is the pirate bounty sys. In the market you can sell or buy crystal and metal for 
 credits, the more you buy at once the higher the price (supply and demand) . You can also offer 
 resources for free into the market and set the price for it undercutting your enemies, creating 
 havoc with your enemies by jacking up the price they pay.
  
  Pirates: this is the menu that shows you several things.
  1st you can see the list of every faction 
 including yourself at the top, next to each faction in a bounty button that you use to place bounties 
 on another players head. Bounties are placed in 250 credit increments every time you up the bounty, 
 with no refunds if you change your mind. After placing the bounty you can see how much bounty a 
 player has against them, and who ever has the highest amount against them will be the pirates target 
 for their next attack. The higher the bounty the larger the attacking pirate fleet will be. If 
 no one has any bounty on them, the pirates auto pick someone to attack at random. You will be notified 
 just before the pirate raid is launched, so you can participate in the biding war, which reminds 
 me of hot potato. lol, because it's a race to keep your bounty less than someone else, so they 
 get screwed while you can focus on other things.
  
  Pirate bases: there can be multiple bases in a multiple star map; with no more than 1 per star 
 sys. And these bases are suicide locations for the early game, so don't jump in an attack fleet. 
 until your ready. They are loaded from the start with over 15-20 defensive gun emplacements and 
 a defensive fleet. Why attack you ask? Because you can destroy the pirates; capture their bases. 
 Once all pirate bases are destroyed, the pirates are dead for the rest of that game. No more bounty 
 worries!!! And pirate bases provide a nice tax income.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Planets
  
  Actual 
 planets vary by type:
  
  Terran-lush green worlds that can sustain large pop cap = more money.
  Desert-have a higher capacity 
 for orbital logistic structures, like frigate factories; so these can be heavy ship yards.
  Volcanic-most notable because they only have metal asteroids in orbit.
  Ice- the opposite of 
 volcanic; they have an abundance of crystal asteroids.
  
  Planets need to be upgraded before they generate tax income, in left un-upgraded you actually lose 
 money per sec. Most planets supply a decent amount of tactical and logistic structures slots once 
 fully upgraded.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Logistic and Tactical 
 Structures
  
  Logistic: these structures are of non military variety like ship factories, resource mines, trade 
 stations, refineries, etc.
  
  Tactical: Military structures both offensive and defensive. Including gun emplacements, fighter 
 bomber hangars, the faction's super weapon, and other specialized military structures depending 
 on the faction.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Culture
  
  Each faction have a structure that can be built to increase their cultural influence 
 across phase lanes and into enemy territory, reducing their planets loyalty and if not countered 
 will cause that planet to revolt and become neutral. Culture can also prevent the enemy from colonizing 
 a planet you just lost in a siege until the culture reseeds. Culture also provide military bonuses 
 for your fleet when stationed in your own culture, thus helping you to defend home turf better.
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Superweapons
  
  Each faction has one superweapon that takes a lot of research before it can even be built. 
 It takes up about 18 tactical slots and can cost more than 2 capital ships. Each of the faction's 
 superweapons is different. The TEC have the Novalith cannon, which fires a powerful nuclear warhead 
 at enemy planets, causing massive damage no matter how far the range. The Advent have the Deliverance 
 Engine, which target any planet and increases your cultural influence there as well as increasing 
 your combat effectiveness in the sys for a short period of time. The Vasari have the Kostura Cannon, 
 after in hits a planet it will spread a small bit of damage to every structure and ship in orbit 
 and disable them from doing anything for a short period of time friend or foe.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Ships, 
 Anti matter, Fleet Logistics 
  
  All factions have nearly identical ship roles with some exceptions. The differences per faction 
 are cost, stats, and of course cosmetic appearance. Certain advanced frigates and all cruisers 
 are required to be researched before they can be buildable. Capital ships don't require research 
 to be unlocked. And you can also name any ship.
  
  Frigates and cruisers: frigates are your basic fighting ships like light frigates, scouts, colonizing 
 ships, flak, long range missile ships, etc. While cruisers are more specialized in their roles 
 such as carriers that can carry either a single squadron of fighters or bombers, or supporting 
 ships like repair ships, or advanced targeting ships for increased accuracy bonuses, and the last 
 cruiser is your most powerful combat ship below the cap ship class, but it's the most expensive 
 and takes up more fleet logistics.
  
  Capital ships: Cost a lot of all 3 resources, not to mention 50 fleet logistics. They start out 
 at lvl 1, and you can select its starting ability like a hero character in other games. Some abilities 
 are passive while others are used and require cool downs between uses You can buy the lvl 2, 3, 
 and after research.. lvl 4 upgrade, or if you cant afford it you can lvl up your ships through 
 combat experience. Pirates and neutral planet rebels are good for this. Lvl's 5-10 are gained only 
 through combat experience. So try not to lose your lvl 8 cap ship, or all that money and or hard 
 work will go to waste.
  
  *also cap ships require 1 crew pt each as well as the 50 Fleet Logistics, which I'll explain later 
 in the research section. 
  
  Anti matter: it's a regenerating power supply required for abilities on any ship, from frigates 
 to cap ships, like other games "mana" etc. Phase jumping will take a certain amount of antimatter 
 away, but advanced research in mid-late game reduce this effect.
  
  Fleet Logistics: think of it as your fleet pop cap. Non cap ships can take up to 2-10. You can 
 increase your total Fleet Logistics by buying the upgrades in. yep you guessed it the Fleet Logistic 
 menu in the research tab. But as you up your fleet cap you gain upkeep costs. Regardless if you 
 use all the fleet cap or leave it available.. the upkeep costs remain the same. So don't upgrade 
 till you need it, because the upkeep cost basically reduces the amount of resource come in, and 
 once you max out your Fleet Logistics upgrades for 2000 fleet cap you will have a upkeep of 25%, 
 meaning 25% of your total resources never actually come in, doing this to early can stall your 
 economy.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
  Research
  
  In the research tab you have many menus: Military, Civilian, Fleet Logistics, and 
 Artifacts.
  
  In the military and civilian menus you have 3 sub section trees of research, all together there's 
 at least over a 200 things of research over all 3 factions. 
  
  Military focuses on upgrading offensive and defensive aspects of your ships, as well as ships research 
 to build advanced ships like cruisers.
  
  Civilian trees focus on economics, construction, diplomacy upgrades, jump upgrades, etc.
  
 
  Fleet Logistics has 2 trees of upgrades, 1 for Fleet cap, and 1 for capital ship crew pts. This 
 menu also shows you the current upkeep cost, and the next lvl of upkeep cost.
  
  Artifacts: By researching the explore planet upgrade you might get lucky and find 1 of 12 different 
 artifacts. The bonuses once discovered are immediate and the effect range is not limited, meaning 
 the bonus effects are on a galactic scale.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Phase Jumping
 
  
  All planets have a gravity well and beyond that are lines that connect to other planets called 
 phase lanes, these are the highways you must travel on to get to other planets. Which creates chock 
 points, so you don't have to spread your forces thin fearing an attack on your back colonies. The 
 enemy can attack your back colonies, but they have to travel the spider web of phase lanes to get 
 there, all the while your defenses pound them at each stop they make. In order for a ship to jump 
 along a phase lane it must travel outside the gravity well first.
  
  Once researched you can travel from star to star, with each star containing a lot of planets. You 
 can jump from your star to any other star on the map, making them key choke points. Wormholes kind 
 of screw this up because they offer an alternative doorway between stars. But these highways are 
 limited, meaning 2 wormholes are connected. So you cant pick the wormhole to exit out of like you 
 can with stars, so secure both ends of the wormhole and  no worries.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sys Requirements
  
 
  Sins can run on a wide variety of machines, so you don't have to spend 300 bucks to upgrade your 
 sys in order to play. I get high settings with my average sys specs, and its only slightly lags 
 when theirs a huge battle going on.
  
  My specs:
  P4 3.0 ghz processing spd
  3 gigs ram
  Nvidia 6800 (2 full generations behind)
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall
  
  This is the best space rts I've ever played if you have ever wanted to jump into this genre of 
 rts but was turned away because previous game either did a crappy job or had a turn sys and automated 
 battles then this game is for you. I highly recommend this title, thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonetigger
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  this is first review i ever made, and its made because i dont get the reviews on it now.
  
  Remember this is just my 2cent...
  
  waited a long time for this game, i hoped it would be 
 something like homeworld only bigger or space empires not turn based, boy was i wrong.
  
  the game on its own, not compared to other games:
  
  Graphics look good, explotions, ships, stars 
 and nearly everything is beautiful, except the planets, witch are dull and boring, one really gets 
 the feeling of just how big just a solar system is.
  
  Sound is ok, i mean theres not much to it, its there, its not bad but it is nothing to write home 
 about.
  
  Gameplay... conquer the universe, the end...
  you start with one planet and the race is on to colonize everything, and what one cant colonize, 
 one destroys, thats how it is from start to finish, in the middel you have building ships, researching 
 the Very small tech tree and trying to survive attacks from hundreds upon hundreds of enemy ships.
 
  
  My 6 biggest problems with the gameplay is:
  1st problem is that the gameplay that is sooo bloody slow (this comming from one who plays turn 
 based rts games for years on end) .
  2nd, the game is simplified to the point of stupidity, yes it may have been made this way to give 
 the game better flow and less micromanagement but it just makes it worse.
  3rd, there is nothing to keep you playing the game, no single player campaign, essentially youve 
 seen everything this game has to offer once you A: "played the game for about 5 hours" or B: "has 
 conquered one star system", whatever comes first.
  4th problem with the gameplay, there is not really any strategy in this game, just pump out ships 
 and thats it.
  5th, this is a space rts but you can only move in 2d because we all know that the universe is not 
 3 dimensional but flat like the planet we live on.
  6th, again this being a space rts you still cant blow a star to wipe the entire enemy home solar 
 system as a last resort or just for fun, you cant even destroy one of your own planets to keep 
 it from falling into enemy hands.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is a "RT4X" game, blending the epic strategy and empire management of the 
 4x genre with the fast-paced and tactical elements of a real-time strategy title.
  
  now either stardock never played the great old 4x games or they tried to hard to make it appeal 
 to the masses or just simply tried too hard to make 4x work as an rts
  
  now as said this is my 2cent and many will most likely love this game, but is you love the old 
 4x games, stick to them.
  if you love homeworld, stay away, this is nothing close to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poilo7895
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  great game but no story ??????????!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ships are kool to look at but one fiter move 
 will there are attacking ?? i am used to ship duke it out but moving and on smaller maps with pre 
 made plaents ramdom atfaxct place ment get annonying just need to be tweaked like all most all 
 stardock games cant waite till the expasion [lol] ever one knows that there will be onemaybe like 
 gal civ one great game with no story untill the expasion i would all so like to see a squel to 
 this game instead 2.45678931 6556 * 10to the billtith power this thingy is geting annoying so i 
 am goin gtotype random words form now one so stop read now nonon k ads dasf sa s dfg a f sfnsdf 
 d g cx agsd g s fas dfg sdg sd g h e re 3 3f af 5s4g24234g233 36 435 657 3 67 67v6df6 6v57bg 3f4f6 
 5b7v43gf74h6 v76fs 6 376gsg6 57hf6f g 67f 3f7f 67f 6f 76f 7f3 4 678f 436rf752f15f75f4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Sins of a solar empire!
  
  WOW! Just WOW! What an awesome game!
  
  Okay lets start from the beginning. I was not expecting such a spectacular gaming experience! I 
 started up a huge map with 9 factions. I WAS GOBSMACKED! There were 5 Star systems, each with 30 
 planets. You can zoom in to see individual ships and fighters to the whole frikin universe! Its 
 HUGE! You have to see it to believe it! And the graphics are perfect for the game! :D 
  
  I cant say it was easy to learn, you need to have:
  
  A) Lots of time on your hand (trust me 
 on this ;) )
  B) Plenty of time practicing. The AI are no pushovers!
  C) Lots of coffee (see A)
  
  You have lots of options! The tech tree is simply detailed. You 
 can colonize volcano or ice worlds until you train this specific technique :D
  
  ITs sooooo immersive!
  
  Buy the game! It is well worth your money!
  
  PS: No bugs AT ALL! 
 None that i noticed anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeVlad
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Sins should have been a great strategy game. I didnt hesitate to cough up the 50$, without trying 
 a demo. Boy when will I ever learn? I wasted a whole weekend on the single player mode and i dont 
 think i'll touch it again. 
  
  The worst failure of the game seems to be the diplomacy. Friendly factions ask you to fight other 
 rival factions to maintain good relations with them. Problem is they ask you this before you really 
 have a fleet, sometimes even before you know who and where the enemies are! Like Canada asking 
 Mexico to destroy military installations in Mongolia, and geting mad cause Mex can't pull it off. 
 
  
  Problem with this is that the people you're fighting are pissed off at you, and the people youre 
 trying to keep good relations with are also pissed off at you because you can't accomplish retarded 
 missions for them. Now combine this with the fact that the AI knows at all times what your defensive 
 stance is (either cause of AI cheat advantage or because there is nothing you can do against scouts 
 anyway.) So as soon as a huge fleet lands in one corner of your domain, and you shift your forces 
 to counter it, another will land elsewhere and raze 1/2 your planets. 
  
  Other times, one of the factions just bribes the pirates to raid you. If this happens early before 
 your first capital ship gets built - game over. Funny enough, a flawless defense (where the pirates 
 don't manage to destroy anything) is not desirable either. It means that the bounty that was put 
 on you is still out there and they're gonna try again. So the only way out is to let them destroy 
 a certain amount of infrastructure that allows them to collect the bounty. 
  
  Some aspects of the game aren't explained in the tutorials, and leave you wondering "what am i 
 doing wrong here?". i. e. underdevelopment tax. 
  
  To top it all off i had a couple of crashes, but lets assume that a computer specific issue. 
 
  
  This could be an awesome game after some patching (that should have been done in beta) , but right 
 now i'd advise ppl to spend their money elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walcor
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  No empire management, No advanced diplomacy, whats up with that?
  
  Many of us were expecting something like GC2 only real time... no?
  
  Not that this game is 
 bad, but it has some great potential and those little nuances like diplomacy (like in GC) and empire 
 management could have made this game perfect. Stardock has the experience and including them wouldn't 
 have killed them, so this game is a little disappointing for me as I enjoy deeper strategy and 
 micro management...
  
  As for the game it self:
  
  Graphics: good, could use some more detail...
  
  Game play: average: you can do anything, but 
 as I mentioned no adequate diplomacy and empire management you can't really do much more than WAR 
 with everyone.... thats not the point of strategy... for me at least
  
  Units and Speech: well the Advent and Vassari aren't bad but the Terrans... hmm could use some more 
 thought..., The game could use some more ships, there are light versions of different ships and 
 heavier versions of ships with supporting and attacking abilities, but could use some more, semi 
 capital ships or sth. Oh and the speech.... couldn't they use more than one voice? Different vessels 
 have the same voice but in a different pitch... they could have used different accents and voice 
 stiles within one faction!?
  
  Galacy setup: a nice approach, tough not my stile... I would have loved to have more originality, 
 as in planets spinning around a star and many solar systems, in reality one star doesn't have planets 
 scattered around its orbit...
  The zoom is great... I always wondered when they would implement that.
  
  UI: well the ui in 
 this game is dull, old and not very futuristic looking.... and it could have had a different stile 
 between factions... but as this game has no empire management or graphs and such like in GC, you 
 really have not much use for the UI, you use the build buttons and see if you have enough resources... although 
 they could have done a better job. 
  
  In general: a nice war game, command and conquer, not much strategy involved... Galactiv Civ is 
 much more fun and entertaining, considering that when GC 1 came out I played it for 3 months and 
 it had great replay value, not to mention GC 2. 
  
  But as there is nothing better out there at the moment (space rts wise) guess this will have to 
 do... for now
  
  Hope they make the next game with all included, diplomacy, management and all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Towarf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game as it stands is so deep in strategic possibilities it hurts.
  
  Add in the constant updates that stardock is known well for.
  
  Add in the incredible flexibility 
 they have left room for as far as making player customization easy. The mods and custom galaxies 
 are already starting to get very interesting.
  
  Add in you don't need a super computer to play this, but if you have the capability, you will be 
 rewarded visually. Either way thought he game look great.
  
  It's important to realize that a game requires a lot of time. To play a single game is a commitment 
 and the learning curve is significant. Fighting random opponents is a bit frustrating for now as 
 when people quit it ruins the game for everyone else (which is said to be fixed in the upcoming 
 update by having AI take over for the missing player) . The interesting thing is, you CAN SAVE A 
 MULTI-PLAYER GAME if you know the others well enough to pick up things again later. While I think 
 the only real game frustrations lie with unreliable online teammates/opponents, the worst is only 
 temporary.
  
  All in all, this game has redefined strategy gaming and is taking up way too much of my life :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Read my full review/score breakdown at: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2293,0. html
  Each year is home to a number of big-budget releases by multi-billion dollar companies which temporarily 
 dominate the gaming market. However, in recent years, there's been a upsurge in the frequency of 
 lower-profile releases by upstart developers and publishers. Surprisingly, these games manage to 
 compete with the big ones and even offer innovative features and twists which big companies are 
 often afraid to take. Sins of a Solar Empire is a prime example of this.
  
  An entry in the 4X genre of strategy games, Sins of a Solar Empire is distinct in that plays in 
 real-time and is actually manageable regardless of its huge scale.
  
  The premise of Sins is a galactic conflict which was spawned when the human-created Trade Emergency 
 Coalition found itself at war with the Advent, a human faction that embraced psionic powers and 
 were previously hunted to extinction by human ancestors, and the Vasari, an alien race escaping 
 from an even larger, mysterious threat. There is no campaign, so instead, the single player experience 
 consists of choosing a faction to play on one of many maps. There's also an achievement system 
 that rewards you for some strange things, such as winning without researching a single military 
 technology.
  
  You start off in control of a single planet, and its your job to start exploring and colonizing 
 worlds, all while looking for resources to exploits. Travel among planets is limited via strict 
 space lanes, so some planets are natural choke points. There are several types of planets, some 
 of which require specific research in order to do so. While it sounds hard, the game actually unfolds 
 at a slow pace, letting you easily make decisions without being overwhelmed. You're helped by a 
 side interface that basically allows you to see whats happening to your entire empire at one time.
 
  
  Sins' economy is built on three types of resources: credits, metal, and crystal. You harvest the 
 latter two from special asteroids and you gain credits by trading and taxing your people.
  
  Ships you build include scouts and warships, which come in three classes. These range from 
 frigates to larger cruisers, to humongous capital ships. Capital ships are expensive, but really 
 powerful. There's a basic RPG element in that you can level them up in order to gain more abilities.
 
  
  There is a basic democracy system, which is based on pleasing other factions by fulfilling missions 
 in order to gain favor. There's also a pirate system, where you have to pay off the pirates in 
 order to put a bounty on someone's head. Its cool in that it eventually leads to an eBay-like bidding 
 war, with factions putting higher and higher prices on each other's head.
  
  One problem with Sins, depending on your perspective, is the length of individual matches. It often 
 takes five to six hours to play a game. The only way to win is to completely defeat another faction. 
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. The graphics aren't technically impressive, but the art design 
 of the ships is amazing and distinctive. You also the incredible smooth Supreme Commander camera 
 which allows you to zoom from an individual ship all the way out to a graphical representation 
 of the entire "galaxy." Ship sounds are great, and the music is pretty decent.
  
  For 4X affectionados, Sins is an amazing game and shouldn't be missed. Its incredibly deep and 
 is an impressive first-showing for a new developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gsusnme316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Though the tech trees and massive research options gets a tad confusing and even seems like a bit 
 much at times, it's still a great system. This is not the kind of RTS you'll be able to just jump 
 right into and understand with the basic slogan of "If you've played one you've played them all." 
 There is a bit of a learning curve and going through the tutorials at least ONCE is greatly advised. 
 They still don't seem to tell you everything but it's better than going in blind, because then 
 (which i think is a lot of people problem who are giving this game bad reviews ( they didn't understand 
 it coming in, didn't take the time to learn, to immediately labeled it bad because it's not every 
 other RTS they've ever played. Once you've gotten over the learning curve this game is a great 
 balance of research economy and battle, but whatever you're playing against you must be quick, 
 the pirates and AI are not very forgiving and you'll probably loose your first few battles with 
 no hope. After some practice the game because a lot easier to manage and understand and thus you'll 
 be able to put up a better fight, after just a few hours I was able to amass fleets faster, gather 
 resources faster, and overall just play better, so just don't give up or you'll miss out on what 
 a great Homeworld/RON-like RTS game this really is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raef90
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  There really isn't anything to this game. It's basically all the skirmish modes on every strategy 
 game you've ever played, but you don't ever have a campaign mode to break you into the game, teach 
 you the ropes, or just to enjoy like a book! I know myself, I love games for more than just the 
 graphics engine and the ability to blow stuff up. No, it needs to be far more than that, I require 
 a story line, which, based off of both the reviews and the game's description I thought there was. 
 Instead I am let down to find that there is only multiplayer skirmishes in the entire game and 
 that you are immediately plunged into the universe left at the mercy of pirates and opposing factions 
 all the while trying to figure out the best tech tree to develop and how and when. To scramble 
 together the resources for your fleet and to send them off to their deaths. The learning curve 
 is steep, and once you have the curve established then the game is too slow. Sorry, the game could 
 be great, but I think I'd rather just play Master's of Orion 2 from way back when to get a good 
 space strategy experience. At least there is some kind of story during the skirmishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hd4cruzn
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The single player game is certainly pure additive fun. But I was hoping for more. Here are a few 
 of my gripes: The 2D artwork of the various factions is sub-par at best. Was there a High School 
 art contest "Win free copies" promotion or something? Quality 3D animated portraits with voice 
 synch would have been preferable.
  
  I found the AI to be too predictable and average ( patchable) . And why why why cant I intimidate, 
 threaten, bride, harass, etc. the other AI players like they do to me. I would have expected some 
 "secret weapon" type ships. You know the kind..... the Shock and Awe battle behemoths that with 
 one build can drain you dry of resourses. But Ohhhhhh.... when it finally arrives! 
  
  Where's the Auto-Develop planet option? Maybe I haven't found it yet. 
  And doesn't the sound 
 effect for the TEC Gauss cannons ( when clicked on) sound EXACTLY like the bunkers from Star Craft. 
 That last one isn't really a gripe though... I'm thinkin its just a giving tribute thing.
  
  I Like it, just don't feel it deserves top shelf status. 
  
  Guess I'll be waiting for Homeworld 
 3 instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willmellis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Though a great game, Sins of a Solar Empire is not quite deserving of genre busting status. If 
 Total War, Space Empires, Homeworld, and Command and Conquer had an orgy, this would be their love-child.
 
  
  The game starts out with an intro from the human perspective, explaining that some strange race 
 from 10,000 years ago has returned, and that another race of religious deviants that was banished 
 a millennia ago has returned at the same time. So the humans are fighting a war on two fronts. 
 Apart from that, the rest of the story is up to the player. That's why there's no campaign mode.
 
  
  Kudos to the developers for creating an engine that not only looks great on high end machines, 
 but is able to run smoothly on 3 year old machines running an ATI X300 card. They also claim that 
 the engine will be able to scale upwards as graphics standards improve. Older machines may experience 
 a longer load time, but that's to be expected. Once its loaded, the game runs smooth and flawlessly.
 
  
  Sins is first and foremost a war game. Although diplomacy, resource, and tech research are included, 
 waging holocaustic war is the primary way to win the game. In fact, its the only to win the game.
 
  In single player, the diplomacy AI is feeble, as any faction you make alliances with will break 
 them within an hour, and then may immediately either attack you, or even more ridiculous, may ask 
 for the exact same treaty as they just broke.
  In a similar fashion to other strategy games, you collect resources and spend them on the units 
 you have available to you depending on your race and how deep you've researched. The units themselves, 
 while very cool, are somewhat limited in scope and have no customize-ability (apart from modding, 
 I'm sure) . And the designs of the ships and structures are heavily influenced from other space 
 games, notably Homeworld for ships,
  and the X series for structures. Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery, but some more 
 unique designs would have been nice to see. Capital ships are your huge battleships which can turn
 
  the tide of battle, and they can also gain special abilities as they level up. But they max out 
 at level 10 and each capital ship type only has four abilities available to choose from.
  
  Also, the tech tree is severely limited in scope, and not exactly unique to each race. It takes 
 about four hours to research the entire tech tree at normal pace, and most games will take much 
 longer than that, so it only really effects really short skirmish games. For someone who was hoping 
 for a tech tree similar to that of Space Empires, which is absolutely massive and really makes 
 you think, this is a disappointment. Each race technically has a unique tree, but in similar fashion 
 to the Total War games, the differences are minute and don't truly play a factor into the game. 
 Resources are unlimited unless you change the options.
  
  Combat is pretty straight-forward. You build a fleet, then decide where you're going to attack, 
 and you blow up your enemy. Although different units have different strengths, what's lacking is 
 a real rock-paper-scissors effect, with a large number of heavy combat ships being able to wipe 
 out a fleet with a varied assortment of ships.
  The AI will vary its tactics which is nice and less predictable, sometimes hitting you with small 
 guerrilla squads, and other times sending what must be its whole fleet to a single planet.
  One excellent point in Sins is that your military supply will max out, meaning you are unable to 
 just build and build. This makes a coherent strategy necessary, as in larger systems you will simply 
 be unable to defend every planet all the time. This also makes some planets change ownership with 
 several factions throughout a game. Travel is done via phase lanes, and not every planet is accessible 
 from all the others, allowing for military bottlenecks.
  Directing the combat is also straight-forward, you highlight your ships and tell them where to 
 attack. Or, you can let the AI direct them. Control freaks may get upset as sometimes you have 
 to let your ships control themselves while you focus on another battle on the other side of the
 
  system. Or, you can click on the cinematic mode and just watch the battle in all its glory from 
 whatever camera angle you prefer. Explosions are quite beautiful, particularly an enemies capital 
 ship.
  One thing that is missing is an option to view the battle from the perspective of a ship. Though 
 you can pin a ship and follow it, it takes a while to get the camera angle right.
  
  The map editor is nice and will give the game tons of replay-ability, so long as you don't tire 
 of space combat. You can add as many stars, planets, asteroids, and anomalies as you choose. What 
 you cannot do is create fleets and place them in the map. That would be a nice touch for someone 
 looking to create a story-like campaign.
  
  Sins of Solar Empire is a great game and worth the $40 to anyone who loves space games, but its 
 lacking in enough areas to be denied a 10 status.
  More ship classes, customizing ship options, a much deeper tech tree, and more complex combat strategy 
 would be a welcome edition to any expansion or sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  At first I was a bit intimidated by this RTS. It seemed to be super huge which typically means 
 a lot of clicking and micro managing with little time for actual battles. This however is not the 
 case with Sins. It's actually somewhat hard to explain without actually playing. Just do yourself 
 a favor and DO THE TUTORIALS!!!! They are quick and do explain the key components. Keep in mind 
 though, you will more than likely loose your first game (many a floors were waxed with my corpse) 
 but it really helps put everything you learned from the tutorials together and just makes everything 
 "click". The next game (and every one after so far) I was able to win and explored each feature 
 in greater detail. It was then I realized that this game is actually quit simple. 
  
  The game itself has pretty good graphics... nothing astonishing but they are nice. The game runs 
 very very smoothly and load times are so quick that at times it literally takes only 1 second to 
 fully load a game. All the factions are unique and very well balanced. Research, economy, and combat 
 have some great depth without getting complicated. Everything is pretty much straight forward. 
 Also their are maps where battles can last someone for MONTHS while other maps provide quick battles 
 that take 20-30 minutes once you know what to do efficiently. 
  
  Now for the bad stuff.
  
  The single player game gets worn out FAST. There's no campaign mode, story mode, or anything 
 other than just selecting battles on single player maps and online multiplayer. There's an achievement 
 monitor that collects certain achievements like "player killed 100 frigates" or "player has had 
 one of each capital ships at the same time" and so forth for TONS of different things, but that 
 hardly makes up for no story/campaign mode. Once you have won one star system, you basically have 
 won them all. Without a campaign mode.... it's pretty much the same battle over and over and over 
 again. So for those who don't like to play online.... this really leaves you with a feeling that 
 there's no real over all goal with Sins. 
  
  So overall it's a good game and worth checking out but for me, it's already starting to get stale. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yvressian
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I found everyone's take on the game, which was immensely favourable (to put it lightly) , to be 
 far different than my own experience with it.
  
  As someone who has played every installment of civ, master of orion, and even alpha centauri; civ's 
 space-bound descendant, I was completely certain that this new wave of space strategies would completely 
 blow my mind. But, while everyone was elated and immersed into games like this, claiming (with 
 good reason) that these games are so addictive that they can easily ruin your social life, I was 
 just confused.
  Let me put it this way: I just don't get it. I remember when galactic civilizations 2 came out. 
 The reviews were very good, and players seemed to agree this had to be a game worth playing, and 
 one that someone like me should thoroughly enjoy. I didn't. And the reasons for it were pretty 
 much the same as for why I did not like this game as well.
  
  Let me address my real outrage. I don't know why this game in particular got such a high grade. 
 Let's go about it point by point: The visuals aren't spectacular, but not bad either, so I guess 
 this segment could be barely justified. The sound is ok if you consider the FX on their own. The 
 voice-overs are bad but there should, at least, be more of them (is it just me or does making you 
 read the sizable tutorial in-game like it were a paperback manual infuriate you as well?) 
  The gameplay is slow-paced, which you can probably get used to, but the interface was terrible. 
 I spent more time learning to click properly than learning the advanced tech functions, and still 
 I couldn't allways get my units to move when and where I wanted to.
  There is no real story to the game, which is quite unforgivable. If you're going to make a sci-fi 
 game, where having the smallest amount of imagination to make a cute little story. A story is vital 
 for two reasons: first- you need to give some background information to the player regarding the 
 universe and it's races, and no, the little briefing in the intro was not enough. Second-and this 
 is linked to the former, a story is what keeps players playing. Not everyone plays a game just 
 to make "non-descript fraction A" blow up "non-descript fraction B".
  And, for me, this is what it comes down to. I just didn't feel like playing this game. I tried 
 a few times only to discover I couldn't get truly involved. The interface was unnecessarily unfriendly 
 and bland, the graphics didn't give me the eye candy that would usually distract me from the lack 
 of depth, and the gameplay was excruciating in that I really had problems with the controls/camera. 
 Coupled with the fact that there was no real selling-point (like having a familiar star wars or 
 trek franchise for example) the game just felt like a budget attempt at space strategy, but does 
 so with little originality.
  
  I guess these games just have a special appeal to a special sort of people, since I couldn't enjoy 
 a game like this since master of orion. Is it really a case of a target group of players or am 
 I missing something? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spown8661
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire (Sins) is simply put the best RTS game I have ever played. It is really 
 addicting and engaging. This game will keep you interested for years! I love how the developers 
 got rid of all the annoying aspects of a Real-Time Strategy game. For example, there is an option 
 to let the AI to place buildings for you. Also, ships can upgrade themselves, attack the right 
 things by themselves, you get free builders and a capital ship (at beginning of game) . In other 
 words the game babysits itself, leaving you to come up with the best strategy to destroy the enemy 
 AI. I don't know any other game that does that. Of course, there options that give the player full, 
 micro-managing power but I it is just not my playing style. The multilayer is a great feature as 
 well. You can spend countless hours with you friends trying to conquer the Galaxy!
  
  Summary:
  
  Pros:
  *Everything about the game (check above)
  Plus: Awesome soundtrack
 
  
  Cons:
  *Big maps might not run as well on slower computers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty darn good game. But it's just shy of being a great game. In fact it has improved 
 my opinion of the RTS genre. I've had three RTS games that have really impressed me. The first 
 of course is Age of Empires, I remember being very excited in my very first play of that game, 
 the second was Company of Heroes, and this is the third. Interestingly it is the departures from 
 the latest standard RTS fare that have re-ignited my interest in this form of PC gaming. Namely, 
 it doesn't exactly feel like one of the horde of clones that we have been inundated with. It moves 
 at a stately pace, down right civilized if you select the slow option. The pause capability is 
 very useful, and allows you to issue orders and spend cash if things are getting away from you. 
 To be fair, many RTS games have this ability to pause, the difference here is that the game is 
 not a click/scroll fest like so many of the RTS clones while not paused. This is refreshing, and 
 while not revolutionary it speaks to a large amount of thought about how they wanted the game to 
 play. Which brings me to the devs claims of 'Unprecedented Scale". I like where they are going 
 with that, but I don't think they got there, and in fact I don't think the pure RTS can get there 
 at all. I think the hybrids like the Total War series got there, and traditional 4x turn based 
 games easily get there, but not this game. Here's why, quite simply, the strategy portion of the 
 game is still real time, this puts very real limits on how complex the sundry 'strategic' bits 
 can really be and remain fun/playable. They included a lot of these strategic (traditionally 4X) 
 areas, diplomacy, trading, tech trees, buildings and planet upgrades, but at the end of the day 
 they are relatively shallow as compared to say, civilization. It is a functional limitation of 
 the pure RTS format, period. Another effect of going for a strategic heavy pure RTS was that the 
 battles themselves are rather dull affairs, where RTS' typically shine (Like Warhammer 40K) is 
 typically in the large scale battles and animations, explosions etc. While this game is better 
 in that department than, say, Galactic Civ, it is not overly impressive. Anyway, Galactic Civ never 
 claimed to have RTS battles either, an interesting situation all in all. There are some intriguing 
 strategy possibilities within the battles such as the use of carriers, but overall it is rather 
 2 dimensional. The camera can zoom all over but there is little to see, and what there is to see 
 you saw already in Star Wars Empire at War anyway.
  However, that is not to say that they have not scored a hit with their take on the strategic heavy 
 pure RTS, this game works and it works well even if it is not nearly as deep as they have claimed. 
 The graphics are pretty good, but the game is set in space and the graphics requirements to generate 
 'space' are not large. As I have noted before, impressive detail on ships is fine for what it is, 
 you look at it once, and then spend the rest of the game zoomed out managing at the strategic level 
 not caring what the ships look like, you only care that the little colored pip of the enemy fleet 
 goes away from your colony. Probably my biggest gripe is also tied to something I have noted on 
 other game reviews, lack of a good (in this case no) single player campaign and heavy emphasis 
 on the on-line multiplay aspect. I am likely in the minority here, but I like the single player 
 campaigns. I'm not interested in figuring out the mathematically perfect build sequence to generate 
 9.5 frigates every 1.2 seconds in order to rush an online player. I understand some people are, 
 but it's not my bag baby. This game has a zero in the campaign department, a big goose egg. In 
 fact, I had to laugh at the history in the very limited players manual, why bother? It has zero 
 impact if there is not a campaign, you don't need back story for a good multi player online game. 
 All you need is balance and options which sound contradictory (and sometimes are) , but that's the 
 reality of it.
  So, overall I gave it an 8, it would have easily been a 9 or better with a good campaign, and I 
 wonder if they intended to make one and just did not get to it. That sounds likely and I suppose 
 I'd rather have it this way than not at all in the big scheme of things. Great game, good try at 
 the strategic heavy pure RTS but the limitations of the format showed their ugly head on this one, 
 the idea turns out to be slightly better than the execution but it is definitely worth the money. 
 Get it, enjoy it, be warned it is limited in several respects.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11Mattinator11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Believe me, I've played lots of strategy games. Starcraft, Warhammer 40k, Command & Conquer, Supreme 
 Commander, Universe at War, you name it, I've probably played it at least once. None can measure 
 up to the pure awesomeness of Sins of a Solar Empire, except maybe Starcraft when it first came 
 out. Now, Sins may not be a genre-breaking revelation like Starcraft, but it definitely ranks right 
 next to it. Next-Gen graphics scalable for you system, large-scale space battles, real-time strategy, 
 all the ingredients are there and in just the right amounts. Zoom in to that massive battle going 
 on next to your planet, see those lasers and missiles flying past your screen and the explosions 
 flaring up, and tell me that this game deserves anything less than wholehearted appreciation. A 
 great leap for the small developer Ironclad Games, indeed. I am enthusiastically looking forward 
 to their next update to v1.1, and from there to the 3 mini-expansions they have coming out, starting 
 with Entrenchment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terumune
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  We'll start out with the usual garb. I'm a huge fan of Stardock; I've bought every GalCiv game 
 they've pumped out since the original, and those never get old. Well, occasionally, but that's 
 what breaks are for.
  
  I took interest in Sins of a Solar Empire because it looked kind of like a  
 hybrid, all of which are great games. Let me get something straight: this game was fun to play. 
 I did enjoy being able to create massive maps, huge fleets, and ... stuff. Unfortunately, once 
 you've conquered one star system, you've pretty much seen what it's like to conquer the rest. There 
 is very little variation between the races in terms of strategy or character, so you'll end up 
 fighting a mirror of your own fleet every few minutes, except that instead of lasers, they'll use 
 plasma or something.
  
  It's an interesting challenge trying to hold on to all of your planets when there are multiple 
 fleets converging on different star systems, but you'll end up doing this over and over and over 
 again -- unless you win quickly, in which case... congrats? There are no real mission goals here 
 except to win. There is no campaign, which bothered me a lot. I suppose I should have read up on 
 that beforehand. Without a campaign, this game lost a lot of its replay value.
  
  I suppose if you have an addictive personality, it's not so bad that there's no campaign. Perhaps 
 if you enjoy racing games or speed chess, if you want to sharpen your mind. But if you wanted an 
 actual experience that would set this game apart from any others, I think you'll find it lacking. 
 You know,
  
  "Hey, remember that time I destroyed a fleet to get to the planet, and then did it again, and again, 
 and again, and again, and then pirates got involved somehow, and then I won?"
  
  I don't know. It's decent. I think it should have been $20. Could have saved the extra $20 to buy 
 the next GalCiv expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combathanger
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  It isn't often a game comes out that solidifies and revolutionizes a genre at the same time, Sin 
 of a Solar Empire can make that claim. Taking much of what has become the standard in real time 
 strategy gaming and tweaking it just enough to let those typically more comfortable playing turn 
 based games feel at ease. Sins isn't a game where you can spend countless hours planning your next 
 strategic move, but it also isn't a game that develops so rapidly that only those with the most 
 perfect strategy and reflexes can enjoy themselves. Engagements take tens of minutes to complete, 
 while other portions of the game move at a slightly more typical pace. This has the amazing effect 
 of allowing strategies to be changed mid battle, and actually have an immense impact on the final 
 outcome.
  
  Sins carries with it much of the 4x strategy game history with it, and while done in a very aesthetically 
 pleasing 3d engine, it does not allow the graphics to have a negative impact on game play. You 
 explore planets, asteroids and other bodies in space on what is essentially a 2d plane, with travels 
 between worlds limited by predefined hyperspace lanes. This keeps confusion to a minimum as you 
 don't feel lost trying to extract a 3d puzzle from your 2d monitor, and the hyperspace lanes also 
 add greatly to the strategic aspect of the game, as choke points and pivotal resources create a 
 very real need to plan your moves carefully.
  
  Sins is not perfect, the resource trading system is still being tweaked and as it stands now, its 
 easier to trade for what you don't have than to go out and find/fight for it. The font chosen by 
 the game designers can also be very hard to read at a glance at higher resolutions (it very boxy 
 and just isn't easy to read) . There are also a few game balance issues that would benefit from 
 a little more adjustment. All this being said, the detractions are very minor, while the game play 
 rewards you at every turn. Just be prepared for a long game. Even the smallest of skirmishes will 
 last 2-3 hours, with a typical game being much longer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbengeii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  All you Space Grinders out there will like this game. I should have waited a couple of weeks till 
 graduation before I bought this game, I got homework to do. I was looking for a Homeworld 2 replacement 
 and here it is. The barren systems are fun to find habitable worlds to make home. Defending your 
 homeworld against Pirates and other races/opponents is easy with the right strategy of Capital 
 ships and Frigates.
  
  It also can be legally installed on other computers on your home network for LAN based games. CD 
 Key Registration is required for internet play. Single player no CD required to play so there is 
 no CD loading lag. There is some bugs, the big one is with large maps. From the forums I've read 
 since I have the same problem, the game will crash big time! Even with beefy systems! But sticking 
 with small to medium maps, I haven't found any problems. A patch for large maps is needed, my P4 
 1Gig of RAM with Nvidia 7600 GS card can't handle large maps. So one word to sum this all up PATCH!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerOlmy
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Interesting concept, poor implementation. My biggest gripe is how long it takes to do anything 
 in combat. You can grow a beard in the time it takes a fleet battle to to run its course. Some 
 other annoyances are the tendency of the AI to do one of two things 1) send a bunch of scouts into 
 your territory that have to be chased down individually since they are too fast for automated defenses 
 and 2) zerging with a capital ship and half a dozen nuke frigates. Even if you know they are coming 
 they will still blow right by you and bomb your inhabited worlds to ash while you spend half an 
 hour trying to destroy them at which point the real fleet arrives and wipes you out.
  
  I would have liked to see a little more emphasis on combat and less on planetary micromanagement. 
 I admit I was expecting something more akin to a combination of Civ and Homeworld, and was very 
 disappointed. I found the combat aspects completely uninteresting and due to the zooming radius 
 and how far apart fleet engagements tended to be you couldn't even watch them in full detail without 
 missing half of the battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlubster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Sins of a solar empire is a great RTS game that is alot of fun but is not quite for everyone. Although 
 it is a RTS it holds alot of civilization style of play and takes much more time to play than a 
 regular RTS. Last night i played an IP battle with my friend, the game started at 10pm and went 
 until 1am. It is alot of fun and developing your capital ship is addicting and creating fleets 
 of cruisers and frigates is just as fun. The game has a variety of maps to play on that are scaled 
 from small to large. You can also design your own map to play on. Although the game has multiplayer, 
 it should be kept in mind that even a small map provides plenty of battle space ( especially a 
 random small map ) and so if you plan on playing large multiplayer battles, keep a few hours reserved 
 to finish the game, otherwise you might as well be playing computers that you can resume the fight 
 with in the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamewize
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If there was one game that could assure me that this would be a year for RTS's, Sins of a Solar 
 Empire was that game.
  
  The game is so easy to control, yet it is also challenging. You never have to rush around doing 
 things in a panic, you are free to go along at the pace of a Turned-based Strategy, but you have 
 the action of a Real Time Strategy. It's like Homeworld meets Galactic Civilizations, and it's 
 a beautiful sight to behold. 
  
  The game's graphic engine may not be pretty, but if you meet the minimum requirements, your computer 
 can probably handle the 100 vs 100 ship fleet battles that permeate the late game.
  
  The multiplayer community in my experience is kind and mature, and are always willing to help out 
 a new guy.
  
  If there's one glaring complaint I have, it's that it doesn't come with a campaign, but then again, 
 they probably didn't have time when they were jamming so many new features into the game.
  
  If your a fan of space-strategy, or hell, strategy in general, this is a game you absolutely 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aqee
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I tried everything to get a game a little faster, but it just isn't possible. Still takes minutes 
 to travel from planet to planet especially if enemy has a ship/building that slows you down. Not 
 to talk about Star to Star travel that can take hours.
  
  If you can bare the slow pace the game is very nice done, easy to understand and play. Interface 
 is one of the best i seen for a rts and its very helpful when having many fleets all over the galaxy. 
 
  
  Combat itself is often quite simple and strongest usually win. But you must mix and plan your army 
 for maximum effectiveness. Bring a ship that's good on bombing planets can sometimes be the weak 
 link and just a drain on resources, But sometimes its very important to take down the planet fast.
 
  
  Most ships have special abilities that when combined and used correctly can swing the balance in 
 a battle.
  
  In the end i classify this game as a "Waste of time" just because it take so long to finish a game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  At first I took caution before buying the game, looking at the reviews, etc.. It seemed a pretty 
 interesting game and the fact it was in space helped my decision to buy it as I am a fan of this 
 sort of game but have yet to see a "good" one. 
  The gameplay is incredibly smooth and I dont experience any spikes from graphics. It is extremly 
 easy to pick up on how to play, building has been made alot easier along with managing your units. 
 Fights provide good fun and the space routes give an interesting challenge to strategy fans. The 
 pirates are just too much fun, either get hit with them to level your capital ship or but up a 
 bounty on your ally without him knowing. In its total it is a great strategy game, innovative and 
 one of the best strategy games on the shelves at the moment. It provides you with an extremly fun 
 new experience.
  
  To finish off I would like to state that every game has flaws and that this new "hybrid" did an 
 awsome job keeping it to a low, with patches we will see improvements on the pirates, etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkcRAISTLIN
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Sins of a solar empire is undoubtedly the first successful game of its type, and I applaud stardock 
 for going boldly where others have tried and failed. Unfortunately, the merging of genres is always 
 going to come at a cost to either or both formats, and SoaSE is no exception.
  
  Branded as the first "4RTX" game, blending RTS elements and the grander, turn-based expansion, 
 and SoaSE is definitely a fun game to play. Who doesn't like managing massive armadas in real time, 
 conquering the galaxy? I know I certainly do. It brings back memories of master of orion 2, a turn-based 
 game I played to death for ages. You use your fleet to kick ass around the solar system and colonise 
 planets to generate more income so you can afford to kick even more arse.
  
  The interface in sins really really shines, and it reminiscent of pkc's favourite RTS of all time 
 everything is within easy reach and the zoom makes controlling huge fleets a breeze. Zoom in, zoom 
 out, what could be easier? Managing what's going on on each planet is a little more complicated 
 however, and I found finding say, the fleet-building structure every time I wanted to change the 
 rally point to be needlessly time consuming. That said, im playing on a 32" tv that's approximately 
 5 feet away, so that might be I struggled to identify the structure or icon on the planet tree 
 to the right. The same goes for identifying each unit when zoomed out, for some reason sins went 
 for an icon representing the race, rather than each individual unit which I think was a bad move. 
 You KNOW which troops are yours by the colour, the symbol isnt really adding anything to the gameplay, 
 which it could imo. Otherwise, it was all trouble-free sailing for me. It was nice to have an "auto-place" 
 structure option to save you the time of microing everything, though I did find some of the choices 
 it made were a little dubious.
  
  Sins has a long and slightly complicated research tree, but this mainly revolved around upgraded 
 versions of the previous. Still, it certainly makes you choose your upgrades wisely, as it takes 
 a long time to afford everything if you also want to field a fleet. There are a number of different 
 trees, and a number of different branches within each tree, so it will take you a while to get 
 your head around whats what, and because the upgrades work in a different manner than the hardcore 
 statistics, it can be a little confusing to appreciate exactly how useful some of the technologies 
 are. For instance, frigates have an average damage of 10, but when you upgrade the damage, it says 
 "5% improvement" - it would have been better to say something like "+2 to damage" instead, but 
 that could just be me. Otherwise, its all pretty obvious for anyone that's played any 4X game.
 
  
  My favourite innovation of the game was the economy, because it included a quasi share market that 
 ive never seen in a game before (outside the space trading shooters) . Its much more simplistic 
 that I would like, but there's still a small thrill of trying to ruin competing empire's economies 
 by lowering or increasing the share price for the goods needed to build, research and expand. I've 
 always enjoyed warring by proxy in 4X games so this feature was a welcome addition.
  
  Sins is no doubt a good game, but it isnt too long before any seasoned gamer will come to realise 
 its limitations. Like ive already said, you cant blend strategy genres and do both equal justice. 
 The planet upgrades are a pretty standard fair and nothing particularly "cool" about them, at no 
 stage do I feel as though any of my planets possess any "character" or individuality from any other. 
 With only 8 upgrade types per planet, it's all a bit "meh" for me. That said, if too much were 
 added it would probably bog down the RTS element, so you can certainly appreciate why stardock 
 chose to go in this direction. Its simplicity though might feel a bit generic for those that really 
 love the 4X experience.
  
  Piracy is the other problem, at least when facing the AI. There really isnt a penalty for bidding 
 everything you have so the pirates attack another empire. Because the pirates are so strong in 
 number, you really don't lose anything by spending all you've got in bounties on other empires. 
 Money is fairly easy to come by after 30 minutes so its just too easy to war by proxy, and the 
 gain is just too high imo. That said, the option of sending pirates against the enemy is very cool, 
 its just a little overpowered at the moment.
  
  For me though, it's the RTS element that really lets the game down. Its just, well, a little boring. 
 Maybe ive been spoiled with the frantic stress and constant warfare of forged alliance, but the 
 actual fighting in sins is incredibly simplistic. There doesn't seem to be any better tactic than 
 getting all of your units to gang up on a single enemy unit, and then the next and so on. Since 
 the speeds of most units are relatively comparable, there's little to be gained from moving fleets 
 around, as before too long the enemy will have been able to catch you anyway. The insta-hit mechanic 
 is also back with a vengeance, which can make for laughable pyro technics with weapons fire coming 
 out of units at silly angles. Sure, some units, especially the capital ships have special abilities, 
 but it really just feels like warcraft in space, except worse because the UI (for some ridiculously 
 INSANE reason) doesn't bring up your selected troops when you select more than one vessel. This 
 forces you to click each and every capital ship in order to use their special abilities, if you 
 don't have them on "insta-cast". Shameful ommision here imo. Makes fighting a battle even less 
 fun.
  
  The pyrotechnics of space battle is decent, but considering there's no real map background, I thought 
 more effort and CPU power could've been put into the sounds and effects. Its kinda like watching 
 a babylon 5 episode, just less cool. Every single unit feels too small, and you really have to 
 zoom in to get a feel for whats going on, because the lasers are non-existant when zoomed out. 
 The quasi 3d camera does work very very well, but again, because this game really only works in 
 2D, it feels a lot less cool than homeworld.
  
  I've definitely been spoiled with forged alliance's animations such as turret-tracking, and units 
 with movable parts, so the bland unit designs and FX was a disappointment. There are NO firing 
 FX whatsoever, beyond a flash and laser etc being shot out from the unit. Given the lack of map 
 background beyond the planet, it's a shame more time wasn't taken with some funky ship animations. 
 I really feel this ruins the immersion of the game. That said, it certainly has much lower spec 
 requirement.
  
  Sound is pretty ordinary, and the voice overs for all races is ABYSMAL. If you like cheesy **** 
 then you might like it, but hearing some adolescent male's constant commentary gets old after 5 
 seconds. You can turn them off, but then you don't receive the various warnings that are necessary 
 to have if you wanna keep track of everything. Some of the unit sound effects are cool, but generally 
 they fall into the "meh" category. Considering supreme commander came out a year ago, its hard 
 not to be disappointed with a new game that pales into comparison.
  
  Still though, it's a fun game to play! The "build your own map" option, common in 4X but unseen 
 in RTS titles works like a charm, and definitely adds to the longevity of the title. Its pure child's 
 play to make a small or massive map in less than a few minutes, then jump in and play. Of course, 
 after a while it does seem to become "been there done that" but I enjoy a game I can play when 
 im really stoned or drunk and just take my time, whereas online forged alliance is the most hectic 
 game ive ever played.
  
  I wanted to love sins, but I merely like it. Bravo to stardock for creating the first successful 
 game of its type (I thought empire at war was abysmal) and its genuinely fun to play. Unfortunately 
 I cant see it appealing to any of the hardcore 4X or RTS gamers for very long, because ultimately 
 the strategy and tactical nature of the game feels a bit shallow when compared to either genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPilc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Man, I played this game for some time now - I like this game very much - To play this game player 
 should have brain, patience and some understanding about basic warfare. I recomend it !!! Every 
 player playing this game will get stresfull situations, but that is precisely what makes this game 
 to grow on you - every one likes to deal with a pressure game is providing player. It is a fresh 
 look to space gaming world, but there is one thing, that prevents me in putting 10 grader for this 
 game - Politics. Politics is limited to: "Give me resources; Kill that enemy" ; "Bla bla bla" 
 - you get it. And I would like to use this situation to say thanks to developers for real cool 
 game, that weights only ~ 700 MB. And it is posible to play this game in windowed mode as well, 
 which makes it more cooler to portable PC users. Thats about it... thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luykus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to say this to all the haters out there, this was never professed to be the successor 
 to Homeworld. Don't think that just because some of the former Relic staff is working there and 
 it has spaceships in it. This game is truly a ground breaking game and one of the first (In my 
 opinion) to deserve the Real Time Strategy.
  
  You might be asking yourself, "What does that mean, does he hate games like C&C and Starcraft!?" 
 I would have to say no to that, because I love games like C&C and am called by some of friends 
 as the RTS addict. 
  
  But, games like C&C are not strategy games, they are tactical games. The difference between tactics 
 and strategy are simple. You use tactics to win the battle, but you use strategy to win the war.
 
  
  But were am I going with this, you might ask? Here it is, In Sins of a Solar Empire, you use real, 
 onist to God, strategy to win you battles... or you should. You still get people that just build 
 one type of ship and rush you with it. But, when you get into a game with people that really play 
 the game and use the strategy, it can be a real brain racker and some of the best times I've ever 
 had with an RTS
  
  So now, you might wonder why I just gave it an 8.0 if I love it so much? And that because of two 
 things...
  
  The first is that it has no story driven game mode, don't get me wrong, it's a blast to play with 
 the AI in this game. It's just that they crafted such a good back story for the three races and 
 its a same they didn't capitalize on it.
  
  Number two has to with a graphics, and no, it think their fine. They do look a little "last gen" 
 but its for a good reason. This game will run on many, many different computers, bumping up the 
 group of people that can buy it and play it. But the complaint part of this is that the ships themselves 
 don't feel that alive, their gun turrets don't move, making them feel a little bit dead and hurting 
 the overall feel of the game.
  
  So, in short, this a great game that I would suggest to anyone that like other "RTS" games or just 
 wants a new and innovative game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  will when i first played this game i thought it was the slowest game ever made on this earth.
 
  It got to the part where i was about to stop, because it had taken me 1 hour and still not a single 
 battle!
  All the setting where on fast, but it was still very slow.....
  
  Anyway, i mean its fun. You can control MMMMMAAASSSSIIIVVVEEEEE armies and just destroy anyone!!
 
  i like the research stuff, it actaully adds some strategy to this game.
  But the battles are EXTREMELY BORING!!
  I mean all you see like just like lines connecting one 
 ship to another while the ships just sit there!!
  doesnt that sound fun? They just sit there!! they dont try to move or anything!!!!
  
  i mean 
 its a very fun game and before u know it 5 hours has passed. And thats another problem!
  It takes tooo much time.
  
  I have been playing this game for 12 hours, and i only have 16 
 of the 100 something planets!!!
  and everything is fast!!
  
  the AI is agressive, but the good thing is that you can make it so that they aren't
  
  anyway, 
 when i have games like Supreme Commander, C&C, Warhammer dawn of war, and many other strategy games 
 WHY PLAY THIS??
  this is extremely slow and just not fun when you have faster paced games.
  
  i gues its good for people who like slow games
  
  FINAL THOUGHT:
  if you like sititng 
 there looking at nothing, then this is the game for you. more then 50% of the time your just sitting 
 there doing nothing and waiting for more equipment and more things to be built! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fox-HTV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game is just about a dead-centre mixture of Galactic Civilizations 2 and Homeworld 2. There 
 are a few things that give it a bit of a stretch beyond this mixture though, like the Pirate Raids, 
 and pretty interesting stargate-hyperspace-like inter-planetery jumps. It is quite fun to play 
 once you get the hang of it, especially getting your Capital Ships experienced.
  
  A nice touch is the resource shortages that occur, forcing careful thought, and also generally 
 holding you back when you got a foot-hold, from completely overwhelming the opponent. This keeps 
 you from feeling too powerful (& bored) .
  
  The lack of campaign and storyline is a HUGE drawback though. Its sad to see how so many fail to 
 see the great success that Blizzard got from making their games have brilliant storylines. It's 
 odd the the opening video gives you the impression that there is a campaign, yet that is just about 
 all the story you'll get.
  
  I'd recommend the game, but don't get hopes too high, there are comic-style illustrations and other 
 parts that give the game design a feel of being rushed by the designers.
  
  Overall, its a successful start in a new direction, and is quite fun and very lo... ng to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rman88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  the game in simple terms. godly. form the fast pace battles to the star wars like shoot outs. to 
 just watching your empire grow. just amazing. thou a few things i found annoying. more or less 
 turrets didn't move. i know they did it to keep performances down. and i don't blame them. max 
 out a fleet and you could crash a good computer. but really thats a minor in conveyance. and yes 
 it is quite addicting. only real thing i would have a compliant for. would be. no story mode. sure 
 it has your average we got to big then crumbled back story. but dang. i want a story mode. i wan 
 to know what happens. i want to know why the vissary is running. i want to know more about the 
 world. but that wold more or less be showing in expansion packs. least that is what i hope.
  
  hears how i rate it
  
  playability: very high
  
  theme world or basic story. high
 
  
  main plot: little to none.
  
  graphics: medium
  
  system stability: good with most computers.
  
  
  overall score high.
  
  my score 9.5
 
  
  great game if you like star wars or home world or any other space combat rts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game my brother and I picked up on the weekend. I installed it, threw up the graphics to max, 
 did the first tutorial and didn't think much of it.
  
  Sunday night my brother and I wanted to avoid School work and thought, what the hell best way to 
 learn is just to try playing multiplayer and we did. At first we were like, what the heck do we 
 do, how do we research? how do we build? After about 20 minutes of that, it got awesome simply 
 sending a scout to the neighboring system and then sending a small fleet to kick the crap out of 
 them nasty pirates. That was the beginning.... 5 hours and 41 minutes later it was 3 am and we 
 needed to go to bed.
  
  We were playing us 2 on a team versus a computer and there were 3 galaxies loaded with lots of 
 systems. The next morning we continued on and killed that bastard computer. 
  
  This game is so much fun. There is tons to do, building up planets, upgrading them, tons of ships, 
 countless research options and even unique artifacts you can find to give your empire a boost. 
 
  
  This game is fantastic and is what a game should be. It has every menu option a game should have 
 (even turning off the opening cutscene which so few games allow you to do) . This game is not overly 
 flashy, it is done by a team of programmers here to make a game.. and not a graphical show no one 
 cares about (cue list of every Xbox 360 game ever) .
  
  
  This game is perfection. After the half-hour learning curve, you will be addicted. You can have 
 fun playing by yourself, with some computer allies in MASSIVE universes or a small system or you 
 can play with tons of human friends online or lan or mix it up and ally with your friends against 
 the evil computers. There are no stupid restrictions (like if you set your teams you can change 
 in game) .
  
  Masterpiece. Go buy this, Go play this, Support the Cause!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Sins Of A Solar Empire (soase) I was quite excited. In my opinion the 
 space combat RTS genre is fairly underrated and has allot of potential. Soase manages to tap most 
 of this potential in a way we haven't seen in a while. 
  
  Factions:
  The game has three factions which aren't hugely distinct from each other besides their looks. The 
 real difference between factions is only noticeable in their tech trees and capital ship abilities. 
 Especially the tech trees are huge and will at first be a bit overwhelming. The amount of ships 
 available for you to build is just enough. At some points especially on larger maps I had the idea 
 that a couple more specialized ships would have been nice. However on the flipside it does mean 
 that you can easily learn the strengths and weaknesses of each ship meaning you can deploy them 
 as effective as possible. 
  
  Size and Scope:
  The maps in the game come in three sizes: small, medium and large. Even the smallest 1v1 aimed 
 map already has 7 planets on it, larger maps encompass several star systems with on some maps more 
 then 30 planets. These huge maps makes games last for ages. The smallest premade map took me 2,5 
 hours to complete which makes me guess playing the largest map can take up to several days. 
  The great thing about soase is that no matter how long the game takes it manages to keep it interesting. 
 There's never a dull moment and you'll always have something to do whether that's upgrading your 
 planets, researching technology or expanding your fleet.
  
  Looks and sounds:
  Soase looks quite nice, nothing jaw dropping but simply nice. The menu and user interface both 
 look very sleek adding up to the total picture. The sound is really nothing out of the extraordinary 
 either. The music sounds just fine and has enough variety to keep it enjoyable and not give you 
 the feeling that the same music is playing over and over again during longer sessions. The unit 
 voices are a bit stereo typical in some cases but are well done nonetheless.
  
  Difficulty:
  Sadly the game only offers 4 small tutorials which don't even explain each aspect 
 of the game. This means there are several functions which you'll need to figure out yourself. All 
 this adds up to quite a steep learning curve. I consider myself quite the RTS veteran but I had 
 allot trouble beating an easy enemy in my first game. 
  
  No campaign wtf ? 
  Besides the rather steep learning curve, overall difficulty the game has one last downside which 
 comes in the form of a missing campaign. It really seems Ironclad missed the boat here because 
 all three factions have interesting background stories which seem an excellent starting ground 
 for a story based campaign.
  The game does however have a large selection of premade maps available and an easy to use map creator 
 which all adds up to a huge replay value. 
  
  Concluding: 
  All in all soase is an amazing game with an impressive scope that will keep you tangled behind 
 your PC for hours on end. It might not tap the full potential of space rts but it's the best game 
 in this genre since Homeworld. 
  
  9.0
  //
  Lone_Warrior_666
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  There are very few games that immediately hook me into playing for hours on end, but Sins is just 
 such a game. The gameplay is intriguing on many levels - the AI is smart and tough to beat, the 
 depth and challenge of managing multiple planets and multiple battles on multiple fronts is demanding 
 without being overwhelming, and the ease of navigating from one area to another after being alerted 
 of an impending attack helps keep you firmly in control of what's going on in your solar empire. 
 I halfway expected a game with the scale and scope of Sins to be overwhelming, to the point of 
 being impossible to manage, but I have yet to feel that the game and its outcome was ever out of 
 my control. (Well, except when the AI was destroying me, but hey, I think you're supposed to feel 
 overwhelmed when your empire is being ravaged.)
  
  While this game would have benefitted greatly from a campaign/story mode, that lack does not take 
 away from the sheer allure of the free-for-all single-game mode. Sometimes it's rather nice to 
 just play a wide-open map with as many enemies as you want with no particular story-line involved. 
 I've actually used it as an excuse to conjure up my own imaginings about what's going on in the 
 galaxy and why I'm fighting against these aliens or whatever race you're facing on a given day.
 
  
  I have not yet tried online or multiplayer play, and I can see where the extensively lengthy battles 
 might make it difficult or even impossible to fully complete a game (especially a larger map with 
 many people involved) , so I can't speak to this aspect of the game.
  
  If you're a fan of RTS games at all, it's definitely worth the $40 to pick this one up at your 
 local vendor. Even if it doesn't have an ongoing story to suck you in, you'll still get sucked 
 in by the challenging fun that is Sins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulcher
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  It's a good game, but not great. For somebody who hasn't sunk 1,000 hours into something like Galactic 
 Civilization, this game as a VERY steep learning curve. The documentation is very skimpy and it 
 has 4 tiny little tutorials.
  
  At least with Homeworld, the single player made you learn the nuances as you moved along the story 
 line.
  
  If you don't have a job or are younger and don't care about your grades, than this game is good. 
 The tiniest maps which are like 7 planets and asteroids, takes an easy 2 hours to complete. There 
 comes a point where you know you can't win, but it just goes back and forth over and over while 
 they wittle you down.
  
  I'm sure the better players will cream the AI, but I can only do so on easy. This is mainly because 
 I still haven't grasped all the interrelationships between money, crystal, metal, logistics, planet 
 caps, crews. etc etc. There are probably 15 to 30 variables to juggle and as your trying to figure 
 out what all these icons mean, the enemy is building away.
  
  As was said, the computer seems to be everywhere early and takes over early. They use all made 
 up names for ships and tech trees so you have to cross reference the manual to figure out what 
 the ships do. At least with Homeworld a "missile corvette" was a "missile corvette"
  
  I haven't even attempted the non-human races which have more made up names for different abilities.
 
  
  I haven't tried it, but can't see how multiplayer can work unless you play with a group of buddies 
 3 or 4 hours a night. Otherwise, I would imagine people and timezones take over and people will 
 constantly have to drop out. It says you can pickup a saved multiplayer game, but again that would 
 require a real organized group of people who know each other.
  
  To fix this I wish it had a campaign mode, and a "simple mode" where they took about half the variables 
 out of the picture.
  
  Simply put, if you have 100 hours just to learn the basics and about 6 hours a night to play, this 
 can be fun, if not, Please please make a Homeworld 3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinraeth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  First, this game isn't exactly what you may have heard. Don't expect a real time version of Gal 
 Civ 2, or a sort of Europa Unviersalis in space, this is an RTS game first. Game play consists 
 of collecting resources, building ships, and hurling big piles of them at big piles of enemy ships. 
 It has some characteristics of TBS space games, like warp lanes, planet hopping, and a broadly 
 slower pace. It also has the deeper research and infrastructure elements of TBS titles. However, 
 the bulk of your time will definitely be spent on traditional RTS activities, so if you don't care 
 for that genre, don't invest.
  
  I have played this unique title for several days now, and come to some conclusions. It's a neat 
 game, and I've managed (through playing with options and whatnot) to resolve most of my early issues 
 with it. I finally have a good feel for the rather unique interface, and it works reasonably well. 
 The empire tree is a novel tool to control building and to try to track structures and ships in 
 your empire. It lacks a sense of relative position, however, and as such I still find myself missing 
 a mini-map. The main problems, however, all stem from one simple component of the design: the real 
 time battles take place in the same timeline as the real time strategy. That is, while your ships 
 are fighting, time is ticking by all across your empire. Got 3 battles going on? You can only watch 
 and manage one of them. The AI's pretty competent at handling fights for you, but I dislike being 
 reliant on that. For that matter, the graphics are gorgeous and the battles are genuinely exciting, 
 it kind of sucks that at best I can only watch one at a time and frequently I'm pulled away from 
 that to handle managerial issues. The empire tree mitigates this at times, but fails to do so at 
 others. It's not the universal control panel that I believe the designers intended it to be.
  
  It's probably also worth mentioning that there are only three factions, and they play quite 
 similarly. The art and voice work for each is well done and quite distinct, but the vaunted unique 
 tech trees are actually about 50% equivalent to one another, at a guess. The unique stuff lies 
 at the highest reaches of the tree. The result is that, on smaller maps, there's little different 
 between factions beyond the aesthetic.
  
  It's also worth noting that the game is very modable. With a sufficiently engaged, motivated fan 
 community (which this game appears to have, at this early date) and with the level of support and 
 additions I expect from a Stardock product, there's reason to think it'll only get better with 
 time.
  
  So for what it is, I'd say the game is pretty well done. It seems reasonably polished, very stable, 
 the AI's not a dullard, the graphics and sounds are great, and the large scale strategy has respectable 
 depth. It scales well to low and high end systems. The capital ship level up system is neat and 
 the battles are quite cool. The problem, at heart, is that the large scale strategy and the tactical 
 battles conflict with, rather than complement, one another. It's two good games that don't quite 
 fit together, and thus make one flawed game when all's said and done.
  
  But don't take my word for it. The best way to find out about Sins is to play the demo, which will 
 be released in a month or so according to the devs. You are wise to wait and do this, as there's 
 never been a game quite like this one and whether or not it works for you is going to depend a 
 great deal on your personal tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The thought of a Real time statergy game of massive scale has always been a exiting one. Especially 
 when the background to the game is space. Over time there have been games such as Conquest frontier 
 wars, Sword of the stars that have given us a glimpse of the potential of space RTS and TBS games. 
 
  
  SOASE can be classified as a combination of both Sword of the stars and Conquest Frontier wars. 
 The game graphics look sharp and seems to be able to cater even low end systems. Game play is smooth 
 and battles look majestic. The units them selves have a fair amount of variety but i got the feeling 
 that the game was missing level 3 ships. After frigates and cruisers the game only allows you to 
 build capital ships which take up a lot of resources.
  
  The game however lacks a storyline that would have been great but make no mistake, this game is 
 so emmersive you will spend endless hours plotting, calculating and controlling your empire as 
 you try to become the supreme ruler of the galaxy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was delighted by it. However, i soon began to wonder why I bought it. 
 Let's get started with this shall we? There is no story or campaign, the only thing that tells 
 you what is going on is the intro. I barely know the races. The ships are basically all the same. 
 I mean c'mon Stardock I know you can do better than that. I mean Galactic Civilizations 2 had a 
 huge amount of ships and you can design your own but, this game, theres 10 ships [6 firgates&4 cruisers] which 
 are the same for all teams but, they have a different design. There are also 6 capitol ships per 
 each race which are very similar to each other too. Have any of you played the Rollercoaster tycoon 
 2 expansions? They just added new rides that had the exact same layout and setting but, had different 
 skins. Thats what SINS is like. The reasearch in this game is horriable. The tech-tree is puny 
 and is very similar to the other tech trees races. I mean I know Stardock could do better than 
 that. And the tech-tree reasearch ideas don't do much but, improve ships and unlock you knew ones. 
 I mean take Civilizations 4. The tech tree was huge and most of it wasn't just improving things 
 you unlocks new items that can improve your empire and let you do new things like building airports, 
 gathering elephants, etc. I played Galactic Civilizations 2 and that game had a huge monsterous 
 tech tree which was insanely awesome. The game length is very long. And the tech tree is not so 
 long. I'd say by 2/3rds of the game you got the tech-tree finished. Don't even get me started on 
 online mode. Number 1 I cannot log on for some reason and number two online play is very long. 
 Who'd spend 4 hours straight playing one game of this?? And I know Stardock could of done way better. 
 Galactic Civilization 2 was crazy awesome. And this? Well, its only a little better than avarage. 
 There are three classes of people. These human trader dudes. These robot like dudes. And this other 
 just wierd group of aliens. But, theres like no info on them except for the intro. That's just 
 what is plain dumb. This game is getting so much praise and lets see what it has. No storyline. 
 Nearly alike ships. Small tech-tree. Overrally long boring gameplay. What could've been an awesome 
 game just was totally ruined because of lack of thing to do. I mean, the gameplay for each race 
 is exactly the same as the other races. I mean WTF Stardock. Galactic Civilizations 2 had 8 times 
 more to offer and was older. I must admit the capitol ships are pretty good but, this is game is 
 not. Good graphics though.
  
  Overall, buy Galactic Civilization 2. Its better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaKn-Powerslave
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Quite a robust innovation to make a strategy game with all the right pace of upcoming conflict, 
 without it being turn based. Easy to get a grip on what's going on, hard to foresee where danger 
 lurks, or what place in your empire needs more defence or attention, in other words, unpredictable 
 gameplay, what exactly strategists want. This is why this game is one of the best strategy games 
 i have ever played. Tech tree comes in all the right amount, not too much decisive for victory, 
 if you do take the heat on your opponent early on, there will be enough time for tech to strengthen 
 your empire. Whereas gameplay is totally thrilling, the eye candy is how diversive is the feeling 
 by choosing any camera angle, best graphics i have ever saw in similar games, and when it comes 
 to smaller or large size fleet battles, or planetary assaults, looks quite to what we can expect 
 to see in large screen movies. There are so few games that deserve a real applause, this one is 
 plainly the ultimate space srategy blockbuster. Even if it lacks single player campaigns, its scenarios 
 fullfill that need, moreover cause they can turn out differently when played again. This is just 
 way more intriquing. Great work there people, awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't too sure about this game. I love space RTS games. I have played Space Empires 4 and 5, 
 Nexus, Homeworld, and have seen Galactic Empires 2. All of these games are good but they leave 
 something to be desired. Sins has took the best out of all of these games and placed them into 
 one awesome game. I wish there was a campaign but you do have a huge choice of maps to play. Plus 
 you even get to create your own maps and play them online with other people. I haven't yet played 
 multiplayer because I am still trying to get used to the game play. Game play isn't all that hard 
 just I like to explore every little thing about every building and ship. This is a must have for 
 space RTS lovers and a good buy for standard RTS lovers. I got the game6 hours ago and I am just 
 now putting it down for the night. Great game overall... just missing a campaign so that is why 
 I gave it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  SoaSE is a great game. Think of it as Homeworld meets Masters of Orion. Aside from a few minor 
 bugs the game is highly enjoyable and a great effort from an indie developer. The only thing I 
 think is sorely missing is a story-driven campaign. Without a real story to guide the player along 
 SoaSE becomes a bit cumbersome in learning the ins and outs of playing the game in preparation 
 to go online and play multiplayer scenarios. While I like the idea of it's sandbox approach to 
 gameplay I think a short story mode would have been nice to carry the player beyond the brief and 
 vague tutorials. I believe Stardock/Ironclad mention something about a story campaign in a planned 
 expansion.
  
  However, Sins will be sufficient for my science fiction yearnings until Sid Meiers introduces his 
 Civilization game to Sins and wraps it into a tiny little package called Alpha Centauri II. Now 
 that would be the be all and end all of epic Sci-Fi RTS games! Are you listening, Sid??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horendous86
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire (SoaSE) has all the basic elements of a RTS.
  
  
  Resources: You got your crystals, your credits, and your metal. Crystal and Metal is extracted 
 from small floating rocks that orbit planets. Pretty straight forward. 
  
  Credits however can be earned in several ways. The basic way tho is to get them via taxes from 
 the planets you own. Ofcourse after just captureing a planet it's citizens will be far and few 
 and will not generate as much revenue. So you have to invest in your planets, make them more habitable 
 for your people. 
  
  Buildings: buildings in SoaSE can be split up into two groups, you got your logistics, wich cover 
 ship building, research, refineries and extractors, the passive ones. 
  
  Tactical buildings are the defensive buildings, military stuff. Turrets, hangars for fighters, 
 phasejump inhibitors and the 'superweapon' of each faction. The trick in SoaSE tho, each planet 
 can only sustain a certain amount of buildings, so to get that research going, or those superweapons 
 installed you need to go out and conquer more planets. Turtlers will be saddened that they can't 
 stick it out on one planet and harras the enemy before retreating back to their planetoid fortress 
 of doom. 
  
  
  Units: the units in SoaSE are all spacecraft and can be split into four major groups. You got your 
 fighters, wich are useually stored/made in either a hangar (building) or a carrier (spacecraft) . 
 Fighters come in two sizes, fighter size and bomber size. Fighters are better against small crafts 
 and bombers are best used on larger ships. 
  
  Then you got your frigates, wich are slightly bigger but still relatively small. Frigates come 
 in most shapes and sizes and can perform most roles, from planet bombing to scouting. Frigates, 
 like the rest of the units can also phasejump from planet to planet, a feat fighters can't do on 
 their own. 
  
  Then you got your cruisers, heavier, larger and costing more resources and population then your 
 average frigate. Cruisers can perform niche jobs, like being a carrier or a repairer. But they 
 can also boast a great deal of firepower.
  
  And lastly you got your capital ships. These are the big boys of SoaSE, giant ships that have special 
 abilities, can carry fighters with them, colonize planets and still pack a ton of firepower. The 
 big difference between a capitalship and a cruiser is a capitalship can do anything a cruiser can 
 do but better. It also has it's own experience, it can level up from combat or training so it has 
 more or better abilites, or can carry around more fighters.
  
  
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire boasts more micro management then this writer has ever witnessed in a game. 
 Researching, abilities from ships, groups, planets, buildings, tradeing, stances with allies and 
 enemies, pirate mercaneries. All this can make the game quite overwhelming to a novice RTS player. 
 
  
  One of the nicer things about SoaSE is that your rivals and allies will often randomly ask something 
 of you. Now in previous games where this feature was present it was either 'Give Resources A' or 
 'Give Resources B' here they actually want you to go out and destroy other faction ships, or structures. 
 Request a trade or vision from your ships. 
  
  The whole game reminds me somewhat of Civilisation from Sid Meier, only in real time - with aliens 
 and starting with lasers instead of rockthrowers. 
  
  The graphics are pleasant to say the least. You can zoom all the way out to see all the planets/solar 
 systems, or you can zoom all the way in so you can see the bridge on a capitalship. 
  Combat is engageing and fun to watch if you can afford not to micro all your capital ships and 
 cruisers. Lasers fly everywhere. 
  The overal gameplay is alright I suppose. 
  
  In fact, the only reasons I wouldn't give this game a 10 is because it has no story whatsoever. 
 I haven't found a true campagne with missions and a good story anywhere. The learning curve is 
 slightly steep, and the incredible size of the thing makes it awkward to find a specific ship you 
 were looking for. 
  
  Also the constant requests from 9 other AIs can be annoying, I have spent a good deal of time erradicateing 
 some advesaries just because of their annoying voice each time I have 'failed' their request. The 
 lack of a 'Sodd off I ain't doing your crap-jobs' button aggrevated me. Just as the 'Invaders are 
 Approaching!' can be a needless scare at times, tho I hear it quite a bit theres no distinction 
 in audio warning between a lonely scout ship and an armade of lasery doomships. And when you own 
 3/5 solar systems it gets kinda tedious to check everything
  
  On a side note, Advent has this nasty voice bit whenever the pirate raider timer goes to 0, she 
 goes 'Pirate Raiders have departed!' in this scared 'Oh noes!!' kinda voice. Scared the daylights 
 out of me the first time. 
  
  Overal one of the best games I played this year, and it could keep that title with a few patches 
 here and there. 
  
  - Horendous86 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper112
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  its a realy great game i spended a lot of hours in playing it withouth noticeing it but it looked 
 a lot like civilizations in a strange way it takes a lot of time to win one match becease im now 
 playing a map with 8 enemys already played like 8 hours my pc is getting slow by it and only destroyed 
 2 enemys if you want a game where you can spend a lot of hours in this is definatly what you are 
 searching for but i just wait for civilizations revolutions on the ps3 cause my pc is getting to 
 slow for big games and civilizations is just the best classic i know!!!!! so if you cant wait for 
 a good time waisting game get it now but if you have other games where you waste your time for 
 a long time wait till civilizations: Revolutions i hate those dang 800 characters dont know what 
 to say anymore great graphics good gameplay but not innovative and original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxZeta
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  When it first came out I had high espectations about it, because there are not many RTS games with 
 spaceships in the market (well there are a few oldies and new but 70% of them... let's say.. sucked) , 
 and I hoped this would the answer to my prays. Unfortunately, it didn't.
  
  The Bad:
  
  As I said before, it is very very similar like Homeworld. Ships desings almost the same but with 
 a particular aspect (imaging if Battlestar Galactica meets the Borgs... yeah!) , instead a mothership 
 you have a planet and it also seems to have the same graphic engine but a little polished of course. 
 And the music and intro video, it was addecuate, it could it be better.
  
  About the interface, I've got to say, it is really annoying. You have a lot of commands that you 
 don't need, and the ones that you really need, they are subcommands, I mean you have to click twice 
 to create a fleet for example.
  
  And the gameplay?, It was the most desappointing thing. You have to spend between 2 to 5 hours 
 to finish a game. C'mon!!, it's an RTS, not a Turn-based one. I think if it were a TBS, it would 
 been better, but it will only be a shadow beneath Galactic Civilizations.
  OH!, and I forgot. The Campaing?, I don't know how to rate it because there isn't one!!
  
  
 The Good:
  
  It added a few things like Achivements and special skills to the capital ships, but that's hardly 
 a plus for rating the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  I don't know why it's an "Editor's Choice". The game only took parts from previous games of the 
 same genre, mixed them all togheter and they think that adding "achivements" and all that crap 
 the can fool us. It is really disapointing, specially coming from Stardock. 
  So if thought like me "WOW, Stardock launched and RTS game. I hope it would be like an RTS version 
 of Galactic Civiliazations 2"... I'm sorry to kill your dreams and hopes but it's not nearly close, 
 it's just an updated and polished version of Homeworld, nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaartenVC87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  A high gamespot score of 9.0.
  So I started playing SoaSE with really high expectations.
  
  First thing is the starting cinematic/credits/story, looks to me like they didn't want to stun 
 me with computer graphics/digital paintings...
  I didn't care for the story, if you could even call it one.
  
  Second, euhm... Where is the 
 campaign ?
  You can't be serious ? Do I have to make up my own story each time I play 1 game ? What's the point 
 of playing anyway ? It's not that you gain anything in the game by winning. (Right, achievements... 
 that's euhm... really useful)
  You just have to play your own matches...
  
  Third, why should one 'quick' game take 5 hours ?
  It happened to me more than once I ended up 
 bored. Like feeling I really (but seriously, really) wasted time (a lot of time) . And still it's 
 addicting to play; how is that possible ?
  
  Love the capital ships !
  
  This could have been way better, if they had made 1 big campaign out of all those separate scenarios. 
 If matches were shorter, 5 hours is too long. Make an enemy AI able to surrender; destroying all 
 their planets takes too long even if there's no resistance at all....
  
  Graphics are okay, maybe a bit dated. Good I could play it on my 3 years old not-gaming-machine. 
 Sound and music I liked very much.
  
  So 7.5 seems a more fair score.
  9.0 is way overrated... yes, it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have not played a game this fun in my life. Sins takes a VERY long time to get into, but it is 
 extremely addicting after that. You may never have to buy another game!
  
  The graphics and audio are both good, but not unbelievable. That said, the game scales REALLY well 
 on lower end machines, so while the graphics snobs of the world will hate how this game looks, 
 those of us with 2.2 duos and Nvidia GEForce 8600's will be in love. Honestly, the game looks cleaner 
 than Crisis on my rig, and that is saying a lot.
  
  The gameplay is just flat out cool. The game plays like a bastard child of Warcraft III, Supreme 
 Commander, and Civilization 4. One game can easily take 8 hours, which is a clear nod to Civilization, 
 but the game looks like Supreme Commander in motion, right down to the unit symbols that appear 
 when you zoom out. I personally think that Sins does it better than Supreme Commander, though the 
 lack of a mini-map can be a pain. Even Civ 4 has that. Where Warcraft III comes in is the Capital 
 Ships. Basically, they are clones of the Warcraft III Hero units, right down to the 10 levels and 
 4 skills that the Warcraft characters have. They even went so far as to have the fourth skill unlock 
 at level 6... lol.
  Multiplayer is the height of this game. In single player, the end of the game is a little less 
 fun, but it is only because you may not be able to lose. The CPU is smart, but he can't forestall 
 the inevitable. In multiplayer, that changes, as tactics can get an enormous fleet through a tough 
 conflict with a MUCH larger fleet nearly intact. If you only start out with 5 ships, that won't 
 happen, but if you have a swarm, miracles can happen.
  
  That said, it is multiplayer where this game truly shines. I have NEVER played a game that can 
 absorb more than 8 hours with friends, but this game comes VERY close. The lack of a CD key only 
 makes it better, as you can install the game on more than one machine and play multiplayer locally. 
 Take note, game developers, this is how you make a PC game competitive with console games!
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE:
  
  Sins is a wonderfully engrossing, time consuming game. Buy it if you 
 can, because it really will absorb your life. It is the culmination of two genres hitting their 
 height, and cannot be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Izul-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Not what I expected. We have seen some good titles out and some bad releases from good titles. 
 I have played this kind of RTS for a long time. I love the Galactic Civilizations games so I expected 
 this one to be more involving then it is. To be honest I find MOO2 (turn based space empire game) 
 to still top the list closely followed by the Galactic Civilization games. On a scale from 1 to 
 10 (10 being MOO3) this one rates to be about a 3 on the difficulty scale. 
  
  The game starts out to be fun but then you realize that you cannot specialize in any kind of tech 
 tree. Once you open the next level of tech you have access to research all of it at that level 
 and in a short time you find that it is not possible to out tech your opponents. The tech tree 
 does not take long to finish and then it turns into a combat game. At that point its just a matter 
 of who has the most ships. 
  
  I don't like that you can't build your own race like you can in the above mentioned games (only 
 3 to pick from) . 
  
  Once you have 4 or 5 planets it's very quick to burn through the tech tree and upgrade your planets 
 then build an army. This is the basic method for every game I have done. Trying to do influence 
 with "good will" or "kill this guy for me" to make an alliance with another race is a waste of 
 time and resources. Right off the bat they want 1000 credits or 200 of one of the 2 minerals. The 
 next offer is for you to kill 2 to 5 of a given races ships. 
  
  I will end up playing this game for a short time longer but then it will be removed from my computer 
 and continue to play MOO2. The game looks good, though the interface has a nasty learning curve 
 to it. The game could benefit from more unit command options. 
  
  I think my biggest stick on this game is the lack of resource control. Make money, mine metal and 
 crystal and then spend it. Coming in second is the tech tree (it's very small) . Third would have 
 to be the lack of verity in long term play
  
  I just wanted to add... This is a great game for gamers that are new to this kind of game. I am 
 a bit of an advanced gamer in this area so I am a little tougher on it. Its not a required buy 
 but its not to be totally passed up either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Sins OF A Solar Empire is perhaps one of the best space-strategy games to come out since GalacCiv 
 or Homeworld. I think it'll be easier to talk about the game if I break it down into levels...
 
  
  The graphics are stunning for a game that only asks for 128mb of video memory, and while we're 
 on the subject, the very low system requirements that the game asks for (by 2008 standards at least) 
 make for a surprisingly smooth game play experience. 
  
  The game requires you to take control of entire solar systems with a predefined number of planets, 
 including asteroid belts and wormholes. Some maps have only about 5-10 planets, while bigger ones 
 exceed 40! This is perhaps one of the most peculiar aspects of the game; peculiar because no one 
 can decide with any certainty whether this is a good thing or bad. Most games can exceed upwards 
 of 10 hours of game time, if not MUCH MUCH more. Unfortunately, the lack of a single player campaign 
 makes the game a little harder for newbies, because the game's tutorial doesn't exactly clear everything 
 up. It took me about an hour just to understand what was actually happening.
  
  The game has three playable factions: the TEC, the Advent, and the Vasari, each with it's own units 
 and research trees. The unit capabilities and strengths/weaknesses are varied enough to require 
 different unit combinations for each race. The game also has a Pirate system. Pirate bases will 
 be a part of every solar system, and these pirates are hostile to all players. You can use your 
 credits to place a bounty on one of the players, and they can do the same to you. A bidding war 
 ensues, and at the end of a time limit, the player with the highest bounty gets attacked by the 
 pirates (or other players!) after which the attacker may collect the money and use it to build 
 more units! This not only makes the game a little more interesting, but gives players a chance 
 to weaken enemy forces by investing in the pirate system. The game also lets you use diplomacy 
 to control how the game progresses. 
  
  
  The game's interface is, in a word, perfect. You can handle your units and structures all over 
 the solar system with just your mouse, without the need to go to the specific unit/structure location. 
 The interface is especially intuitive when you need to handle scores of fleets with capital ships 
 and what not across the system. 
  The AI of the game is excellent as well... your units will typically do exactly what you want without 
 being told, and enemy AI isn't as predictable as other strategy games. I have yet to see the enemy 
 AI do something stupid or suicidal in the 100+ hours (no exaggeration) I have been playing this 
 game.
  
  
  There are a lot more aspects of the game that can't be fit inside of a review, but all in all, 
 Sins of a Solar Empire is perhaps one of the best space-strategy games of all time. I was a little 
 surprised when I saw that Stardock was designing this game, because I was doubting that guys who 
 usually made Windows themes and icons would be able to crank out a game such as this. Hats off 
 to both Stardock and Ironclad for SOASE... I eagerly await a sequel, provided I can finish this 
 game by next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dparmenter99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Stardock hit a home run with this one. RTS fans will appreciate the 4X style, while strategy fans 
 have fun managing their resources and base building. The game itself sucks you in, as you keep 
 thinking "If I can just take 1 more system!" The "pin" system lets you keep good track of your 
 multi-planet empire, while the smart zoom easily moves you around the map. You can quickly zoom 
 from an overview of the entire board to a close up on a battle what shows you the individual rounds 
 being fired. The experience factor for capital ships encourages you to become attached to them, 
 building them up in small battles at first, then sending them in to devastate your enemies. The 
 fleet retreat button also provides a handy feature to save whatever you can when you get in over 
 your head. The three factions have similar units. But the differing research trees allow you to 
 develop your own play style for each. The only thing I was really disappointed by was the lack 
 of a single player campaign, but since even a small skirmish map can take a few hours to complete, 
 it's not that big of a problem. Overall, a game that I see myself playing for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Guy3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire wasn't one of my most anticipated RTS games when I first heard about it 
 several months ago. However, now that it has been finally released I've got to say that it is one 
 of the most ADDICTIVE games out there!!! You can spend literally hours in a single game and still 
 be unable to finish a match. It's just that there's enough happening in the game which makes you 
 want to play just a few extra minutes so that you can "finish colonizing this planet" or "quickly 
 fend of this pirate raid"! Once you finish doing something, there's another thing you want to do. 
 
  
  The gameplay, which can take a couple hours to grasp, is straight forward and simple once you understand 
 how everything works. The game caters to all kinds of gamplay styles and won't require you to manage 
 all aspects of your solar empire at once. Sins' smart design allows players to focus on the parts 
 of their empires which they want to without having to worry about how the rest of the empire is 
 doing. The computer can automatically manage things like trade or construction while you're busy 
 pulverizing an enemy planet into oblivion. You can even command your ships and factories over on 
 the other side of the system.
  
  Space battles can be really fun to watch. If you manage to see two large fleets slugging it out 
 over a large asteroid field it may be worth stopping for a few seconds and watch the fireworks. 
 You may even be tempted to send one of your own fleets just to spice things up and watch those 
 puny enemy frigates get blown to bits by your massive capital ships. There's even a cinematic mode 
 which removes some of the icons and HUD to give you and unobstrcted view of the battle. Unfortunately, 
 large space battles can sometimes take quite a while to resolve, chewing up quite a bit of your 
 time. Space ships don't do as much damage as you'd hoped and even some of the more basic units 
 take a little too long to die. Capital ship lasers, despite looking spectacular up close, leave 
 you wishing they were a little more destructive. However, a well balanced fleet can usually outlast 
 a highly speciallized one as ships which may do massive damage to your fighters and bombers will 
 do almost no damage at all to the hulls of your frigates or cruisers.
  
  The sound and music quality of this game are good but without anything that really stands out. 
 The orchestral pieces which make up most of the background music are suitable to the game (and 
 won't annoy you after hearing them over and over again which you are bound to do during the ultra 
 long skirmishes) and some of the sound effects give you a real sense of the power of the massive 
 lasers mounted on capital ships. However, other aspects of the sound (the voice acting for example) 
 aren't really up to the same standard. 
  
  One of the major problems with the game is that THERE IS NO SINGLEPLAYER CAMPAIGN!!!! The game 
 developers created this whole background story for each of the races (which the gist of it is given 
 to the player via the intro movie) but decided not to create a campaign where you could play a 
 role in its outcome! Fortunately, this is not as bad as it may sound and it dosen't affect the 
 value of the game at all. The variety of the skirmish and multiplayer games and the various acheivements 
 are more than enough to make up for this lack of story interaction which many RTS games have.
 
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is a worthy addition to the game collection of any gamer who is even in 
 the least bit interested in RTS. It offers a unique take on the Space Strategy subgenre and will 
 keep you interested for a while to come. Just make sure you will actually have enough time to play 
 the game as it will definitely consume a large portion of your time. Even multiplayer matches will 
 most likely end up unfinished unless planned out carefully by each of the participants. This is 
 not a game for those who wish to play a casual 1/2 to 1 hour match!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree with Game-Spot's review on this game. It is highly additive and just plain fun. 
 It is neither overly complicated nor too simple. It has very very good graphics and is not over-the-top. 
 The user interface works very well. Scaling from a single ship on out to a full galaxy wide view 
 is amazing. While I have seen on reviewer decry the game as it is not "3d enough" I would have 
 to point out that it is exactly 3d enough to make it feel like you are fighting a space war. 
 
  
  Now, do I have any gripes? Yes, one minor one. Diplomacy in the game is a little too simple. But, 
 that is not really a bad thing. It is simple but it does get the job done. With a couple of clicks 
 you can resolve the few diplomacy choices quickly and get back to the building your space empire. 
 
  
  I have noticed there is a "mods" choice in loading games. I hope and expect this to be used in 
 the near future. Modders should have a field day with this game. I can think of a couple of mods 
 I would like to see. BSG or everyone's favorite Star Wars comes to mind. 
  
  Overall, SSE is a GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flatfoot70
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I wish more games would play like this out of the box! I started a game, quit, started another, 
 played a bit longer and felt like I knew the game well enough for multiplayer. Not that there is 
 no substance, quite the oppisite, there is a lot to do, but the interface is so well presented 
 that you can manage a galatic empire with just your mouse.
  
  I would have thought that a game with these enormous fleet battles, hundred of ships on each side 
 all moving and launching weapons that seek there indivdual targets, would totally lag out my laptop. 
 It's smooth as silk! I'll follow a tiny little drone as it strafes capital ships and not even a 
 hiccup.
  
  Also, I have yet to see the AI do somthing totally dumb. Fleets do a great job picking targets 
 on their own. You can help them focus fire, but in general I think they do fine. I gives more time 
 to watch the battle unfold up close. They are that cool to watch.
  
  I found the Gamespot review to be pretty right on. Just wanted to add a few things to what he wrote.
 
  
  No reason to sit on the fence with this one. Get it. If you have ever played MOO2 and were miffed 
 about MOO3, this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  RTS
  On its own, the RTS battles in SoaSE are decent if not good. The graphics are nice, and all the 
 usual rock-scissor-paper elements are in place. But you don't advance through ages (and get wildly 
 varied units during the course of a game) , nor do many of the techs you research show themselves 
 visually. Many techs are of the "make my lasers stronger" or "increase my population cap" variety 
 and, while important, aren't "Wow!" moments. You can control your units, but the AI is generally 
 competent enough to do this on its own -- it has to be, really, as micro-managing this many units 
 across such huge expanses would be the game's downfall. So for the RTS player, what's in this for 
 them? 
  
  Ironclad has said to the RTS crowd: What we don't give you in pacing of and involvement in individual 
 battles, we will make up for in size and variety in decision making. That is, certainly by mid-game, 
 battles often take place across several screens (planets) at once. So while a given battle might 
 be slower and less interactive than a normal RTS, you are usually involved in more than one of 
 them at a time. Thus, the RTS side of the brain is still very much engaged but at a more macro 
 level: When you're not micro-managing a given battle, there are still planets to improve, a rich 
 tech tree to exploit, pirates to kill or bribe, and diplomacy to consider in real time as well. 
 This dynamic creates a certain mental frenzy of its own, which likely would appeal to an RTS player 
 who likes to keep busy. 
  
  TBS
  For the hardcore TBS player, keep in mind that you can pause the action and issue orders. You can 
 also choose a slow tech rate or pick any number of variable (map setup, etc.) to ensure any kind 
 of pace you'd like. The question, then, is: Did Ironclad leave enough of the Strategy when they 
 decided to join forces with the Real Time? Indeed, they have. 
  
  Not unlike Civilization or any other brand-name TBS game, optimal build order of planetary improvements, 
 research, etc., is still king in this game. In fact, the economy in SoaSE is so influenced by things 
 such as logistic caps and limited resources that figuring out how best to squeeze every celestial 
 credit out of every phase of the game is critical to your success. And unlike many RTS games where 
 this boils down to putting as many "villagers" on as many resources as you possibly can, here you 
 have to carefully weigh, for example, whether or not your cash on hand is best spent on two trade 
 outposts or on that technology that increases your resource rate? But somebody has just put a bounty 
 on your head, so maybe that cash is better spent right now on making your enemy a more profitable 
 target? Oh, you might also want some planetary defenses or even a ship or two. Suddenly many of 
 the many simple decisions that take place in a normal TBS become quite complicated -- not just 
 because of the RTS nature of the game but because Ironclad has designed the game this way. This 
 IS a thinking-man's game! Fielding a large, modern fleet is a success story in itself and requires 
 some very careful thinking that will likely appeal to the TBS gamer. Such careful thinking will, 
 in fact, often result in a more diverse unit set, with more updated weapons, and this will often 
 carry the day when it comes time to battle. Fast reflexes is not the point here. 
  
  SUM
  I enjoy both RTS and TBS. RTS fit my lifestyle better before I was married and had two kids, so 
 I tend now toward the TBS side. I was worried that SoaSE would somehow ruin both by trying to be 
 both. All I can tell you is that I spent the last two days putting 12 hours in each on SoaSE. Yes, 
 I took two days off from work as these were weekdays (and I wanted to be home when the kids were 
 at school!) . I haven't done that in years and years. I am also thinking about strategies as I catch 
 a few moments at work. I'm thinking, too, about all the maps and scenarios that I haven't yet tried 
 or the higher level AI difficulty I am pained to think about. 
  
  Is the game perfect? No. The Normal AI will often leave neutral resources unclaimed and will ignore 
 your claim on these resources even when it could easily take them. This should be fixed! The AI 
 often calculates the odds of a battle and, if it can't win rather easily, runs away. This is good 
 on the one hand, but when it runs to a better-defended planet (with stationary defenses such as 
 missile platforms, etc.) , it doesn't draw you in to those defenses where it could carry the day. 
 It often runs away, leaving those stationary defenses open to attack. This also needs to be addressed! 
 However, forcing a losing match up on the AI without also opening your own planets to an inevitable 
 counter-attack by a third party (not to mention pirates) is HARD. I'm assuming more than a 1v1, 
 here. A free-for-all (FFA) on something like the Centrifuge map is anything but easy to win, so 
 I guess it's just a little disappointing that the AI doesn't play a little better when the odds 
 are against it.
  
  Finally, while many reviews have focused on the lack of a campaign, most campaigns are over-scripted 
 and don't translate well to what the real thing is like anyway -- single player or on-line. Instead, 
 Ironclad clearly put development time and resources into things that, to me, really matter: Good 
 (if not perfect!) AI, tons of maps and scenarios, and just an underlying gaming dynamic that sucks 
 hour after hour from your life as you are convinced you've finally tipped the balance in your favor 
 only to feel yet another counter-strike hitting you at a weak spot, forcing you to rethink your 
 next moves. Or to start fresh, "this time" convinced you've got the right balance. "This time" 
 is looking to provide me with months of some of the best gaming I've experienced in a long time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Nice crisp graphics, technically proficient as well. The ships each look distinct and 
 are well designed. All the groups are unique looking, and the icons work really well as locator's 
 when your far out. Planets and space objects also are nice looking and well suited to the game.
 
  
  Game Play: Solid, I mean it all works well and is fun, controls make directing your empire a breeze. 
 Your ships and colonies are smart enough to to defend themselves reasonably well, the auto cast 
 is also a real help. The only downside is sometimes your let with a few seconds of little to do, 
 but not too often or for too long.
  
  Sound: Ship responses and sound effects all sound good and work well with their respective objects. 
 Ships captains pipping up to let you know they've arrived is handy at times because it can get 
 pretty busy running an empire.
  
  Story: Not really there even though the intro sets up a really good premise for the game. Still 
 the intro does a really good job getting you motivated to lead your people into battle, be as an 
 aggressor or a defender.
  
  Controls: Really solid. The "units" tree is really simple and useful, with it you can command your 
 entire empire from anywhere. Commanding an armada to attack a near by planet is fast and direct, 
 battles are simpler to direct then in classic RTSs because the "units" tree will let you attack 
 a target via issuing an attack command through the tree. The zooming in and out of planets is efficient 
 and simple, though sometimes it does resist a bit, not a big deal though. 
  
  Verdict: I'd strongly recommend this to just about anyone, but those who love turn-based or real-time 
 strategies will enjoy this the most. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnprezioso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  I've always known Stardock is an amazing developer and publisher- now I'm wondering if they can 
 do any wrong! The job that they did in conjunction with Ironclad is nothing short of superlative. 
 This is the best Space game I've played since the Homeworld series. All it needs is the epic space 
 opera campaign of Homeworld, and it would be a perfect 10. It is still an instant classic nontheless, 
 and given Stardocks track record, it is sure to be supported for a long time with new addons, patches, 
 and upgrades.
  
  The graphics shine, the sound is a bit understated but effective, and the UI - well, let's just 
 say that the ease with which you can control a massive empire, in real time no less, is mystifying. 
 It truly is a work of genius!
  
  Nothing I can really add to the Gamespot review. I heartily second it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TALazarus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  With just a little more effort this could have been a masterful epic game worthy of song. although 
 a fantastic and fun experience it was missing that little something games like master of orion 
 II, and Galactic Civilization have. Of course I don't want to insult it by comparing it to something 
 else because on its own it will be an enjoyable and re playable experience. The AI is good, Visuals 
 are good, doesn't slow the computer down with insane specs, the lack of story mode is ok by me 
 but I'm a little old school. building your own maps adds to the fun and custom skirmishes make 
 the replay value better then most. If you've been angry about space strategy since Moo III ruined 
 it for all of us then this will make up for it, I just wish you could build on the planet and design 
 your own ships other than that money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kionox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  So, for all of you out there that love the classic Age of Empire series, and also love Galactic 
 Civilizations; here comes a new threat: Space. StarDock stole our hearts with Galactic Civilizations 
 1 & 2, but they've brought something new to the table this time REAL-TIME strategy. I know we all 
 loved the turn-based style, but no one can argue against attacking an enemy colony, while building 
 your own. Sins of a Solar Empire brings about the Space-Age feel with a familiar Real-Time game-play 
 from those of the past. You have many different ship classes, and even more technologies. Also, 
 your Trade Ports are controlled involuntarily, so no more of that micro-managing hassle. The most 
 important ships you have are the Capital Ships. They support large squadrons, weapons, and major 
 armor. They help you colonize planets and asteroids. Another thing about this game is the amazing 
 graphics engine. I play it on a laptop (1.8 Ghz, 512 RAM, Intel Graphics Accel. 64) , and it still 
 runs smooth and looks great. I can't imagine what the speed would be on a system built for gaming. 
 Point is, if you're willing to devote hours to gaming, this game is surely worth your time and 
 money. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought, wow a follow-up on Galactic Civilization II, which 
 I loved, though I thought could have used a bit more depth, but this game is so much more. It kinda 
 took the idea of Galactic Civ and updated everything in it, the graphics, the game play, the depth; 
 Stardock did a lot more then that, they added a amazing menu system that is very easy to get into 
 it. 
  To be honest the first time I played it, I thought, well this doesn't seem very much fun, but after 
 you start understand all the details in this baby you will understand there is a strong game here, 
 maybe not as deep as Civilization 4, but it's the closest that I've seen to a space version of 
 that game. There also not much in a way of a diplomacy in the game so it's kill or be killed
  The game is very customizable, you can have tons of other factions and over a hundred of worlds, 
 but you may want to start small, because there is a lot you need to do in this game. Lot's of upgrading 
 of planets, technologies and ship systems. Like most games of this type, to build resources you 
 need to conquer or develop Worlds with good stuff to mine.
  The game play is very addictive and there are just a million hours of fun here, the graphics and 
 sounds are all there, and the game is huge, you really understand how large space is in this game. 
 This is a winner, go out and buy this game, it's only $39 and Best Buy so there no reason to torrent 
 this baby!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silial
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  (Disclaimer: I'm sold to Stardock's approach. This is not a "general" review.)
  
  
  SoaSE showed potential from the onset. But it's the kind of game which could crumble under its 
 own weight. Big concepts, ambitious designs, and oups. As in, "Damn, it looks cool!... erm, it's 
 a bit overcomplicated though... and there's this and that missing..." (anyway, this was me with 
 Homeworld) . "Ambitious" can come at a price.
  
  - AMBITIOUS: WITH BADDIE AND GOODIE -
  No, SoaSE doesn't miss multiplayer (pun intended) . GalCiv notoriously pays its scope that way.
 
  
  Yet RTS games have single player campaigns. Even Dune II had a campaign! But SoaSE doesn't. Instead, 
 the developers' energy was put into "massive sand box creation tools" (that's what they call it) . 
 Other "missing" bits are really just bits, so I find myself lucky. And God knows what will come 
 from the already blooming community (let me guess... a campaign!) .
  
  - SOESE's FUTURE -
  But also, the developers already asked which new features the fans would like into SoaSE 1.03... 
 just as it happened with Stardock games. You see, develoment goes on. And with Stardock games, 
 it went on for frickin' *years* (eg. graphics) . Plus XP-packs. The latest GalCiv2 version could 
 be called GalCiv3 - not kidding.
  
  This means that "nice concept" is bound to age well. That's better than seeing some EA copycats 
 taking the throne in 2009 with some wishy-washy (and not always winner) "hey, we know how to program 
 toooo!". You'll have it for free instead, not counting XP packs.
  
  
  - THEREFORE . . . -
  So it seems to me that they successfully pulled what they wanted off - see 
 other reviews for details - and intend to make for any weakness by keeping it up. This is the game's 
 spirit, courtesy of Ironclad.
  
  If it's epic strategy, simplified "4X gaming" or everything-strategy-in-there you like, give a 
 check to their demo (soon out) and you be judge. Or look to the  
 example" [/url] .
  
  
  
  
  MY PERSONAL +++:
  "Strategic feel"
  Intelligent game: diplomacy, trade, backstabs...
  Beautiful tech tree, brings out strategy
 
  Their inclusion of capital ships
  It's Stardock's baby. The development goes on!
  
  MY PERSONAL ---:
  Dislike looong games? As TBS, big maps take long
  Tutorial? Not aweful, not 
 perfect
  No campaign - well still better than "cheezy story"
  Factions - a bit simplitic to me (part of the atmosphere)
  
  
  ps. I didn't spend over 40 
 hrs to play for a reason: I played parts of BETA here and there, with real-life as priority. I 
 know... odd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrody
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  OK I have to say I have been waiting for this for a very long time. I really enjoy space simulation 
 games, I mean Homeworld was the spark for me and my addiction to this genre. Anyway this game really 
 tries to create something. From the brilliant idea of base construction near a planet, just like 
 in Hegemonia : Legions of Iron, or the nice space battles to the part of the game you have to research 
 and keep a steady economy so u don't get broke. I enjoyed the idea of space pirates and how u can 
 "motivate" them to do some jobs for u. I mean I used these guys in crippling my opponents, but 
 the A. I. likes them to, even from the first 20 min of playing I got attacked by these guys. Graphics 
 are really nice, they look great and as the producers said u don't need a great PC to play the 
 game. Now for the things I wished that we had fighter squadrons like in Homeworld, I mean I wanted 
 like hundreds of these little ships fighting like in Empire At War but I liked the idea of defending 
 a planet with a hangar. I dislike the time it takes for ships to reach planets, i mean the speed 
 I used was Normal, but never tried to move it to fast, but i figure it doesn't help. I hate the 
 fact that planets tend to have smaller loyalty as I move away from my home planet, it in fact real 
 but come on I have to improve, well it improves but aaa... aaa.. 0.001%/sec is a little to little. 
 
  All in all I gave it a 9 because I enjoyed the game, I regret I didn't have like a story and a 
 campaign but I like the work Stardock does with space sim so in my opinion : go buy it its worth 
 it and multiplayer is fun with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naturfotografen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  As said in the text above, a good mix, and the first time ever. 
  
  This game will run smoothly on most desktops, even really old ones. Will also run an most laptops 
 as well, though you will need a dedicated graphics card if you want smooth performance. 
  
  The AI is really good when facing opposing forces, you don't need to micro. 
  
  MP is where 
 the game really shines, though online can be hit or miss sometimes. LAN is obiously flawless. 
 
  
  Unforunate that the game does not sport a campaing, I would have enjoyed it, but no gamebreaker. 
 The single player skirmishes can last for several hours, so you'll get plenty of game value if 
 you only play SP (as I mostly do) .
  
  If you are new to RTS, the tutorials might not be the best helping tool, but for any other RTS 
 player, I guess they would be plenty.
  
  As a last note, turtelers might find this game a bit hard, as your defense must consist of units, 
 becouse static base defenses are not a valuable option to hold of attackers. Though I manage perfectly 
 using units, and I myself am quite a defensive player.
  
  Overall a great game, so addactive, and so much fun!
  
  Pros:
  -Graphics
  -System reqs
 
  -Scale
  -Fun
  -Addictivenes
  -Great multiplayer
  -Great AI
  
  Cons:
  -No single player campaign
  -Time consuming
  -Tutorials not the best
  -Favours the attacker 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nwys13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  The game is great! The learning curve is somewhat ok (not too hard and not too simple) . At first 
 you'll be overwhelmed by all the informations that require your attention. The researching part 
 is good, the AI is not bad, the best part is that most of your units have auto cast options which 
 would allow them to use their abilities in their best of situations. It doesn't require a powerful 
 machine to run it. (I'm playing the game on my laptop - 1.4Ghz Centrino with a 32Mb shared build 
 in intel graphics adapter and 1Gb DDR 400 Ram)
  
  I've created a map using the beta Galaxy Forge 1.01, it was effortless. It's too cool to say anything 
 more.
  
  Graphics - 8.0
  Sound - 8.0
  Gameplay - 10.0
  Replayability - 10.0
  
  The best part is that you'll not be fiddling with the "why is my copy not recognized by the computer (copy 
 protection) ". They trust the buyers that they allow them to backup fully the original copy and 
 mind you, it's one of the best sellers even without any copy protection unlike other games.
  
  Totally awesome!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco_Augusto
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I listed the problems on this game
  1- No history mode on single player campaign 
  (I believe that they decide do not hire any scriptwriters for this game it make me remember of 
 river raid, excellent game, but it is past, this is the first big I mean huge problem in this 
 game)
  2- Too hard to play the single player campaign ( Almost impossible even into the easiest mode)
 
  3- Too little research tree (we are talking about a space flight game, it should have a huge tree 
 of research, but just an poor tree, it will became a bothering game very fast  have u heard of 
 a game named settlers, take a look to its research and production system, it is amazing and still 
 too real for just a game)
  
  But have good points too
  1- It is a Space game (I love futurist games  it is my opinion, but is the first point)
  2- 
 The graphics system (is nice but I miss something like atmosphere on planets u notice that they 
 do not have any clouds, all planets look like moons, but only that for the graphics the rest is 
 really nice)
  3- Combat is nice (but definitively it is not innovation, worst than HomeWorld and EVE the spaceships 
 stop and start to fire, "Why move if we are a easier target stopped like a rock?")
  
  It is a nice game, but not a game to be into the 10+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrQuak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is similar to many games, but identical to none (which is something you 
 can't say of many RTS's) .
  
  The basic premise is that it is a 4X (Explore, Expand, Exploit and Exterminate) strategy game - 
 like Civilisation, and Galactic Civilisations - except set in real time.
  
  This is a game that could have gone horribly wrong, very easily. But somehow they (Ironclad) have 
 managed to produce a game that retains most of the depth of a turn based strategy, with most of 
 the franticness of a real time strategy. 
  
  Due to the large scope of this game, it is relatively slow paced - you usually won't find your 
 capital ships or planets being destroyed before you can respond to it. And the graphics are not 
 the most beautiful ever produced, however considering the number of ships that can be rendered 
 at once, and, again, the massive scope the game has, this is understandable. In fact for the number 
 of battles that happen simultaneously, and the number of ships that can be involved in a battle 
 in one system, it is quite remarkable that the system requirements are as low as they are.
  
  As such, I would not consider the pacing or the graphics as a weakness of the game, but instead 
 something that is spot on for the product.
  
  The weakness that the game does have is a lack of a single player campaign - though admittedly 
 most 4X games do not have these campaigns. However Ironclad set up three races with a backstory, 
 but the backstory is never explored.
  
  The other weakness of the game is that it is not completely balanced, between the three races, 
 one is plainly stronger militarily, which is not adequetly compensated for in the other two races 
 that are more economically orientated and more culturally orientated.
  
  There is also a fairly cheap tactic, which the computer excels at using, which can be sumarised 
 as building 30 seige weapons, going to a planet and ignoring the defences and just nuking the planet, 
 then run away. 
  
  However both of these problems are apparently going to be fixed in future downloads (though I imagine 
 the story line will most likely come in an expansion pack) .
  
  Anyway, on the positivie note, once you have done the tutorials, the game is fairly intuitive. 
 The computer is generally smart enough to provide a good fight. Large battles can be quite impressive, 
 and generally feel rewarding.
  
  The game has quite a lot of tactical depth, and, though you can "tank rush" on the smaller maps, 
 on larger maps becomes very difficult to do so.
  
  And, most importantly, for a 4X game, you sit down for only 5 minutes, and before you know it, 
 it is 4 am.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is a 4X strategy game from Stardock. Unlike the series Stardock is best 
 known for (That being the Galactic Civilizations series) , Sins of a Solar Empire is an intriguing 
 blend of turn-based scale and management, with real-time gameplay. The two are polar opposites 
 from each other, how could this possibly work?!? Amazingly, it works excellently, making Sins a 
 great buy for any Strategy gamer.
  
  The backstory behind Sins has a surprising ammount of details (Why this is surprising I'll tell 
 you shortly) . The game features three races in a death struggle with one another. The Trade Emergency 
 Coalition (TEC, I think that's its name...) is being forced to defend itself from the alien Vasari, 
 a group that is fleeing from some unknown force, and the Advent, a group of humans who the TEC's 
 ancestors had exiled a long time ago. 
  
  With all the backstory to be found in the opening cinematic, you'd think there would be a massive 
 campaign to be waged here. Well you'd be wrong, for Sins has no single player campaign whatsoever. 
 This is quite disappointing at first, and makes all the backstory pretty much irrelevant.
  
  Fortunately, Sins still has plenty of value with its basic skirmish games, both online and 
 off. The basic gameplay of Sins starts you off similarly to a turn-based strategy game... You start 
 with a single planet that you need to build up so you can expand to neighboring planets. Your ultimate 
 goal is always to destroy the empires of your rivals.
  
  
  
  The amazing thing about Sins' gameplay is that is manages to offer something for both turn-based 
 and real-time strategy gamers. Those of the turn-based party will enjoy developing their planets 
 which benefits from a lot of the details you generally only see in turn-based games like in the 
 Civilization series. Real-time gamers will undoubtedly enjoy the combat, which is quite simple 
 at first glance, but turns out to have a surprising ammount of tactical options, and a fair share 
 of micromanagement if you really want to delve into it. This is especially true since the game's 
 Capitol Ships are actually easily comparable to the hero units from Warcraft 3. The only differences 
 being they don't need as much micromanagement to be effective. 
  
  Those who prefer to just manage their planets don't have to sweat about the combat too much though, 
 for the unit AI in Sins can fend for itself quite effectively if left alone. You can even trust 
 the Capitol Ship AI to use most of its abilities fairly effectively. The ship AI isn't perfect, 
 but turn-based gamers will undoubtedly appreciate the fact that they don't always have to hold 
 the hands of their fleets.
  
  At first glance, you'll probably think that the game's three races don't have any differences from 
 eachother. This is partially true in that the races all share the same ship types with each other, 
 the only exception being each sides capitol ships and their unique abilities. But when you get 
 to play the game enough, you'll eventually come to appreciate the differences that the races do 
 have from each other. There are actually enough differences between the races that most people 
 should eventually be able to pick a favorite race.
  
  Almost everything about the game manages to work in a fluid fashion most of the time, especially 
 the navigation in the game, since you can easily zoom out to a full view of the galaxy and quickly 
 find the planet you want to manage. A slight nitpick here though- the game tends to be a bit loose 
 when it comes to zooming in, so you can occasionally get completely lost with your camera stuck 
 in the middle of nowhere and have to zoom out again to fix the problem.
  
  Sins offers support for up to ten players in a game over the internet and on a LAN. The online 
 games use Ironclad online, which is a pretty basic system with nothing really special for online 
 gaming. The main problem with playing online is that from my experience, even with a good connection, 
 the game tends to suffer from a bit of lag fairly regularly. If you don't want to go online at 
 all though, don't worry- the game is still quite fun offline thanks for the game's respectable 
 opponent AI. 
  
  Whatever the case, be ready to spend alot of time playing a single match, for games in Sins generally 
 last several hours, even with the fewest ammount of players present. Just be ready for a fairly 
 mean learning curve early on, since the tutorials aren't quite enough to coax you into the game. 
 So you'll be forced headlong into a real match before your truly ready.
  
  Graphically, Sins shows a fairly large ammount of detail on a massive scale. The ship designs aren't 
 the most inventive we've seen, but they all look good and have a good ammount of detail, especially 
 given how many can be on the screen at once. The planets also have the nice touch of getting larger 
 and larger ammounts of visible traffic when they become more developed. The only gripe against 
 the graphics is that the ship explosions are not very impressive at all. Sound wise, the game has 
 some decent music that changes tone whenever your watching combat, but none of it is really memorable. 
 It does fit the tone quite nicely however. The voice acting of the game ranges from decent to lackluster 
 as well, with the Advent clearly getting royal treatment compared to the other two factions.
  
  In the end, Sins is an amazing achievment in that it manages to bring aspects from turn-based 
 and real-time strategy games together into one excellent package. It isn't flawless by any means, 
 but Sins is a great change of pace for the Strategy genre as a whole, and should definitely be 
 checked out if you like any kind of strategy games.
  
  Pros: Amazing bond of turn-based and real-time elements form into some excellent gameplay. Excellent 
 sense of scale. Tons of replay value. Entertaining AI.
  
  Cons: No campaign or scripted scenarios of any kind. Online games can be very laggy. Sharp learning 
 curve.
  
  Nitpicks: Camera can occasionally get lost when zooming in.
  
  Recommendable for: Any kind of Strategy gamer should definitely check out Sins of a Solar Empire. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerlu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I was *really* looking forward to this game, having absolutely loved Homeworld I and II, and even 
 more so MOO, and to a lesser extent Galactic Civ by Stardock...
  
  For such a highly anticipated game, i have to say i was let down by the lack of polish and that 
 extra "oomph" that makes a game great, not just good. Don't get me wrong, this is a solid game... but 
 it's missing polish, from animations, ship textures, and sound effects.
  
  I honestly think the textures and graphical detail in HW I + II is superior to this game, and so 
 Sins should be at least at the same level, but if you've played you'll know what i mean by lack 
 of polish.
  
  The research tree is easy to understand, but doesn't really translate into any appreciable "ah 
 that's what you get" sort of amazement, it's more like number crunching if you do such and such.
 
  
  Overall, what i'm saying is, this is a good solid game, but considering how there won't be another 
 Sins or HW for a long time, the could have set the bar higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roken1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Take out the Caesars, the adultery, the Cleopatra, and the political drama of Rome, and you've 
 got yourself Sins of a Solar Empire. Imperial Conquest is everything, and the Roman saying of "Kill 
 or Be Killed" is practiced to the extreme. Sure there is also a diplomatic side to Sins, but even 
 that is backed by a sharp Imperial Sword a. k. a. your mighty armada. However, relying on brute force 
 isn't going to get you anywhere. Again, I'm going to allude to the Roman Empire. As in Rome, in 
 Sins your armada goes no where if you don't have to cash to pay their salaries! Okay, maybe that's 
 a little bit dragging it, but your Empire's growth goes hand in hand with your economy. Without 
 a solid economy, you'd soon find yourself penniless. Too bad that there isn't a loan system in 
 the game. Thus, securing vital trade networks with your allies and fully developing your planets 
 is crucial. It also leaves you with though decisions as to which planets to conquer first and which 
 to simply isolate and skip over. 
  
  Now, enough about Empire building, let's talk drama. As I said before, characters and heroes doesn't 
 exist in Sins... for now, and along with any plot or story has gone out the door. The downside of 
 that is... well there isn't a story to drown yourself in and spawn fanboys with. The upside, well 
 for those of us who never cared for the poorly scripted story lines and character dialogs in the 
 first place, we don't have to live through that! However, some people regard their capital ships 
 as hero pieces, yes sure Warcraft 3 generation, I agree. But still, you don't see any development 
 of actual characters, and your capital ships feel a lot like high power units with more special 
 abilities. (BTW, loving "The Finest Hour" skill) 
  
  The game is focused around both single and multiplayer skirmish-like "battles". NOW, for sins, 
 this could mean a game lasting from as fast as 30 minutes to as long as a few weeks (if you're 
 a slow player) . But typically if you put your opponents on hard mode, or challenge very experienced 
 players, then you shouldn't be taking more than a hour or two to complete a huge map battle. Typically 
 the better player could blitz into your homeworld and leave your economy in tiny little blown up 
 pieces. But then again he could hire pirates to do that for him heh. 
  
  However, the game itself is really a fantastic display of an evolved RTS. It brought the micromanagement 
 of Home World to the Macro Scale minus the plot, minus the good v the evil, and minus any feeling 
 you have towards a particular faction. If you want a quick or long but clean, brutal, and merciless 
 Empire building RTS, this is probably the best one out there currently. 
  
  Summary: 
  8.5/10 
  + Clean RTS & Empire Building Action
  + 3 playable and relatively different factions
 
  + The beauty of Space battles never got so good. 
  + Smooth Learning Curve even for nonRTS players
  + Huge maps could get huge, small maps can get 
 tight
  + Tech Tree provides game-play variations
  + Not that much of a system hog! only 1GB or RAM used
  - Single Player could get repetative
 
  - "Where are me Mother Ships?!?!" - says fanboy who likes huge ships 
  - Need More Background 
  - Intro has some story, but nothing more. These factions could actually 
 be developed into interesting plot campaigns, but it's okay if leaved as is. 
  - Lack Planet variability 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to Sins for a while now, it's been some time since a really good 4X 
 game came along and I was getting tired of having to install Master of Orion 2 in order to get 
 my 4X fill.
  
  Finally sitting down to this game, I had my reserves because the tutorials were too fast, but after 
 completing them I jumped into a full game. Most people may disagree that this is a 4X game, some 
 people have even had the audacity to declare it a SUPCOM wannabe (they obviously haven't given 
 the game a chance) . To me, it's a Real-time 4X game. And it's wonderful!
  
  The real-time aspect is a great welcome feature, but it doesn't turn it into a standard RTS where 
 you build bases and bum-rush your opponents. You still feel a slowed approach when playing, and 
 you really have to pay attention to everything. It's definitely a combination of the best of MOO 
 and SUPCOM.
  
  I do have some gripes; like it's very difficult to secure a planet, the missile defense systems 
 can only be deployed so far, and ships take a loooong time to get moving on an enemy vessel. And 
 if an enemy is just passing through, no matter how huge your fleet is, he will still get by. So, 
 I've learned to avoid securing the system and just secure the planet. Ships like to accelerate 
 and make wiiiiide circles to get where they are going, I wish they would rotate before accelerating, 
 it make for some unnecessary long treks across systems.
  
  Graphics: With games like Crysis and X3, the graphics are lacking. But this game will run on pretty 
 much all systems built within the last 3 years or so, which is a good thing. The galaxy is pretty, 
 and the battles are fun to watch.
  
  Sound: I love the music, it's very grandiose. Music queues for whatever you are doing, so if you 
 zoom in on a battle, battle music will play, and vice-versa. Explosions and battle sounds are good, 
 with some of the bigger capital ships exploding like you would expect.
  
  Gameplay: This is where Sins shines, there is info EVERYWHERE. Getting from one side of the galaxy 
 to the other is as quick as you want it to be. There are contextual info boxes that pop up when 
 you move your mouse over something, and nice explored galaxy informational views on the left side 
 that are easily navigable. I also like it how you don't have to select specific ships in order 
 to build something, you can click on the planet to build anything, and the nearest construct ship 
 will begin work on it. Real-time is fantastic! I never have to worry about clicking for 100 turns 
 in order to get that tech. And speaking of tech researching, It's a little too simplified, but 
 I like it. Each race has the same tech, and there isn't as much as I would like, and each ship 
 is upgraded immediately when you research something, so that's a welcome feature. There isn't an 
 auto-research ability like MOO, where you can move sliders to adjust where you want to focus on 
 tech, you have to click to research everything, but at least you can queue. Oh, and EVERYTHING 
 can be queued! Movement, planet upgrade, system exploration, and even structure building. It really 
 helps build-n-forget.
  
  I could go on about the things I like about Sins, if you are like me who have enjoyed both MOO2 
 and SUPCOM, but are looking for something at a slower pace but not a click-fest End Turn, and want 
 the 4Xs, Sins is right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btrex
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  IM the Kamikaze type of player in most games i always like the one versus all scenario. That's where 
 the big bug of this game came in. In the one player missions, the random large map i played, cpu 
 players no 6 to 10 always ends up defeated even before the game starts 4 vs 1 on a huge map takes 
 awfully long and in my view limited in action.
  
  The ship actions also quite, no offense to the developers, dull there were lots of turrets on them 
 but they were fixed, like the kodiak all of its guns are fixed forward while the bullets are being 
 shot on its left, even the big capital units are quite tasteless for eyecandy. Their bullets fire 
 one side while their weapons face the opposite. Even strikecrafts actions have glitches. First 
 noted that during high speed chases the missiles fall behind the fighter, it made good shows, like 
 daring aerial torpedo attacks of ww2 type games but oddly enough their target gets destroyed "before" 
 the missiles even hit.
  
  Ship designs too are so poor. Advent ships look like balloons straped together, TEC ships look 
 like they were borrowed from Nexus, Vasari ships well they could do better. Take the TEC side for 
 example the Kodiak looks like a plain box or a bus, the javelin looks almost alike the frigate 
 from nexus the jupiter incident, the anti strike craft frigate how come it doesn't have any underside 
 guns yet its capable fo firing at every angle including its downside. TEC Cap ships can be exempted 
 here since their designs are unique to say the least.
  
  Tech Trees are also the major downside of the game. When i first read the reviews it said 3 different 
 races so i expected 3 races with their own strengths and own weaknesses and own techs unfortunately 
 to the drop of my expectations all races follow the same tech pattern only differently presented 
 (ex long range missile = long range beam) . instead of the expected varying technology the game 
 instead had the same tech patterns varied only on how they were seen in the game.
  
  The combat AI too is all thumbs and a nightmare to handle especially in a very big fleet slug fest, 
 upon entering the system units would attack and chase a single (weakest) unit of the fleet instead 
 of engaging the first enemy unit they encounter. In so manner the bigger more dangerous element 
 of the enemy fleet can retreat or attack a nearby planet. 
  
  Well I cant complain on everything considering the sheer size of game environment. Still i was 
 expecting something like homeworld or something as close with the caliber of the master of orion 
 series. 
  
  If there would ever be a sequel i sure hope it would be more a lot more eye pleasing and less difficult 
 to control in combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardravi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Well This game is actually for those people who are tired of playing RTS games which are tiring 
 them with old mythologies and old civilizations Its a great Sci-FI RTS game and an enjoyable time 
 pass when you are quiet bored 
  The Graphics are ok The Sound is good But what makes it great is its Gameplay. You will simply 
 love conquering Solar Systems with the best of your upgraded Capital Ships and other support Staff, 
 All in all a great RTS game I have seen after a long time.
  Talking more about Graphics they could have done better with a bit more detail in Planets and a 
 few Labs The Graphics is not very attractive but yet it wont bore you.
  
  Sounds are all right, But you could have done well with some developing tracks.
  
  Now about 
 Gameplay I give it 10 out of 10 Thats the main thing which makes you addictive towards the game. 
 The Research of planet destroying extremely powerfull cannons are great and the capital ships are 
 the center of attraction for me So watch out you build great ships.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grem15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I've never played any 4X game and probably never will, but this beauty of a game is an exception. 
 SoaSE is a magnificent blend of a 4X and RTS game. 
  
  The speed of gameplay is slow, but you'll get used to this kind of speed after a few matches. The 
 three factions all have their distinct visual styles, although their units are all pretty much 
 the same across the three of them. There is no singleplayer campaign but the quality of the offline 
 games more than makes up for it. You can even 'create' your own maps through a simple map generator. 
 SoaSE also incorporates the nifty scroll wheel zoom movement from Supreme Commander. 
  
  The graphics are one of the best I have seen on a game of this scale with every ships being intricately 
 detailed. And for all you people out there that say the graphics sucks, look in the effects section 
 of the options. That; s where you shall find all the graphical options that went 'missing'.
  
  One amusing feature I found was that the music will change depending on what's happening at 
 the planet you're zoomed into. For example, when you are looking at your peaceful capital planet, 
 the game will (naturally) play some soothing music. But once you zoom out and back in on a planet 
 where a space battle is currently going on, the music will change accordingly. 
  
  Other than the lack of the campaign, there are also a few minor issues with the game, like the 
 silly missions that your 'ally' request you to complete in 15 minutes, the not really helpful tutorial, 
 or the overly frequent pirate attacks. Still, Sins of a Solar Empire is one game that you should 
 (and must!) get.
  
  BTW, the difficulty of this game isn't too hard. Just understand the (unhelpful) tutorial, play 
 a few games and you should get the hang of SoaSE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stingy17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  However, there are some flaws to the game. For instance, there is a lack of a single player campaign 
 which is nessecary for a broad game like this. The tutorial which does a relatively lackluster 
 performance in immersing you into the game, really didn't help much in terms of figuring out the 
 mechanics of the game. THIS is where a short and simple campaign would have fitted well. 
  
  All that being said, the game play and breadth of Sins is nothing out of the ordinary. It is 
 a step up from Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds in terms of graphics and game play mechanics if 
 you were interested in that game. The mechanics of the game work in sync and the tech tree is quite 
 expansive.
  
  One good thing I have to say about this game is the AI will keep you on your toes at all times. 
 The AI is unrelenting and will always attempt to pick a fight with you either economically or with 
 brute force. This makes the replay value of this game quite high. The galactic map reminds me of 
 the map from galactic civ. just that it goes into more detail when it comes to planets and the 
 such. 
  
  If you're into epic RTS and you're looking for a challenge than Sins of Solar Empire is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I didn't participate in BETA's, but tracked the game for a long time. When i finaly installed it, 
 first reaction was "Wow!". After 3 hours of learning and playing I was still hoping for something 
 and after 10 hours it realy did get kinda boring. So what's wrong with this game?
  
  * No single player (good, i hate campaigns) , very bad tutorial
  
  * Graphics is good, yet feels 
 like it was made in 2005-2006. If you compare it to Total war, World in Conflict or Supreme Commander 
 or even EVE Online - all of them beat Sins of Solar Empire.
  
  * Size of the maps - hell, ye! Even SC maps are small compared to this!
  
  * Zoom function 
 is a great thing in such game, yet in SC it works much better
  
  * Sound - good, yet once again - all above mentioned strategy games have it better
  
  * Strategy/ 
 gameplay (most important part!) - that's where the game has the most problems, as all the previous 
 stuff is irritating, yet not to a point where you would stop playing the game. You build up colonies 
 in an extremely easy way. There are only 2 choices - you either build up a colony or you don't. 
 No need to think what resources you need - you either gather them or you don't. So the "management" 
 part is not so much needed here (now i understand why World in Conflict made a bold move and skipped 
 the management part of the game overal) . It all depends on how many different models of ships you'll 
 build, how well you'll do the timing thing and attack opponent at a right time. Btw, movement, 
 maneuvring also plays very minor role here. Sooo... after the first impression that the game is 
 very complicated, it actually is just a very simple scheme "Default build-up of the colonies" - 
   Click-a-lot to produce a lot of ships -  attack next planet -  you can zoom in, if you want to, 
 and watch the auto battle. And the pattern is repeating non stop...
  
  So in my eyes - there are a huge amount of good things about this game, yet it somehow lacks important 
 1 % to be a good game. My guess is that it will be forgotten realy fast as people are not gonna 
 play 10 hours online battles like they do with FPS games and SINS skirmish is super boring...
 
  
  p. s. i've read my review now and it does feel like i didn't like the game. Well, i do like it, 
 i'm playing it online for 4 days already, just not sure if i'll be still playing it next week :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafaronie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. When I heard that stardock was involved I new it would be an epic game. 
 An epic game indeed. You can customize the size of the galaxy and number of players. I only wish 
 that there were more than three factions but the Pirates keep u busy enough. The factions are different 
 enough to make you want to play each of them and they are interesting in thier own way and alien 
 feel. The one thing that left me feeling a litte short was the fact there is no battle sequence 
 for planetary invasions. When you invade an enemy and destroy thier fleet you then bombard the 
 surface of the planet until every thing is wiped out. After that you send in a colonizer and there 
 you go you have a new planet. It would have been nice to see troop transports but then you would 
 have to make changes to the tech tree. This game has cool fleet battles, and long replay value. 
 This game is only the beginning and if it goes the way of stardock you can bet there will be expansions 
 to this game giving it even longer life. Give it another race or two, few extra techs, ship design 
 and customize options maybe and you got yourself a 10 but now I'll give this gem an 8.5+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireWarriorr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  It has a good multiplayer but it still needs a little polishing in a few things, for example:
 
  
  *the lack of a single-player campaing is the worst the game has, all games should have a single-player 
 campaing even if it is short or lacks of a good history, the lack of it it's really a bad thing.
 
  
  * the planet defenses are too easy, they are practically useless without a fleet to help them.
 
  
  * the AI controled fleets always run away when your fleet is more powerfull, even if your fleet 
 is less in number.
  i think they could fight whit you a little before running it will be ,much better that way
  
 
  * the fleet upkeep is too huge wen you complete the fleet research- 75%,
  if your fleet is destroyed you can't rebuild it, it's too hard to collect the necessary resources.
 
  
  there are a few things more but i don't remember them right now XD
  
  anyway the game it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7.0
  Nice effects and explosions. Looks really cool when you have large battles. However, when you zoom 
 in on a ship, there isn't much detail. That said, even older systems can play this game very easily. 
 In the end though, the graphics could come from a game that was released 3-4 years ago.... on a 
 mac...
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Nice musical score. Sound effects sound particular good in large space battles, tho older games 
 do have much higher quality.
  
  Gameplay: 7.0
  Game is fun, cinematic, and exciting at first. However, for me, the appeal slowly wore off as I 
 played the game more. I feel that a game which came out years ago, is simply more fun and more 
 engaging than this game.
  
  A single player or multiplayer game is slow to develop, even when set to "fast." Takes awhile to 
 research, expand, or even build ships. It would of been nice to have a "fast forward" feature, 
 like alot of other RTS games have had for years.
  
  The weapons are all weak, so you will be sat at your chair watching the battles for abit, this 
 can be a good, and a bad thing, the battles can be VERY big, and enjoying to watch, but at sametime, 
 its always the same. When you travel between planets, it tends to be extremely slow, while you 
 can fix this by playing on extremely small maps, it really slows the game down, making it rather 
 boring.
  
  The pirates in the game are a nice touch, but every 10 mins they attack a player with the highest 
 bounty on them (Which doesn't have to be much, and AI always increases the bounty on you at the 
 last second) And this becomes very annoying, when every 10 mins you are being attacked by rogue 
 pirates.
  
  The black market is a nice touch, as you or other players, including the AI, have to put resources 
 on the market, to sell, which you can change the prices, and depending on how rare the resource 
 is, the prices will always go up and down.
  
  The Diplomacy in the game is extremely weak, you can give resources, have a cease-fire, have a 
 peace treaty (which only makes your ships not fire on the other) , share ship, and planet vision. 
 Or redeclare way on them.
  
  The interface is pretty well done, where you can pin different groups of ships, or planets on your 
 screen, to keep track of, for extremely easy micro-managing.
  
  Conclusion: All in all, this is a good, solid game. Just not a great game, because the appeal of 
 the game seems to wear off within hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UbersoldierSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was a realy well presented game with Awsone Graphics and Gamplay but with so much 
 Game Lore and Background I was a bit dissapointed not to get a storyline campaing. The openended 
 sandbox mode is still fun but if there is going to be a SOASE 2 (wich I pray there will be) I hope 
 they cash in on all the work they put into the fantastic Sci-fi universe they have created. I maxed 
 out all the graphic and video settings after the first few hours of play and was supprised to find 
 no noticble drop in framerate. The art in this game realy makes the game come to life with breatthtaking 
 backgrounds and the level of detail ranging from the gigantic planets down to the microscopic by 
 comparison Fighters/Bombers made more impresive by the well streamlined interface and zoom ability. 
 If you havent played this game I would go out and buy it, Download it or hide outside you neighbours 
 window and watchhim play it, whatever it takes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankienickel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Stardock to begin with (GalCiv 2 and their stance on copy protection) so I may 
 be a little biased, but with that disclaimer out of the way, I must say that this is the first 
 game in a long time that I have truly thought to be outstanding. 
  
  From the graphics to the gameplay, to the new approach with the user interface, Sins represents 
 a fresh take on an aging genre. Most games now are trying to reinvent the wheel, blending genres 
 and styles of game play to try and come up with something unique, and while it is sometimes successful 
 (Bio Shock) , most of the time it falls flat on its face (Sim City Societies) . So I applaud Star 
 Dock and Iron Clad for keeping true to the 4x RTS model, while choosing to spend their development 
 time and dollars on strategic elements which truly make this title a frontrunner for RTS of the 
 year: graphics, UI, game play, multi-player, balance, etc. 
  
  In addition, I love how Star Dock and Iron Clad had the pre-order people participate in an open 
 Beta of the software - what a novel approach to building early fan support for a game. I pre-ordered 
 just so I could play the Beta copies, which were both fun to play and even "funner" to provide 
 constructive feedback to the development team. I can only imagine the results of having the last 
 Star Trek game involved in an open beta process- the fans (who would have lined up for days to 
 be involved in the beta and pay whatever pre-order price was listed) would have had a field day. 
 As it turned out with Sins, the multi-player bugs were squashed and the game released with a stable 
 and balanced build. There are no urgent fixes a week later to install, just a minor update which 
 addresses some minor balance tweaks. 
  
  If you like space and RTS games, Sins is a must buy for any serious gamer. I vote Sins as RTS game 
 of the year at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMichael
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what the classification says: a Masterpiece. On a scale of 1-10, i'll rate 
 most of it's aspects:
  
  Graphics: 10
  These are, simply put, the best graphics of any strategy game on the market today. The visuals 
 are absolutely stunning as you seamlessly zoom in to see every aspect of your ship as it's slaughtering 
 everything around it. You see laser cannons, fighter bays, missle batteries and the like. On planets, 
 you can zoom in to see little ships flying in and out of low orbit buildings. Awesome graphics.
 
  
  Sound: 9
  The sounds are great, but not perfect. Music is good, sayings are cool and (if you're playing as 
 the vasari) creepy. The Advent sayings alway have the word Unity in them, which makes them both 
 cool and weird at the same time.
  
  Fun: 10
  Described with 1 word: Incredible. The one minor problem is that many people don't have the patience 
 for the start of a game where you must build up infrastructure and other things. When that's done, 
 then you get to the constant action part as you fight never ending wars with your Neigbors and 
 face ever so frequent pirate attacks. If you want constant shooting and killing from beggining 
 to end, buy a FPS.
  
  Difficulty: 9
  This is pehaps the hardest categoy to rate this game in. It took me personnaly a rather long time 
 to master everything in this game, including research management, which some would argue is the 
 toughest part of any strategy game (Whent to research what not how to research it) Because this 
 is a new game and nothing like it has ever been seen, the learning curve is steep. For examle, 
 I went from the Total War games and the Empire Earth series to this and found it difficult at first. 
 Once you get the hang of it, though, managing your empire is quick and easy.
  
  There are, though, a couple of minor problems with it:
  
  One is in gameplay: It may just be 
 my computer, but the game sometimes stalls for a few seconds and the comes back on again and when 
 i close the game I get a few Video Card Driver error alerts.
  
  The other is also a message to the the creators: They made it sound like there would be a very 
 cool single player campaign with you as the either the Traders fighting a 2 front border war or 
 the Vasari and Advent, squeezing the Traders in like the allies in WWII and then fighting after 
 the Traders fall, just like the US and Soviets after WWII. If they could maybe make an expansion 
 that realizes this. Just wishfull thinking. Don't get me wrong: I love the skirmish mode and multiplayer 
 but the lack of a single player campaign is a little dissapointing.
  
  In the end i'd like to say: Get this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinantes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I love strategy. I hate RTS games.
  
  Pump out units you don't care about, never get attached to, and send them at the enemy as fast 
 and as often as you can. This is pretty much the formula they've followed since, well, forever.
 
  
  The only exception I know of was the original Age of Empires. Those were the good old days of RTS 
 gaming -- when a 'defensive' strategy also worked. You could build walls and be safe behind them. 
 You could plot and plan. There was time to think, and I love thinking.
  
  Wow, was I ever excited about the game Supreme Commander. Those overhead shots of red vs blue units 
 in tactical array really had me. Or should I say, tricked me. For all it's hype ingenuity, the 
 S in RTS was still the same: Click click click to pump out the units, overwhelm with numbers, zerg. 
 To me, at least, this game was an utter disappointment. It got great ratings though, so obviously 
 it was great for others... but not for me. I wanted more. I wanted... deeper.
  
  If you like strategy games and you've never played Galactic Civilizations 2, you're missing out. 
 Stardock, the publisher of 'Sins of a Solar Empire' created a masterpiece with that game, catering 
 to a niche of fans eager to relive the glory days of Master of Orion 2. But Stardock outdid themselves, 
 and GalCiv 2 has surpassed it's 4X strategy forefathers (including Civilization) and in a few months 
 time, when it's next expansion arrives, will get even better.
  
  Point is: They make great games, and more importantly, are commited to improving and enhancing 
 those games in light of the desires expressed by the players who buy them.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire is deep, immersive, customizable. It is made for a gamer who loves to think 
 and plot and plan, who likes their games saturated with lore and steeped in tactical balance. Yeah, 
 games last long. This, to the strategy gamer, is a good thing. It means one mistake won't cost 
 you everything. It means a struggle that promises rich fulfillment at the end. It means, in a word, 
 'Epicness'.
  
  No, that's not a real word. But you get the idea, I hope.
  
  My favorite game (and I feel far and away the most universally strategic game of all time) is Rome/Medieval 
 2 Total War. I'm not here to argue the point, but I don't think anything comes close to the grand 
 scale and immense tactical decision-making present in those games. Time will tell how Sins of a 
 Solar Empire stacks up, but what it is now is close, and what it will likely be in a years time 
 may surpass anything I could hope to imagine.
  
  My review? This game is incredible. You can read about the gameplay mechanics elsewhere. I'm here 
 to tell you that if you like your strategy games long and complex, but exciting and vastly challenging 
 as well, sit on the fence no longer. Hop into the yard and jump into the pool, my friend.
  
  Epic space strategy on a colossal scale is here. And it's equipped with three banks of laser 
 cannons, front and rear missile bays, roving fighter squadrons and a gauss cannon.
  
  I've wasted enough time trying to convince you. Time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  From the type of game play that Sins of a Solar Empire provides is beyond what I imagined it to 
 be. This game is extremely addictive. It reminds me a little of a RPG RTS. I guess they call this 
 4x RTS. Depending on how many planets are in a cluster of galaxies depends on how long the games 
 will be. 67 planets is on average around 3 to 4 hours doing a 4v4. The save game points in multi 
 player mode make it fun for when someone needs to leave, the host could save and wait till later 
 so they can continue where they left off. Awesome idea. Getting large amounts of ships against 
 another large amounts of ship = EPIC BATTLES.
  
  Patches for the game seem to get released pretty quick. It is already at 1.02 which has balanced 
 a few things out that I like. :) Great performance and stability. Usually you don't get this in 
 an out of the box game on the first day.
  
  This game is very addictive and fun. The only con I have against it is a way to increase time so 
 the battles aren't so long. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankal4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is just a flat out great game. The balance of units is fantastic. Along with a decent tech 
 tree.
  This game has me hooked with its addictive game play. I have no doubt that I will probably be playing 
 this one off and on for a long time to come. It does remind me of Homeworld 2, which is a very 
 good thing, but it has a style that is very much all of its own. The zoom from tactical to strategic 
 level is smooth. It's very easy to scroll out from one position on the map and scroll back in somewhere 
 else. Quick too. The ship graphics are a little plain but that is easy to ignore.
  The only regret for me is that I would have liked a single player campaign to be included. If there 
 is an expansion pack in the future I will be interested regardless, but I hope there is a single 
 player campaign.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmgustaf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I've been playing PC games since loading up a Risk clone on a Commodore 64 back in the early- to 
 mid-90s. I've played everything from Wolfenstein 3D on a 486 to Call of Duty 4 on a souped up, 
 brand new computer.
  
  But my secret love has always been for strategy games. I put more hours into Warcraft 2 and Heroes 
 of Might and Magic 2 than any other games I've ever played.
  
  Now, my love has almost been fulfilled. Almost.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire, besides having one 
 of the greatest names ever to grace a video game, is a unique and surprising blend of RTS and 4X 
 games - the eXploit, eXtract, eXplore, and eXterminate genre.
  
  Most 4X games are space-based, such as the classic Master of Orion or newer Galactic Civilizations 
 2 (also by Stardock) . They're usually turn-based and generally take long hours of work to complete 
 a single game. Real-time games like Command & Conquer 3 or Starcraft take no more than an hour, 
 at the very most, to determine a winner, and involve frantic clicking and building the whole way 
 through in a desperate race for resources and, usually, tanks.
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire takes long hours, but it's unique in that it's a real-time game. The seconds 
 tick by as your resources accumulate, ships build, and planets develop. The frantic, over-clicky 
 feel of modern RTS games is replaced by a nearly sublime experience: time. Time to develop, time 
 to build, time to explore. It's a marked deviation from current RTS trends.
  
  Resources are based on having extractors on asteroids farming either metal or crystal. Planets 
 produce tax income in the form of credits. Construction ships build new structures, such as frigate 
 factories, research centers, and defensive weapons.
  
  The research tree is also in real-time. Spend resources and a little bar begins to tick across, 
 showing how much time is left before your technology goes into effect.
  
  The game's pace is limited by a number of factors. Research, as mentioned above, is limited by 
 the number of research centers you have. Buildings in general are limited by the number of logistic 
 and tactical points each planet has. And fleets are limited in size by the number of fleet points 
 you have, which can also be raised through research, but higher levels require higher upkeep costs, 
 which lower your overall income.
  
  The interplay between all these factors and the generally slow pacing of the game are subtle, but 
 have a deep impact on gameplay. Ship-to-ship battles take minutes, not seconds, and there is no 
 such thing as a zergling rush. The opening minutes of a game are just as critical as the second 
 hour of a game. Resources must be spent wisely, technology must be researched appropriately, and 
 overreaching with ships can be costly.
  
  And all that without even considering the diplomatic aspects of the game.
  
  There are three 
 factions in the game - the Trader Emergency Coalition (the humans) , the Vasari (the ancient empire 
 now struggling to regain dominance) , and the Advent (an exiled race back for revenge) . The backstories 
 are minor, but add some flavor to the proceedings. All three have different play styles, research 
 technologies, and ships.
  
  Other factions will set forward missions for you to do during a game. Give them money or metal, 
 or attack another player - those are standard missions. Complete them to earn respect and rewards 
 (financial bonuses) and you could soon have an ally on your side.
  
  But the AI is smart and will turn against you if it thinks you're becoming too much of a threat, 
 or that you're not sincere in your desire to be friends.
  
  The pirates will never want to be your friends. This faction, unaffiliated with anyone else, has 
 a presence at nearly every planet to start out, from a couple to almost a dozen ships.
  
  Every dozen minutes or so, they launch an attack at the player with the highest bounty on their 
 head. The good news? You can ramp up the bounty on other players, directing the pirates to them, 
 but it will cost you dearly in credits.
  
  Now, after having gone through all that, remember the game is played in real time. Overwhelmed 
 much?
  
  Don't worry - the game designers thought of that. In what is probably the slickest and most useful 
 update to any RTS user interface in years, Sins of a Solar Empire features a drop-down menu (the 
 empire tree) on the left side of the screen for every planet you control. It lists every structure, 
 ship, and facility you control at that planet, as well as what your opponents have when they show 
 up. (There's nothing that makes your heart race like the sight of a long line of enemy ships suddenly 
 appearing, filling most of the left-hand screen with ships that are not your own.)
  
  The empire tree takes a little while to get used to, but once you figure out what all the squiggly 
 icons are, it makes navigation a breeze. Ships can be selected and ordered to move with two clicks 
 this way, without having to locate the ship itself.
  
  That's important, because the scale of the game requires a good amount of scrolling. In another 
 ingenious move, the designers made the entire game scalable. You can zoom in close enough to see 
 space dust floating across the ports of your spaceship, and all the way out until every planet 
 is small and tiny. All through scrolling. There is no minimap. It's a brilliant move and one made 
 possible by advances in technology - but the game still runs fine on older machines, thanks to 
 a bevy of options in the graphics menu.
  
  And that's where the first criticism of the game comes in. The four tutorials are very basic and 
 do not provide much in the way of breaking down the learning curve. For such a grand game with 
 so much to do, these tutorials are disappointing. The appeal of the game is evident as soon as 
 it's loaded, so it probably won't turn many people off, but be ready to slog through several games 
 on easy, with frequent restarts, before learning how to play competently. Reading through forums 
 and other strategy sites will also be helpful.
  
  The second criticism combines several interface mechanics that are not intuitive, unlike the empire 
 tree. The technology page is hard to grasp at first, and it's unclear what you can and can't research. 
 Small crystal and metal icons tell if the technology requires more of a certain resource, and a 
 quick mouse-over will give more details, but it's not explained well enough to make much sense 
 at first.
  
  It's possible to queue ships, research, and buildings, which is very convenient, but if a change 
 is needed to the build or queue order, it's hard to accomplish. With two research stations queued, 
 if I suddenly need to build something else, I have to go through and cancel the other two buildings, 
 then build whatever else I need. A simple pop-up menu of what's queued at a planet would be helpful. 
 Same for research.
  
  The third complaint, and this is one that will be fixed starting with update 1.02, is about the 
 pirates. They attack after the first 9 minutes and then every 12 minutes after that. Paying to 
 keep the bounty off of your head and on your opponents' becomes a huge drain on resources and, 
 while adding an extra element to the game, would be nice to turn off once in a while. Or lengthen 
 the time between attacks. Again, this is a feature that will be fixed in the upcoming update, with 
 more user control over how pirates function in a game. Some people consider them indispensable 
 to the overall game; others see them as an annoying factor that only lengthens the process of exterminating 
 opponents.
  
  Finally, the game's structure itself doesn't allow for traditional 4X conceits, such as designing 
 your own ships or intricate development of planets. These have been greatly generalized because 
 of the real-time aspect of the game. Planet development involves a single click in different categories, 
 which upgrades the planet's logistical or tactical points, or it's maximum population.
  
  Stardock has said it will consider finding ways to work these elements into later updates, but 
 only the most hardcore traditional 4X players will find the lack of these features a significant 
 detriment to the game.
  
  Overall, Sins of a Solar Empire is a terrific, deep strategy game that brings together many elements 
 of traditional genres to create something completely unique. The flexibility of the universe builder 
 means great replayability. With a name Heinlein himself would be proud of, Sins of a Solar Empire 
 is an instant classic. It won't appeal to everybody because of it's slow pace and non-twitch gameplay, 
 but for people looking for an engaging and deep excursion into a well-thought out and well-implemented 
 fantasy universe, Sins of a Solar Empire is the best game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spl1nt3r_C3ll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Rarely do i buy games that havent been fully previewed/ reviewed by a gamesite before i trudge 
 over to the local store and invest in a game, and NEVER have i downloaded a game via purchase, 
 but this one i did. Reason?, well i got COH /OF and Supcom /FA and i also have Civ 4 with the all 
 the expansions and Gal Civ with all the expansions (also have Wic, but thats not an RTS :p) . Enough 
 said? It certainly fills that gap and now i feel i have every single breed of the best pedigree 
 within the RTS species. There are a few others which i dont have but i think i know what to look 
 for in both RTS and Turn based. 
  This game offers not as tactical micro as COH and Supcom but still you need to watch your battles 
 because your ships have special abilities which you will want to turn off/on depending on your 
 situation. Dont get me wrong, battles are epic, extremely tactical and fans of micro wont be dissapointed. 
 You also have a tech tree that resembles more the tech tree in turn based games which is huge. 
 This i think is the games most amazing feature as from here you can greatly diverisify your empire 
 and specialise through the many branches. Each tree is mostly different for every race making them 
 unique in many ways. AI is deep and challenging unlike AI in any other game. You may get peeved 
 with pirates raiding every so often but its all adds to strategic value you will learn as you play 
 more. There are bounties and a blackmarket so you can backstab your friends. Huge galaxies, maps 
 with 100+ planets all in real time! Not quite a x4 game but as strategic as you want to get for 
 an rts. I give this game a 9.5 because Wic got a 9.5 and its not even half the game this is, plus 
 Wics not even a RTS like it said it was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewspecks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Sins Of A Solar Empire.....
  
  Graphics: With settings on their (Highest) ...........
  Good looking game all the way around for the scale that the game presents. Even with the game graphics 
 at their best you don't have to have the latest in computer hardware. Lots of verity in ship design 
 amongst the 3 races, making the game look and feel more unique. Planet verity, ships, and structures 
 look great as you zoom in. On a plus once installed the CD is no longer needed.
  
  Sound:
  Each race has the own music and sayings that give them a fun and exciting feel. I though 
 found the alien races voice to be annoying but loved the other two. 
  
  Game play: (3 Distinct Races)
  Size Size Size and I mean size. You can play small 1v1 maps with 
 as little as 8 worlds to maps with hundreds of worlds to conquer, trade or destroy. Even small 
 maps can take hour to beat imagine maps with hundreds of worlds were talking about weeks to months 
 of game time. The AI is challenging, but beating it can feel a little repetitive if you stick to 
 the same strategies. The game can also feel a little flat or linear because ships can only move 
 left or right, but take a break and you will find yourself back at it again. In all if your looking 
 for a game with larger than life space battles SOSE is a great game that has brought it to you 
 on a massive scale. With hundreds of ships fighting for their Empire there is just a sens of satisfaction 
 watching your fleet crush another or watching them run in fear. 
  
  Online: 
  This is where the game makes up for the repetitive feeling you get playing the AI, nothing beats 
 having yourself or some friends battle it out online. Don't worry about the time when playing online 
 because games can be save and everyone can pick up where you last left off.
  
  If your looking for a RTS and 4X game that stands out from the rest the Sins Of A Solar Empire 
 is the game you have been looking for. I just wish I had it sooner... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Got the game on release day its very well designed. I had actually never heard of the game til 
 I saw it previewed on X-Play. If you like RTS games and are looking for something different than 
 normal this game is for you.
  
  Has a slight learning curve but after playing a few games you will get the hang of it. Be warned 
 though, if you are expecting the standard 5-min rush type RTS games this is not for you. The game 
 is played on a pretty large scale and even the smallest maps with 7 planets can take 2 hours to 
 finish.
  
  The best way to describe it would be like combining Civilization with Starcraft. It has the depth 
 of Civilization but plays in real-time like Starcraft.
  
  The major negative points the game has are:
  
  No single player campaign. The game starts to 
 tell a good story about the 3 races in the game but then just throws you to the wolves so to speak. 
 It would be nice if it had a single player campaign even a short on like Company of Heroes. 
  
  The standard edition didnt come with a shortcut card. The CE comes with one, but it would have 
 been nice to include that with all versions.
  
  Multiplayer isnt the most satisfying game unless you are playing with people you know. Games run 
 long and people often drop and the AI doesnt take over for them.
  
  But, for a game that you play with friends this game is a must buy. The really large maps can probably 
 take weeks to complete and online games can be saved. Its perfect for a group of friends that want 
 to enjoy a game with depth but dont always have a lot of time to play like most old gamers. ;)
 
  
  If you are a person that loved the old school tabletop strategy wargames like Starfleet Battles 
 or any of the old SSI or Avalon Hills games, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKKTTONY
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 has more fun, than Sins of Solar Empire (SSE) , because when you attack in Homeworld 
 2, your fighters fly around and keep circling on your target, but in SSE your Main units, jus stay 
 in 1 place where they can have reach of the target and just firing to that unit with it's weapon.... 
 You can't organize your fleet in what order like in Homeworld 2 you can organize the style of it's 
 fighting styles on what good to attack with that style, and you can have a height in Homeworld 
 2. In SSE you can't organize the height of everything in this game, so it seems abit like just 
 a flat surface area, in the whole SSE game. You know when you place Homeworld 2, it's like a sphere, 
 where you can fly Up or Down.
  
  I have to say Homeworld 2 it's more entertaining than this Space Warfare game...
  
  The Most 
 disappointing of all is you can't organize your troops in what order, and the game stays in 1 flat 
 space. Your units just move forward, backwards and turn left or right. It cant move up for down.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  A review with few words and to the point
  
  PROS
  - Great Graphics for the genre
  - Interesting and pretty good mix of RTS and 4x
  - Nice sound effects 
  - Three completely 
 Different factions from units, design and even in strategy
  - Low PC requirements and Epic Batlles with hundreds of units on screen
  - No Securom or any 
 stupid Activation method (just a Serial for having the ability to update your game)
  - Excellent Multiplayer value
  --------------------------------
  --------------------------------
 
  CONS
  - No deep Sci-fi story as Homeworld, just background story for the 3 factions 
  - Skirmish kind of maps
  - Single player feels kind of lacking (It lacks objectives and feels 
 swallow)
  - AI is between a genius and a failure (pretty competitive still)
  - Some Animations (like turrets) are completely static
  - Unit customization is low
  - Some 
 spaceship textures are a bit low res even in the highest detail
  - - Average replay Value... Becomes monotonous after few days
  
  
  PS
  If the game had a 
 REAL Sci-fi Story and a Mission based Campaign (or at least some mission based maps with objectives)
 
  i would vote it 9.0 
  
  But unfortunately at its current state it is a skirmish-fest so i vote it with 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire is just the perfect mix of RTS elements (resource gathering, real time flow, etc.) 
 and 4x strategy (planet management, research tree, etc.) .
  It's clearly the beautiful son of an already beautiful game called "Homeworld", and boy, people 
 at Stardock and Ironclad made this the right way: the game is focused not on the boring micromanagement 
 but it focus on the grand scale strategy so the player can spend his time workin on the big picture.
 
  Even playin for few hours will let you notice how much love and care the developers put on this 
 game: from the acting voices to gorgeous graphics of spaceships, this gamin jewel screams love 
 and genius.
  I'm a long time customer of Stardock so I know they will support greatly this game with a miriad 
 of patches, free improvements and enhancements.
  After some time you'll play this game, a question will spring in your mind: Was I born just to 
 play this game?
  and the answer is: Yes, you are!
  Two thumbs up, way to goooo! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  There are space strategy games and then there's Stardock strategy games. There is so much detail 
 in this game yet Stardock has made it simple enough for even beginner strategy game players to 
 easily pick up and have a great time playing. 
  
  Graphics are on par with games from a year or two ago, however, considering the vast level of detail 
 in the game it's easy to forgive and look past some of the graphical undershots. For instance - 
 planet's look alive and wild, however, you can still see the mapped terrain and landscape - some 
 pixelated spots even on the highest detail, but they're still pretty. And the developer has also 
 included planetary vehicular traffic that adds to the atmosphere of a spaceworld. The spacescapes 
 are huge and convincing. Ultimately the graphics are very pretty and balanced very well - it's 
 just hard to look back to these graphics after playing games like Crysis and Company of Heroes. 
 Nothing to knock the dev's for.
  
  Gameplay doesn't go too fast nor too slow. There are several optional gameplay setups for several 
 different size maps. As stated you can scroll all the way out to the galaxy level and all the way 
 in to the orbit of a given planet. If you zoom all the way in to view one of your units it is pretty 
 and moves as you would expect of starships and fighters to move. The balance between the three 
 sizes of ships is very well done. Fighters and bombers are effective, balanced, and fun to use. 
 Capital ships and frigates are also well kept. The only thing I would have wanted was a custom 
 ship builder option like previous Stardock games have had. However, your capital ships can level 
 up and you can customize the options of each capital ship in a limited fashion. There are a few 
 options different for each capital ship and each design is different. Ultimately you would level 
 up each ship and each copy of the specific design would have the same end result. During combat 
 shields flare and give to incoming projectile, beam, and laser weapons. There are flak frigates 
 and ecm upgrades to help against some of these weapons. The planetary customization is fairly deep, 
 although I would have liked to see some more options insofar as ground structures and ground based 
 warfare - specifically that there is no ground based warfare. 
  
  You can explore and colonize the galaxy peacefully but ultimately you'll end up in a fight as the 
 other factions during the game will request you to start a neighborhood brawl with their opponents. 
 And if you don't they'll treat you as an enemy. If it sounds too pinching you can always save and 
 reload the mission and reset the difficulty of each of the AI's in the game. 
  
  There are three resources during the game that you will use - taxes collected from your peeps, 
 metal mined from asteroids, and crystal also mined from asteroids. If you can't get enough metal 
 or crystals and you have more than enough green, or gold as it is in the game, you can use your 
 funds to purchase metal or crystals on the black market. However, supply and demand rules apply 
 and the price will go up as demand does as well. 
  
  There is a research tree that is split into four groups; military, civil, fleet (logistical) , or 
 artifacts. Most of your research will be of military or civil means which drives the game's tech 
 tree. However, you must also research logistical statuses to increase your fleet size capability 
 as well as any artifacts that you glean from the planets surface. In the end the balance is staggering. 
 
  
  The strategic setup of your planets systems is just as important as any other aspect of the game. 
 The enemy can enter your system from certain points so you can set up defenses but you only get 
 a certain amount of tactical source points to use for each system. This gives you choices for each 
 system and also limits the gameplay to a perfect balance of offense vs. defense. 
  
  In review, Galactic Civilizations was a great game but what is lacked in intricate gameplay Stardock 
 made up for with Sins of a Solar Empire. The game isn't quite as deep technologically or developmentally 
 but what it lacks for in this category (which isn't much) is greatly makes up for with action on 
 a real-time-strategy galactic scale. This is the first real attempt at this genre as the past greats 
 were turn based only - the king of which still stands tall after 12 long years - Master of Orion 
 II. If you're looking for a legitimate step in the right direction, Sins of a Solar Empire isn't 
 a risk, it's a reward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m14a3l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game that actually inspired me to write some sort of a review that can help guide 
 people whether they should buy SoaSE or not. This game is one of a kind and very unorthodox. The 
 graphics may be toned down a bit, but consider the MASSIVE galaxies a custom map can have. I made 
 a map with 600 planets just to test the behavior of the game, and it ran completely smoothly. It 
 is a game that certainly lives up to my rather high expectations when it comes to space strategy 
 games. 
  Some people compare SoaSE to Homeworld 2, but I would recommend against that. SoaSE is a game centered 
 on sheer scale, whereas Homeworld 2 is a micromanagement game. And frankly, I consider SoaSE a 
 much better game even with its imperfections.
  Speaking of imperfections, there are some fields of the game's mechanics that need to be fixed 
 IMHO. The ship-to-ship battles can take an awful lot of time, and it often annoys me when two frigates 
 battle it out for more than a minute. Battles could have been with more short-lived ships rather 
 than the current situation. Also, the explosions are not really to scale, but that's not really 
 crucial to the gameplay (although I REALLY like a big boom :-) ) .
  All in all, this game is really what I have waited for for a long, long time: an innovative and 
 addictive game.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Sound - 8
  Graphics - 9
  Value - 10
  Difficulty - 8 (Tutorial was not enough)
  Multiplayer - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocool1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  At first I was kind of surprised there were still no official reviews on here or on GameRankings 
 for this game because I wanted to see the critics take on it. Not that it would change my opinion 
 because I already know they ups and downs and ins and outs of this 4X RTSish space opera, but just 
 to see if it can somehow do well beyond a core audience and become more mainstream. I quickly realized 
 that the reason NO PUBLICATION or online sites has reviewed this yet is because; 1) They are still 
 playing it - engrossed so intensely in the deep gameplay experience that they have barley scratched 
 the surface to give it a proper review. 2) Have played enough to give it a quick, but just review, 
 but are struggling right now with the right words to describe it. Or 3) didn't even have this one 
 on their radar or know it exists (which I doubt the last one if they are any kind of game publication 
 or decent online site - do your homework!)
  
  So in lieu of waiting for an industry critic to express their opinion of Sins, I thought I'd jump 
 on quickly to give you my 2 cents worth (or a penny for your thoughts depending on how you look 
 at it) .
  
  Sins of a Solar Empire (which I will henceforth refer to as Sins) is not going to be everyone's 
 cup of tea. It is certainly a hybrid of gaming genres and mixes some of the better elements of 
 4X games (eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, and eXterminate) with other great aspects of an RTS (real time 
 strategy) . If you are expecting tedious, micro-manageable, multi-level turn-based game then you 
 may be a little disappointed (i. e. Master of Orion or Galactic Civ) . But on the flip side, if you 
 are expecting an all out RTS Zerg of space mayhem, a la Starcraft, then you may find yourself quickly 
 getting bored. For the most part, Sins takes the best of both of these genres and mixes them up 
 but what makes them work, imo, is that they do it so seamlessly with a very intuitive interface 
 and easy to understand gameplay elements. Its one of the few games that truly lives up to the saying, 
 "Easy to play but difficult to master."
  
  Does Sins fall short in some areas? Of course, what game doesn't??? Not having a single player 
 campaign could turn some people off. Dealing with some questionable AI at times (either clueless 
 or way to difficult) can sometimes be annoying. Because of that there are constant balancing issues 
 (i. e. instead of improving the AI in its truest sense you just dumb down some stats or frequencies) . 
 And from what I've seen on the boards, but haven't experienced myself, there are some multiplayer 
 and MODding technical issues. 
  
  At times its almost as if the developer, Ironclad, put too much into this game. So much that after 
 a long public beta period we are still seeing many balancing updates because they just couldn't 
 get it all. That's not really a knock, I'd expect that from any developer worthy of my hard earned 
 money, but somewhere in the back of my mind I wonder if those smart guys at Ironclad have bitten 
 off more than they can chew - I hope so! In a good way, I hope this game eXplodes! I hope the community 
 comes alive like it already appears to be with map (galaxy) making and MODding user contributions. 
 I hope Ironclad and Stardock have to hire more people to create a downloadable campaign and support 
 it and continue being as active with the community and standing behind their product as they are 
 today. (Side note: They also made a very simple and useful galaxy builder tool called Galaxy Forge 
 so the custom options are endless!)
  
  Maybe its just that this game really is right up my alley, so of course I'm a little biased in 
 saying its probably the best space strategy game I've ever played. For me, I will enjoy this one 
 right up there with the likes of Masters of Orion, Starcraft, and Total Annihilation - all of them 
 different but awesome in their own right. That's how Sins is for me, different, but awesome in 
 its own right. 
  
  In the days when many of us are anticipating the release of a new hybrid of genres (Civ, RTS, 4X, 
 customizability) and the delightful space exploration in S. P. O. R. E, its refreshing to see a game 
 come out of left field (for some) and actually deliver the goods without stringing the community 
 along for 4+ years in relative silence. Hats off to Ironclad for pulling it off and finally having 
 a developer/publisher team that are real gamers and understand what makes a great game and how 
 to support the community playing it.
  
  Later,
  ~JO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunt001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Thats exaclty what this is a very polished game, filled with fun and excightment for hours, for 
 me it has replaced galactic civilizations. This is a game which is sure to become a classic, and 
 hopefully if it gets enough of a following as galactic civilizations did it will also get sequels. 
 I have so far only played single player no multiplayer but if single player is any indication of 
 how good the game is then the multiplayer im sure will be phenomenal. I had been following this 
 game for a while now, and also watching the amateur videos of it, at first i wasnt sure if i was 
 going to get it, but the insertion of the full turn-based style tech-tree into the game was a sale 
 to me. It really is a game with spectacular visuals, sounds and just overall fun. Support this 
 game and I'm sure we will be getting wonderful expansion packs and sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panentheist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  While not perfect - this game will set the stage for a new hybrid genre from which many new exciting 
 games will likely emerge. As a bonus and in the Stardock tradition, Ironclad will continue to improve 
 the game with periodic updates based upon user feedback (these incremental improvements are generally 
 much more frequent than conventional patch practices) . I suspect that with further improvement 
 and the release of mod tools this game will likely become a true gem. More power to the small developer/publisher 
 platform who dare to go head to head with the big houses. Lets just hope they don't get assimilated 
 and corrupted by the lure of big money. Re the game, the 4X TBS and RTS fusion is a welcome format 
 and will certainly appeal to a subset of enthusiasts from both camps. It will not satisfy everyone 
 but what game does. This can only get better and it's comforting to see it get off to a such a 
 strong start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfsa
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Imagine taking two of the greatest space games of all time the Turn Based Strategy Galactic Civilizations 
 II and the Real Time Strategy Homeworld, both of which are defining games in their respective genres. 
 Imagine then, if you can, merging them into one game. That is pretty much exactly what Ironclad 
 has done. Sins of a Solar Empire has the size, scope and depth of a TBS, but it all plays out in 
 glorious real time. Sins is, in short, the birth of a new genre.
  
  The first thing you just have to understand is the scale of the game. A one star game with perhaps 
 ten planets will take you between one and two hours to play, while a ten star game with a hundred 
 planets may well take you over twenty hours. And with the (extremely easy to use) galaxy editor 
 you're able to build galaxies with hundreds of stars and over a thousand planets. You can zoom 
 right in on the smallest ships and take in the amazing model detail, and you can zoom in stages 
 all the way out to see your entire galaxy.
  
  Now, you may be thinking how a real time strategy could work on such an epic scale. The truth is 
 it can't. Sins isn't a real time strategy game. It's much better described as a real time representation 
 of a turn based strategy game. In the larger games, you'll have up to perhaps three hundred ships 
 spread out over several fleets, fighting battles all over the galaxy. Specific unit control and 
 micromanagement just could not work on such a huge scale. You can switch all AI assistance off, 
 set your ships into hold ground mode and manually control every ship's every move  but when you're 
 engaging enemies in a different star system and one of your planets elsewhere is attacked by pirates, 
 it's good to know that you can focus on the more important battle and let the AI handle everything 
 else. And handle it will. The AI is wonderful.
  
  While the game is always going to be compared with Homeworld, it's not Homeworld. Unit positioning 
 won't win you the battle, micromanagement won't win you the battle (only a few ships have clicky 
 abilities and even these are automatic by default) , how many actions per minute you can perform 
 won't win you the battle, and neither will how efficient your build queue is. What wins battles 
 is how you build your empire, how you build your fleets, which technologies you have, and where 
 and when you choose to engage in battle.
  
  The most noticeable thing about Sins when you first fire up the game is how sleek and intuitive 
 everything is. There's a wonderful menu on the title screen side which is very easily navigable, 
 and the UI on the in-game side is astounding. You can play an entire game without seeing a single 
 spaceship, if you like. The empire manager makes large scale ship control a breeze. Fleets, groups 
 and the ability to set units to assist each other makes things simple. As does the search function, 
 which lets you track down specific ships.
  
  Ironclad's online service is also an absolute pleasure to use. It's extremely stable (even on launch 
 day) , navigating the lobbies and available games is easy, a friend list makes playing with pals 
 simple, and setting up games with custom maps is as easy as a few clicks. Given the epic scope 
 of the game, you really need to be able to save your online games. Thankfully, you can. So those 
 crazy fifty hour games, you can play those online. Let me just make this clear: you can save your 
 games online and resume them at a later date. 
  
  There isn't much of a story to speak of. There's no single player campaign at all. Everything you 
 play will be skirmish  much like the Civilization games. A brief intro sequence gets us up to 
 speed on the three factions in the game: a Human faction, an evil Human faction and Elda- alien 
 faction. While their basic ship designs differ, the ships themselves are mostly the same (much 
 like Supreme Commander) in terms of their roles, it's the technology trees that most distinctly 
 separate the factions. 
  
  The Human faction  known as the TEC - has technologies mostly leaning towards economy improvements 
 and production improvements, which compliments their cheap, weak ships, making them a bit of a 
 spammer faction. You can bet that if you wipe out one TEC fleet, you'll have another coming at 
 you pretty soon.
  
  The Vasari  the evil Humans  is a sneaky, high-tech race. Their speciality is phase shifting 
 (the act of moving between planets) , which, combined with their expensive, more powerful ships, 
 can make them utterly devastating.
  
  The alien faction  the Advent  is a psionic race who specialise in improving their own vessels 
 with support ships while causing detrimental effects to enemy ships. The Advent is also adept at 
 shield manipulation.
  
  When you first fire up a game, you will start with one planet. Your first goal will be to get a 
 small economy set up, get a flagship out and a small fleet, then begin scouting and colonising 
 nearby planets and asteroids. There are faintly opaque rings circling each celestial body. These 
 are gravity wells. Your ships can only move freely within these which means all combat happens 
 in specific space around planets and the like, which keeps things coherent and manageable. There 
 are also lines connecting the planets known as phase streams. It is through these that ships travel 
 between the celestial bodies. Ordering your ships to move into one will automatically send them 
 zooming across to the next celestial body.
  
  You have three economy resources to deal with. Metal, crystals and cash. Metal and crystal are 
 gotten by mining asteroids which orbit planets (or are sometimes just floating alone if there's 
 no planet nearby) but both can be bought on the black market. How much cash you have is determined 
 by taxes, which is determined by how many planets you have and their respective populations and 
 development levels. You can also earn money through your trade networks (which works in a similar 
 way to the Civilzation games, but is more automated) , or through selling your other resources on 
 the black market.
  
  Your flagships (capital class ships) have a WarCraft III style levelling vibe going on. They earn 
 experience, level up and get access to new abilities. Each race has several, each of which has 
 a specialised role (from bomber carriers to planetbusters) , and they are really the centre of your 
 fleet. You can also, if you prefer, just buy the next level for your ships, meaning those level 
 1 capitals you just built won't be worthless in the late game, provided you have the economy to 
 level them up.
  
  You'll do very little building in the game, and if you prefer you can even set the AI to handle 
 building locations for you. Each planet you possess has a builder unit by default. These units 
 never need to be manually commanded, and you get them free. When they die, another is rebuilt automatically. 
 Each planet or asteroid you've colonized has so many 'slots' for logistics (trade and cultural 
 buildings, mostly) or tactical buildings, which are mostly militarily oriented. You have to choose 
 carefully how you plan out your planets. Building too many defences means fewer research stations. 
 You planet may be well defended, but it won't be contributing to your advancement.
  
  Once you have a small base and fleet established at your homeworld, you'll want to begin exploring 
 and colonising. Exploration is easy, scouts (which can be automated) can quickly explore large 
 chunks of the map, but colonisation is a little tougher. Most colonisable bodies are defended by 
 non-aggressive neutrals who will defend their territory, but never leave it. This gives early colonisation 
 a slow pace as you try and break down minor fleets. It makes rushing literally impossible, even 
 on a small map.
  
  You'll also have pirates to contend with. Pirates are easily comparable with the barbarians of 
 the Civilization games, except there is a wonderful bounty mechanic in play. Pirates will attack 
 whoever holds the highest bounty. This means you'll often find yourself either fighting off pirates, 
 or dumping your cash into making sure your enemies have them to deal with instead.
  
  To capture a planet, all you have to do is wipe out any existing colonisation and then send in 
 your colonisation vessel. The rest is automatic. Once it falls under your control, you'll have 
 a few decisions to make. Each planet can have so many upgrades in various categories ranging from 
 civilian infrastructure (which increases cashflow) to emergency elements (which improve defences) 
 to increasing the number of logistics and tactical slots a planet has. You can also explore your 
 planets, for a possibility to discover artefacts that impart powerful bonuses. You're ultimately 
 limited in how much you can develop your planet, so you'll have to decide whether you want to risk 
 attempting to find an artefact, when it comes at the cost of the planet permanently running at 
 a financial loss. There are many planet types ranging from terran to volcanic, but asteroids can 
 also be colonised. You may run into some cool other things like gas giants or wormholes.
  
  How far you can climb the technology trees is determined by how many research stations you have. 
 There are three main tech trees  a military, a civilian and a fleet. The fleet size tree is just 
 a linear advancement of your fleet sizes, while the military and civilian trees have a large variety 
 of technologies unique to each faction. Many technologies are also shared by the factions, but 
 to different degrees and some are more readily available to certain factions, which gives way to 
 specialisation for each faction. This means that even within the technology tree, you need to strike 
 a balance between military technologies such as shield and weaponry improvements, as well as new 
 ship prototypes, or civilian technologies such as economic improvements and improvements to your 
 planetary populations. Everything is a trade-off, and everything takes careful thought.
  
  As cool and engrossing as the empire building side of the game is, this is also a space combat 
 game  and what would a space combat game be without great combat? The battles are an absolute 
 pleasure to watch. You'll have epic battles between huge fleets. You'll have tiny little bombers 
 assaulting cruisers while fighters rally to defend them, larger frigates form lines and bombard 
 enemy vessels as the larger still cruisers and the monolithic capital vessels duke it out. There 
 are laser weapons and gauss weapons and ion cannons and ballistic rockets and it all just looks 
 spectacular. Some of the larger ships have gun batteries all over the place and it's wonderful 
 to watch them unleash death in all directions. Ironclad has compared the visual style of the combat 
 with Babylon 5, and it's a good comparison. A cinematic mode option drops many of the UI icons 
 and lines and stuff, which makes it even better. Sins is one of those games you really just want 
 to sit back and watch.
  
  But you should know that Sins is absolutely not an RTS. As I said above, it's more like a real 
 time representation of a turn based game. If everything up above seems so academic and boring, 
 it's because it is. This isn't an action game with big explosions and high-action. The battles 
 do look magnificent, but in a two hour game you might spend less than twenty minutes actually fighting.
 
  
  Visually, the game is pretty spectacular. It scales down very well so even machines three years 
 old can run it pretty nicely, but if you have modern hardware you can expect some astounding visuals. 
 The ship models are extremely detailed and the effects are great. The game is also extremely serene. 
 The nebulae are jawdropping, the space backdrops are wonderful and a great orchestral score backs 
 everything perfectly. The sound effects are all very appropriate and add greatly to the feel of 
 the game. The game is also extremely well optimised. It runs extremely well (and the level of zoom 
 at both ends of the spectrum makes it seem even more spectacular) and it plays well in a window, 
 which is great because it's the kind of game you sit down to play Tuesday afternoon and your next 
 glance at the clock shows that it's still afternoon. But now it's Friday.
  
  The AI is mostly impressive, which is not entirely surprising as the game is as much about empire 
 management as it is anything else. It will launch sneak attacks on your planets while your main 
 forces are engaged elsewhere. Even on medium, it can be a pretty tough challenge. In games like 
 this, though, it's always going to be other players that offer the starkest challenge. And Ironclad 
 has really built the game with that in mind. As said above the game is a pleasure to play online.
 
  
  But no review would be complete without at least some complaints. So this review is going to be 
 incomplete. Sins is the birth of a genre  it's the first example of a Real Time 4X game, and it 
 does it better than I could have ever imagined. This game breaks through all imaginable boundaries 
  it plays extremely well, it runs extremely well, it looks extremely well. If you like the Turn 
 Based Strategy genre, or space games in general, you want this game.
  
  Videos:
  
  Scale: http://youtube. com/watch? v=jEGxNC11yPU
  
  Combat : http://youtube. com/watch? v=wtBLFBXRT1A
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visiondj1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  
  Sins of a Solar Empire may not be the best game out there, but it's certainly an improvement over 
 the already successful game of Galactic Civilization by Stardock. You will either enjoy, or greatly 
 dislike this game, there is little room for in-between.
  
  The game has a high learning curve, as the tutorials do not provide the more in-depth strategies 
 needed to win against anything but some normal level computers and new players. The best way to 
 learn is to go 1v1 on a small map against a hard computer, and learn by mistake!
  
  Some people want to say this game has bugs, but it really doesn't. There is an error with dual-core 
 processors that can happen, which will result in them running at 100%, even after you quit the 
 game. However, Stardock already has a work-around posted on the forums, which is quite easy.
  
  The graphics are amazingly scalable, even a low-end computer can run this and it look pretty 
 good. The graphics are about up to Homeworld 2 standards. It's not 100% "eye-candy", but it's not 
 hard to look at either.
  
  The AI is quite impressive -- Stardock did an amazing job with limiting the micro-management of 
 the game to almost non-existent; allowing you to use the newfound time to think about strategy 
 and your plan. When playing against computers, they also do not "cheat" like in other games, they 
 are effected by every economy change, fog of war, etc that players are, and are quite "human like".
 
  
  There are "achievements" in the game, a lot of them actually. You unlock these just like you would 
 on your 360. As of now, these are just for show and have no effect on your game play.
  
  If your mind is asking its self "to buy or not", that really depends on your game likes. If you 
 like Risk and strategy heavy games, you'll probably like this. And with the starting price of only 
 $39.99, it's worth the buy. However, there are some people out there this game won't appeal to 
 -- if your a fan of 10 minute RTS games, then this is not for you, as most games take anywhere 
 from 2 to 7 or more hours to complete!..
  
  .. The game addresses this by allowing you to save multi-player and single player games in progress! 
 Yes, you can save a multi-player game, take a break, get all those players togethor again, and 
 pick up where you left off!
  
  
  
  Reason this 
 isn't a 10:
  
  - There are space pirates in the game that can cause some aggravation, and there is no way to "turn 
 them off" before starting a game. You CAN however, make your own custom map, and just not put any 
 pirates on it.
  
  - When zoomed in all the way to watch a ship fight, you will notice gun turrets and the like do 
 not "track" their targets, which is kinda lame, but understandable (.. but really... if homeworld 
 one could do that...)
  
  - There are three "races" in the game, and they really play about the same. Other than looks and 
 ever-so-slight differences between them, you'll be safe picking "random" for your race.
  
  - Games can take an extremely long time to complete; usually there is no inter-human-player fighting 
 for hours.
  
  - Pirates take skill away from the game, as you can simply bribe them to rush-attack an opponent 
 at the start (If they survive though, pirates do not match to an end-game fleet of ships)
  
  - Tutorials suck, and will occasionally not work (just restart the game to fix it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to go on too long on this review but I have to say this is probably the most addicting 
 game I have played in the last 2 years or so. It really is a great game. But a few warnings to 
 people who have not really read much on it.....
  
  - This is not a RTS in the vein of say C&C3 or even WiC.
  
  Make sure you understand that above 
 item. Ive already seen some people come into this game thinking they should be able to just do 
 the typical system of build up a quick army of "insert uber tank name" and bum rush systems and 
 win the game in 15 minutes.
  
  This is not that game. Stay with C&C3 if that is what you want. 
  
  To be honest I almost feel 
 this game is tailored exactly for a gamer like me. If you have the following issues with RTS or 
 Turn-based Strategy games then read on....
  
  - On most RTS games I get bored of them within a week. I hate playing all the teenager/young 20's 
 crowd who excel at building along the most optimal path to get uber units and tank rush you in 
 11 minutes. The single player only lasts a few days so then your only option is to play the tank 
 rush game or get steamrolled.
  
  - On most TBSG the games are almost too deep for me. While I did like GalCiv and its sequel... they 
 almost required too much of my brain to enjoy myself. I have work, kids and other things taking 
 up space in my brain. Learning all those complex things was too much for me.
  
  If your similar to me on those above points... then this game is made for you as well. It has just 
 the right mix of slower and more deliberate paced RTS gaming.... with a good amount of the 4X stuff 
 thrown in so you can do things like build up an economy and trade, develop planets, bribe pirates 
 and more. 
  
  There is more to it then just building up 5 steps on a tech tree to get uber tanks and kill the 
 other guy fast enough to get your burrito out of the microwave.
  
  The music is exceptional, the graphics very well done, lots of cool scenarios to run and from what 
 Ive heard the multiplayer can be good but they have a few more kinks to work out. Im still only 
 playing singe player though learning the game more. 
  
  Anyway... its a great game. It would have been neat to see a more focused single player campaign.... but 
 from all Ive heard they have lots of release coming in the future on this game... so anything can 
 happen.
  
  Great game... dont miss it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohiomike12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was in the beta and i hoped it would stay that good. They did not disappoint. The pirates are 
 tough, but just an annoyance that can work to your benefit. You can play up to 10 players as any 
 one of 3 races with different technologies. When you first get the game and colonize your first 
 planet, make sure you upgrade its infrastructure,, because new planets will be a drain on your 
 economy.
  
  You can start with a 1v1 game on a small map, or work your way up to multiple star systems where 
 you need special technologies to explore. If the game seems hard at first, just make sure to keep 
 the pirates off your back by outbidding the other factions and getting them to work for you.
  
  But the think i like most about this game, is the support. I have spent the last week on the 
 forums watching the devs respond to questions and suggestions!
  
  I don't think you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mc1csmo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  SotSE is a smart mans 4XRTS. The 'Zerg' tactics are hindered greatly by the mechanics to make it 
 a true strategy game. A+
  
  The ship designs are fantastic and zooming in to watch a battle will almost distract you from empire 
 management. The interface allows ease of this management from all levels and this is good because 
 you will find yourself managing multiple battles happening simultaneously. 
  
  The tutorial is adequate but could have been more robust. I wish also there were more tool tips, 
 but that aside, you will be able to jump into a game after the brief tutorials and start up a small 
 game and have little trouble getting into the swing of things.
  
  Very much like Supreme Commander, you can zoom in to watch and/or take control of the action at 
 the tactical level, and zoom out to see the strategic theatre. This doesn't have a tremendous affect 
 on your hardware, and it works very well on average systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I opened it up and off I went . Now, my computer is old but it has a 7800 graphics card from Nvidia, 
 and it made the load time go by in a flash, like less than 10 seconds max.
  
  The graphics are breath taking, adding a ton to the games, It feels like Star Wars! The units are 
 great, i've only gone through one class though. One bad thing though, is the difficulty. I got 
 only a few minutes in and all of a sudden, "Arrr we come to take your planet!" I soon lost my beloved 
 planet. That really brought me down. But all of this makes up with the extensive tech tree, and 
 unit selection. It's hard though, balancing between the tech tree and building units/ advancing 
 your tech tree. There is also no campaign which kind of ticks me off, but like I said, still a 
 super game!
  
  In the end though this is an awesome game, with the graphics, and units, and wicked fast load times, 
 you will definitely fall in love with this breath-taking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayprez4u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  When I first bought Sins of a Solar Empire, I was a bit skeptical since it didn't seem like an 
 upper tier game. After playing the game for a bit, I can now firmly say it is better than many 
 upper tier games in its epic scale and colorful presentation.
  
  The object of Sins of a Solar Empire is to have galactic or even universal dominance based on either 
 military, culture, or economy, although it is usually a safer bet to have combination of all three. 
 You do this by colonizing planets, either by taking them over or winning them over with your supreme 
 culture, and building them up to be financially and militarily productive. You'll see ships and 
 tall buildings on the planet's surface if you've chosen to build it up. Asteroids can also be colonized, 
 though not on the scale planets can.
  
  My favorite part of the game is how you can zoom out to see the entire galaxy (or universe, depending 
 on your game size) and then zoom back in on a single point up close and personal. I have an aged 
 computer that's been upgraded a few times and the game runs silkly smooth on the highest display 
 options. 
  
  The sound of Sins of a Solar Empire is also very unique. From the thunderous booms of the planetary 
 bombing to the background music, SoaSE does not disappoint in its audio presentation. 
  
  My only real complaint with Sins is the tutorial. The tutorial did not do a very good job of explaining 
 all of the features, and thus you'll find you have to learn many of the strategies yourself. However, 
 after you find your footing, you'll be set for a unique gameplay experience that is sadly unrecognized. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikkylassauw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Sins of a Solar Empire takes you to the universe, it is one of the best space strategy games on 
 the pc (sorry for my bad english: P) ... This game is  
 I realy like this game. You can compare it with Supreme Commander.. Only this game is much better. 
 Btw, I can't wait for the expantion pack for Command And Conquer 3 called Command And Conquer 3: 
 Tiberium Wars Kane's Wrath.
  When is this game coming out??? When this game comes out i am sure that i am going to buy it. Let's 
 get back to Sins Of A Solar Empire. If you are a Star-Trek fan or Stargate fan. I suggest you buy 
 this game because you are going to like very much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logic_Wins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Sins is an amazing game. If you love RTS and youve dabbled in the 4x genre run and buy this game 
 now. If you like spaceships and the idea of runing a galactic empire... run.
  
  The scale of this game is massive, battles take place on planets witch serve as the basis for your 
 economy. Each planet has different upgrade in order to improve your credit intake (population) your 
 Tacticle and logistic strutures, exploration and more. One star may have 35 planets, while a game 
 has up to 10 stars! Not that all games are that big, but they have the potential to be. 
  
  The controll is great, you really feel like you can do what ever you want to do. SINS had a multi 
 year open beta test where they got alot of imput from fans. this really is the RTS gamers game. 
 You really feel like they havent left anything out. Theres even a multitude of achievments for 
 1 player and MP skirmish matches. 
  
  Its really hard to sum up such a large and incredable game, it goes where no game has gone before 
 and really hit the mark. The game is extrmemly pollished, it just looks, fells, and plays great. 
 
  
  if youve been on the fence about this one, dont worry, its all you hope it to be and more. 
  
 The only thing lacking is a "Storymode" campaign. Which, like with games like total war and civilization, 
 isn't really as nessacary with deep 4x-like games like this. It would have been cool but it by 
 no means "runes" the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  As I classified the game per the Gamespot classifications, the game, simply put, is boring. Another 
 way of putting it is that the game lacks the "it factor." 
  
  Graphics: 7.5. 
  Nice effects and explosions. Looks really cool when you have large battles with lasers and missiles 
 blasting back and forth. However, when you zoom in on a ship, there isn't that much detail. That 
 said, the plus side is that even older systems can play this game fairly well. This always helps 
 for online play among many players. In the end though, the graphics could come from a game that 
 was released 2-3 years ago.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Nice musical score. Sound effects sound particular good in large space battles. Also, each race 
 has their own sayings, which can be cool or creepy, depending on the race.
  
  Gameplay: 7.0
  Game is fun, cinematic, and exciting at first. However, for me, the appeal slowly 
 wore off as I played the game more. Perhaps my expectations were too high. I was expecting a bigger 
 and better Homeworld 2. Perhaps it is unfair to compare any subsequent game to HW2. Nevertheless, 
 that is my problem. I feel that a game (HW2) which came out years ago, is simply more fun and more 
 engaging than this game. 
  
  Honestly, it is hard to explain why I feel the game is boring. Some aspects I can explain -- a single 
 player or multiplayer game is slow to develop, even when set to "fast." Other than that, it is 
 more intangible. Once the novelty of the game wears off, it just doesn't come together that well 
 and doesn't hold the player to the game. There is no "Ahhh, I must play just one more hour!"
  
  Other Aspects:
  
  No single player campaign. Not a biggie, but people should be aware.
 
  
  The game does have some cool (perhaps novel features) . For example, it autosaves multiplayer games 
 and allows you to save them yourself. This is a self-evidently great feature. 
  
  Conclusion: All in all, this is a good, solid game. My point is that it is not a great game because 
 the appeal of the game seems to wear off with its novelty. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natuo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I remember the day when I was innocently scouring around a gaming forum when my eyes sat upon an 
 interesting title "Homeworld+GalCiv=Sins of a Solar Empire". Back then the first time I opened 
 the official website. It wasn't much to look at. But during the course of few months and a year 
 later, it picked my curiosity again as the thread having more post and people mentioning about 
 the betas. 
  
  Seeing how it was improving since the first time I saw it, got me interested to follow the progress 
 of this title. I was thinking, could this be it? A successful blend of 4X with RTS? I remember 
 playing Lord of The Realms 3 which has Real Time gameplay (The sequels is similar to Total War 
 on turn based map and RTS battle) , which was a huge disappointments in my opinion. 
  
  But after playing the Beta 4 through Pre-order, it got me hooked. Usually I don't like having the 
 usual turn based genre have everything simulated in Real Time. I feel it cost too much micromanagement. 
 But this game makes the management easier, you can issue a several attack fleet to assault several 
 different places while you attend to your planetary defense or economy with relative ease. 
  
  What truly amazing is that you can zoom in and out from fightercraft to systemwide/universewide 
 scale. Think SupCom zoom level but greater! And this done quite seamlessly without a hitch on my 
 computer. 
  
  Now this is several points which seems lacking in my opinion. There are no turret animation or 
 even firing arc. All weapon fire the same direction regardless the target's position. In Nexus: The 
 Jupiter Incident, left turret won't fire if the target is at the right side of the ship (realistic) . 
 Even Supcom also have turret animation. So it can be awkward seeing Kol Battleship firing 45 to 
 90 degrees sideways while it's main cannon still facing it's front. 
  
  Ships tend to just sit there once into firing range, unless you micro the movement yourself just 
 for fun. Also don't expect any customization like in GalCiv. Although you can add abilities on 
 your capital ship once they level up.
  
  Oh yes, I forgot to mention the intro. It's pretty much reminiscent of Homeworld style cinematic 
 for those who didn't notice. It's not that bad, as you got good gameplay.
  
  Overall, don't let the minor details bother you. Sins of a Solar Empire, is one of those games 
 you would love to collect for RTS and 4X players alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The game does have a steep learning curve because of all the different things you have to familiarize 
 yourself with. It took me around 3hours to learn the basics, but once I got my hang around things 
 I had a blast playing my first game which lasted for 10hours. Very unusual for a RTS game.
  
  I found the gameplay very addictive because you never sense the hours passing. The game's universe 
 is very beautiful and so immense that sometimes you find yourself enjoying the view rather than 
 giving orders to your AI. No problem about that though, because the game has a very smart AI that 
 can practically run the game by itself, no need for micromanagement at all when you consider the 
 vast content this game has. That's a very huge plus.
  
  Other than the steep learning curve, this game is superb and it adds so much to the genre that 
 it may be years before we see anything like it again.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzman42
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  While Sins of a Solar Empire presents an excellent new take on the Real Time Strategy genre, it 
 falls short of its purported goal of mixing RTS with "4X" strategy games.
  
  Ironclad's attempt to launch a new genre may not quite have taken, but the result is still an excellent 
 and deep RTS. The interface is somewhat overwhelming and clunky at first, but soon makes the games 
 amazing scale feel seamless. The research and diplomacy features give a depth to the game that 
 is sorely lacking in most RTS games.
  
  Because of the sheer volume of innovative features packed into this game, the learning curve is 
 probably steeper then you would expect. It is a testament to the game's design that many of the 
 innovations make themselves apparent and easy to learn, which mitigates the steep curve some.
 
  
  The graphics are literally stunning. This reviewer found himself quickly losing his first game 
 against the computer because he kept pausing to enjoy the eye candy. I have an older PC that has 
 been heavily updated. It is probably about middle-of-the-road as modern PCs go, but the graphics 
 were still unbelievable.
  
  I can't quite buy the "RT4X" thing that Ironclad is selling. Nevertheless, Sins is a unique and 
 remarkable game, well worth the buy! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
