-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Slave Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/slavezero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 106 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The missing elements that keep it from being the great and innovative game it once appeared to be 
 don't necessarily preclude it from being a perfectly acceptable arcade game. 

 Previews of Slave Zero promised a game in which giant anime-inspired robots would do battle across 
 a futuristic megalopolis. They would stomp through city blocks that teemed with ambient life, scaling 
 or smashing any structure that stood in their way. The game would combine the complex, frenetic 
 robot combat of Sega's arcade game Virtual On, multiplayer features that would put Quake to shame, 
 and a strong story as well. But it turns out Slave Zero is just a mindless single-player action 
 game more akin to a 3D reworking of a side-scrolling console shooter. And on that level, it's relatively 
 successful.  

 At a glance, Slave Zero's most attractive feature is that it lets you play as a towering monster 
 on a rampage through a city. Unfortunately, while your Slave (Slave Zero-speak for Mech) is ten 
 times larger than the average human, the city you get to rampage through is twenty times taller 
 and denser than Tokyo. Similar-looking, brightly-lit skyscrapers stretch far into the sky, completely 
 blocking the view of your surroundings. You're dwarfed by the architecture and therefore end up 
 feeling about as monstrously giant as you would lumbering around your own hometown on your own 
 two feet.  

 Slave Zero attempts to enhance the illusion of your Slave's size by populating the city with tiny 
 people and cars, but these additions don't help the illusion much. The vehicles look and move like 
 small crates on a conveyor belt. The humans look somewhat better than the cars, but move just as 
 stiffly and don't react to your gargantuan, flame-spraying presence in any satisfying way. You 
 can pick up pedestrians and automobiles and throw them, but there's absolutely no reason to do 
 this other than for a few short-lived sadistic thrills. Your Slave can't harm most of the city's 
 buildings, though some smaller structures can be destroyed, resulting in an odd and unsatisfying 
 collapse, during which the building emits a weak burst of flame then folds up like a cardboard 
 box.  

 The game contains fifteen missions, and most have three distinct parts. The levels unfold strictly 
 linearly. Even though you are ostensibly navigating city streets, there is never much of a choice 
 as to which direction to go; you'll never find yourself at an intersection wondering whether to 
 make a right or a left turn. Slave Zero's gameplay follows a classic pattern: Move ahead, destroy 
 a group of enemies, save, then repeat this cycle until you reach the end-of-level boss encounter. Perhaps 
 because they're mindless robotic drones, your opponents have specific movement and firing patterns 
 rather than any suggestion of intelligence. Each type of enemy will tend to do one specific thing 
 such as run straight at you while shooting, stand in place while shooting, make two perfunctory 
 dodging rolls then stand in place while shooting, fly while shooting, or one of a few other maneuvers 
 performed while shooting. Most of the time, you can win battles without much tactical thought - 
 your best strategy is generally to charge right in and start shooting as well.  

 In spite of these faults, Slave Zero manages to get enough things right to be worth playing. The 
 missing elements that keep it from being the great and innovative game it once appeared to be don't 
 necessarily preclude it from being a perfectly acceptable arcade game. The combat isn't intricate, 
 but in the tradition of the best side-scrolling shooters, it's frantic and filled with blinding 
 explosions. Your Slave has three basic weapons: a traditional bullet-shooting machine gun, a laser, 
 and a rocket launcher. Over the course of the game, you can permanently upgrade these weapons by 
 walking over various power-ups, to the point where they become incredibly potent. It's a simple 
 system used in many console games, but is no less effective or satisfying in Slave Zero.  

 However, it's Slave Zero's excellent boss battles that will compel you to continue playing. Even 
 one unique and memorable boss conflict is generally too much to expect of action shooters anymore, 
 but Slave Zero has more than a few. Each level ends with some kind of goal-oriented conflict that 
 either involves destroying a large, heavily defended object or protecting some equipment from attack 
 for a certain period of time. Every third level ends in an epic duel between your Slave and one 
 of the enemy's giant Slave Commanders. These encounters are incredibly well staged and tense. Your 
 goal is always clear, and you are given plenty of indications as to how close your opponent is 
 to defeat, a seemingly obvious detail often overlooked in PC games. The third of these encounters 
 typifies their quality: It takes place across the roofs of four skyscrapers. The Slave Commander 
 Revenant Prime appears and splits into two flying metal serpents, which bombard you from the air. 
 While shooting skyward at the commander's halves, you must leap from roof to roof, picking up ammo 
 and health. Revenant Prime periodically reforms and fires a beam of energy at one of the towers, 
 causing it to crumble into the city below, leaving you with less room to maneuver. Eventually, 
 you're left standing on the only remaining roof, low on ammo and desperately trying to destroy 
 the Slave Commander before it reforms for a final time.  

 Slave Zero is more a diversion than a revolutionary game. The graphics and sound are above average, 
 but not exceptional. With no multiplayer options included, you won't be joining a community, and 
 you won't be playing it again once you've spent the twenty or so hours it takes to solve it once. 
 It's really just a solid and simple action game punctuated by some legitimately thrilling moments. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Slave zero is one of those fun games that you would want to play now and then. The fact that you 
 are playing as a towering Robot may seem a little out of the ordinary but its plain fun doing stuff 
 like picking up small cars and stomping on enemy infantry.
  
  The first thing that you realize in Slave zero is that the graphics are a bit off even for a game 
 created in 1999. The sounds also aren't too impressive. But its the gameplay that really lifts 
 up the game.
  
  You'll often engage in a battles that will keep you entertained and test you to the limit (Especially 
 the boss fights ) . Another good thing about slave zero is that the missions aren't always repetitive. 
 For example there are some missions in which you must protect a critical item and not just fight 
 your way out of a situation. All in all the game inst too bad but then again there are too many 
 games that are way better than this one. But having said that i doubt that you wont be entertained 
 by playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Game Features:
  
  + Smooth control and is very responsive makking easy playability
  +/- Just over average graphics
  + You can pick up alot of things, from girders to pipes to cars
 
  - The scale of what the city looks like in the year 2500 seems very unlikely and makes you mech 
 than can squish people and cars feel normal sized
  - A rather uninteresting storyline thats hard to understand anyway
  + Alot of furious action 
 and fun intense boss fights
  - Game is very linear considering your a rampaging mech in a large city
  
  In the year 2500, 
 you are Slave Zero, a stolen prototype mech and your goal is to overthrow the leader of this large 
 metropolis city, SovKahn. And thats pretty much Slave Zero's storyline. Yeah, theres not much to 
 the plot, but you sure will have a blast playying this game for everything else.
  
  In Slave Zero, you play as (whats supposed to be) a huge mech. The game plays in a linear fasion 
 which is odd considering your in a super huge city and your a rampaging mech. And as a rampagine 
 mech, you thought you could destroy everything right? Wrong! You can only destroy buildings or 
 objects that are smaller than you.
  
  But thoose are realy the only bad points about Slave Zero. This game is a fast paced action game 
 and it has very smooth and responsive controls that makes controling a mech a snap. You will often 
 be in some intense firefights. You will be shooting, hiding for cover and picking up cars which 
 you can throw. Yes you can throw cars and admist other things aswell that destroy of buildings.
 
  
  The boss fights are the main attraction of Slave Zero, they can be great fun. Some are just shoot 
 and dodge whilst others you will be jumping across rooftops and surviving for your life. Boss fights 
 arn't frustraiting at all, mainly because they are such great fun. The only problem you will have 
 with boss fights is that if you die, you respawn a few stages back rather than before the boss 
 fight but it shouldn't take long to get back into the fray.
  
  The graphics in Slave Zero are just above average, Some parts such as the models of the mechs look 
 realy good. But for the rest, traffic looks like cardboard boxes, the textures on the terrain is 
 pretty simplistic and lifeless but occasionaly there are some nice particle effects to see such 
 as the generators.
  
  Sound is a bit more above average than the graphics, ranging from the booms of misiles, the blasts 
 of energy guns, the "when flesh meets metal" crunch and some occasional music but realy doesen't 
 suit the action of the game.
  
  Did I mention guns? Well Slave Zero can handle three different classes of guns. You can have rifle, 
 energy or projectile. Each of which is upgrable but its only either just by progessing torugh the 
 linear game and getting an automactic upgrade along the way or by finding it in a secret area which 
 isn't so hiden that you would be able to find within a few runs.
  
  Slave Zero is a fast and furious mecha game with slick controls and intense boss fights. While 
 it has its weak points, overall there are more good things about the game than bad. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
