-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sniper Elite
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sniperelite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Headshots.
 Lengthy and challenging single-player campaign with some interesting and challenging missions.
 Realistic bullet physics make long-range shooting challenging and satisfying.
 Great sound puts you right in the middle of battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some textures and characters are reused throughout the game.
 Hit detection is a bit off sometimes.
 Missions can take a long time to complete, so if you don't have a lot of patience you'll likely get bored.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,540 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 27, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sniper Elite offers a lengthy single-player game full of tense and rewarding moments, but it requires 
 a lot of patience to truly enjoy. 

  It might be difficult to get excited about yet another World War II shooter on the PC, especially 
 since there are already a bunch of great, similarly themed shooters already available. Call of 
 Duty 2, Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood, and Day of Defeat all came out within the last few months, 
 they're all great, and they're all about World War II. Despite its bad timing, worn-out source 
 material, and lack of exposure, Namco and Rebellion's recent stab at the genre still does a lot 
 to distinguish itself as a competent and thoughtfully designed shooter. Sniper Elite takes a different 
 approach to the concept of storming beaches and mowing down Nazis. As the title implies, this is 
 a game about being a sniper, and it requires a more methodical approach than simply popping a hot 
 one in anyone wearing the wrong color uniform. That said, Sniper Elite does require a lot of patience, 
 but dedicated marksmen will get a lot of satisfaction from the lengthy and challenging campaign. 

          Sniper Elite is another World War II shooter, except you're an elite sniper instead of 
 an ordinary soldier.     

  Sniper Elite takes place in 1945, at the close of the war. The game focuses on the conflict between 
 Russia and Germany for control of Berlin. The Russian secret service, known as NKVD, is in town 
 to steal the atomic-bomb technology from the German Army. You have to put a stop to that posthaste, 
 because nuclear weapon technology in the hands of Stalin's forces would surely spell big trouble 
 for just about the entire world. You are an American sniper, trained by the OSS to be the best 
 of the best when it comes to covert operations. Disguised as a German soldier, you have to stop 
 the NKVD at all costs. The single-player campaign is quite lengthy. There are 28 missions in a 
 variety of different (but very similar) war-torn settings. The missions are pretty much what you'd 
 expect from a sniper game. You'll have to assassinate high-ranking officials, steal secret documents, 
 rescue captured allies, and shoot hundreds of guys in the head. The campaign can easily take 12 
 hours or more to finish. If you complete all the optional objectives and take the time to set up 
 all your shots rather than just blast away recklessly, this game will easily take up as much time 
 as you're willing to give it. Therein lies the conundrum with this game. If you play it carefully, 
 a single level can take much more than an hour to complete. The stealth is well done here, and 
 the game does a great job of building up the sense of tension that comes from sneaking around and 
 picking off enemies. After a while, though, that tension fades into tedium, and you'll eventually 
 just be wishing you could move on already.  

  The missions aren't particularly satisfying, either. Some of the more complex missions are great, 
 like when you have to climb your way up a cathedral tower and snipe enemy soldiers as they rush 
 your ally, who's stuck waiting for transport. The problem is that most of the missions are rather 
 anticlimactic. You'll spend a long time fighting through as many as six or seven fairly simple 
 but time-consuming objectives, only to have the final objective be something as simple and unexciting 
 as walking to the ex-filtration point, unchallenged, so you can exit the level.  

  Another problem with the missions is that they require a lot of trial and error to really figure 
 out what you're supposed to do. You'll die several times while trying to figure out what the best 
 position is to complete your objectives, or where enemies will be coming from. This means you'll 
 replay the same mission several times, even on the easiest difficulty. This is especially frustrating 
 when you go through 20 minutes or more of buildup, only to have the guy you were supposed to assassinate 
 get spooked and run away. Then you have to go through that 20-minute buildup all over again. Luckily, 
 you can save anywhere you want and at any time, though you do have a limited number of saves per 
 mission. You'll want to save often so you don't have to keep going over your same tracks every 
 time you die.  

          Headshots are the order of the day in Sniper Elite.     

  You'll die a lot, too, because as a sniper you aren't equipped to take much damage. A few rounds 
 from a machine gun at close range are more than enough to put you down. You can find bandages and 
 medikits on the ground and by searching corpses, but healing items are few and far between. The 
 enemy artificial intelligence here is deviously intelligent, as well. In fact, the AI is almost 
  too  intelligent sometimes; they have an uncanny sense of where you are at all times, even when 
 you've gone to great lengths to remain concealed. The enemies in the game don't often just stand 
 there and wait for you to pop them in the head. Enemies run for cover, crouch, and lay down, and 
 they'll even work together to pull some dirty tricks. For instance, a group of enemies might keep 
 you occupied while another enemy sneaks around behind you and unloads a clip in your back before 
 you can even turn around to see what's happening. If you shoot an enemy in the leg, he'll fall 
 to the ground and squirm around while shouting for help. If you don't finish him off right away, 
 another enemy will pick up his fallen comrade and carry him to safety. The game does a great job 
 of making the enemies seem crafty and intelligent. A good deal of the challenge here is derived 
 from the fact that it's usually far more effective to outfox your enemies than it is to outgun 
 them.     

   

  The shooting is handled fairly well, as long as you're using the sniper rifle. The shooting is 
 challenging, but it's also pretty forgiving on the default settings. By default, the only variable 
 that affects the trajectory of your bullets is gravity, so on the longer shots you have to aim 
 slightly above your target. You can turn on other variables, like wind, if you want to. When setting 
 up your shot your gun will sway slightly, due to your breathing and heartbeat. You can hit a button 
 to empty your lungs, which will steady your hand for several seconds. The PC version of the game 
 definitely benefits from the precision of the mouse as opposed to an analog stick, but you still 
 have to account for the realistic bullet physics, so long shots can still be tricky to pull off. 
 After you have an enemy in sight, you can take him down with a single well-placed shot to the head 
 or a couple of quick shots to the body. If you score a long-distance headshot or other instant-kill 
 shot, the camera will dramatically follow the bullet as it leaves your gun, flies through the air, 
 and takes off a chunk of your enemy. Headshots are especially gruesome with this effect, as you'll 
 see chunks of brain and skull fragments burst out of a guy's head. The bodies don't actually deform, 
 so you can't blow a guy's head clean off, but the close-up, slow-motion effect is still more than 
 enough to make even veteran snipers cringe. That isn't to say the headshots aren't satisfying, 
 because they are; however, they're definitely not for those with weak stomachs.  

          The single-player game is quite lengthy, but it requires a lot of patience and clever positioning 
 rather than twitch reflexes and lots of ammo.     

  The hit detection does seem to be a bit too simplified at times. You can kill a guy with two shots 
 to the thigh just as fast as you can with two shots to the chest. Aside from the aforementioned 
 headshots, it doesn't seem like it really matters where you hit an enemy. You can kill a guy by 
 shooting him in the pinky, or even by simply grazing his backpack.  

  The levels in Sniper Elite are fairly well designed, but by the end of the game you'll have seen 
 the same plywood barricade, burned-out truck, and crumbling building dozens of times. There are 
 a couple of standout levels, but for the most part you'll be slinking around the rubble in the 
 deserted city streets. There are plenty of places to hide and pick people off, but most of the 
 shooting here takes place on level ground. There are a few sequences in which you'll be sniping 
 from an elevated position, but mostly you'll just be lying prone under a truck or crouching behind 
 a barricade. There are also some parts of the level design that are just a bit too convenient to 
 be believable. There are tons of plywood barricades with conveniently placed holes right at your 
 line of vision. You'll also have to take out fuel trucks or tanks, which, luckily, can be taken 
 out with a single shot to an external fuel cap. The fuel cap is left unprotected, and it's even 
 a different color than the rest of the vehicle to make it especially easy to destroy. If single-player 
 isn't your thing, you can take this game online or hook up with some friends on a LAN to play deathmatch 
 with up to eight players. You can also post your marksman scores online to see how you stack up 
 against other players. The online deathmatches definitely move at a much slower pace than your 
 average game of Unreal Tournament 2004 or Counter-Strike. Again, if you're patient, you'll enjoy 
 it; but otherwise, you'll probably get bored fairly quickly. Unfortunately, there aren't too many 
 people playing online at the moment, and even when we were able to get into a full game, the lag 
 made the game pretty much unplayable, even on a high-speed connection. Unlike the console versions 
 of the game, the PC version doesn't have any co-op play.  

  The graphics in Sniper Elite look about average, but the PC version looks sharper thanks to higher 
 resolution and antialiasing, and the water, particle, and lighting effects do show up a bit better 
 than in the console versions. Regardless, you'll see the same few textures over and over again, 
 like the smear of grays and browns used to indicate rubble -- except that on the PC version, those 
 grays and browns look a little bit crisper. You'll also see the same couple of character models 
 throughout the game. Some will have hats and others won't, but they're all the same couple of guys. 
 Also, you really have to search for your targets, because there are so many layers of obstacles 
 for enemies to hide behind. The game will play tricks on you by putting moving objects in your 
 way, like newspapers blowing in the wind or machinery in factories. Because your eye will be so 
 trained to pick out the slightest movement, you'll often find yourself thinking you have a target, 
 only to find out that it's just a part of the environment.  

  The sound in the game is exceptional, and it really gives you the feeling that you're in the middle 
 of a war. If you have a good speaker system on your PC, you'll want to turn this one up loud to 
 fully experience the tense atmosphere created by the constant sounds of planes, bombs, and artillery 
 rounds exploding in the distance. You'll also hear enemy soldiers shouting at one another, but 
 they only have a few lines that get repeated over and over again, which gets annoying after awhile. 
 You really can't play this game without sound, though. You'll come to rely on sounds of footsteps 
 or gunfire to tell you exactly where enemies are. Fortunately, the sound feels like it's a part 
 of the game, rather than just a tacked-on effect.  

          The PC version of Sniper Elite looks a bit sharper than the console versions, and the mouse 
 offers a bit more precise aiming than an analog stick.     

  Overall, the PC version of Sniper Elite is every bit as good as the console versions. The cleaner 
 graphics and increased precision that comes from using a mouse more than makes up for the lack 
 of co-op play. It's also worth mentioning that this game uses Star Force copy protection, so it 
 won't work with certain hardware configurations. On the first system we tried, Star Force wouldn't 
 recognize the disc, but it worked just fine on another test system.  

  If you've played all the other World War II shooters and are looking for something a little different, 
 you'll enjoy Sniper Elite as long as you have the time and patience to really get the most out 
 of it. If you have an itchy trigger finger and love gratuitous explosions and heavy weaponry, you'll 
 probably want to pass on this game. However, if you like stealth games you'll find a lot to like 
 in Sniper Elite.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sohodojo_Jim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Considering that it can be had at bargain bin prices, this is a fun game for a quick play now and 
 then. Almost arcade-y in its superficial simplicity. But the missions are interesting and involved 
 enough to warrant planning and stealthy persistence. 
  
  The background ambient sound is repetitive. If you can just tune it out it won't bother you too 
 much. The "bullet time" kill shots are cool to watch and are like a little real-time reward for 
 good aim. 
  
  On today's machines you can crank its graphic settings way up and get a decent visual experience, 
 but don't expect too much. Also, although it is dated, it loads and plays well on a Vista box.
 
  
  Finally, as others have said, this seems to be the best sniper style FPS to date. Given the quality 
 of this one from a few years back, it would seem time for a Sniper Elite 2! Since it probably wasn't 
 played that much in its prime, a simple remake using a current framework/platform would be a welcome 
 addition to the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I don't have many things to say about Sniper Elite, other than this: storyless, pointless, boring, 
 useless. It's really a game that should have never been created. Nothing special and pleasant about 
 it, except for bullet time. But that can't save this game from its downfall. Graphics are something 
 usual, could have been a lot better, gameplay sucks, AI is bad and not natural. Missions are pointless, 
 with objectives that present no interest.
  Don't play this game thinking it would be a great sniping game. It's not! There are no real good 
 sniping points. You rarely have the chance to go to the building's top floor. Most of the times 
 you have to snipe on the street, using roadblocks or cars as cover. That's not sniping IMO.
  
  If I were you, I wouldn't play this game. It's a waste of time! It's the worst game I ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detoam13
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  The only thing I did not like was that it is a 3rd person. Can't stand that. But I loved the rest 
 of the game. Especially the awesome head shots. There really needs to be more games of this genre 
 as the rest of them (i. e. marine sharpshooter, path of vengeance, art of victory, etc) are either 
 horribly done or just plain too buggy.
  Multi player was not all that great, but only because there aren't many people who play the game. 
 Also some of the tasks were just plain too hard too cope with as You have to switch between 3rd 
 and first person view. Too much of that switching takes Your focus away. I have not noticed many 
 bad bugs in it. And once again I just love the view of those bullets heading for the guys head. 
 Could have made a great video compilation, but alas as always I forgot. Give it try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sistem_42
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  ... but is not a great game. 
  
  Sniping system is done great, you have gravity, wind, hart beat that effects your sniping and bullet 
 path, and nicely done camera that follows the bullet if you have a head shoot, moving target, or 
 so. Great. Until you make 1st kill. From moment you do that everything goes down. Because no matter 
 how well you are hidden enemies will be instantly aware of your position after your 1st shoot, 
 and what should be your greatest advantage in the game was brought to zero; some enemies with machine 
 guns will in FACT be more precise that snipers, and will have no problem killing you form 50-100m 
 (and they usually will come in that range, just come form no where) , so sniping them will be extremely 
 hard. 
  
  A good game puts you in difficult positions but offers you a way out of it, so you don't save and 
 load to much, so you don't get bored.
  But that is not the case here. Enemies will attack you instantly after your 1st shoot, will be 
 ultra precise, and will come literally form no where. So the only way you will be able to end it 
 is by constantly saving and loading and trying over and over again. Which is boring and frustrating.
 
  
  After playing game I have a feeling like half of the game makers worked on stealth sniper game 
 while other half worked on FPS. It is a shame really it could be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, maybe one day we'll have a cool sniping game that's worth the time and effort. But 
 until then we'll just have to settle with Sniper Elite. 
  
  In this game, you play as American secret agent and sniper disguised as German who is (surprise, 
 surprise...) trying to stop the naughty Nazis from selling their nuclear technology to the Soviets 
 in the last days of WW 2. Historical facts aside, this gives you a good excuse for crawling through 
 the streets of war-torn Berlin and shooting Russkies in the head (my apologies to our fellow Russian 
 gamers - I meant no offense, it's just the way this game treats Red Army) . Altough head shots look 
 really cool, that alone is not enough for a good sniping game. Sure, the game is very realistic 
 when it comes to sniping. You have to be mindful of your posture, wind, gravity effects on bullets 
 (so-called "bullet drop") , distance from your target, and all kinds of things to make an accurate 
 shot. Even your heartbeat rate and breathing can make a difference. 
  
  That's all great, but after a few good first impressions, you'll begin to notice game's many serious 
 drawbacks. First of all, the AI. Don't get me wrong, enemies are smart alright. In fact, they're 
 too smart. Very often they'll swarm you like locusts on even the slightest hint of your presence. 
 It's like they telepathically know where you are, which becomes really frustrating, considering 
 the fact that this was supposed to be a stealth-based game (camouflage and carefully chosen sniping 
 positions are crucial to any sniper... duh!) . So how the smeg are you supposed to be stealthy then? 
 They're also insanely accurate. You wouldn't expect a sub machine gunner to hit you from more than 
 50 meters away while running sideways across the street, but it will happen on a regular basis. 
 As for the enemy snipers, they're no more than a nuisance. Despite the fact that they're ALWAYS 
 hiding in perfect sniping positions, they can't hit you even if you stand tall and wave your hand 
 at them. What should have been the highlight of the game (duels between skilled snipers) turn out 
 to be nothing more than waste of effort, because enemy sniper are mostly harmless.
  
  Oh, and don't think you'll get many chances to shoot your targets from tall buildings and church 
 towers (unlike the real life sniping) . Most of the time you'll be crawling through dull streets, 
 taking shelter behind garbage piles. Despite the fact that you're actually SURROUNDED by buildings, 
 you can enter very few of them. Oh, and yes, enemy snipers are all miraculously positioned in those 
 spots you can only dream of. It's like the game shows you what you could do as a sniper, but never 
 actually lets you do it. And even when you do, you usually have to snipe everyone around you just 
 to make it to the building alive, so it's not very rewarding. Well, there are a few good missions 
 in the game, but most of them are dull and involve a lot of slow-paced crawling. Play this game 
 for longer than one hour, and by the end of the mission you'll be so pissed off by tons of enemies 
 who jump out of nowhere (despite your best efforts to stay hidden) that you'll forget everything 
 about sniping and just start blasting away with machine gun, just to get through the level. 
  
  Well, what else to say about a sniping game where sub machine gunners turn out to be the biggest 
 threat to an "elite" sniper? The game is kind of cool, and fun for a while, but unbalanced AI, 
 poor mission design and a lack of ability to use real good sniping positions turn it into a one-trick-pony 
 that gets boring after a few missions. I seriously doubt anyone would play it all the way to the 
 end, but I'd lie if I said I didn't enjoy it, at least for a short while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassbomber20
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been a hard-core sniper ever since Delta Force came out. There is just something about placing 
 a well-aimed shot on-target, at extreme ranges, and nailing them, w/o them having any clue about 
 it.
  
  Sniper Elite was a bit of a sleeper title that came out back in 2005. It's a bit of a rarity now, 
 so good luck finding it anywhere but in online stores.
  
  You play an American agent who is working for the British, near the end of World War 2. Basic point 
 of the game, keep Russia from getting Germany's atomic bomb plans. While the game is mainly 3rd 
 person, you do your sniping in first-person through your scope. With wind, gravity, shortness of 
 breath and heartbeat effects, this is about as real as it could get. Headshots go to a bullet-time 
 effect to let you watch your handywork blowing someones head off, or their eye out, or their teeth, 
 what-have-you. 
  
  Anyhow, I'd recommend this title to people who love to snipe. The enviroment definately feels like 
 bombed out Berlin. You can mask your shots with artillery explosions even! It has this Enemy at 
 the Gates vibe to it aswell. Sound is very important in the game overall. So if you have a pair 
 of good quality speakers then your all set! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics  For a game made in 2005, its hard to compare this to anything out there now, but lets 
 just say they didn't suck. Not a single crash the entire game, and the load times were quick. Character 
 modeling was probably well above average for that time period, and the physics were also done well.
 
  
  Gameplay  This is where this game shines... If you have ever played a FPS, picked up the sniper 
 rifle, and never put it down, then Sniper Elite is right up your alley. If you prefer close combat, 
 maybe not the best choice of games, but there was still plenty of close combat to be had. The AI 
 was ambitious even compared to some of the games out there today. Enemies would go around buildings, 
 not always walk aimlessly through the door to a bullet in the head, and my characters footsteps 
 aroused suspicion with barely a sound. Standard choice of weapons, and even some nice options other 
 than the sniper rifle. The [bullet cam] that allowed the camera to follow the bullet during final 
 blows or head shots never really got old, and was a definite plus compared to some sniper games 
 where you just see a body drop from 200 yards. The voiceovers, although not epic, were actually 
 nicely done, and there are a lot of games that could take a lesson from the basics used in the 
 voiceovers and storyline. 
  
  Overall  Well worth it if you don't expect massive graphics, and just want to enjoy some peaceful 
 long distance killing. The game is very long, and I highly suggest towards the end, or if you get 
 bored, that you try the following cheat code. Change your player name to "Stealth" and your all 
 your weapons act as though they have a silencer. Added a nice twist to the game to take out enemies 
 from 200 yards while they stood 5 feet from their buddies and not a sound.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Well to be totally honest, you best love playing as a WW2 Sniper to really enjoy this game. Cause 
 THIS IS NOT some FPS ala CoD 4 or UT series. So if your looking for those sort of games, you may 
 want to give this a pass, But for those for something different read on...
  
  The SUM UP: Ok, so your a WW2 Sniper set out to do A to B missions in broken down cities, open 
 fields and bases. You're basically all alone, you dont have peeps backing you up. You cant drive 
 any vehicles, BUT you do have some Heavy Firepower which even out the odds in your favor. Sure 
 the Graphics are dated, but what makes this game shine is in its Flexiblity in getting those missions 
 done with gameplay.
  
  So going beyond the Dated Graphics lies a game you can play 2 ways. ONE is totally being a sniper, 
 taking in wind speed and directions, along with holding your breath. This is some real stuff here, 
 no joke... (I had to take off the wind speed and direction since i found it time comsuming) . TWO 
 is you have alot of weapons at your disposal, from machine guns, grenades, RPG's (Although they 
 use a the German name) . From start to finish, this game allows you to kill your enemies in alot 
 of differnt ways. Different ways = fun.
  
  Graphics: Okay okay, so its not best on the market atm. But hey it gets the job done. I mean the 
 game even lets you see in SLO MO how your sniper bullet takes off half the face of your target. 
 Now you dont see that in many games.
  
  Sound: Atmospheric, from the warplanes flying past, to distant explosions, cries of alarm. From 
 the shuffling of your body moving on the ground to the authentic gun fire shots. The game truly 
 shines in this department.
  
  Gameplay: Well Ive been boasting on this alot thus far. I mean to be honest you could play this 
 game without taking a sniper shot.... altough alot of enemy snipers are on rooftops or high reach 
 places... So given the fact you can find more than one way to get the job done. Either go in quiet 
 or loud, or go straight at the mark or perhaps take the long way around. The game allows you to 
 decided how to playout your Lone Wolf Sniper affection!
  
  Replayability: Sure I look for 'value' in my games. So there are times where you would want to 
 play a level again and try it differently or perhaps go all silent, ala Hitman. OR put on the Realistic 
 MODE, and try shooting a head shot with all the variables. TBH its not a game I would say has a 
 high replay 'Value' to it for most gamers, most will just love the experience one time.
  
  Closing: Gotta like WW2, Sniping, SLO MO, finishing tasks YOUR way, and Above Average graphics 
 to take on this Great Underappreciated game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Sniper Elite brings all the sniper action you could possibly want in a game. A well made environment 
 allows you to sneak, take cover, aim and make superbly placed shots (presuming you have the skill) . 
 Some of the good aspects of the game include very well made difficulty settings allowing the user 
 to turn on and off modifiers like wind, gravity, grenade blast radius etc that come in handy for 
 rookie players and that make the game a bit more spicy for advanced players; another good aspect 
 is the presence of enemy snipers in the game, making that crawl through the rouble trying to get 
 a good shot more dangerous, keeps you cautious and adds to the flavor of the game. The game play 
 is pretty decent with good graphics but it has its down falls; after playing a while missions tend 
 to get monotonous, the long durations of most missions may bore some players and there is no saving 
 possibility during a mission. These are the aspects that bothered me and that i liked regarding 
 the game but all in all it`s a game worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siper_22
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is the most rock game in sniping games ever , 1st the gravity 2nd the wind 3rd the distance 
 all of this effects show you how this game is smart so i think its the best can u tell me what 
 do u think about this game ??? any way i hope that all of u play NFSprostreet its rocks &amp; guys 
 ther is a new game called burneout paradise its amazing its for u sniper elite sniper elite sniper 
 elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite 
 sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper 
 elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite 
 sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper 
 elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite 
 sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper 
 elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite 
 sniper elite sniper elite sniper elite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent747672
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  a must have game. well worth the money. I cant wait to see if they come out with a follow up game 
 or anymore of this type of game , It is just the type a game I have been looking for, you can just 
 feel the danger that your in , the sounds, the senes, are like none out there in this class of 
 games, I was not disappointed with this game like I have been with others, the more you play the 
 harder it gets, but what game is worth playing if you dont get challanged, I just love this game, 
 for a single player game, this is by far the best, a real hero want to be game. And I have became 
 a hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this isn't your average WW2 game. It's about the end of World War 2 and the beggining of 
 the cold war. It sounds strange and boring that the cold war is happening at the end of WW2 in 
 Berlin and it's actually a war but it sets the scene for a great action game.
  
  Wherever you hit your foes, it is satisfying. Slow motion long headshots never become boring. The 
 realism settings also make it even more satisfying to hit enemies from such long range and I don't 
 know wnhat they're on about at gamespot the hit detection here is brilliant, especially on you. 
 Gamespot also said that alot of the game looks the same in each level. It dose to some extent. 
 The city streets do look very similar in places, but the good thing about that is that the game 
 has a distinctive look that sticks with you when you imagine Sniper Elite and the streets also 
 look interstin and have nice textures. They're more fun to look at than those of Call of Duty.
 
  
  The multiplayer is aslo fun and acessesibe, with a flawless built in server browser. There is also 
 still a good and hardened fan base playing online but for reasons I wont go into, you won't find 
 me playing at the moment. If you ever like to buy tons of cheap games then include this and make 
 the most of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The WW2 was one of the biggest catastrophe in the world. A lot of soldiers has fallen, but most the 
 civilians. But there are some good peoples, who try and they prevent such disaster. But now about 
 the game. You are a elite sniper who is deep behind enemy&acute; s lines. You get order, you complete 
 the mission. Very good game with good effect (Slow mode) . The playground is pretty good, but not so 
 good.. Beautiful weapons and other tools are amazing. The truth is, that the game is one of the best 
 games I know about snipers. The sound got problems, but the music is ok. Gameplay is good, but some 
 times is hard to control your charter and the camera isn&acute; t some times perfect. But really 
 good game.
  
  Graphic: Standard graphic, could be better.
  
  Sound: Sometimes problems, but ok.
  
  Gameplay: Ok gameplay, but the close combat sux (ups) , but 
 from the other direction is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moses15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The genre of WWII shooters was thoroughly overplayed by 2005. This is not to say that there weren't 
 a heap of incredibly worthwhile titles amidst the horde (namely the Call of Duty and Brothers In 
 Arms series in my books) . Whilst I came across this game I was perusing the titles in the Walmart 
 bargain bins, just a mass of general crap fills these bins for those who do not already know. Whilst 
 attempting to wade through the filth I happened to see this title and it stuck in the back of my 
 mind. I, as a gamer, like to do a little research on games that I am pondering buying so I did 
 the research on this little gem. Gamespot gave it quite a fair ranking and I figured the price 
 was right. What I noted most was that the average feedback ratings were nice and high so I picked 
 it up. I quickly found that its gameplay was incredibly addicting. The basic premise is that you 
 are an American soldier sent in by the OSS to stop the Russian NKVD from stealing the German's 
 atomic bomb plans. It basically facets as a prelude to the Cold War. It is also a nice change to 
 be firing at a different enemy than the good ol' generic German. So you are sent on plenty of missions 
 that have you eliminating Russian officials, helping cover attacks on supply stations, or the initial 
 recon that has you taking out Russians in pillboxes and much much more. I shall start with the 
 graphics. It must be noted that this game is a value game from 2005 so don't go into it expecting 
 to see graphics on par with F. E. A. R. or Oblivion. However once you turn on Anti-Aliasing and Anisotropic 
 Filtering the graphics are nothing to worry about. Some of the characters and textures are reused 
 consistently and the play areas aren't exactly spectacular in detail but they don't get in the 
 way either. It gives the feel of a usual WWII game with lots of earthy tones and blasted apart 
 rubble. Now for the gameplay. This is where the game picks up but I will save the good for last. 
 The only bad that I have to say is that sometimes the hit detection is a little off and the way 
 your character runs is a little awkward to the point where it has the slight sense that you're 
 driving a car (but only in the vaguest sense) . Now to the good. The game is played from the Third 
 Person Perspective so you can see your soldier and the weapons he is carrying which generally defaults 
 to a sniper rifle and silenced pistol at the beginning of a level. The sniping is where this game 
 truly shines. I was very pleased to see that the developers decided to make the sniping a little 
 more realistic in that you have to gauge for wind, distance, gravity, physical position, etc. It 
 makes lining up your shot more difficult and forces you to be patient waiting for the right moment 
 to pull the trigger. If you happen to aim well enough for a good head shot the game gives you a 
 nice bullet time view of your bullet flying through the air, penetrating your enemy's skull and 
 blasting it apart in a shower of crimson blood. In addition to the sniper rifle and pistol there 
 are weapons from the dead you can use (PPSH, MP40, all that sort) . The grenades are worth mention 
 just because they give you tripwire grenades which you can use to cut off possible flanking positions. 
 The enemy A. I. is for the most part solid, especially on the harder difficulty levels. They will 
 make good use of cover and fire from the cover when they see the opportunity. I had one shot where 
 I managed to place a shot neatly between a steel bar and a concrete pillbox the enemy was hiding 
 behind and hit him squarely through the right eye. They can also spot you fairly easily if you 
 don't use cover effectively. Your player can't take too much punishment from bullets before he 
 dies but there are both health packs and bandages that you can requisition from supply stations 
 and enemy posts. The sound in the game is solid as well. The soundtrack isn't overly powerful but 
 it does the trick effectively. The music keeps the tension and feeling. It also changes sometimes 
 depending on the situations you're in, whether it be a last stand against a horde of enemies or 
 waiting to pull the trigger on your mark. The sound effects are well done with gun cracks, the 
 whizzes and pings of bullets blasting the rubble around you. Rumbles of tanks, shouts of enemies 
 and allies, the death scream of the unfortunate victim of your placed shot, everything you'd expect. 
 In conclusion this is one game that is well worth your money to pick up if you have the patience 
 to be a sniper. Run and gunners should turn their attention elsewhere because you won't find that 
 kind of action dominating this terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turnbull83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Great game, although a bit slow at the start. This game grows on you the longer you play it. Quite 
 a long game so good value for money. The easy mode is very easy so you need to go in at a higher 
 start point. The idea of only a few saves per chapter is really good, additional saves can be made 
 but you loose points -great idea. The graphics are ok but not fantastic and the surroundings do 
 become a bit repetitive. The online game is great fun but it did freeze quite a lot, maybe my computer. 
 I found it hard to join a game but the French always let you in to play - I wish I has lissened 
 to the teature now as I could not understand my team mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrydandan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  When i had purchased this game i must admit i thought Ahh this game must be rubbish it's only &pound;10) . 
 But when i installed it and started playing i was amazed, i thought How could i have not known 
 about this game But i honestly have no idea, this truley is a lost Gem, and i can say that this 
 game is honestly worth buying, the action and use of slow-motion bullet-time killing of soldiers 
 is really quite amazing.
  
  In conlusion it reminds me fondley of Max Payne, all i can say is that if you really enjoyed Max 
 Payne you will really enjoy this game, well worth the money, and time. I recomend this to all gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitmanzombie
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, making a sniper game with third-person view is stupid. You can see where the main 
 character can't possibly see. And the main character's body blocks your view if you are using weapons 
 other than sniper rifles. Third-person view is more suitable for fighting games such as Devil May 
 Cry or God of war. A shooting game, especially long range shooting game is better with first-person 
 view. The thing that pissed me off is the enemy AI. I chose easy AI, but still, enemies never miss 
 a single shot even with machine guns. And It doesn't even take half of a second for them to aim. 
 They will shoot you extremely accurately as soon as they spot you. So if they are meant to ambush 
 you, they will success and you will be dead. Another thing about the AI is that when the alarm 
 is not on, enemies can't see you from 50 meters away. But if the alarm is on (or they hear your 
 shots) , they know where you are no matter where you go.
  
  I am not a sniper geek so I don't really know how real sniper works. But is that wrong for a sniper 
 to operate in wide-open areas? I thought snipers are more like hiding and waiting like hiding in 
 a pile of rubbles or building ruins. This game is more like a special operation agent game.
  
  Though this game has really good effect and realistic sniping issues, but it is really disappointing. 
 So, my favorite sniping game would still be Delta Force Land Worriers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot got this review pretty close for once. The sniping is probably the best I've ever seen 
 in a FPS. Very realistic yet entertaining at the same time. The different settings such as wind 
 and gravity that you can turn on and off keep it fun. If you are a novice just set the difficulty 
 to easy and you can still feel pretty satisfied by your sniping. What makes it so fun is also the 
 bullet camera that follows your shot in slow motion untill it hits. Sorta like Max Payne's sniper 
 rifle if anyone remembers. So nothing really new but still fun to watch. I turned on gravity only 
 and long range shots were still fairly hard to accomplish. Since it's World War II i guess the 
 weapons aren't as accurate as you would expect, specially the machine guns.
  
  The AI is really good in this though. Even on easy. And by good I mean they can spot you quite 
 a ways off even if you're hidden. So you will try to take your time and crawl around mostly. The 
 average gamer might find this frustrating if you're not into stuff like this. So I wouldn't recommend 
 it if you don't like to wait around, like gamespot said. Enemy snipers also tend to shoot and hide 
 unlike other games, then pop out again someplace else. So you should be on the lookout for muzzle 
 flashes.
  
  All in all I think the game is very realistic in a fun kind of way. Both with the environments, 
 weapons and enemies. What brings the game down entirely is the story and the characters. I've finished 
 the game and I still don't understand who I am and what exactly I just did. In some missions you 
 are disquised as a German so you only have to worry about Russians, in others its the opposite 
 but you have to save other Russians. The missions are pretty random as well too. Sometimes you 
 just need to go somewhere and take someone to safety other times its search and destroy with your 
 teammates or plain and simple stealth missions.
  
  So the game is quite fun. Worth playing and checking out if you are into WWII shooters and the 
 like. Even more if you are into sniping. Just don't expect a whole lot of character detail and 
 purpose in what you are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Admit it: nothing is more exciting than pegging some fool online with a sniper rifle, be it Halo 
 or Counterstrike. Unfortunately for those of us with the penchant to camp and wait for prey to 
 cross our sights, the only viable options have been the budget-price Marine Sharpshooter games, 
 which, although fun in their own ways, do nothing to invigorate the sniper gene. Luckily, Sniper 
 Elite is a game focusing whole-heartedly on blowing enemy's faces through the back of their skulls, 
 complete with the slow-motion to detail exactly where the bullet penetrates.
  
  Taking place at the end of World War II, Elite tasks you with knocking off Russians as the Allies 
 fear they will revert the Eastern European front to their control and demand bloodshed (the Cold 
 War, albeit in gorier form) . Missions take you from the streets to the Brandenburg Gate and beyond, 
 although some are more frustrating than others. Elite tracks statistics and awards point values 
 based in the difficulty and skill in which they are executed, which can in turn be posted online 
 for comparison and analysis. Standard difficulty levels each turn on or off features such as wind 
 simulation, gravity, and blast radius for explosives. The Marksman (Hard) setting, however, is 
 the only level with an appropriate level of challenge, as the two easier settings lack wind and 
 other features which make sniping enjoyable. Of course, this also makes the enemy very accurate, 
 and occasionally too good, because when a submachine gun can be utilized as a rifle from 200 meters, 
 clearly the realism is thrown to the curb.
  
  But enemies shooting players is not where the realism and fun lies, so that's not really much of 
 a detractor. Elite features a perfect engine which produces dazzling physics; wind is taken into 
 account as is gravitational pull on the bullet, which at long ranges becomes the real task - determining 
 exactly how to punch a hole through a face at 150 meters and beyond. When any vital body part is 
 struck (testicle area included, for what reason only you can be the judge) , the game switches to 
 a slow-motion camera which follows the bullet to its final resting place, detailing exactly the 
 damage done. I can think of no better feature and it never, ever, ever become tiring to see a slug 
 decimate another sniper from so far away.
  
  Praise aside, there is not much to complain about. Missions do tend to be longer than an average 
 shooter, but since Elite is all about sniping, it doesn't classify as such and therefore does not 
 deserve to be spurned. I found the best tactics is to feint out and draw fire, then dodge in, go 
 prone, and fire when a bead is had -although on Marksman this is more dangerous as damage is far 
 more realistic. This also brings me to my sole major complaint which is the save system. While 
 quicksaves are allowed and encouraged, only five are given throughout the course of a mission before 
 point begin to get docked. While if you could care less about points and do not plan to post them 
 online this isn't a concern, I found is annoying in the harder, longer missions.
  
  Besides the saving system (which is still far better than checkpoints, which would have made Elite 
 the single most unplayable game since Die by the Sword) , Sniper Elite is fun from beginning to 
 end. If sniping is your bag, pick this up immediately because no budget title brings this much 
 satisfaction at long-range combat. If not, Elite remains an extremely-fun and challenging title 
 which has an amazing amount of replay - everything can be done twice and remain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I actually hate these kinds of games, first person shooters, and if it's about the wars too, i really 
 cant stand them. However, i got my hands on this one, and started playing it (for a bit i thought) . Right 
 from the begining i got caught up in it, it was great. The way they focus most on the sniper (thas 
 the name of the game) , and one of the things i loved the best the camera close-up when u hit enemys 
 in certain spots. I could say lots more, but i'll stop here. This is one of the best games i have 
 ever played, try it, u won't regret it!! I would go even as far as to say u should buy it (if u can 
 afford too) , that way u can fight against the piracy a bit too. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Spring 1945. The ravages of World War 2 are drawing to a close and the Russians and Germans are 
 locked infurious conflict for war-torn Berlin. Reports abound that the Russian secert service (NKND) 
 are in Berlin to steal atomic bomb technology from the German Army. You control the fate of an 
 American soldier ,trained as a sniper by the OSS. Now as key member of an invisible, yet elite group, 
 you are assigned to the most sensitive pf missions disguised as a German and working alone, you 
 must infiltrate hostile enemy environments and using your stealth and sniping skills, and stop 
 Stalin's forces from controlling the world's nuclear technology . The future of the world's geopolitical 
 fabric is riding on you. The grapics , sound and gameplay are Fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cculture
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Snipers would love this! Real-feel covert missions. Nice POF with scoring per shot! Has a sweet 
 fly-by camera view too, with each long rand head-shot. Nice variety of weapons, and can scavenge 
 weapons and items from enemy.
  
  Should have included a knife, or use of hand/bayonet/ for close combat.
  
  All in all - this 
 is an excelent game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirico_Cuvie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you are a twitch gamer and are looking for the next Call of Duty, this is not it. 
 CoD is a great series but for those of us that like to slowly sneak around and take out the enemy 
 from afar, this game is a unique opportunity.
  
  I'll sum up the game since the excellent review already goes over the plot and gameplay. This is 
 basically a stealth WWII game with a large emphasis on sniping. You get several sub-machine guns 
 and a silenced pistol for those quite kills, along with a hefty amount of tools to help you on 
 your mission. You use these just as often as your rifle so calling this game a cross-hairs only 
 title isn't really true. I particularly like the trip-wire grenade that enable you to set up a 
 shield of sorts when you expect troops to come up from behind you.
  
  The game is quite long and will have you infiltrating factories, eliminating officers, taking out 
 artillery, protecting comrades while playing God in a bell tower. One level has you taking out 
 motorcycle couriers that leave 5 minutes apart and go three different routes out of the city. Each 
 time you take one out, the patrols get thicker as they hunt for the guy that's killing their messengers. 
 You need to navigate the ruined city to find a spot to take out the next bike while avoiding the 
 patrols, all in 5 minute intervals. Another mission tasks you with eliminating a group of elite 
 enemy snipers. There are three operating in a city section but you have to find them, they aren't 
 perched somewhere either, they are mobile and actively hunting you too. As I tracked one and got 
 him with my rifle, another snuck up behind me with a silenced pistol, I had to use my sub-gun on 
 him. This isn't scripted and can take up to an hour to track them down, although it is optional 
 if you don't want to take the time to do it. This was my favorite part of the game and I made sure 
 to keep a savegame there so I can go back to it. There's a level that is taken rather liberally 
 from Enemy At The Gates , complete with ducts, light rays from holes in a glass roof and furnaces 
 to hide in.
  
  Each mission can be done in a variety of ways and while trial and error do enter into finding the 
 best way to do it, you can often figure out what way suits your style. You can run in guns blazing, 
 you can pick them off from afar, you can sneak and use the silenced pistol for quiet kills or you 
 can do all three. I've gone through levels with never using my rifle, and I've gone through some 
 where it was the only weapon I did use.
  
  The head shots are satisfying every time. It's great when you are trying to get a guy that's hiding 
 behind something and you factor in gravity for bullet drop that clips the top of his head. It's 
 pretty gnarly when you get them in the face or throat and chunks fly. The sound that goes with 
 it is perfect too, a meaty smash with some liquid to it. One cool thing about the zoom is the sound 
 follows the bullet. When I picked off a guy running along side a tank, you hear the tanks engine 
 in the respective location of the bullet as it passed by.
  
  My only gripes would be some unexplained story elements, the fact that you're in a German uniform 
 yet Germans will shoot you on sight. The bolt-action rifles fire a bit faster than humanly possible. 
 The G43 and SVT are semi-auto and true to life, but when you upgrade to the M91 - a bolt-action 
 rifle - it fires just as fast. Maybe it's because Oswald used one and shot as fast. It does use 
 Starforce but I had no problems with it. It came out before all the Starforce crap was as known 
 so I can't fault them for it. The buildings are used repeatedly. I was in Berlin and found a nice 
 spot to perch in for a kill, later in the game in another city I found the same building. It's 
 not horrible but occasionally you'll feel a little deja-vu in some buildings. In other games it 
 probably wouldn't be as noticeable, but when you are crawling around slowly and stalking someone 
 you tend to get intimate with the building since you see it for a longer time.
  
  One mission ended prematurely. I was supposed to go to the roof of the train station but when I 
 killed the last guy it said mission successful, even though I never made it to the roof or blew 
 the train. I played the level again and it still did it.
  
  The graphics could be better, it looks good enough but considering it came out around the same 
 time as CoD2, it pales in comparison graphically. Granted CoD2 doesn't render several city blocks 
 and allow you to freely explore in many of the buildings, but the difference is substantial. The 
 lighting effects are pretty screwy too. The characters don't share the same lighting as the level. 
 If you are in the shadows you look the same as if you were in the light. At times it looks like 
 you're lit up.
  
  I could go on but by now you should know if you want it or not. I recommend that you give it a 
 try, it's a unique game that really goes where none have gone before or since. I never went online 
 with it so I can't comment on that. I would've liked the co-op that the console version has, but 
 for some reason the devs chose to omit it. Probably due to the vast hardware differences and ping 
 on PC.
  
  In closing, Sniper Elite is a thinking-man's WWII shooter. You will not find another game like 
 it. If you are looking for something different from your WWII shooter give this one a try, you'll 
 be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barttman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, at first I was just trying to figure out what I was suppost to do. It took a little time to 
 get the feel for it, but once I did, it was just pure fun. I don't know what it is about sneaking 
 around, maybe its just the little boy in me. Ha!!! I do know that this game has a great sound track. 
 The artillery sounds are as real as it gets, I know, I was in the artillery in the Army. I don't really 
 like being confined by all the plywood boards everywhere, it seems not real, you know what I mean? 
 The graphics are very good. The only thing I don't like is it takes so long to get started playing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Sniper elite is one of the greatest war pc games in the graphics &amp; sound effects , &amp; believe 
 me Ican't compare it with medal of honor , cause this game has beated medal of honor from all sides.
 
  This game needs a patient ,clever player to finish it , not just like any other game when we hit 
 &amp; run . this one reminds me with hitman cause the player must be as stealth as he can .
  man it looks like a movie about the world war 2 like : enemy at the gates .
  finally let me say 
 : please go &amp; play it today not tomorrow.
  the cheats are easy also , if u want to have a silenced rifle just create a new profile and name 
 it as : stealth or to have a an exploding bullets name your profile as: panzer.
  
  thanks
  Satorn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboy_32820
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games lately.
  
  do u like sniping ?
  do like wwII games?
  do you want to play a game with lots of headshots?..... do you want sniper elite? no? go away!!!!
 
  
  with a great gameplay and good graphics and sound design every one will love this game there are 
 lots of options for firing a bullet like gravity heart rate and.......
  
  you know these day games are not like old days they are becoming graphically great with weaker 
 gameplay but sniper elite is not one of those it`s a huge wwII game that sticks you on the table 
 .just go and have fun with it .
  
  thanx for your time
  
  i say that again i`m not English so don`t say you that can`t even write how do you play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popov89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  We few, true, snipers really know a good shot when we see it, others just shoot at random hoping 
 to hit something. This game requires talent and patience and not your '1337' skills at Halo 2 or 
 Counter Strike. Breaking out with a MP40 in this game will not get you victory rather it will get 
 you a bullet in the head. Lying prone and adjusting for wind and height, taking a shot and moving 
 to another location will get you success. If that sounds too dull for you then just stop reading 
 and read some reviews for the latest reflex shooter. While everything else in the game is grand 
 the visuals do nothing to help the game.
  
  Set in Berlin, '45 the game pins you as an American agent who needs to stop the advancing Soviet 
 army from getting the German nuclear secrets. Granted that's about it for the main plot; other 
 bits are revealed later but do little to help the plot. I found myself, on too many occasions, 
 asking myself, 'why am I doing this?' Mission briefings, as well, do little to help the game and 
 does nothing to tell you what to except. In any case, the plot dribbles off near the end so just 
 forget about it now. No one ever played an FPS for it's riveting plot. While the story falters 
 the game play does not.
  
  The perfect shot involves a lot of things. Waiting for an artillery strike that can cover up the 
 sound of your shot, the perfect altitude and no wind. Waiting for some fool to walk into your sights. 
 Letting the shot loose and watching the bullet go into the head. Another cool feature of 'Sniper 
 Elite' is the ability to watch the bullet travel into some fool's head or chest if the shot is 
 from some insane distance. You have three rifles to choose from just not at the same time, automatics 
 as well and even a panzerschreck but all these take a back seat in favor of the sniper rifles. 
 While automatics come in handy every mission or so, most of the time they are useless. Granted 
 the Ai gives you little time to react in order to bring an automatic to bear.
  
  The Ai is two sided. At times, the AI can find you without any trouble and at other times does 
 not react to anything. While not reacting was rare, it happened enough to be noticed. Also, the 
 AI has a nasty habit of finding you without any trouble which takes away from the stealth portions 
 of the game. 
  
  In the end however, 'Sniper Elite' succeeds in giving you a refreshing plunge in WW2 FPS's by making 
 you snipe realistically. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I like the realistic drop in the bullet, but the wind doesn't have much of an effect on the bullet. 
 I dont like how if you are hiding then u kill someone every one else knows exactly where you are, 
 they shouldn't they should know that someone is there though. the bullet time camera every once 
 in awhile is pretty cool looking and i get to see it like every time i shoot. The graphics are 
 good and sound is good and the gameplay is incredible!!!!! one of the funnest demos that i downloaded 
 from Gamespot and im glad i found it. this is defenetly better then "Marine Sharpshooter" and the 
 second one of that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agressiveimpact
Rating: 4
Date: May 1, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  The game itself has a good storyline and a good idea, but the game is so buggy and unstable if 
 you play multiplayer online you cant go prone well it gets stuck in a loop between prone and crouch 
 the game sometimes puts the player to a very hard place on the easiest level (rookie) you have 
 the ordinary WW2 weapons like Thompson, mp-40. luger etc... and the sniper rifle the game play and 
 the intension of the sniping is great but again the bugs ruin it you bound to get stuck under a 
 barrier, go trough a brick wall on the ground and things like that otherwise the game is great 
 but don't waste your money on this its the most unstable game ive seen ( right after big rigs of 
 course ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wotaan
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  What other game gives the bullet physics that this one does? Not only distance drop, but wind, 
 how your breath/heart-rate influences your shot... And the patience one must have in order to deliver 
 the perfect shot. A lot of details that make it good. And i'm willing to look over a few aspects 
 that take some of its appeal (like repetitive textures, faces and such) . However, not a game for 
 the impatient and reckless.
  The game might be a little old for nowadays graphics, i heard it was supposed to be released some 
 good years back, but some time along the way the DC sniper happened and they postponed it. So it 
 might not have as many eye candy like the actual games, but nonetheless, when i found myself before 
 the Brandenburg Gate it was kinda breathtaking. Also they might have included at least one mission 
 on the outskirts of Berlin with some forest and foliage, to give a more complete experience.
  There are very few minuses i can think of for this game. But i may be a little biased; the voice 
 acting for one thing was somewhat forced at times. And a few glitches in the overall sound. But 
 other than that, if you have the necessary patience, it almost always you'll find it rewarded. 
 It's a stealth game, not a monster-mower.
  Oh, and i've forgot about the multi-player. I'll say just one thing: always get their dog tags. 
 And taunt them about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky1451
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  this game was rather good, it jsut all depends on how you feel about games, theres alot of people 
 out there that would rather run in gun sblazing being a moron, an then theres people who will wait 
 and snipe, i at times liek to be the blazing moron and i also love sniping, this is why i loved 
 the game. i am fine with just picking one spot and staying there for long periods of time waiting 
 for my target. if you have alot of patience go get it and try it, or just download the demo and 
 see if ur patient enough. its all in patience. its easy tho i thought i was on the easiest difficulty 
 as im flying through the campaign, and it turns out i was playing on sniper elite, wich is the 
 hardest difficulty. not tough at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tibete2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  take your time and enjoy. sniper elite is for people that like to think in a game and at the same 
 time shooting with class sniperrr. but talking about the quality of the, for me the game play is 
 almost perfect, the graphics just good enough, tiltingggg, and the sound has take me back to first 
 game i ever played, mohaa. the sound and the atmosphere are the big things in the game. is not difficult 
 to learn, and the difficulty is just right. the time that you spend playing the game depends i just 
 cant stop playing. crawling, being silent and not seen, choose the tactic, start engaging, take the 
 right place at the right time, zoom the target, blood pumpimg and..... pleasure in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday I have suddenly seen this game and after some discussion with seller I bought it.
  
  Well, here is my expression about this game. We all sseen the movie "Enemy at Gates", about 
 Soviet hero-sniper Vasilij Zay4ev. We also played with this personage in Russian Campagin in Call 
 of Duty 2. 
  
  But this game trully shows and outrageous and brave side of Vasili more than other relatedd games. 
 Gameplay it self really good designed, whole game keep you on tense and provide the best action 
 of WW2.
  
  Graphically game has its own range. Third person shooter with WW2 game story plus and advance thrid 
 person shooter graphical enhancement make this game already revolutionary. Sound, damn man... at 
 the start we hear bloody stunning noise coming from other side of road... soviet called this "Katyusha" 
 a missle launch weapons, really the same noise have been immplemented in game. Noise is just blowing 
 the mind.
  
  Also I liked that fact that you can choose you personage for you own taste. Some people dont like 
 play as a allied troop solidier. some of them wanna choose reix soldiers (germans) .... here it is, 
 Sniper Elite gives you this chance play as german soldier against soviet soliders..
  From first look I find game a bit hard, I mean control of the game is a bit was not handy as I 
 thought, but after some play time yo will get ussed to it and will enjoy full intense of sniper 
 action!
  
  A a little note about this game.... Personaly I reckon of the developers designed this game as 
 first perso shooter, this game probably would be the one of the greatest WW 2 First person shooters. 
 However, this is not too bad as some poeple complain about.
  
  Enjoy your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtovar91
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I've lost it.
  Lost it all... The profile loaded onto this game is gone, along with all levels completed. After 
 hours of the game crashing and rebooting my system, I can tell you that this game is a definite 
 loser.
  Fixes to it? Nope... nothing. NAMCO. the publisher of this game has not botherd to write any kind 
 of patch for the games poor performance.
  
  This is a horrendous game that is notoriously unstable. Don't waste your money.
  It's utterly 
 frustrating to have a combination of choppy graphics, with a game so full of bugs, that it should 
 not have been released.
  
  You're better off playing checkers. My second recommendation, do not waste your hard earned money.
 
  -Roger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsnomihere
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  The game seams easy in the start but gives you a real good time later.
  
  Good:
  I really admire the intelligence of the game. One wrong shot, the enemy just don't stand there, 
 he will move quickly and try to figure where you are and then tries alternative ways to get you.
 
  Getting a head shot effect on sniper on top of building is not very easy. You have to wait and 
 then he shows up for a very little time and also changes his position. 
  
  Game play is good. 
  
  If provided with more effects, moves the game has potential to be a 
 really really superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strmcrw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Well I always loved FPS games and always loved the sniper rifle. But in a conventional sniping 
 game you get to handle a sniper rifle from time to time, its always low on ammo and there isnt 
 so many opportunities to use it. But this game ended it all. You are a SNIPER! Look at the title, 
 it tells you all you need. You are a US sniper, after WWII, in Berlin, disguised as a german sniper 
 hunting down russians, and germans on the way. It appeals to you doesnt it. Well yes its a bit 
 on the hard side, and yes if you dont like sniping its boring, but hey which gamer likes an easy 
 game, and if you dont like sniping why buy a game named SNIPER ELITE. so if youre a true gamer 
 and you bought this game, I assume can guarantee that you'll love it. Seeing the world from a sniper 
 rifles scope all the time, thats what I like to call COOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Can't go wrong here. For a "B" rated game this sure beats a lot of them. How? First of all the 
 atmosphere is intense and the imersion factor is up there, way up there. You have to have that 
 in order to draw the player into the game. Secondly, it's third person instead of First (except 
 looking through the scope) duh, anyway this kind of view gives you more of a feel for your surroundings. 
 Thirdly, the gameplay is awesome! You can make double kills something I have never seen in any 
 game especially in the sniper genre but I could be wrong. Then you can set mines, dinamite, time-bombs 
 (which you can set the clock from 1-10 minutes!) and my favorite (trip-wire-gernades) . These you 
 can place in front and behind you so if the enemy tries to sneek up on you which they often do 
 you will know it with a big "Bomb"! It's great stuff haaa I love it. Though these items have been 
 in place in other titles SE seems get it all right. Now for the best and most important part to 
 a game like this, the AI. This is where the game shines in my book. Though the AI is capable of 
 some down-right stupid manuvers it is some of the best scripting I have ever seen. Why? Because 
 if you shoot and miss, the guy will hide from you but that's not all, he will find a way to sneek 
 in on you without you noticing where he is and attack you on your weak spot! Then, if you wound 
 one and he escapes he will alert the other to your location. 
  
  Overall all, a great TPS and accually is worth buying abnd playing and with the price down around 
 $20-30 bucks you really can't go wrong. Simply, the best WWII Sniper game I've played ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari_man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER 
 ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE 
 SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER 
 ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE SNIPER ELITE 
  
  This is one of the funnest games i've ever played. basically you are this elite sniper that grew 
 up in Berlin, you have been disguised as a German sniper to stop the German army from acquiring 
 the a-bomb. The game-play is amazing, much like a real sniper's actions (although snipers don't 
 usually sit in the middle of the street sniping) . the graphics and sound was great. i personally 
 loved this game. the next time you walk by a video game store get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This is what i call a WWII shooter!!! You play as an american sniper, in berlin, in the levels 
 u r disguised as a german, shooting the russians. And you go through a campaign thats stretched 
 all over berlin. You can carry many weapons like an MG42, PPSH, and of course a sniper rifle. There 
 is an online option where you play other players in fairly large sniper battles.
  You score also gets recorded... 
  This is definetly a refresher, mostly everybody loves to snipe, 
 and they got a sniping game!!!
  
  Pros
  + The theme (sniping has never been soo much fun)
  + Sweet graphics
  + Voice overs are good
 
  + Great weapondry
  + Nice online
  + Very smart AI
  + Cool effects (especially when you hold the the rigger button when u hit the enemy in the head 
 with a bullet, and it shows the bullet hitting the head)
  
  Cons
  - The Ai might be too hard for some people
  - The overall sniping theme might not appeal to some 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markez83
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Pregi: 
  1. Buono spunto inizale, buona trama
  2. non troppo male la grafica, anche se gli ambienti e i livelli sono molto simili tra di loro
 
  3. buon audio e colonna sonora
  4. Buon gioco anche a livello di multiplayer. 
  5. Carini gli effetti dei colpi alla "Max payne", (ma nulla di particolarmente innovativo)
  
 
  Difetti: 
  1. gioco "pesante", occupa un'infinit di spazio (oltre 3 giga)
  2. ricostruzione storica pessima 
  3. poca variet di armi ed equipaggiamenti.
  4. Buono il 
 realismo per la balistica dei colpi, ma sta di fatto che a te ti basta un colpo per uccidere un 
 nemico, e a loro servono due caricatori :-)
  5. Alcune missioni sono impegnative al contrario di altre, veramente troppo facili. 
  6. Intelligenza 
 artificiale ai minimi termini anche al pi alto livello di difficolt. (diventano solo pi precisi)
 
  7. Gli slot dei salvataggi sono pochi e si  costretti spesso a sovrascrivere, anche se giochiamo 
 con pi profili. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kk0311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Sniper Elite is definately a try first game. Some people find its a better sniper game than those 
 out and about now. The first few levels let you ease into the learning curve and get used to the 
 controls of the game. On the negative side in those first few missions you dont get the real feel 
 of a sniper. You dont have to relocate to take your next shot and your enemy is somewhat aware 
 that "hey I'm being shot at." Later in the game is where it really picks up. You have to actually 
 think about what your going to do and how to do it. This is the part I loved best. Plus if you're 
 good at tactics and marksmanship principles, you'll have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themesmith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  This by far has been one of the coolest games I have played since thief the bullet time is really 
 cool and the Ai atleast on sniper elite mode is really superb I thought the Ai in return to castle 
 wolfenstien was good but this is really good the graphics are pretty good too the sound good the 
 options for wind and gravity are amazing this is not your average run and kill everybody I think 
 it would have been more interesting if you actually played a German sniper instead of an oss agent 
 pretending to be a German sniper must not upset the Russians too much even knowing you are blowing 
 there brains out at over 100 yards very fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  This game cannot be classified as a "Sniper Simulation Game" where you should just do everything 
 a real sniper does at duty, anyhow the game is very well done. Some points i would like to see 
 on this game: an improvement on the AI, camouflage options, more detailed models of bodies beeing 
 shot (evil) .
  
  Talking about AI, sometimes the enemy gets a really annoying super boost on their presence detection, 
 so they notice you even when you are crawling at the lowest speed behind a wall, thats really depressing. 
 Tnak tend to have that kind of hyper sensitive thing, even if you reach it from behing making almost 
 zero noise, the damn tank just turns around and blasts you.
  
  Anyway, just pick up this game and play, you will need some pacience but it worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by this game. I was expecting a short romp filled with mindless hit-the-mole 
 action.
  
  What I found was an open ended game filled with tension and outstanding level design.
  
  This 
 game reminds me of a mix between Hidden & Dangerous and Deux Ex. If you played those two titels 
 and enjoy a open-ended-stealth-shooter type of game you'll probably like Sniper Elite.
  
  The game provides a number of tools and weapons to deal with your enemies however you please while 
 the sniping action is definitly satisfying on the higher difficulty settings.
  
  Although the gameplay is outstanding comapred to mist on-rails shooters it does have it's low points. 
 Since most of the levels are large and you spend most of the time crawling you'll need alot of 
 patient to get through them. In some missions and scripted events the AI is always aware of your 
 locations which is rather annoying. Also the enemies have a set accuracy that's independent of 
 distance which is a bit silly when you get nailed by a machine gun from 200 meters on higher difficulty 
 settings while on lower difficulty enemies hav trouble hitting thigns that are right in front of 
 their face.
  
  The graphics are low end and won't require a beefy machine to run, yet the city textures are outstanding 
 and almost photorealistic. No WW2 shooter has such accurate representations of European city scapes 
 as this game.
  
  The sound is good, although it can get a tad repetitive due to the frequent reoccurance of all 
 the effects.
  
  I have not tried multiplayer so can't comment on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agronomo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  The thing is that with Sniper Elite you get to go into a world of a sniper. At times is boring, 
 but when you lift your scope and you aim a guy like 2 meters above the head (Wind and gravity ARE 
 things to worry about in this game; as the pulse) and fire, suddenly the camera goes with the bullet 
 and time goes by very slowly and you can almost see when the bullet is going into the persons head, 
 i find that fantastic. It is almost like CSI when they knew how the bullet went into the body. 
 
  Although there are other things in the game to see. For example, you dont always use the rifle 
 because you can get some machine guns, grenades, pistols, explosives, etc. You become the James 
 Bond of WWII. Theres always someone that needs your help. You can blow tanks (Pain in the ***) 
 and make silent moves with your silenced pistol. 
  In other words, i find the game really worth playing and very nice, from a sniper point of view!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  you must buy this game it is PERFEKT game. first shooter game i like. It is fun to play and see 
 bullet flying right on some natsi head. Multiplay are not so good what i belive but fun to play 
 anyway.
  Buy This Game And Now 
 
  first day i got this game i was in trouble always but after few days it vas them how was on trouble 
 xD. 
  
  I must tell one thing about this game spot review IT SUCKS TO WRITE 100 WORDS ABOUT A GAME HOLY 
 **** WHAT A JERKS ...
  
  
  
  it is fun to kill xD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  It is a great game if you enjoy sniping people from great distances, and who doesn't enjoy doing 
 that now and then. Graphics are good, not the best, but that doesn't hinder the gameplay, it still 
 has a very attractive feel and provides hours of fun. The game is filled with missions where you 
 have to use your head, not just one of those games where you go in and blow everyone apart carelessly, 
 you have to strategize and make sure you stay hidden. The bullet time is a good feature too, gives 
 you a great angle when you kill somebody. Great sniping game for all of you lovers of the type! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haglosa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Game is truly inter-active. You choose your own path (use the maps!) and in this way it never gets 
 booring. Also, use 'rock' as often you can (great thrill) . Surely, players who are hunters and or 
 soldiers get still more out of the game-they familiar with what's involved. Sound is great . Language 
 intonation is fine and genuine (comp. with Call of Duty 2 which is a disaster in this respect) . 
 One can agree the game sometimes gets frustating when you die 'late' and forgot to 'save' -then 
 there is long long way back! But the fault is with you and not with the game. Also frustrating 
 is that once you have opened fire you will soon be fired on and aiming will accordingly. But that 
 is the essence of the game. Use 'silent kill' as often you can! Great with sovjets!
  Having been to Berlin it is remarkable how close the game places you into the real thing; spring 
 color tones are splendid! 
  All the compliments to the creators! Were it not such an extreme single -player game I would give 
 it just about full score! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JShenobi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Fun game for those of us who wanted a nice, real-feeling sniping game. To get a real feel for this 
 game, you have to look at the three types of games it can be:
  1) A classic WWII objective based shoot'em. Pick up your MP-40 and take advantage of low enemy 
 health, because you certainly can play this game on full-auto. Well, maybe not so well on the Sniper 
 Elite mode, but definately on Rookie and Cadet. However, if this is the type of game you want, 
 I wouldn't really recommend it; it's a bit under mediocre as far as this genre.
  2) A sniping game (Oh my!) . Now, this is your standard WWII sniping game, where it's basically 
 like all the shoot'em except that you ALWAYS have a scoped rifle. This is a lot closer to how the 
 game is meant to be played.
  3) A stealth/sniper game. Using the silenced pistol for close shots, and ambient noise for your 
 sniping, this game offers a pretty fun way of playing stealth. You can eliminate what targets are 
 in your way of completing your objectives, and do it without alerting everyone. This way, you can 
 get a fun, tense experience. On Sniper Elite mode, the enemy is almost too aware, making it a bit 
 unbearable at times; however one can still use the Custom mode to make it a low-health stealth 
 game.
  
  I have been looking for a game that is/can be sniping only, and this game has rewarded me. (and 
 I'm not even playing it on the PC like I would rather!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I found Sniper Elite just fun to play. I did not mind the same old settings or faces, it was the 
 game I was concerned about. sniper Elite was a good game for the price, in-fact, it had more levels 
 that the pricer games. The action was at times easy and other times challenging, but never hard. 
 In fact, the game was quite simple if you used the tools of your trade. Sniper Elite could have 
 had more as far as places in Germany in which to fight. The AI at times was not great or allowed 
 them to easy be killed. There flanking was not bad, at times good, again applying your tools of 
 the trade made up for the number. High points were sometimes not a good place as changing locations 
 as often as possible to keep them questing. I found at time that I could not miss, like in a zone, 
 head shot after head shot, remote detonations, two for one, etc. Once changing to a higher difficulty 
 setting, the challange was the same but the shooting was harder at first, but once understood and 
 applied, the shooting was similar to the lower difficulty settings. The Secret level was short 
 and not a challenge also , not explained as to how to play. I had to check the forum to find out 
 how. I have played the game over and over and improved each time. Overall, the game is good , I 
 enjoyed out thinking and out shooting both sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebonham
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  What really makes this game great is the gameplay. The graphics and voice acting are decent, but 
 nothing you haven't seen before, and I really don't care for the main characters voice (a little 
 feminine) . But you should play this game to experience what is in my opinion the best stealth shooter 
 ever made. It takes a few hours to get good at using your rifle, but soon you will be able to connect 
 with head shots from almost 200 yards - consistently. 
  
  I will agree with other reviewers that on Hard level, the enemy has some kind of supernatural powers: 
 they can kill you with a machine gun from about 100 yards and they know where you are instantly, 
 no matter how careful you are (or how many times you reload and try different things) . But that 
 doesn't ruin Hard level - you just have to realize that is the way the game works. You can stay 
 behind cover and run from cover to cover, and take the enemy out from very long distance. It may 
 take away from the realism just a bit, but it certainly makes the game much more challenging on 
 a second play through, and I think that more than makes up for it. 
  
  I'd try this game on easy difficulty first, and after you have the hang of it, you will want to 
 move up to Hard. It's a very fun game and has excellent replay value. There's something about blowing 
 an enemies head open, like Gallagher smashes a watermelon, that is extremely satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterYevon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Background: 
  
  The story behind Sniper Elite is one of the best I've seen yet: You're an OSS agent who has spent 
 most of his childhood in Berlin, and now returns there in order to intercept the Russians' efforts 
 to acquire nuclear technology from the dying German war machine. Must I say more?
  
  Graphics:
  
  No, this isn't HL2. Neither is it Far Cry or Doom 3, but there's nothing here 
 that's gonna gouge your eyes out if you stare at it too long. Graphics are decent, and are actually 
 pretty good at times. Most of the game takes place among the ruins and rubble of Berlin, but some 
 levels are set in train yards, prodigious old monumental buildings whose names I don't know, ruined 
 train yards, and an airport. Contrary to what some reviews say, from my experience with this game 
 I don't find the settings repetitive at all. Even though 70% of the game takes place in ruined 
 Berlin, there are still noticeable differences between each level.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Best sound I've ever heard in any game, period. And not only that the sound is so detailed and 
 immersive, it also plays an actual part in the gameplay, as you sometimes must mask your sniper 
 shots by synchronizing them with the bombardment of nearby artillery in order to remain undetected.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  This is a stealth game, so as you probably knew already before reading this particular review, 
 all out super soldier crap doesn't work very well here. As a matter of fact, it doesn't work at 
 all... The paranoid, midst-of-battle atmosphere of the game, as well as the intelligence of the 
 AI, forces you to keep low (although this doesn't necessarily mean slow) , think before you shoot, 
 and think about how to counter the enemies that your shot has inevitably drawn. Enemy soldiers 
 will work together to suppress and flank you, by the way, so be warned! As I've mentioned, however, 
 you can use artillery barrages on most of the levels in order to mask the sound of your shots and 
 therefore remain hidden.
  
  The sniping portion of this game is, obviously, extremely well done. Not only you have to account 
 for bullet drop, but you also have to set up your shots while considering the wind as well (although 
 both of these factors can be turned on/off when you choose a difficulty level) . This might sound 
 fairly meticulous, considering the hundreds of enemies in the game, but thanks to the detailed, 
 useful tick-marks on the scopes, you can pull off a head shot fairly easily, in most cases, if 
 you take the time to judge your shot right. And speaking of headshots, when you do actually get 
 a head shot (as well as in a few other situations) the camera will switch to slow motion and follow 
 the bullet as it makes its way to take a substantial portion of your prey's head off (literally) , 
 which makes sniping and headshots even more gratifying.
  
  So, what can you expect to actually do in this game? If you've seen the movie Enemy at the Gates 
 you probably already have a pretty good idea. Assassinate officers, counter snipers, intercept 
 convoys and messengers, rescue allies, play guardian angel for friendlies down below, blow up lots 
 of stuff, and so on. Also, it's worth mentioning that this isn't your average 10 hour game; it's 
 pretty darn long, especially if you actually try to stay covert for the majority of the time.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  I enjoyed every minute of this game, and I believe that the so-called professional reviews out 
 there have been extremely unfair to it. If you're sick of the abundant run 'n' gun games that swamp 
 the market today, and you like stealth games or tactical shooters (doesn't necessarily means having 
 lots of patience) Sniper Elite is definitely worth every dime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I got this game, thinking it would be just another decent game to play through really fast and 
 throw away in a dark corner. However I was very wrong. The first level put you right into the action, 
 dodging tanks, avoiding soviets, and rescuing a wounded soldier. Following that was level after 
 level of intense battles. The graphics were very good, especially with the reflections with rain. 
 
  
  The sound of the weapons was extremely well done. It was accurate according to the enviroment and 
 really immersed me in the game. Beyond that the music was extremely suspenseful and well done, 
 the background noises sounded very realistic, and the talk of the enemies in their native languages 
 was excellent.
  
  The AI was also extremely well done. It is one of the only games I have ever played where I have 
 been flanked by an AI opponent and killed from behind, very well done.
  
  The physics of the bullet and the effect of following the bullet are also fantastic. The following 
 of the bullet drives you to get "Long Range Headshot"s just to watch the bullet fly through the 
 air and hit the enemy in the head in slow motion.
  
  The stealth aspect, weapon accuracy, realism, movement of your character, and simulation of the 
 sniping enviroment is very well done.
  
  The only complaints I have is the lack of Cooperative multiplayer, the lack of sniping from high 
 elevation, and the weak storyline. But these flaws can be overlooked to see what a fabulous game 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latinojj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Please hear this. The game is a blast. The programers of this game should be commended! I have 
 been waiting for a game like this for a long time. Perfect? No. Incredibly fun to play? YES! Worth 
 the money? Absolutely!
  Game Spot wants me to put in at least one hundred words. I am not that LOQUACIOUS... But here I 
 go!! Its a fun, exciting, and stealthy game!!! I cant think of any other game that is out there 
 similar to this one.
  I own every WWII game that is one the market. Hidden and Dangerous, Hidden and Dangerous 2, Medal 
 of Honer, Call of Duty one and two just to name a few!! . All of the afore mentioned are tremendous 
 in their own right..... BUT, when I want to sit back, use patience, cunning, and wits to defeat 
 the enemy... Not rush in guns blazing Etc...
  Absolutely! This game works. Lets get to work on the add on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4x4man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  I would just like to say that this game is awesome, so hats off to the developers of this game. 
 I have been waiting for a good stealth sniping game the only one before this game that i would 
 play for sniping was ghost recon but sniper elite is more realistic. And as far as people complaining 
 well if you want to go run and gun go play halo 2 and unreal tournament those game really take 
 no skill at all to play. i just laugh when i host a game on multiplayer and you get some guy running 
 around i just sit back and do some headshots LOL. I personally like this game better then call 
 of duty 2, really was disappointed about call people just run around shooting everything in site 
 and then cry if you use a sniper rifle wah wah i mean this is WAR. Anyways the only thing i wish 
 sniper elite had was more multiplayer maps or if anyone knows about any mod maps yeah let me know. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istien
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very addictive game. Got through with Gun and wanted another story mode first person 
 shoot at them type. This has all those features and more. Very interesting story line. The being 
 able to see the bullet fly in the air towards the target and hit its mark is incredible. The abilty 
 to go virtually any where and map out your own route is a plus for this game. The different levels 
 of play were great also. If you have nothing better to do and want to waster some time being challenged 
 and having fun doing it then this is a must have game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laversn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  Sniper Elite is one of the best WWII games I have played to date, but !! it is for a very selective 
 person only... buyer beware!!! If you like to run around, shoot and blast everything in you view, 
 this IS NOT FOR YOU AT ALL. As the title suggests, it's a sniper game and it truly plays like this 
 in every regard. The type of person that would think this is a game of a life time, would be someone 
 like a true hunter of game. They like to wait it out, and be very quiet and sneaky, and they like 
 the passage of time on edge, watching and listening... only to have that one moment of blood rush 
 go through there bodies when they see there prey awaiting them in the ever so distant view of the 
 landscape in there scope........ and then your rewards for waiting are just seconds away.... hold 
 your breath..... hear you heart pumping.... sight in you distant target.... and let a shot  
 bang ..... a head shot with all the blood and gore, now that was worth the wait, lets do it again!!!!
 
  
  Ya, that what this one is all about, and it does it very well I might add. If you have really hunted 
 in your life, you will get the idea of this one, and those who like a fast one, stay clear away, 
 or..... give it a try, and don't rush the game....... you may find yourself liking this side of 
 a shooter game even more because it rewards you for very hard, hard work in more ways than other 
 games!!!!
  
  As for the AI, it is very good, almost too good...... they are watching and listening too!!!! OH 
 YA... it kind of makes your mind think all the time, and you will find yourself looking around 
 a lot, even if you think that you have proper cover, where no one can see you ... yes they have 
 snipers out there too, looking out for the unwanted !!!! 
  
  The sound of the game is good, however I can see a patch coming out very soon (please) from the 
 user feedback of the repetition of sounds going on, but no big deal for now, you will have enough 
 on you hands, and I would also think that they may lighten up on the AI a little bit , as on easy 
 mode they will be on you before you shoot , that is an easy fix ........ so please!!!! fix it and 
 it will be perfect!!!!!
  
  I am sure there will be a lot of happy people out there to finally see a PC game of this sort to 
 come out and I know this one will go down as a...... I love it ... or ..... I hate it type. 
  
  You will just have to ask yourself, am I the kind of person that likes the thrill of the hunt 
 with a very long, long wait, only to find your true rewards after some skilled work ahead??????
 
  
  I am.................... later.... I'm back to the hunt ......... Nelson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilfrog9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Whoever made this game could have spent more time on the graphics and a little bit more on the 
 sound, but the gameplay is still fun. Blowing up tanks by shooting their gas tanks that for some 
 reason are on the outside of the tank isn't very realistic, but still fun. A neat thing about the 
 missions is that you can complete thim any way you want, you can run up onto the top of a building 
 and snipe out your enemies from their, or pick up a machine gun and start blasting ( I don't suggest 
 doing that ) . With just a few tweaks on the gameplay and more work on the graphics this game would 
 have been one of my top 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PutU2REM
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Little in video game life is more satisfying than a getting a moving-target, two-for-one, long-range 
 headshot at over a hundred meters, or blowing a tank with a round to the gas-tank cap. Call me 
 twisted, but I call that entertainment, and Sniper Elite is one of the few games to offer that 
 kind of entertainment, and it does an excellent job of presenting it. The sniping experience is 
 extremely detailed and satisfying, with nice little touches like a momentarily blur as you zoom 
 in and out, as if adjusting focus. When you're sniping, Sniper Elite is the best game on the planet.
 
  
  However, getting to the sniping is either frustrating, boring, or both. In real life, sniping involves 
 hours of sitting and waiting before you line up one or two shots and have to move on. In Sniper 
 Elite, it involves hours of crawling around on your belly while scanning every nook, cranny, and 
 bit of rubble for enemy soldiers, knowing you'll probably overlook their drab uniforms in the equally-drab 
 ruins of Berlin.
  
  Don't worry, though. They won't overlook you. The computer can spot a camo-painted cockroach in 
 rubble from two klicks, and the moment you fire a weapon, all the NKVD in Berlin know your position 
 well enough to radio in an artillery strike. If you get the drop on a squad, the only free shot 
 you'll get is your first, because the instant after you fire, the dead guy's buddies are all firing 
 at you, as if they're bats and you just echolocated yourself for them.
  
  And on higher difficulty levels, the enemies can hit the aforementioned cockroach with a three-round 
 burst from their LMG. The NKVD soldiers are almost as accurate with their machine guns as you are 
 with your scoped rifle, but they can dish out a lot more damage. Even good cover often isn't enough. 
 At one point, I was in a pillbox fifty meters from a single, running soldier. He didn't kill me 
 outright, most of the time, but he always took a big chunk out of me before I could make time to 
 waste him.
  
  Strangely, the enemy snipers can't hit much of anything.
  
  The next problem In direct opposition to standard sniper doctrine and to common sense, you'll be 
 doing most of your sniping on your belly in the middle of the street. You'll shoot up a lot more 
 than you'll shoot down. Not infrequently, an enemy sniper is gifted with a glorious position that 
 overlooks the whole level, and that position is denied you. You can't even enter most of the building, 
 and those you *can* get into either have inaccessible upper floors or overlook empty street. It 
 is an extremely rare event that you'll manage to crawl onto a rooftop, or find a nice, cozy window 
 overlooking an enemy emplacement. From what I understand, for a sniper the ability to set up a 
 position is almost as important as the ability to place a shot. The graphics engine appears to 
 be capable of rendering views from the heights, so it positively baffles me why you can never get 
 there.
  
  To make matters worse, you'll often be forced into close-quarters, toe-to-toe combat with the enemy, 
 but this is unsatisfying. All you can do is find a doorway to camp by and pick them off when they 
 run inside. Direct attack is suicide, because a single soldier can tear you apart in less than 
 a second at close range.
  
  I like this game, don't get me wrong, but it's infuriating to see this beautiful sniping system 
 in place only to get shafted by being limited to street level. The sniping is magnificent, it's 
 true, but there's far too much trash in between. Perhaps the designers were trying to avoid making 
 the game a shooting gallery, but the shooting gallery moments are by far the most fun. So much 
 more could have been done with this game, and I hope there's a sequel that does it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stripeyrob
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a game like this for absolutely ages. Any other game that involves a moving 
 or distant enemy still ends up having bullet flight like a laser- direct and no delay. This, if 
 you are the purist so many of you claim to be, has to be played on the hardest setting so you get 
 the benefit of all the hours of windage and elevation the makers have put into the game.
  
  There are a lot of negative comments but remember this- COD, MOH and BIA are all very linear and 
 you can only really achieve by going the rout the writers want you to take. This of course applies 
 to any game but at least you have many more route options in this game. Thats what sets it apart 
 along with the ballistic realism. It is a shame the wind is not better indicated as this would 
 have added even more. 
  
  Still- it knocks all the others into a cocked hat as far as sniping games are concerned. I suppose 
 any game based then would involve a fair amount of CQB so we have to bite that bullet if you'll 
 pardon the pun!
  
  And what a shame they could not have set it earlier! Now where are they going to set the follow 
 up? Surely this is not the last we have seen of this? This is good old-fashioned kentucky-windage 
 based action with no lasers, pulse rifles and wierd buggies with smart weapon attachments. Lets 
 have another please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvargas75
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game is very rare, you are a sniper in all it's sense!. The principal idea is just "stay down, 
 hide and shoot". You can play a long time in a low profile scheme while analyze your opponent behavior 
 and then to tend a trap or just fire from a long distance.
  
  The enviroment recreated for the developers it's amazing, you will find intelligent enemies trying 
 to place an ambush for you (not ever but its still interesting) . You can put traps with grenades 
 and TNT or use rocks to turn aside their attention and later put a bullet in his head. That's just 
 great!.
  
  If i can do improvements in the game i work in the sound track because it's a little repetitive. 
 
  
  In summary: it's a great looking game with great tactics improvements, a decent AI and a solid 
 history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boudeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  
  
  A major premise in sniping is sneaking past an enemy, but in the game I almost always get discovered, 
 & I play on easy settings. I have to blast away with the sniper rifle. I can't get close enough 
 to an enemy to use the pistol. The game has very few really good hiding places even when I crawl 
 through shadows. Most places afford only 25% hiding. Dashing between concealment spots is another 
 sniping method. Good ones are almost non- existent. Your sneak meter needs to be modified. (check 
 out Thief: Deadly Shadows) A hiding place also needs to provide good visibility to snipe or to 
 find another place.
  
  These wooden shield hiding places are very common in the game, but they are hard to use. You need 
 to be able to position yourself so you can have a decent angle to observe or snipe. I think enemies 
 should be much less observant on easy settings.
  
  I realize patience is important in sniping, but some of the rooftop/window enemies are too hard 
 to find, and seldom show themselves, even on easy settings. What about a silencer for the sniper 
 rifle itself?
  
  I hope to see a patch soon. Regards, Don 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  Ooooh how long I waited for this kind of game! No doubts here that if in online FPS games you get 
 shot in the back by an unseen so hated camper hiding in the bushes, it is probably me. Finally 
 after so many years since that unfortunate mishap called CTU Marine Sharpshooter came out (I didnt 
 even dare to play that game) a true sniping simulator came outwell maybe not a true simulator 
 after allLets get started. 
  
  The core:
  
  Sniper Elite is the recent (2005) release from Rebellion that finally found its way to PC from 
 the consoles. The game puts you into 3rd perspective of a son of an Americam diplomat to Germany 
 who is sent by the Americans undercover as a German sniper to help stop the Russian NKVD from getting 
 their hands on the nuclear technology (kind of lets you know from the beginning that your efforts 
 will be futile) .
  
  At this point I was wondering, why not take a Russian immigrant and put him undercover as a Russian 
 (who are on the winning side by the way) so you don't have to shoot anyone at all, but ok I'm digressing.
 
  
  Sniper Elite concentrates on sniping (naturally) however it leaves plenty of space for those who 
 like run-and-gun with some heavy machinery. IN FACT through the whole game I had a feeling like 
 I was missing my Ghost Recon team. Snipers generally don't act alone especially when on a special 
 mission requiring special equipment (and your mission in particular will get very special very 
 often) . By the time I got to the third level I was carrying on my back: a sniper rifle, a man's 
 height machine gun, a bazooka and I had a bunch of different grenades and explosives and guess 
 whatI found use for all of those weapons. In some missions I was forced to rely soly on my machine 
 gun. 
  
  The game is not too heavily scripted. That means that after a while the urban setting might bore 
 you a bit. Most objectives consist of shooting or blowing up or just reaching or carrying around 
 something. This is actually what you shouldve originally expected so you shouldnt complain too 
 much about it. The objectives at least do follow the storyline logically and no one said that snipers 
 work of patiently waiting for a target to show up is very exciting. 
  
  A personal complaint I want to add is that you will mostly be working on the streets. While they 
 are full with... strangely conveniently placed cover... I know in real life I would never use the 
 street as a sniping position (except in an emergency) . I whish the game made that most buildings 
 have some kind of generic rooms you can occupy. Maybe thats too much to ask for. 
  
  The game feels to be of a good quality I'd say. Many interesting realistic small things make for 
 an interesting gameplay. Such things include tripwire traps you can make to defend your sniping 
 spots and time bombs where you can adjust the time yourself (!) . You will be carrying all the guns 
 you have on your back and not like some other games that let you carry a huge arsenal making you 
 believe it all fits in some anorexic looking backpack of yours. Every time you change a weapon 
 you see the character reach for it with his hands so it doesn't just magically appear in his hands. 
 
  
  Sniping
  
  Well lets give it a separate section since that is what the game is ultimately about. Sniping 
 is done quite well in game. You get about 4 sniper rifles. On the hardest difficulty setting there 
 are wind, heartbeat, gravity and posture effects affecting your sniping. You can also use the empty 
 long technique which allows you to stop breathing to stop shaking for some time. Each long range 
 one-shot-one-kill you make will be shown in what I call Max Payne effect (those who played the 
 game should remember) . The camera follows the bullet to the target. You receive different points 
 bonuses for different tricks like 2 kills with 1 shot or sniping a moving target. A stealth meter 
 is also at hand to give you some reason to use sniping positions designated on your map (and other 
 available rubble) . You wont survive for long in close combat with a large group. 
  
  Id say Rebellion did a good job here even though I wish they gave a little manual on range estimation 
 and wind reading to all the new players. Next game guys add more sniper rifles, change the time 
 to present and add temperature and barometric pressure effects. 
  
  AI:
  
  I've got to give it a separate section because AI is one of the game's best features. Truly these 
 guys feel like multiplayer-hardened dogs (in fact the game's multiplayer is easier to me than single 
 player) . Enemies will move from cover to cover, throw grenades, outflank you while you're pinned 
 down, react to different sounds and communicate among each other (you'll be using "throw stone 
 for distraction" technique quite often) . AI is not without flaws though as enemies often shoot 
 at you the very second the show from around the corner and I could also see how the enemy soldiers 
 keep tracking me with their guns even though they can't at all see me behind cover. 
  
  Still the AI is quite powerful and I'm absolutely amazed that the game makers didn't create a Co-op 
 mode or some kind of map editor for single player customization. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  ... features 3 modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch and assassination. I do think that the many things 
 you could do in single player you could do equally well in multiplayer (like placing a time bomb 
 somewhere) . 
  
  Visuals:
  
  This is a little controversial here. I'm still playing games on my old system (2 GHz P4 Radeon 
 9600) and I was able to play Sniper Elite on maximum settings without any slowdowns. The graphics 
 needless to say are not state of the art but they arent bad either. The game has that light bloom 
 effect so franticly loved by all the game developers. It gives a very nice look to a game where 
 many textures would otherwise be considered rather outdated. The effect is somewhat broken when 
 you get close to those textures. Some things do really look dteailed like the faces and the weapons. 
 Also very nice are some generic effects like the airplane raids above Berlin in the first mission. 
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  Pretty good all in all. All of the maps I can remember had nice ambient battle sounds. They do 
 unfortunately repeat themselves. You especially notice that when you're waiting for a certain sound 
 to cover your sniping fire. The fact that sound is part of the gameplay makes it all the more interesting. 
 
  
  The Russian voices really do sound Russian and make sense (unlike some other games I played before) 
 as AI reacts to different situations.
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Sniper Elite is a good quality game with relatively good graphics that still allow a gamer with 
 an older system to push something out of it. Concentrating on a single firearm it doesnt eliminate 
 the usefulness of the other weapons and has a well working single player with a multiplayer to 
 accompany it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3_Doors_Down
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  After seeing the film "Enemy at the gates" it wasn't long before i craved a game with a similar 
 premise as the movie. We already had CoD, and now also it's sequel, but i was mostly interested 
 in the sniping part from the movie and not the straight forward action of the CoD-series. 
  
  When i first heard of Sniper Elite i got very excited to say the least, but was kind of thrown 
 of by the in-game screenshots presented. I like nice graphics in games, no let me put it like this: 
 I LOVE spectacular graphics in games. When i first started up Sniper Elite though, it's immersive 
 gameplay, it's outstanding sound production and it's intense sniping, really made me not care less 
 about the fact that this game does not have the grahical strenght of Valves source engine for example. 
 
  
  Let's talk about the grapics then shall we? The good part - the sky is a real treat with nice lighting 
 effects and the notorious bloom effekt. This bloom effekt is also applied to all textures and objects 
 in-game and gives the whole graphical presentation this nice artistic feel. That's the good part, 
 the bad part consists of "washed-out" textures (i. e low-res ones) and the enemy troops are not 
 unique enough to contribute to the overall great feeling of immersion in the game. The surroundings 
 in wich you crawl your way through, are really well done. Ruins of what used to be tall housing 
 complex's and large squares including their respective landmarks, are like previously stated, really 
 well done.
  
  The sound presentation is remarkable and really helps set the mood for the game by shelling out 
 all the sounds of the hell that is war, whilst you move from cover to cover and mission to mission 
 as the sniper that you are. Spectacular sound.
  
  On the pc, the controls are really well-executed when it somes to the game's first-person view, 
 but can sometimes and in certain circumstances, leave you frustrated. The frustrating moments only 
 occurs when you have to take out your enemies up-close, which fortunetely is the only part where 
 the game lacks finesse in terms of fire-fights. Lets talk about the sniping shall we.
  
  The feeling of crawling from cover to cover, to sometimes be rushing across an open square (only 
 after scoping out the surroundings properly first offcourse) and then locate a safe place for you 
 to take out any existing enemy troops from a safe distance, is truly AMAZING in this game. The 
 game's settings lets you choose and customize the level of realism that will have an effect on 
 how the actual sniping will be able to be carried out. We have the usual alternative of turning 
 off head-bobing and sight-sway and such and other things i can not remember at the time. 
  
  One cool feature is the "bullet-cam" that in some cases, allows the camera to be fixed to the 
 bullet all while it's flying through the air eventually hitting your target with a nasty close-up 
 direct hit. You can not control this cam-feature in any way and it even seems that it's activated 
 at random.
  
  The game spans over 28 missions, each of them taking place in war-torn locales taking you atleast 
 20 mins to get through (and that's ATLEAST) . This game is not about speeding it through like an 
 FPS. It's about strategic thinking, watching your target and figure out how to take him down without 
 letting his friends know of your precense. In some sequences though, you'll HAVE to duke it out 
 with your enemies up-close and personal, not having any regard as to beeing quitet about your business. 
 Those moments happen seldom enough not to make it distracting though. - imho.
  
  Summary:
  Winter season closing in on you and your looking for an immersive WWII game with heavy 
 strategic tense action, and you just happen to love sniping? Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DmGoober
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Any sniper fan-boy or History Channel addict will tell you that elite sniping requires mastery 
 of two disparate skills: steady aim and stalking. Sniper Elite portrays stalking well, but falls 
 short on capturing the experience of firing a rifle.
  
  The game portrays the general idea of aiming a rifle at long range, but captures very little of 
 the skill or visceral feel. Real world sniping is an immensely physical activity that requires 
 great body control  steady heart rate, steady breathing, steady trigger finger, and the ability 
 to judge wind speed by feel and visual cues. Unfortunately, the game overly abstracts these concepts, 
 making the sniping feel soulless. For example, wind is indicated by wind meter which is calibrated 
 such that if the wind meter displays three notches right, the player need only aim three notches 
 left. It feel likes playing Artillery or Scorched Earth with a meter that tells you exactly 
 how much powder youll need to fire accurately. Sniper Elite also fails to capture the spirit of 
 breath control and heart rate control by representing these biometrics as binary indicators. That 
 is, your heart is either racing or not and you are either holding your breath or not. Its not 
 very subtle. Americas Army did a much better job by actually playing the sound of your breathing 
 as you attempted to fire -- it felt more real and required more skill as there were differing amounts 
 of shakiness based on where you were in the breathe cycle.
  
  In the end, the actual sniping in Sniper Elite boils down to: rest for a bit to lower your heart 
 rate, aim left or right the same amount the wind meter tells you, adjust slightly higher for bullet 
 drop, press the Empty Lung (hold breath) button, then fire. It is point, click, and kill, just 
 like any other FPS, except youve got to adjust a little for bullet drop and wind.
  
  In isolation, the sniping mechanic bores, but scoring a kill is still satisfying because of Sniper 
 Elites decent tactical stalking mechanics. If you position yourself badly, the enemy will spot 
 you, flank and surround you, or simply gun you down. You can even set tripwire bombs to protect 
 your flanks. The game wisely gives the player access to a map of most levels allowing you to tactically 
 decide what approaches to take. But in another ham handed abstraction, the map actually tells you 
 where good sniping positions are located! This feels very contrived and reminds you that youre 
 playing a game and that some map designer added this building so you can win the game. Why not 
 let the player figure this out?
  
  Beyond the actual sniping, the game is a smorgasbord of other random features that dont really 
 feel coherent. The convoluted plot will cause you to scratch your head more than once: You play 
 as a German American disguised as a German fighting the Communist Russians. (Got it? Fight your 
 urge to kill the Nazis and go ahead and kill your allies!) At the beginning of the game, you run 
 into the resistance who are fighting to blow up German tanks uh who the hell are these guys? 
 Russian resistance? OSS? Half the time it makes no sense. However, this plot along with the AI 
 do create some interesting situations  German infantry and tanks will come to your aide as you 
 fight and there are some great moments that emerge. For example, a Russian tank had me pinned down 
 and as it was about to fill me with lead, a German Panzer appeared, blowing it to junk metal. Yet 
 for every cinematic moment like this, youll come across an absurd situation, such as a Russian 
 tank guarding your exit by basically continuously doing three point turns in a very restricted 
 area. Is the Russian tanker practicing for a driving test?
  
  The scripted missions are also varied and fairly non-linear. Some missions have you protecting 
 a wounded agent by either carrying him to safety or setting up machine guns and tripwires and mowing 
 down the enemy. Other missions have you assassinating generals or helping resistance units that 
 are pinned down.
  
  The environments feel unrealistically small. You will run into invisible walls that make it impossible 
 to flank certain positions. The level geometry feels decently complex, which is required for a 
 game that emphasizes stalking. However, certain areas do feel very empty and flat which takes away 
 from the realistic feeling.
  
  The game has some random features such as the ability to search bodies, move bodies, and lay down 
 trip wires. However, these features are sometimes buggy or badly implemented  why can you only 
 search some bodies? Why cant I just throw a body Im carrying against a wall  why do I have to 
 have a clear spot to drop a body? Why is it that when I mean to search a body, my character ends 
 up switching secondary weapons instead of searching the body (the key for both actions is the same?) 
 Why does my tripwire mine keep suddenly canceling? Why does setting TNT require me to go to my 
 inventory first, selecting TNT, pressing the use button, then throwing the TNT while grenades can 
 simply be thrown? Why does the sound volume keep randomly getting louder and softer? And what designer 
 thought it would be a good idea to have the looping sound of women crying and men screaming in 
 pain on some of the levels?
  
  And the final half baked random feature allows you to use weapons other than sniper rifles. Though 
 the game provides machine guns and sub machine guns of both German and Russian make, they all feel 
 almost identical -- they all feel like laser beams. You hold down the trigger and spray away, killing 
 everything in your path. Theres no kick back, very little bullet scattering, and you can spray 
 and pray just as well while moving as while lying prone. The extreme accuracy and ease of use of 
 these weapons minimizes the impact of the sniping portions of the game  that is, normal weapons 
 feel so powerful and easy to use, the sniper rifle no longer feels special. The only real reason 
 to stick to the sniper rifle is that the AI enemy all have 50/20 vision and can spot and fire at 
 you beyond your unassisted visual range. You must use the scope in order to even see them, much 
 less fire at them, though you get the feeling that a scoped machine gun would be much more useful.
 
  
  Multiplayer team death match feels very pointless as there is basically no reason for moving  
 everyone on the same team should simply find and camp good sniping spots and cover each other, 
 though most players seem content to run around like headless chickens, and, when encountering an 
 enemy have a wild west show down in the middle of the street. Nobody is playing the assassination 
 mode, which I imagine would be more fun because theres actually some purpose to the game. No matter 
 the mode, the multiplayer just isnt that enjoyable because the sniping isnt that much fun. As 
 with most games, I imagine an organized clan team death match game could be tactically challenging, 
 but youre certainly not going to find any such strategizing on public servers.
  
  Overall Sniper Elite understands the idea of sniping but not the soul of sniping. A sniper is a 
 special, elite soldier. Sniper Elite makes sniping feel underpowered and mechanical, not special. 
 Other shooters that include, but do not focus on sniping, such as Red Orchestra or even Halo 2 
 better capture the elite Espirit de Corps of sniping. If you enjoy stalking, try out Sniper Elite. 
 Otherwise, stay away.
  
  One final comment: I would recommend the Xbox version over the PC version. The Xbox version has 
 a co-op mode that is missing from the PC version, more people seem to be playing the game on Xbox 
 Live than on PC servers, the analog control stick is better for controlling the speed of your character 
 than the PC mouse wheel, and finally, the analog stick is slightly harder to aim with than the 
 mouse, making the game feel more challenging and thus more satisfying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago I was surprised and pleased to hear that there was finally a FPS that was going 
 to focus on the always fun to play sniper. Sniper Elite is a nice change of pace for the constant 
 run and gun of other FPS that are out today and if you are looking to spend a little time killing 
 someone at the end of a scope, then this is it right here. The game takes place right at the end 
 of World War II, at the beginning of the Cold War. You are a lone sniper that is sent into Berlin 
 disguised as a German to stop Russian secret service, known as the NKVD from learning the secret 
 of the A-Bomb. 
  
  The game has a pretty simple premise to it. Stay in the shadows and shoot almost anything that 
 moves. The game emphases that you move slow and keep out of sight from enemies, unfortunately that 
 is a little hard to do. Starting out in the game you really truly do feel stealthy, crawling around 
 and shooting one guard after another, but after a few minutes you start to see that the guards 
 have super senses. Anywhere it seems you hid foot soldiers will spot you, start yelling, and send 
 waves of bullets at your location. Or if you are out in the open you will have a sniper take a 
 pot shot at you, the only way of finding him is by looking where the shot came from on your watch... 
 The watch sort of plays out like a radar, if you are fired upon, the clock will light up in the 
 direction the shots came from, yellow means you are being fired at, red means you've been hFortunatelyatly 
 enough, some enemies don't actually spot you and this is truly your chance to get in a nice shot. 
 Sniper Elite uses real sniping physics so you will have to compensate for gravity, wind, and you 
 will even want to hold your breath in the game for a truly great shot. The reward for all of this? 
 If you have pulled your shot off correctly, you will get the "bullet cam," where the camera will 
 follow the bullet in slow motion to your unsuspecting victim. After the bullet is done doing its 
 damage, you will see an entrwoundnd, sometimes an exit wound, brain matter flying, not to mention 
 the victim's face will contort in horror as he slumps to the ground. Other items in the game that 
 can hinder your accuracy is things such as running around the level too much. As you go into your 
 scope view, you will see a heart meter that shows how hard your heart is beating. If it is beating 
 too fast, your scope will jolt all over the place and yoWillil have to stay put for a minute to 
 truly make a nice shot. Not to mention you cannot hold your breath to make a shot if your heart 
 is beating too hard. 
  
  The surroundings of the game is very familiar if you have played any WWII game like Brothers In 
 Arms, or Call of Duty. You will find a very war torn Berlin. Buildings are missing walls, craters 
 are buried in the ground, wreckage of tanks remain. Not much stands out, and for some odd reason 
 there seems to be quite a bit ofobstacless to hide behind with squares cut out of them as if it 
 was made for a sniper. The game seems rather linear as far as level design goes. You should be 
 able to climb into a building and be able to pick targets off from an elevated position, but you 
 find that most of the buildings are just there as filler. Any buildings that are open, you will 
 usually find a guard protecting it, not to mention a sniper will spot you even without firing a 
 shot to give away your position. Some of the graphics and effects are very well done. Little things 
 like a guard's response on his face when he has been shot, or the blur effect of your bullet cutting 
 through the air, or a guard's head if you so desire.
  
  The sound in the game really shines as does most of the WWII games that are out today. Explosions 
 rumble, bullets cut through the air, as well as make a sickening thud as they cut into someone. 
 As you run you will hear your character breath hard and catch his breath if he is standing still. 
 If you are looking down your scope you will hear your character's heart beating, and if you are 
 playing with a nice sound system, will shake the walls and make you truly feel a little tense. 
 Ambient sounds really play a nice part in this game. Flames in a building, planes overhead engaged 
 in a dogfight, and distant explosions, even though may not be relevant, also adds to the tension 
 you feel.
  
  Performance wise, this game is a marvel! Of course you always want a high end system, I found that 
 even playing SE on a computer that is lacking was still able to play even with a lot of the effects 
 still turned up. It's a hefty game, wanting to eat 4 GB of your hard drive, it may be a monster, 
 but minimum requirements are 256 MB of RAM and 1 GHZ of processing power. This is simple a beautiful 
 game that doesn't need much out of your computer and will run on even older systems, unlike new 
 titles like Quake 4.
  
  After having the chance to sit and enjoy Sniper Elite, I found that if I wanted something that 
 had a lot of action in it, this was not the game. Sniper Elite is a game that you will want to 
 take your time in, crawl around and pick your shots carefully. A lot of people will not enjoy this 
 title due to its slow nature. If you are the type of person who loves to pick up a sniper rifle 
 in any FPS and want to spend some time behind the scope, Sniper Elite is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronzky
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game will give you some pretty intense situations which feel like a good simulation of sniper 
 life. Sneaking around, inch by inch, scanning the surroundings for enemies, and then coming up 
 with a strategy to take out that crucial target. 
  Or, you yourself, pinned down by some enemy sniper who, as soon as you stick your head out of your 
 cover, let's the bullets fly, and you desparately thinking of a way out of that situation.
  
  That's the good missions - they are truly excellent. The game has one of the best AI around, 
 which will always keep you on your toes. You need accuracy, a good strategy, and to be quick on 
 your feet.
  
  But then there are the not so great missions. Which are not just mediocre, but so bad that you're 
 ready to quit the game. They put you into situations that have *nothing* to do with sniper assignments, 
 and are more reminiscent of your average run-and-gun shooter. You taking out wave after wave of 
 enemies, and doing close quarter fighting with a selection of machine guns. 
  
  It is nice to have different ways of completing a mission - you can go stealthy, long-range, use 
 traps and explosives, or go all-out, with guns blazing. But more often than not the 'guns blazing' 
 is actually the one that is absolutely unavoidable - forget about sneaky sniping. It's whoever 
 fires the most wins...
  
  Which brings us to another weak point: As realistic as the sniping mode is (gravity, wind, breathing 
 and health all affect your accuracy) , once you use a machine gun the realism goes out the window. 
 You can pick up some monster machine gun, use it while running around, and you will still hit nearly 
 everything you point at. The same for the enemy. They RUN around with machine guns, 100 yards away, 
 and probably 50% of their bullets will hit you...
  
  And not only is their aim impeccable, but so are their psychic abilities. You can sneak around 
 a whole building to get to the back of some tank you're trying to take out, but as soon as you 
 stick out your head at the other side the turret is already pointed in your direction... 
  As soon as you trigger one alarm *everybody* seems to know your location, no matter how often you 
 change positions. Which means no more sniping, but yet another shootout...
  
  As far as multiplayer is concerned - the few games I've played all ended up being just another 
 run-and-gun game. Stealth and actual sniping didn't really pay off at all. Whoever got his hands 
 of some machine gun first, and could run and aim the best would win the match.
  
  So - it COULD'VE been a great game. It definitely had the potential, and some of the missions (at 
 least the first time you play them) are among the best I've ever played, but there are also A LOT 
 of mission that are absolutely inappropriate for a sniper game, and once you start seeing the "strings" 
 that are being pulled in the background (the unavoidable triggers, the enemy's psychic abilities 
 and supernatural aim) it does lose its attraction quite quickly.
  
  (This review is based on playing the game on the Sniper Elite / hardest level.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  It felt like I was playing a C. O. D. expansion pack. It was fun, for a while and then it was like 
 playing the recent WWII shooters all over again. Good graphics, sound, weapons and gizmos but I could 
 not get over the familiarity of it. Had this been released sooner it may have given C. O. D. and B. I. A
 
  a run for their money. All things considered I believe it's better than both in some regards. It 
 had the weapons that would have been fun to use in the other WWII shooters. More open-ended than 
 either which is a direction that
  I hope is adopted by other developers. Today's FPS fans demand accuracy
  above all else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boro34uk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  
  Hi ive been playing sniper elite now for a few days, its a great game,
  also i cant help mentioning what other people have said ref game play
  ie game puts you in middle 
 of fire fight or its like any other sniper game , well im afraid i disagree, its a great game if 
 played the way its meant to be played - as a sniper not gung ho shoot em up style, u will never 
 succeed or if u do manage to finish the level u will have a pitiful score, Patience is the key 
 to Sniper Elite , plenty of trip wires for rear protection and if enemy get to close bug out - 
 army jargon for with-draw never engage enemy to close either and always work your escape route 
 out, Graphics are not the best part of the game but there do give it a sort of see-pier old war 
 footage look, which i think makes it more authentic for the era the game portrays, has for the 
 bullet cam its good - never have been shot watching bullet cam then again im always at a good distance 
 before i engage enemy im currently in the top 5 positions at present = single player stats which 
 i thinks great , as im not to keen on the multiplayer side of sniper elite, but saying that i think 
 a co-op map would be great especially if a couple of people played as most snipers in the real 
 world normally work in pairs, a couple of bugs in game play , but thats nothing new - in a new 
 released game, a patch should sort it , my advice if u like sniping in multi-player and u like 
 the idea of a single player stats game, and muli-player etc then buy Sniper - Elite I think its 
 worth 24.99 Happy Hunting. 22-inXS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voivodul
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  Sniper Elite stroke me first with its awful story setting: an American soldier disguised as a German 
 sniper to kill Russians in the 1945 WWII Berlin? Oh com'on, isn't that too complex, unnatural and 
 awkward for a shooter like Sniper Elite while the story itself really doesn't mean much at all 
 to the game?
  
  The biggest problem is the simpleness of the gameplay - it makes you easily feel bored and easily 
 lose interest, especially when you'are stuck somewhere in the ruined city for being killed by enemy 
 fire comes from god-knows-where, and you have to load your previous game time after time.
  
  Some may argue that the game does offer alternative ways of playing such as holding a different 
 weapon than the sniper rifle and charge the enemy, just like playing a normal WWII shooter. But 
 no one can really deny the fact that there isn't anything special about Sniper Elite regarding 
 to that - you may just easily find tons of other shooters that can instantly shame the non-sniping 
 part of gameplay in this game.
  
  Even the sniping itself isn't so interesting either. With all the sniping simulation settings being 
 turned on, I still can't think it to be really fun-rewarding after trying hours after hours only 
 to get a bullet in the head of an enemy - all you do is still saving and loading and trying to 
 find the correct position of you scope to fire. And that's it! That is everything its maker think 
 about the game.
  
  The sound acting is also amateur to the core, especially that of the main character. Actually, 
 this game has the worst sound acting in almost all recently released games, which totally destroyed 
 the illusion of a WWII setting.
  
  So, if you are really a sniping type of player and are willing to spend a lot of time camping there 
 and waiting for enemy heads to show up, you may find this game interesting and worth a try. Otherwise, 
 believe me, you could simply glance at the game box and pass over to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyalTemp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Sniper Elite is a great game - a solid shooter/sneaker with a strong wwII theme. the graphics are 
 prety good, the story is not bad and the missions are great fun : there is a great variaty of missions 
 from sneaking and silently killing your oponents to headlong battles (it's a rather long single 
 player campaign) . 
  there are problems in the movements though -from time to time you'll get stuck on objects and basicly 
 your charechter doesn't move that good .
  Also, the interface can be anoying when you try to switch between items and weapons. 
  But, what's 
 make the game so great (the way I see it) is that Sniper Elite is one of those rare games that 
 actually rewards you as a player for training ; I didn't expect that from a game but the more you 
 play the game the better sniper you actualy get (you hit more often since you estimate ranges better 
 - you and not your character) and it makes a big diference in the game! imagine yourself lying 
 on the ground in some great ventage point, aiming a sniper rifle at your enemies below, just picking 
 them one after the other, that's what I call fun! this is also where your own experiance makes 
 the diferent - at the begining you'll find yourself waisting lots of bullets on each target - especially 
 at long distances, but as you become a more experianced player you learn to estimate distances 
 and movement better resulting in one shot one kill shots. add that to the bullet camera that follows 
 the bullet as it flies towards your target (when you take aspecialy good shots - and you do that 
 often when you get more experienced) and you have an amaizing combination that going to make you 
 want to play the game again and again to see if you can do better next time (you actually begin 
 to get angry on yourself if you miss a single shot) . 
  Bottom line, I strongly recomendit it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebloggs69
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game a very long time - that's always a mistake. It only leads to disappointment.
 
  
  Let's start with the GAMEPLAY, since that is what matters the most: 
  
  Sniper Elite has tried to find middle ground between First Person Shooter and Sneak-Em-Up and, 
 in my opinion, got mixed results. The game repeatedly advises you to lay low and not shoot everything 
 in sight, and then puts you time and again in situations where you have no choice but to do the 
 opposite. It talks the talk but doesn't walk the walk. Nice little details which you can read on 
 the box (such as how gravity, wind and heart rate all play a part in accuracy - which I would expect 
 and demand from a sniper game anyway! That's like advertising an FPS as "featuring guns".) all 
 contribute to making the game sound realistic and painstakingly authentic - but some how they're 
 just not carried out properly, and the final product appears to be less than the sum of all it's 
 parts. Overall there is an arcade quality to this game - which is aided by the very goal driven, 
 and somewhat repetitive, gameplay (Assassinate this man, sneak here, shot there etc., etc.) . All 
 of which means that it's still playable and enjoyable, but it's not the "open city" free-style, 
 sniper "simulation" that I hoped it would be. Having said this, I suspect the game has been aimed 
 at (excuse the pun) the multiplayer market, like everything else these days, which is a shame because 
 i can't stand being flamed and shot every 30 seconds by someone called "DeathFragger69012".
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in Sniper Elite are mediocre at best - if I didn't know better 
 I would have thought this game was a few years old at least. Of course it's always possible that 
 I've been spoiled lately with games such as Brothers in Arms, but personally I've never really 
 been too bothered about graphics as long as the gameplay is good (I'm strongly considering playing 
 Duke Nukem 3d all over again!) . I still don't know whether or not i like the "Action-replay" bullet 
 cam, it's great being able to see, close up, when your bullet hits someone right in the eye, but 
 it removes you from the gameplay for a few moments which is not good during a fire fight! Maybe 
 the criteria for Bullet Cam should have been higher i. e. only when you break your personal record 
 for longest shot. Again I assume that the reason for the game's "entry level" (wink, wink) graphics 
 is down to the multiplayer market - people would prefer gameplay with no lag to high end graphics.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Not much to say about this really. As with the graphics, sound is pretty mediocre - complete with 
 dodgy accents.
  
  Summary:
  
  After re-reading this somewhat pessimistic review I wonder why I keep returning to this game - 
 it obviously must have something replayable about it. But then maybe that's just the joy of shooting 
 people with a sniper rifle, which can be done in many FPS's. Over here in the UK Sniper Elite is 
 going for 25 which is quite reasonable for a new game, but I'd still wait it out for the sales 
 or second hand copies if I were you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalwall
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a fun, realistic sniper simulation then this is defiantly a game you should 
 buy. I have been waiting a long time for a game that was like the movie enemy at the gates, and 
 this is defiantly the one.
  
  When sniping you have to take into account a lot of conditions. Wind speed and direction, gravity, 
 hear rate, distance and so on. I got used to the controls in the first few minutes, but learning 
 how to move around the game without being seen and killed takes a while. Learning how to compensate 
 for the gravity when shooting also takes a bit longer, then when you eventually figure it out they 
 give you a new sniper rifle with a better scope and you need to lean all over again.
  
  The graphics in the game are good, but not on the same level as those in call of duty or brothers 
 in arms. I have not tried the online play yet, but I have heard that it is great. The sound in 
 the game is great. If you are shot at by a sniper thats along way away you will hear the bullet 
 hit before you hear the shot, just like you would in real life. The background noise gets a bit 
 repetitive, but is great.
  
  The AI is unrealistically accurate with their weapons, and being killed by a German with a MP-40 
 at 200m is really annoying, other then this, the AI is great on the marksman and sniper elite difficulty 
 levels. If you injure a soldier another will run out and put him over his shoulder and try to get 
 him out of there. This is great for a trap and a good opportunity for 2 for 1 kills.
  
  The bullet cam is a great feature, and seeing a sniper shot right between the eyes is satisfying. 
 Overall I think that this game is great and a must for anyone who likes sniping.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elothran
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Best Warfare Game I've played so far after Medal Of Honour and Call Of Duty, Graphics and Sounds (Especially 
 the sounds) are really good, you never know who will come out from where, enemy can be anywhere, 
 on a balcony, window or inside a wrecked building...
  
  However, I didnt like the way that makers of this game forces us to run across the streets like 
 a 14 year old young girl, as a completely open target for enemies...
  
  Another good point is reality side of the game, when you run alot, stop suddenly and try to aim 
 your sniper at the same time, it becomes hard to snipe the enemy because of your fast heart beat.
 
  
  Sometimes you just have to kill the enemies , but in a mission that I can't remember it's name, 
 Russians make a sudden attack on enemy base, so you have to kill everyone in your way...
  
  Anyway, it is a nice and enjoyable game for sniper fans like me... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
