-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sniper: Path of Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sniperpathofvengeance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.4
Critic Score: 3.7, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xicat Interactive
Developer: Mirage Interactive
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sniper: Path of Vengeance is actually more awful than the developer's last game, the thoroughly 
 wretched Mortyr. 

 A few weeks ago, Electronic Arts released Battlefield 1942, the successor to developer Digital Illusions' 
 ambitious but deeply flawed game Codename: Eagle. Against the odds, Battlefield turned out to be 
 a great popular and critical success, topping sales charts and winning GameSpot's PC Game of the 
 Month for September 2002. Maybe it's a season of miracles, because Xicat has published Mirage Media's 
 Sniper: Path of Vengeance, a first-person shooter that -- improbably -- is actually  more  awful than 
 the developer's last game, the thoroughly wretched Mortyr.           Sniper's stat system has no 
 discernible effect on anything.    

  Sniper has a lot of big-ticket problems such as bugs, poorly implemented gameplay elements, ridiculous 
 and ridiculously profane dialogue, and terrible enemy AI. But let's start with a small detail that 
 captures Sniper's pervasive atmosphere of clumsy amateurism. A few of the game's early levels take 
 place during a prison riot. As you make your way through the prison, you'll notice that some of 
 the corridor walls are conspicuously decorated with a large photo of what looks to be a member 
 of the development team and his cute little toddler. Unlike in some games where pictures of the 
 developers are hidden in images that are appropriate to the environment, it appears here as if 
 somebody scanned a family photo, didn't alter it in any way, and then inexplicably made it a recurring 
 theme of the bleak prison's visual design. This would be a great idea if Sniper had been developed 
 as a foul-mouthed interactive Mother's Day card, but in a full-priced game targeted at consumers 
 who aren't directly related to the staff of Mirage Media, it's just ridiculous.   

  The game's title pretty much sums up the plot: You're a sniper and you're out for revenge. This 
 revenge is motivated by... something or other. But despite the game's title, the path to your vengeance 
 doesn't include much in the way of actual sniping. You do get a sniper rifle, but for the most 
 part you'll be using a traditional arsenal of machine guns, pistols, and grenades to blast your 
 way through the army of henchmen standing between the entrance and exit of each level. In what 
 might be an effort to make the game's title a little more relevant, enemies scream "Sniper!" even 
 if you're firing at them with a shotgun from three feet away.   

  Graphically, architecturally, and thematically, Sniper's level design is merciless in its unrelenting 
 blandness. From sewers to generic office buildings to barren streets, there's nothing in the environments 
 that hasn't been done before and better. The most unique feature of Sniper's levels is that, for 
 some reason, the game returns to the desktop for a few jarring seconds during each level transition. 
 These transitions also occur at odd moments. You may be fighting a couple of enemies positioned 
 at the end of a hall, take a step toward them, and unexpectedly trigger the next level, which magically 
 transports you away from your opponents.   

  Powered by LithTech's Jupiter engine, Sniper's visuals are even less impressive when compared to 
 the competition than were Mortyr's two years ago. In some ways, Sniper's visuals are specifically 
 worse than Mortyr's. For instance, Sniper has none of Mortyr's occasionally effective reflective 
 surfaces.   

  Mortyr's enemy AI primarily caused the game's characters to run right at you, wobble back and forth 
 while firing, or ignore you altogether while jogging in tight circles. For Sniper, the programmers 
 have retained the running-right-at-you and wobbling-back-and-forth behaviors but have fixed the 
 jogging-in-circles problem. In its place, they've added the brand-new ability for enemies to stand 
 around doing nothing, as well as a new bug that lets enemies walk right through closed doors. This 
 door-related ghostliness combined with the way character models appear to move much, much faster 
 than their legs are animating makes your opponents seem disconnected from the gameworld. And while 
 doors generally present no obstacle for everyone else in the shadowy, sniperless world of Sniper, 
 they're like Venus flytraps for you. Often, opening a door will cause you to become embedded in 
 it, at which point you'll have to close the door and then reopen it to get unstuck.           A 
 rare shot of some actual sniping.    

  Yet in spite of all its problems, Sniper is still a pretty good game. No, that's just a joke to 
 lighten the mood a bit. Now, here are some other technical problems: About halfway through the 
 game, firing the shotgun causes the screen to go black for a while. So shotgun fans who don't mind 
 terrible games might still want to avoid Sniper. Sometimes when the game makes its brief, between-level 
 detour back to the desktop, it just stays there without ever managing to load the next level. The 
 sound cuts out if you fire a machine gun for too long. On the other hand, the game's frequently 
 grating and bizarrely inappropriate soundtrack never shuts up. It even plays full blast during 
 dialogue scenes, which at least saves you from having to hear the idiotic script.   

  No multiplayer mode is included in Sniper. Just in case Mirage Media decides to sneak one into 
 a future patch, here's a preemptive review: It'll probably be bad.   

  Sniper is derivative, homely, tedious, and buggy. It also has a useless character stat and leveling 
 system, so RPG enthusiasts can hate it too. In all fairness, the developers do deserve credit for 
 one good design choice: Sniper's only about six hours long.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  When is saw this game.... I thought it's a joke. A bad joke. Cause this is a terrible game. This 
 crape never should played. This game kills people. It's on my top 10. I mean the worst games's 
 top 10. The whole game is a biig biig BUG! This game is a.... A killing machine. There are no other 
 word for this "game".
  
  The graphics: Terrible.. Can't be worse. 1/10
  
  The sounds: Sounds? What are you talking about? 1/10
  
  The controls: Terrible. 2/10
  
 
  The gameplay: There are no words for the gameplay of this game. 2/10
  
  The good: There are even worse games than this, i know it's hard to belive, but there are.
  
 
  The bad: Only a few games.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 1.5 ABYSMAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangans
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  I played this fine game for about 7 minutes in total. I deem it evil. Do not under any circumstances 
 install this fine game onto your pc, unless you want to cry.
  
  I cried. My dog cried. My parrot cried. My cat cried. We all cried. My eyes popped.
  
  do not 
 play
  do not play
  do not play
  do not play
  do not play
  
  Did I mention this fine game sucks ultra combo hard? Superhypermega hard? That would be an understatement 
 x 99999999999999999999999.
  
  This game is not a game. It is the equivalent of shoving a rusty spoon in your eye socket and scooping 
 your eyeball out, then eating your eyeball, and while chewing on your eyeball slowly scooping your 
 brains out with the rusty spoon through the hole in your skull that once contained your eyeball. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That was awful.
  
  I suppose that if I must say more on the subject of Sniper: Path of Vengeances depressingly inept 
 design, I would do well to focus on the worst of its crimes: false advertising. You see, I love 
 me some good sniping. Marine Sharpshooter provided an excellent outlet for long-distance kills; 
 like the games very title indicates, the player can expect to sling a good many rifle rounds in 
 a variety of situations that call for nervy precision. Not so with Sniper, which -- although its 
 name might also allude to the games prevailing method of sending virtual bad guys to the grave, 
 sealed by a virtual mortician in a closed casket with a nice plug of sawdust and glue hardening 
 over the hole I poked in their brain pan  is simply a label for the protagonists career pathone 
 which ends with incarceration immediately after the first level. The snipers one-and-only paid 
 gig isnt even set up properly, since the levels design prevents a shot from any further than 
 fifty yards away. Once I escaped from prison during historys dullest riot ever, I used every weapon 
 in my arsenal at least ten times as much as my long-barreled toy; the proficiency rating on the 
 character statistics sheet (at which I hardly ever cared to glance) for the rifle was a small fraction 
 of the experience points I gathered for the shotgun.
  
  The levels that follow the prison escape are all a blur, filled with blocky furnishings, deadly-dull 
 urban locations, multiple-choice conversations that seem to have no impact on the outcome of the 
 game, and enemies who can pass directly through a closed door. The anti-climactic ending cutscene 
 illustrates the designers why bother? approach to quality, as it takes place in utter silence 
 with the main characters pointing empty hands at each other during a showdown. I just dont understand 
 why on earth the programmers couldnt at least fix the invisible guns glitch before foisting 
 this remarkably bad game on consumers, and I dont believe that pressure from the publisher is 
 an acceptable excuse.
  
  Playing Sniper is like purchasing a copy of Railroad Tycoon only to discover that the game is a 
 submarine simulator in which the titular industrialist is merely the vessels first mate. There 
 is little to no long-range sniping to be found in the game, which eliminates any chance of even 
 a fugly-but-fun endorsement. PoVs spectacularly awful AI means that enemies will often run directly 
 toward the player in tightly-clustered groups by way of a challenge, a convention that reminded 
 me most of Operation Body Count, a primitive and tedious game that was released back in 1994. Take 
 it from someone who usually finds at least one redeeming feature in even the most underdeveloped 
 FPS titles: Sniper is a failure that is unfit for any audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  ok lets juz talk about it.................. ... the game's graphic is like one of those gta's style 
 but talk about the game man.. wats about the stat and it doesnt do much to the game? u'll feel like 
 ur playing a game with no proper storyline, sounds and so on. and theres many many bugs which hasnt 
 been solved. if this game were up to timesplitters gameplay or so. the rates and quality of this 
 game goes straight to 6-7 more. but now its quite disappointing coz i played it b4. i forgot if 
 its a staged based fps but i know i stopped around quite far around the game. got guns which looks 
 old. like a 18s guns and story mode of this game. well try it if u dunnoe the game. this game is 
 2002 i know. i did play tat 4 years ago lol. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
