-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier Elite
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aurorawatching/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Crummy, halfhearted stealth mechanics.
 Enemies are consistently tougher, faster, and better shots than you.
 Uninspired weapon selection.
 Shooting is even less fun than sneaking around.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 4.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Metropolis Soft.
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     May 29, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soldier Elite wants very badly to be a stealth action game, but it lacks any understanding of the 
 subtlety and nuance that are essential to the genre. 

  Metropolis Software's Soldier Elite is like a low-budget, direct-to-video version of Metal Gear 
 Solid. It doesn't have the big names, the peerless production values, or the engaging, intricate 
 plotline. Instead, this Polish-developed third-person stealth action game is saddled with frustrating, 
 half-realized sneaking mechanics, English-as-a-second-language voice acting, and very little inspiration 
 or originality. In short, this is a bad facsimile of a much better game and has a hard time justifying 
 its existence.  

          As much as he wants to be, White Fox is no Solid Snake.     

  Kicking things off derivatively, Soldier Elite casts you in the role of White Fox, a grizzled operative 
 who has retired himself into the cozy confines of alcoholism, only to be begrudgingly called back 
 into service for an extra-special mission involving terrorists, a sunken nuclear submarine, and, 
 somehow, zombies. Like Metal Gear Solid's story, the story here can be difficult to follow. Unlike 
 Metal Gear Solid's difficulties, though, Soldier Elite's problems are due to clumsy storytelling 
 and some phenomenally bad voice work, rather than dense and intricate plotting. Like his serpentine 
 role model, White Fox gets dropped off at an Arctic military research station staffed by unfriendly 
 and eagle-eyed soldiers. From there, it becomes a game of trial and error supported by liberal 
 use of the quicksave and quickload features.  

  Soldier Elite gets the fundamental conceit behind stealth action, which is that you have a better 
 chance of surviving if you avoid face-to-face enemy encounters, but the tools it gives you to make 
 that happen are few, and what's there is often broken. Save for the moments when you're looking 
 down the barrel of your standard-issue sniper rifle, the game is played from a third-person perspective. 
 You can tap the spacebar to switch between a behind-the-back view and an overhead view, the latter 
 of which is ostensibly for improved sneaking, though since it doesn't show you much that can't 
 be seen in your onscreen minimap, and it actually reduces your range of vision, it's basically 
 useless.  

  The basic controls use a standard WASD keyboard-and-mouse configuration, though there are a few 
 goofy quirks tossed in there for good measure. You can modulate the speed of White Fox's movement 
 using the mouse wheel, which goes from sneaking, to walking, to running. The faster you move, the 
 more noise you make, though even at his fastest gait, White Fox's movement is pretty sluggish, 
 and even though enemies can hear your footsteps through walls if you run too fast down a hallway, 
 they're all but oblivious to gunfire. This kind of inconsistency in the enemy's response to your 
 presence is the cause of much frustration in Soldier Elite. On the default difficulty setting, 
 you'll regularly find yourself spotted by enemies so far away that they don't even appear on your 
 minimap, and it's basically impossible to discern where their line of sight begins or ends.  

 
  Beyond the ability to walk real slow and a handful of noisemaking gadgets that you can draw enemies 
 in with, you don't really have any stealth tactics at your disposal -- no sidling up against walls 
 to peek around corners, no sneaky surveillance devices, not even a simple crouch mechanic. Without 
 the ability to sneak effectively, you'll find yourself in straight-up firefights that you often 
 have little chance of winning. As bad as Soldier Elite is as a stealth game, it's almost worse 
 as a shooter.  

  For all the pomp and circumstance, White Fox isn't a very tough operative, and it only takes a 
 half-dozen hits from consistently crack-shot enemies to empty a full life bar. By contrast, the 
 enemies are either much tougher, or at least much better shots, since it seems like you have to 
 empty a full clip into most enemies to get them to go down, which can be especially problematic 
 since ammo is often pretty scarce. Headshots can definitely reduce the amount of ammo enemies will 
 soak up, though the time spent standing out in the open trying to line up your shot is often time 
 wasted, since you seem to miss your target half the time, and while you've been standing there, 
 most of your life bar has probably been drained away. You can hold the shift key to lean out from 
 behind cover, theoretically reducing your exposure, though your aiming reticle moves off target 
 just enough when you lean out that you'll have to readjust your shot anyway, sapping much of this 
 mechanic's usefulness.  

          Soldier Elite can't even muster up the simple stealth mechanic of crouching.     

  
 The clunky fundamentals of Soldier Elite are only exacerbated by the bland mission objectives, 
 a pedestrian selection of weapons, a boring and overused computer-hacking mechanic, and some really 
 half-baked vehicle sequences. The only redeeming quality in Soldier Elite is its presentation, 
 which is technically proficient but creatively bankrupt. Character models look and move well enough, 
 but they also repeat a lot, and their reactions to getting hit with hot lead are understated. While 
 the game pretty much nails the whole chilly military-installment look and feel, the grey corridors 
 simply get old quick. There really isn't anything nice to say about the game's sound design, which 
 consists of terrible voice work, ineffectual weapon reports, and some of the most repetitive, urgent 
 techno music we've heard in a game.  

  Why would you play Soldier Elite? This is a third-rate knockoff of an aging stealth action game 
 that's already been ripped off several times over and to much better effect. While there might 
 be some parallels between Soldier Elite and some corny action movie you catch on late-night TV, 
 the key difference is that you have to pay money to find out just how bad Soldier Elite is.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lundberg500
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  This is a solid game! The reviews here are a little harsh. After you get used to the controls, 
 there is a lot to enjoy with this game. It's similar to Splinter Cell in some ways except for that 
 there aren't really any shadows to hide in. You just hide behind objects. There is some stealth 
 involved but it's really just a good balance of steatlh and shooter. The levels are huge and very, 
 very enjoyable. There are also many ventilation systems that you can enter giving you many ways 
 to play each level. The sniper rifle and shotgun and extremely fun to use. It's also fun to crack 
 the many computers to find out information and gather access codes. The graphics are also very 
 good.
  
  I'm usually leary of Dreamcatcher games but Soldier Elite is a well made game. I've finished the 
 game with no crashes or any problems at all and I will definitely replay the game again later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: za_wanted
Rating: 1.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Daca ar fi sa o iei ca tactici e tare, dar ca grafica ca arme si ca un joc aparut din 2006 e o 
 mare porcarie, ESEC TOTAL! !! In rest daca ar trebui sa semene cu un joc decent gen SWAT, ceea 
 ce e imposibil, s-ar fi auzit mai mutle lucruri despre el ( am auzit ca jocu asta e si sub numele 
 de ARORA WATCHING) , joc bun dar nesemanand cu asa mi se pare PAINKILLER care este cu adevarat un 
 joc revolutionar, sau UNREAL TOURNAMENT care este un joc de nota 9,4 si s mentine pana apare UT 
 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Disgustingly poor gameplay. I could only play the first hour before i was completly unable to progress 
 in the game due to attempting to drive a snowmobile with awkward key controls, on a timed countdown. 
 I uninstalled the game and threw it in the trash. A real waste of money. Dreamcatcher has produced 
 some good games of the past, but this one is a real flop and very cheaply done. Possibly with a 
 couple more hours of game programing by Dreamcatcher this game could be playable. Very pitiful 
 to produce games where the EASY level is too difficult to play through. Very pitiful to produce 
 games where important key mapping confrigerations are not offered. If the snowmobile was directional 
 controllable with the mouse-look, then i think i could have played the game. There is no need to 
 produce games which may only be played by the most antrodixterious gamers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattius1989
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I recently acquired this game and I have to say, i am completley disappointed with it. I don't 
 think I could reccomend it to anyone. The gameplay is so basic its bad. The game's sneaking feature 
 goes as far as rolling the mouse wheel down to reduce movement speed and movement noise and just 
 not standing in front of the enemy. The character is annoying - he is just a wanne be. The first 
 level he shows his true coolness by uttering something about a hangover. The shooting is slow paced 
 and basic with no substance to it. There is no tension in the game whatsoever that usally accompanies 
 stealth based games. The graphics are poor to the point that they have glitchy texture errors. 
 The sound is nothing remarkable. The game is annoying and offers "cool" things to do but these 
 things are normally great frustrations that hold you back. So all in all - these game really does 
 suck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlur
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  At first I thought, it's a cool game - the first mission. I was sneaking around, backstabbing enemies 
 and being quiet. Soon I realised this was all in vain. Only tactic in this game is shooting, no 
 stealth. Shoot the civilians, shoot at anything. The super-spy-gear sucks, it does not help you 
 at all.
  The story was badly written, when I was playing the last levels, I'd completely forgotten, why 
 is White Fox doing all this. OK, the enemies were hard, but beatable. Just forget sneaking and 
 kill them all. Zombie-levels with Tatiana were the hardest part. I was facing 5 zombies and had 
 only 10 bullets. You cannot outrun them, 'cause level exits have to be cracked. So simple solution 
 - hop onto a bed in a prison cell and the zombies can not harm you. They can open complex prison 
 doors, but they can not grab you, when you are standing two feet above them.
  And the ending, man did I laugh. This game is complete waste of time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
