-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soldieroffortune2dh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     May 20, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It retains and improves upon virtually every element of the original, both in its single-player 
 campaign and in its multiplayer mode. 

 Toward the middle of Soldier of Fortune II, there's a scene in which a character commits suicide 
 by shooting himself in the temple with a handgun. Just as he pulls the trigger, the camera tastefully 
 cuts away to spare you the sight. It's a shocking moment of restraint in a game whose primary focus 
 is the explicit depiction of people getting shot in the face. Rest assured, though, that this brief 
 foray into good taste is the exception rather than the rule. Soldier of Fortune II remains a well-made 
 meat-and-potatoes shooter with a keen eye for the forensic pathology of head wounds. Though it 
 introduces a few new features that don't quite work, it retains and improves upon virtually every 
 element of the original, both in its single-player campaign and in its multiplayer mode.       
     Soldier of Fortune II is an action-packed, gore-soaked shooter.    

 A really nice feature of the game's story is that -- pretty much any time you see it creaking to life -- you 
 can press a key to put it out of its misery and move on. The plot doesn't make a lot of sense, 
 the dialogue is absurd, and, even given the unlimited possibilities of a completely artificial 
 environment and a free-roaming camera, the developers usually can't think of anything better to 
 fill the time between head explosions than with long scenes of people having boring meetings. This 
 much is clear: You're still professional soldier John Mullins, and pretty much every other character 
 is someone trying to kill you.   

  Soldier of Fortune II is actually one of the few games in which skipping the plot actually makes 
 the gameplay portions clearer. Both the training and the early cutscenes imply that you're going 
 to need to resort to stealth to successfully navigate the first mission. If you skip the plot, 
 you'll miss this part and probably just go in shooting, which is actually the only practical way 
 to approach the game. It appears that the developers planned to incorporate some sneaking elements 
 into Soldier of Fortune II and then somewhere along the line gave up -- but then never managed to 
 completely remove the essentially nonfunctioning stealth features. Generally, you can sneak up 
 on the first enemy in a level. Once you've successfully snuck up on him, you can decide to never 
 move again and stay hidden forever -- or you can decide to kill him, at which point it's time to 
 stop sneaking and start shooting. A completely superfluous prone stance, an unnecessary option 
 for picking up dead bodies, and the enemies' ability to see you even if you're lying in tall grass 
 all contribute to the half-finished feeling of the stealth mechanic.           A lengthy campaign 
 and a solid multiplayer mode provide plenty of value.    

 However, aside from one small section of the first mission, the game never requires you to sneak 
 around. Soldier of Fortune II is quite long as a single-player shooter -- it should take somewhat 
 less than 20 hours to finish -- or more than that if you don't disable the limited save option. As 
 the game progresses, you can almost sense the developers figuring out what works and what doesn't. 
 The early missions include a lot of references to stealth and offer a few not-very-interesting 
 gameplay sequences set on rails. Happily, the final two-thirds of the single-player game focuses 
 almost exclusively on what Soldier of Fortune II does best: wild gunfights.   

  Enemy artificial intelligence is much better than the original game's. Characters no longer fail 
 to react when the guy standing right next to them has his brains blown out. Though they don't exhibit 
 much squad coordination, they use cover extremely well. Enemies will often find a spot and stick 
 to it, poking their heads out to take potshots at you. They're also deadly with grenades, which 
 keeps you from staying in one location for long and encourages accuracy on your part, as headshots 
 will immediately drop an enemy. Along with explosive grenades, the computer opponents have some 
 ability to use flashbangs, though they're a bit less successful with these. Sometimes it appears 
 as if they're actually coordinating an attack by throwing a flashbang at you and then advancing 
 through the cover of smoke. Other times, they'll toss a flashbang two feet away from themselves 
 and in the opposite direction of your position. Still, it adds an interesting wild card to the 
 combat. You'll quickly learn to run as soon as you hear the clinking sound of a bouncing grenade. 
 Since the AI tends to run from grenades as well, you'll sometimes be sprinting neck and neck with 
 a fleeing enemy soldier, both of you temporarily united in your desire to escape the impending 
 explosion.    

 The environments are bland. Basically, you'll visit warehouses on three continents, plus a warehouse 
 on a ship. The most visually interesting level, a South American village experiencing an outbreak 
 of a deadly Ebola-like virus, unfortunately exists only as part of an interactive cutscene. No 
 level approaches the original Soldier of Fortune's slaughterhouse for appropriately gory ingenuity. 
 Apart from a mission that takes place in a jungle filled with swaying trees and thigh-high grass, 
 the environmental visuals tend toward a boxy look reminiscent of games using older technology than 
 the Quake III engine that powers Soldier of Fortune II. Luckily, plenty of attention has been lavished 
 on populating these environments with lots of objects that shatter, explode, spin around, or fall 
 over when shot. Explosions immediately shatter every pane of glass in their vicinity, which is 
 a hugely satisfying effect that henceforth should be included in every game that revolves around 
 things getting blown up. In fact, the uninteresting environments are redeemed by the sheer number 
 of breakable objects they contain.           The long-range battles aren't as good as the close-quarters 
 ones.    

 In sharp contrast with the environments, the character models are uniformly terrific. Everything 
 from their expressive faces to their body language under fire is exceptionally well animated. The 
 GHOUL system that was introduced in the original Soldier of Fortune -- which permits body parts to 
 be blown off individually, supposedly for heightened realism -- has undergone some major upgrades. 
 For better or worse, heads can now be removed from bodies in various brain-exposing chunks, rather 
 than as a single unit. Neck, arm, and leg stumps now pump spurting arterial fountains of blood. 
 After abdominal wounds, characters make an effort to hold in their guts, and the sounds of death 
 include an aqueous gasp as your victim's throat fills with blood. It's all very advanced, and it 
 will hopefully lead to someone finally making a realistic Itchy and Scratchy game.   

  The sound effects that aren't some form of death gurgle are also well done. Bullets slam into a 
 wide variety of various materials with appropriate accompanying noises, guns all sound appropriately 
 powerful, and for once, here's a game that includes the sound of footsteps over broken glass. Enemies 
 all speak in their native tongue, which is a great touch. By the end, you'll know the word and 
 correct panicky inflection for "Grenade!" in four languages.   

  In addition to the main single-player campaign, the game includes a random mission generator that 
 creates unique goal-oriented single-player levels. It's a great idea, but in practice, it doesn't 
 work so well. The levels it makes are all similar-looking, foggy outdoor scenes in one of four 
 environments: hill, jungle, desert, and snow. The game's AI appears to work well at medium distances 
 with lots of intervening cover. Unfortunately, the mission generator generally sets up long-distance 
 firefights with sparse cover, a scenario that the AI doesn't handle so well. Enemies in the generated 
 levels tend to forgo the use of grenades, run straight at you, stand still while people around 
 them are killed, and be especially susceptible to sniping -- all traditional AI shortcomings that 
 the single-player campaign largely manages to avoid. The random mission generator ends up simulating 
 an ugly, mediocre shooter with a billion levels.           A lengthy campaign and good multiplayer 
 provide plenty of value.    

 Considering that the game was originally going to ship without a multiplayer component, it's surprising 
 that Soldier of Fortune II packs in one of the most stable and addictive multiplayer modes in any 
 shooter so far this year. Though it includes the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag 
 modes, as well as a last-man-standing team-deathmatch variant called elimination, the real standout 
 is a mode called infiltration. It's a version of capture the flag in which one team must defend 
 an object while the other team attempts to grab it and then escape with it. As in Counter-Strike, 
 once you die in this mode, you're out for the round. Each round is short enough that dying isn't 
 too much of a penalty, and the excellent character animation system actually makes watching the 
 rest of the round pretty interesting. It's not as tactically complex as Ghost Recon, Global Operations, 
 or even Return to Castle Wolfenstein, but it's fast-paced and incredibly satisfying. Five Infiltration 
 levels are included, the best one of which is the Shop Under Siege level from the multiplayer demo. 
 The random mission generator creates multiplayer maps as well. As with the single-player version, 
 the maps are pretty similar and not always well laid out, especially in the number and positioning 
 of choke points. But though they can't compete with the hand-made levels, they provide a decent 
 occasional diversion.   

  Though the plot, the sneaking, and the environments don't amount to much, about 90 percent of Soldier 
 of Fortune II consists of gunfights. And, as in the first game, the developers definitely get that 
 part right. Besides which, the infiltration mode alone is enough reason to recommend Soldier of 
 Fortune II, a sequel that succeeds more on solid improvements than innovation.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (53 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Carnage1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune 2 is a sequel of Soldier of Fortune, was made in 2002.
  
  Graphics are amazing! To me it looks like a next-gen game.
  
  Sounds are awesome from your 
 pistol all the way to your grenade!
  
  Gameplay was way better. The characters sure look realistic I have to say. Whats nicer? The gore 
 is still there! Yes, from blowing people's heads out and seeing their brains to cutting their whole 
 body! Cut scenes are neatly done. A. I aren't really that stupid. But yeah they throw back grenades 
 at you. Even better there is an option called "Random Mission Generator" which generates mission 
 for you if you get bored. They are all fun, you can chose what location you want and all. Better 
 theres car and helicopter fights! Shooting from on truck to a helicopter! Storyline was still "Okay". 
 But most of the missions, you have to be quiet if not you will fail them. Picking the right weapons 
 for the job. Multi-Player is great! Totally awesome.
  
  Overall this is an awesome game, so get it! You won't be sorry! Buy if you find it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaggos_18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Gamers who play fps will know for sure the Soldier of Fortune series. The first Soldier of Fortune 
 that came out in 2000 made a good impression to every pc gamer. Its sequel definitely is worthy 
 playing. Specially those who loved Soldier of Fortune 1 (like me!!) will be totally contented by 
 the second game of the series.
  Graphics: 9/10
  The game offers really good graphics. Npcs models are very well designed. When you shoot your opponents 
 you can see their head rip off for example or you can totally dismember them (yikes!) . Weapon models 
 are pretty good too (except the ICWG weapon) . Generally the outdoor and indoor enviroments are pretty 
 well designed too. The explosions are realistic too so no complaints from the visual part of the 
 game.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Weapon sounds are realistic and serve well their purpose. Also your enemies' screams when shot to 
 death are very convincing. The speech just fits perfect in cinematics and in general sound is another 
 good part of the game,
  
  Game-play: 9/10
  The plot of the game isn't something really interesting. It just advances the game so that the slaughter 
 continues:) . But in an fps game like that where you are supposed to kill your enemies at any means 
 and ask questions later who cares so much about plot? Definitely the game is not boring and will 
 keep you with its game-play. Enemies' A. I is very improved compared to the first game and that means 
 that your mission will not be very easy. They cover each other in a very good way in most cases. Be 
 careful for the grenades that your enemies throw because they are deadly! The game offers a very 
 good multi-player too although not many play today: (.
  
  So i recommend this game to anyone who loves fps and didn't have the chance to play it before. It's 
 definitely worth a look even six years after its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value :7
  Tilt: 7
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The single player in Soldier of fortune II: Double Helix was a somewhat annoying adventure gun 
 game. The single player wasn't hard, it was just very annoying and ridiculous. When you just killed 
 about 20 people and walk down the hallway, searching for a health box, you are attacked out of 
 no where. So the single player is definetly not a game that you would play more than once, However, 
 in the single player there is another mode that lets you create your own scenario. You can choose 
 if you want it to be a infiltration, assassination, escape, etc; you also choose the guns to be used 
 and the level. So thats a additional fun bonus. However, the full version of S. O. F II multiplayer 
 is the main part of the game. It has many levels and different opponents, but, S. O. F 2 online does 
 not have many servers, so it is kind of hard to find a good or even a decent fun game. Also, more 
 than half the online players are hacking, so it will be hard to kill but it is very easy to be 
 killed. Anyway, it's easy to set up, you don't have to go on a website, sign up, etc. You put your 
 desired nickname, choose your character, and you can start to play. This game has tons of weapons 
 including the M60, rocket launcher, grenade launcher, M4, and much more. Furthermore, you can play 
 many types of matches such as death match and capture the flag. Overall, if you want a decent online 
 game with a okay but annoying single player, then get Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix. You 
 don't need a great video and graphics card to play this game, but I still don't highly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune: Double Helix.
  This is the second installment of the Soldier of Fortune Series, I gotta Say... this is one of the 
 best First Person Shooter game ever... Activision deserves a standing ovation for this ! The game 
 is pretty old, and when compared to newer FPS games, it still stands out. The character -John Mullins 
 is very well depicted throughout the game, the intense gameplay and graphics gets the player addicted 
 in no time. The violence and blood are quite realistic and the physics are pretty amazing as well. The 
 environments such as the jungle, snow scapes and the city are awesome. the sound and music brings 
 in more interest in the gamer, The storyline and gameplay are perfect. The learning curves need no 
 time at all, The weapons are awesome and has that BANG effect on the opponents! man.. the enemies 
 are soo totally ripped apart !.. u gotta play this game to get the actual fun..! the game does not 
 put intense pressure on the gamers while playing unlike 'Crysis' ! at the end of the game u will 
 feel really good that you played such a fantastic game, a time well spent in gaming.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  I loved the concept and still think its workable under a new formatt and a different title that 
 you can be a mercenary and go around commiting mass murder in both the defense of your beloved 
 country and the search for thrills and cold hard cash. Of course the idea is based loosely on the 
 CIA as that is what they do, cruise the world killing things and making excuses, never mind thats 
 off topic. 
  
  The game was plenty fun, the jungle hut fights and subway/sewer chases and fighting were all top 
 knotch though graphicaly out of date. I would have played the game through till the end and loved 
 it if it hadn't frozen on me for no reason. I search forums high and wide, contact the company 
 who made it, I even bought a new computer though not just for the game and it froze not after set 
 periods of gaming but at the same place in the game. I can't recall at this point in time where 
 that was but it was definetely in a city somewhere on the east coast.
  
  It was enjoyable and like I said the concept has potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Ok .. so the first game mainly traded on the fact that you could blow body parts off your enemy 
 .. this game however improves on that first game and becomes a solid title that, although not essential 
 in any way, should provide a good deal of entertainment. 
  
  Worth noting is a high quality multiplayer game that will entertain you and others for a good length 
 of time after the single player has been finished. 
  
  However as with many games that get everything technically right the FPS genre is a crowded one 
 and the only distinguishing feature of this title is still the gore. 
  
  Ultimately this title can only be recommended if you've played and finished the top FPS games and 
 still need a bit of entertainment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gualtercamboias
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Soldier of fortune 2 is without a doubt a great fps even these days after a few years of release. The 
 storyline is nice, actual and not forced like some other fps ive played, there are no aliens or 
 monsters of any kind, its just plain action-stealth playing. The charachters are normal people with 
 no extra powers, except the ability of exploding heads or torn limbs apart with a shotgun! Lol! Ive 
 played the game twice, first on amateur difficulty and second time on soldier of fortune difficulty, on 
 the last one the game its pretty hard to beat, but still with careful and a intelligent playing 
 it can be done. The multiplayer its very solid, with no flaws (still i prefer counter-strike) , and 
 it can give you endless hours of fun. I can wait to play soldier of fortune 3, from which i know 
 its on the final stage of production... Ill be here for that one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Seeing a blown up head never seemed so beautiful. Soldier of fortune delivers an interesting take 
 to explosions that leaves you craving for a bit more.
  The game right from the start feels like a great improvement from the first title. Right away you 
 can feel the difference. However the game beginning is a bit dull with rather very long cut scenes 
 that try to explain the story plot. You are still Mullins and still the go to guy when there needs 
 cleaning up. So you can rest assured that there will be plenty of gun fights to kill your cravings.
 
  As for the improvements on the first title, the game makers have really come a long way. The most 
 interesting being of course the decapitations. A bit gory but still fun to watch, it will make 
 you always try go for the headshots. AI has got a real boost too, being more reactive to your approach. 
 Use of grenades has an added touch with everything in the environment capable of blowing up actually 
 blowing up, so a wooden box wont remain there after an explosion and you can almost see the little 
 tiny fragments flying around. These plus much more give the game a much improved feel that will 
 keep you busy.
  One or two letdowns actually comes from the reactive ness of the game AI, for instance one can 
 be able to successfully creep up on your enemy but once that is done your cover is basically blown 
 as all enemies will spot you even if you are hidden in the thickest grass/bush.
  In the end SOF2 delivers an interesting punch. Further improvement on the game will ultimately 
 take it to the top of the charts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I didn't play it on MP mode. All my business is SP and that's what pisses you off (As other reviewers 
 said)
  
  The way that you start the game is not good at all. They should've set a tutorial but you suddenly 
 start in the middle of action in a dull envnmnt.
  Limited saving times (Even if you've set them to unlimited) is not a good idea in this game. I 
 don't know why developers insist on this bothering idea.
  Boring! Sometimes all you've to do is to walk on and on through boring paths and shoot down some 
 stupid enemies. The most annoying thing about the game was a hell of bugs. Bugs in graphic, in 
 gameplay , bugs while saving, bugs while loading, bugs while setting up options ... Another annoying 
 thing is dealing with your own character. You can't sometimes even switch weapons.
  As much as I liked weapons in SOF1 I hate them in SOF2, especially the big stupid OICW. I won't 
 recommand it for Single Playing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Soldier of fortune 2 is a game that delivers reality in FPS. Finally when you shoot someone you 
 can actually see the spot where the bullet came thru. I must say there is no similar game, sadly, 
 in the world of gaming maybe couse of that violence that game has offered. Developers must been 
 working hard to made that much number of spots on the human body. I am no sadistic maniac but this 
 game i highly recommend to everyone from 18 to above. Weapons are so realistic in the game that 
 sometimes you thought that you holding a real weapon... Graphic in the game is also great it has 
 early ragdoll engine effect... thou for me maybe lacking in good story but offers great fun while 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ultra-gory, blood-spattered, almost stomach-turningand still Soldier of Fortune II delivers more 
 of the same gameplay. While better than its predecessor on almost all counts, SOF II still does 
 little to turn heads in the genre. Instead, it blows them clean off.
  
  The games primary strengths are awesome new Quake III: Arenapowered visuals, a heightened emphasis 
 on story, much more attention to detail, and at least a few attempts at ingenuity. But the no-holds-barred, 
 unflinching emphasis on rendering the bloodiest action possible on the PC is still SOF IIs primary 
 calling card.
  
  Once again, you fill the size-15 boots of one badass hombre known as John Mullins (based on the 
 games technical advisor, who was a former soldier of fortune) . A network of terrorists has its 
 sights set on using a deadly bio-agent to hold the world hostage, and its up to you  working 
 for The Shop, an ultra-secretive counter-terrorist group  to stop them.
  
  Your efforts will take you on an all-expenses-paid trip around the world, visiting Colombia, Hong 
 Kong, and Prague. Each locale serves up a well-varied mix of environments and baddies that you 
 can blast to smithereens with 14 hard-hitting weapons, most of which have secondary firing modes. 
 My personal fave has to be the fully automatic 12-gauge shotgun. Designed to eliminate scads of 
 bad guys quickly in room-to-room fighting, this beast does its job extremely well. Itll decorate 
 the walls, ceilings, and floors with blood and chunks of flesh and bone, leaving a trail of body 
 parts in its wake.
  
  Ravens proprietary GHOUL 2 system performs as advertised with its hit-specific damage modeling. 
 Pop a guy (or gal) in the stomach with a shotgun, and they keel over in all manner of painful ways 
  lurching forward, groaning, and failing to keep their innards from spilling on the ground. You 
 can use a password to lock out all the blood and gore, but if you do, youre left with a pretty 
 unremarkable experience.
  
  The games greatest failing is its completely unbalanced AI. Most missions emphasize stealth, and 
 SOF II gives you the ability to lean around corners and even go prone and crawl on your stomach. 
 Problem is, the AI bad guys spot you way too easily, and they will nail your ass with impossible 
 accuracy, particularly with grenades. I was continually spotted when there appeared to be no line 
 of sight, and even when crawling behind cover  at night and in the rain, no less. Grenades  tossed 
 by opponents who couldnt see me, mind you  frequently landed in my lap. Needless to say, this 
 hardship makes the game very challenging, even on the easier of the five difficulty settings.
 
  
  Also, the fortune aspect I liked so much in the original SOF is gone, so theres no cash to earn, 
 no running tally of enemies waxed  no fortune to be made. Its a big loss.
  
  Still, if all youre wanting in an FPS is frenetic, brutal, scarily realistic and bloody action, 
 no game delivers these ingredients better. And the random-scenario and map generator is a cool 
 addition, though the missions and maps it creates do look and feel a bit too, well, random in their 
 construction. Fans of SOF will likely get a kick out of the updated gore factor, but be warned: 
 its a tough play, with too few rewarding gameplay moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  This sequel was released a few years ago and still delivers. The story is what you expect was a 
 terrorist neutralizing game, a double agent inside the base. OK so the story sounds a bit too simple 
 but their are many twists during the wild ride that this game delivers. You are are still our favourite 
 veteran NAMED JOHN MULLINS. You do the same styled missions like SOF1 except this time it's a little 
 more detailed taking advantage of the later technology than the first. Graphics have improved enough 
 for the later time. Plus it's more fun with a female along sid e you this time. Weapons are very 
 limited to stuff from the first game but their are some new weapons like the M 54 and the new rifle 
 that they actually train you to use. The Training for the new weapon is quite uneccesary as the 
 controls are is easy enough to handle as it is a FPS game. You'll spot a few or so bugs during 
 the PC version but a few standard patches should few them up alright in no time at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that if Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix for the PC was a movie, it would 
 be the best guys night out movie ever. There is lots of blood and guts, a storyline where one man 
 takes on a whole organization of terrorists, and there are terrorist using some biohazard type 
 checmical thingy on the world. Yea that about sums up the story, but it really goes so much deeper 
 than that, or atleast it should. The one thing that shocked me though was that I hated this game 
 on the Xbox but I found it much more enjoyable on the PC, even though they are in fact the exact 
 same game. Graphically speaking this game looks about at the same level as most of the games of 
 its time. The big thing here is the games engine, that lets you mutilate any dead body you see. 
 Was a bad guy giving you lots of trouble? If he was than you can take off all his limbs once he 
 is dead, or cut is face up real nice, I know its not the prittiest thing in the world, but it sure 
 is fun to do sometimes, when you are angry or just frustrated with the mission that you are currently 
 on, as that can sometimes happen. The music in this game is standard shooting music, and the voiceovers 
 are nothing to brag about. They are not the worst voiceovers in the world, but its no Brothers 
 In Arms Earned In Blood, but is more along the lines of Resident Evil 4. The explosions and bullets 
 sound great as well. This game features multiplayer but that is not in my opinion the highlight 
 of the game. There is the random missions which are very fun to do if you get stuck or beat the 
 game and you want to keep on playing. Other than that the game controls well on the PC, and is 
 a game that most people who are fans of shooters and action movies should check out. Pros: +perfect 
 guy game +blood and guts +controls Cons: - VO - multiplayer is nothing to get excited about Neutral: 
 graphics storyline Overall: If you love action movies, than you should definatley give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProjectPat187
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since day one (5 years straight) I remember playing the demo waiting 
 for this game to be released, I have never even touched the single player because CTF multiplayer 
 is what this game is all about, there is also another mode called infiltration but its not as popular 
 as CTF, this is one of the most underrated games ever made IMO, the gameplay is unlike no other 
 Activition and Raven just got it right when they made this game, u just have to play it because 
 the gameplay is unbelievable, I just wish Raven would make a SOF3 if Raven doesn't make it I don't 
 want a SOF3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Its not quite as pure run and gun as the original and isn't as intense but it still comes off as 
 a reasonable action game.
  
  SF2 isn't great graphically and the full shadows are horrible and should probably have been left 
 out of the game, although its simple enough to keep these turned off. Some of the environments 
 are better than others, the jungle area is quite memorable but some areas like the first one at 
 the hotel are very poorly put together. A bit of a mixed bag really, like some of the levels were 
 designed by the pro and some by the intern.
  
  SF2 tries to break out of the original formula of SF and that's a mistake, they have an abortive 
 stealth element and one of the early levels uses it extensively, they've also added automated squad 
 style action in places but that does work better. Nothing really detracts from the game too much 
 and on the whole its still good action fun.
  
  There is a plot that's slightly more memorable than the original and is filled in buy sequences 
 in the game's own engine, some of these actually work quite well and look nice. The weaponry is 
 good, improved from the original but just as meaty (in more ways than one) , yes the weapons are 
 a pleasure to use and there is even the ability to dual wield the pistols and machine pistols in 
 the game. Additionally a lot of the weapons can be upgraded with standard addons like scope/silencer/red 
 dot/torch etc..
  
  All in all a better game that it first appears, definitely worth sticking with and playing all 
 though, could have done with a little more dev time to polish it up but there your go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bit3889
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  After shooting the arms and legs off of the five hundreth enemy in a row, the single player gets 
 slow and monotonous. But on the other hand, the multiplayer is great. There are practically no 
 cons, and you are left with a mostly balanced, fast paced, in your face game. With many game types, 
 alot of maps, and thousands of custom maps, sof2 has everything anyone could want. If you are a 
 fan of fps mp then you must check this game out. It has remained my favorite fps since its release 
 and its still all i play. Pick this game up, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  SOF 2 is so much fun. The single player is long and there is many bad terrorist and evil dudes, 
 so there is so many people to shoot.
  
  Well SOF 2 GHOUL 2 engine is amazing. To this day there isn't a game on the PC that has better 
 dismembering. Lots of guns and grenades to use.
  
  The multiplayer is great and stable. Multiplayer was really great, unfortunately there isn't many 
 people playing online. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, but infiltration is the best mode. SOF 2 has 
 more coolness, and pizzaz from SOF. SOF 2 is better than SOF in every single way. If you like shooter 
 games get SOF 2 on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Let us ask ourselves, why do we play games? Is it for entertainment? For kicks? To escape reality? 
 To vent our anger and not end up jail?
  
  If you want to vent your anger then you should play Soldier of Fortune 2, because it can work wonders 
 that way. You get to show all your anger on the helpless enemies, who dont stand a semblance of 
 a chance against your Rambo like ability. You can dismember their body parts, send their heads 
 flying across the room, and spill more blood than you would find in a lot of blood bankscombined.
 
  
  By the time you are done with this game, you will no longer feel the need to attack your classmate/boss/colleague/ 
 with a shotgun and splatter his/her brains on the wall. You can live your like any normal person 
 without any outward trace of homicidal tendencies. Outward traces, mind you.
  
  Now I might have come across as being mocking, but I am not. This game is certainly not normal 
 that way. Let me explain.
  
  This game is a successor to the violent classic Soldier of Fortune. When Soldier of Fortune was 
 released, it was genre defining in some ways, more so because of the realistic violence within 
 in the game. Until then FPS games were about shooting zombies, stroggs or terrorists holding hostages 
 in tall buildings. They all strived to be politically correct. Not Soldier of Fortune. It couldnt 
 have cared less about politics.
  
  That game was one of the most violent games ever to have been released. Before you go on tell me 
 about 11 other games that are equally violent, let me tell you, I havent heard of those, so they 
 are not popular enough. But I did hear about Soldier of Fortune, I played and finished the game. 
 I even killed Saddam Hussein and his posse in the game (I told you the game didnt care about politics) .
 
  
  In Soldier of Fortune 2, you reprise role of John Mullins. He is a Rambo in disguise. You work 
 for a secret organization called The Shop, which is located somewhere in Texas. You are typically 
 sent on near impossible missions to various parts, to basically save the world. One man against 
 entire terrorist organizations of the world.
  
  The game uses a modified version of Quake 3 engine and Ravens GHOUL II technology. Its not cutting 
 edge, even for its time, but the engine had never been modified this way, it actually looks good 
 because of the high polygon count. There seems to be some sort of a problem when the game is played 
 at the highest detail. Everything appears to be like an architectural model, so I had to reduce 
 the detail. The water looked like this during the entire game:
  
  http://img127. imageshack. us/img127/2303/copyofsoldieroffortune2fl6. jpg
  
  The locales are varied, 
 and you dont linger in one place for too long, so at least that part it doesnt get repetitive.
 
  
  There are a variety of weapons, like knives, M1911A1 semi-automatic, AK-47, the special military 
 OICW, shotgun, Uzi pistols, grenade launcher etc. Pistols and Uzi can be dual wielded, although 
 I didnt use this feature a whole lot, its fun initially.
  
  The sound is top notch, with excellent effects. The weapons sound very realistic and they deliver 
 just as well. The enemies emit a guttural sound when they are shot at, scream in different languages 
 depending upon the location. Its a good acoustic experience with my Creative speakers and Audigy 
 soundcard. Everything sounds crips and clear. Very nice. But the story didnt have to be believable, 
 although it tries to be. As I said before, its one man out to save the world from a mad terrorist 
 who unleashes a deadly virus onto the world and tries to make millions by manufacturing the antidote. 
 It really doesnt matter too much; your job is to kill anyone pointing a gun at you. And thats 
 where the violence comes in.
  
  The violence is very believable. There are a lot of hit zones on the enemies, so they would react 
 depending on where they are shot at. Apparently there are 16 dismemberment zones and 36 damage 
 zones, and they can be killed in a variety of ways using the same weapon, and they will not have 
 the same reaction.
  
  There is also a violence lock in this game, but I dont think anyone would have ever used it. I 
 have a feeling it was done to avoid a possible lawsuit. Imagine the consequences if this game were 
 to fall in the hands of a maniac with a shotgun in the closet. This is game is for mature players 
 who can tell the difference between a game and real life.
  
  The enemy AI is pretty good. I played in experienced difficulty mode, or something similar to that, 
 and I found that the enemies are not going down easy. They take cover, throw smoke grenades, and 
 lean from the corner and take shots at you, so you dont get to walk over them, but they are not 
 the brightest bunch either. They have this kamikaze tendency to rush at you at times, so all you 
 have to do it wait in the corner and pick them off one by one.
  
  The game is pretty long. There are 55 levels in all, set in varied locations like streets of Hong 
 Kong, jungles of Cambodia, onboard a cargo ship and The Shop itself. But it didnt take me too 
 long to finish the game. It took about 3 weeks of very casual gaming to finish it.
  
  There are some stealth missions in the game, and I use the word stealth very lightly because, they 
 are quite monotonous, where you cannot use your usual weapons. Youll have to go about your business 
 with knives and a pistol with silencer (provided you included that in your inventory) . I felt these 
 levels could have been implemented better. All it takes to raise the alarm is for the enemy to 
 just spot you. No flipping of switches, no speaking into walkie-talkie, everything works on telepathy 
 here.
  
  The strongest point of the game is the action. In those levels where you dont have to use stealth, 
 you are kept quite busy because there are tons of enemies. By the end of the game, you would have 
 killed almost the entire population of a small city.
  
  Once you are through with the missions, you dont have to uninstall this game in a hurry, because 
 there is multiplayer as well as a random mission generator. I dont know much about the multiplayer, 
 I cannot say if people are still playing this game online.
  
  The random mission generator however, is an interesting feature. You can select different types 
 of missions like assassination, infiltration, demolition, escape. You can customize the mission 
 by choosing the difficulty, time of the day, time limit and location. Once you do that, you are 
 off on a single independent mission. This increases the replay value of the game quite a bit.
 
  
  This is not the most spectacular game you will ever seen, neither is it groundbreaking, but its 
 a solid game, that will guarantee some hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  The best multiplayer game I've ever played. It's old, but it's still fun to play with your friends. 
 In two words - it's excelent.
  
  The graphics compared to release year are very good, and the physics are very real. The details 
 of weapons are very nice and smooth, and the body models are great.
  
  The gameplay is very nice and real. You have plenty of weapons to choose from. The story line is 
 also good, and it is fun to explore the game and learn new things and tactics in multiplayer game.
 
  
  The sounds are also pretty good and clear. You will know when your enemy has been killed. Even 
 from a far distance you will hear them dying in pain.
  
  Overall this is still my favorite and most enjoyable PC game in so many years of playing. It is 
 worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Shooting a guy's face off shouldn't be this fun. I mean, I'm a law-abiding citizen (during the 
 week, between the hours of 8 to 3) and an honest taxpayer. I don't have a homicidal bone in my 
 body (from the ankles down) . So why is watching a NPC hold his face while liquid crimson flows 
 from between his fingers so damn gratifying? I'll tell yah why - it's guiltless and about has harmful 
 as asphyxiating your favorite stress toy or maiming the dummy at your anger management class. So 
 in a sense, Activision's new FPS Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix can be seen as much needed 
 therapy for the mentally stable PC gamer ( mentally stable being the operative term) who just wants 
 to vent a little and/or have a good time. Soldier of Fortune II is also great first-person shooter 
 with nearly all the elements needed for a frantic, satisfying frag session. However, the bad likes 
 to travel on the underbelly of the good, and there are a few hitches along the way. But thankfully, 
 Soldier of Fortune II doesn't come with too many unwanted stowaways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblaze93
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I think it was a pretty awesome game sort of like counter strike source but with more guns and 
 a little more fun to it. Only down part about it is how many little people play the game now if 
 only more people played the game we would have more servers and it would be alot more fun! I think 
 they should think of making a new soldier of fortune with better graphics and it would bring back 
 alot of the old people that use to play the game. I was very disapointed when i came to gamespot 
 and saw that there was not another soldier of fortune in development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koenkramer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  egt een heel er mooi spel singelplayer is geen drol aan maar multiplayer is egt dope speel het 
 al een aardig tijdje en super vet het is meschien geen counterstrike source maar niet veel minder 
 vindt ik en die aka 47 is ook heerlijk in de had en speelt gewoon lekker helemaal als je zelf server 
 maak en de snelheid en de grafity lekker aanpast zadat het wat sneller gaat. alleen het is wel 
 jammer dat er niet zo erg veel MAPS zijn maar je ken er wel een aantal downloaden maar dat is niet 
 zo super
  ik denk dat er zoon 10 levels zijn onlinne... das tog nog wel redelijk. en die sounds die je tussen 
 door ken doen zijn ook dope,, alleen de gewone shooting sounds van je gun zijn neit heel erg super 
 maar de grahichs weer wel HAVE and enjoy greetz _Ruthless_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  While playing through the original Soldier of Fortune one more time a few months ago, I was reminded 
 of just how interesting a first-person shooter can be when game designers go in whole-hog on the 
 character damage model. At the risk of sounding macabre and bloody-minded (then again, who plays 
 FPSs for the jumping puzzles?) , seeing the tragic effects of a point-blank shotgun blast on a persons 
 extremities tends to excuse any amount of repetitive combat far more than the innocuous little 
 puffs of red that represent a direct hit in T-rated titles. Ravens GHOUL system did remarkable 
 job of keeping SoFs fun but relatively uniform corridor crawls interesting with some over-the-top 
 graphic carnage that made every encounter a bit more dramatic.
  
  I expected more of the same from SoF2, and am happy to report that John Mullins worldwide terrorist 
 safari features even more ragged stumps and avulsed jawbones. The scenarios in which The Shops 
 favorite mercenary reduces an entire room full of hostiles into a gurgling pile of broken corpses 
 usually involve some of the best duck-and-cover, spray-and-pray, or retreat-and-defend gameplay 
 to grace the Quake 3 engine. SoF2s excellent character detail extends beyond violent dissection 
 to a genuinely impressive set of facial expressions, although the wide glare of everyones articulated 
 eyes and the occasional oddly-bobbing noggin were evocative of a spooky marionette. Raven was also 
 able to coax the game engine into rendering the most effective and detailed jungle thicket to ever 
 to appear in a shooter (until Vietcong upped the ante on riotous foliage a year later, just before 
 Far Cry completely stole the show the year after that) .
  
  SoF2s settings and environmental effects were well-done in other areas, as well. The blinding 
 snow of Kamchatka lent a special purpose to the wonderful OICW rifles infrared function. The rainy 
 deluge in Prague and on the deck of the Seaward Star actually prompted a psychosomatic soaked-to-the-bone 
 chill in me as Mullins trudged through it. Even the offices, labs, and other close-quarters indoor 
 areas ripe for flashbangs and shotgun blasts were appreciably detailed, albeit with fairly commonplace 
 furnishings.
  
  Overall, SoF2 is very much like the original in terms of its gory gameplay. The inclusion of stealth 
 sequences was a regrettable mistake, but total furtiveness was thankfully only mandatory during 
 one of the early levels in Prague. The on-rails sequence that preceded it, as well as the helicopter 
 ride during Mullins Colombia junket, were very satisfying, loaded with lots of noise and frenetic 
 activity and things that go boom. Soldier of Fortune 2 isnt very old, so it still holds its own 
 among more recent titles. I recommend this game for any grownups who arent squeamish about stepping 
 over the burst torsos and detached limbs of roomfuls of virtual people. Those who enjoyed the original 
 may agree that the Raven team successfully transferred that titles hyperviolent take on Chuck 
 Norris-style paramilitary justice into a flashier engine with better enemy AI and edgier firefights. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is good, i worth the money and graphics arnt to bad. plus the game play is solid. the 
 internet multiplay would have to be the best part about this game, its fun and addictive. the choice 
 of guns is just about right, you have rocket launchers, to AK47's, good variety on everything you 
 wanted about a first person shooter. this is a great game, and easy to pick up on... anyone can 
 start playing it the instant they have the game. but still, before getting this game i reccommend 
 you loooking around, finding some other shooters out there, but it was deffinetly worth gettting, 
 no regrets:)
  
  
  Curt ***METROID WIFI UNION*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsmirZone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  As a non big PC gamer or for any matter a FPS fan. Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix was a perfect 
 reason for me to upgrade my PC at that time. The game ran just well enough to enjoy it.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Just like most FPS you have a verity choice of weapons to chose from. It has a 
 story if for most part anyone cares to follow. The most things that made the gameplay fun was the 
 gore in the game. Get your self a Sniper and go with a head shot. The levels are very different 
 from each other and the environments are fun to explore. Great level design overall.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix offers some great visual fx. Nice explosions 
 and great body models. The guns look details and the environments itself was done very well. It's 
 sharp and lean graphics come out great on even LCD monitors at a 1280x1024 resolution, 32bit color, 
 and 75Htz refresh rate.
  
  SOUND
  
  You are sure to know when your enemy has been killed. Even from a far distance you will hear them 
 dying in pain. If you have a nice sound card you will be satisfied with the sound.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix is my number one FPS game and is one my most 
 enjoyed PC games. Every moment and time was worth spending on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Soldier Of Fortune 2 Double Helix For PC.
  
  
  
  
  ==========================================================
  The Good : Very Gory Shooting Action, 
 Graphics Are Good, Instant Action Mode Is Very Fun.
  ==========================================================
  The Bad : Sound Isn't Very Good Besides 
 The Weapon Sounds, Frame Rate Can Be A Bit Of A Bother.
  ==========================================================
  
  
  
  I've always loved violent 
 games. Why? Simply because you can do things in the game that you simply can't (or won't) do in 
 real life but love to be able to release your anger on something. This is where Soldier of Fortune 
 2: Double Helix comes in. The game where you can literally rip apart enemies limb by limb and not 
 get punished for it. To simply put it, the story isn't that good. It's the classic good guy against 
 terrorists. And like every other game or movie, you guessed it, the terrorists are Russian. But 
 this game is definitely not story driven, in fact, I pretty much skipped all the cinematics in 
 single player. So, again, do not play this game for a story, if you want story, go try Deus Ex 
 or something. Gameplay : Now, the fun begins. This game is an overly violent FPS (First Person 
 Shooter) . You have the ability to pretty much do anything to your opponents, shoot them in the 
 face, leaving them with nothing but a bloody jaw. Cut off your downed enemies' limbs off with your 
 knife. Whatever your heart desires. The single player missions are not very deep. The objectives 
 eventually all lead to kill things. And, because of the not-so-good story, in every level, you're 
 pretty much thrown into a random location with some guns, ammo, and Russians. One of the major 
 weak points of this game are the stealth parts. It is sometimes terribly hard to get by when there 
 is more than one guard in a room. And once you're laid eyes upon, it's over. It's not like in the 
 Metal Gear Solid series where an exclamation point over the guard's head signals that you've been 
 seen and you must proceed to kick his ass before he hits the alarm, in this, once you're seen, 
 that's it, mission over. But it's not enough to bring down the fun factor of the game. One of the 
 higher points blesses those gamers with little or no skill. The easiest difficulty of this game 
 makes the worst player look like a master. The enemies will scarcely, if at all, hit you and they 
 have the slowest reaction speeds known to mankind. You probably have time to shoot each enemy with 
 every weapon you got before the other fifty even hit you. It's a good thing that there are harder 
 difficulties. On the harder difficulties, however, you could have your innards smeared all over 
 the walls before you step into a room. But all in all, the gameplay is not hard at all. But on 
 all difficulties, the AI will do some neat things like knock over a table and duck behind it, or 
 jump over a counter while you're running around the corner. These little actions are quite interesting 
 to see as you go through the game. The guns aren't as realistic as in games such as Counter-Strike, 
 therefore making aiming easier with less recoil. The gunfights in the game are great as you hide 
 behind a wall as bullets ricochet off the floor and boxes are ruined right beside you. Especially 
 in the jungle as you trudge through the tall grass and plants while trees beside you are riddled 
 by holes of enemies with automatic rifles are attempting to take you down. Overall, the gameplay 
 is great. Although the violence does bring the mark a bit up, the great gunfights make this game 
 worth playing. Graphics : I did get this game a bit late as I recently got a new computer capable 
 of running this game, so I do not know how out-dated or amazing the graphics are. As this is one 
 of my first games on the new computer I thought the graphics were nice. The expression and such 
 on the characters faces do look a bit crappy, but nonetheless, a nice try. The holes from your 
 bullets put into a wooden wall look nice, and so do the bloody holes on enemies. The wounds are 
 quite gruesomely detailed, which make the game all the more fun to play. The dying animations of 
 your enemies are quite realistic as they hold the bloodied stump where their leg used to be and 
 fall over. But I still do not know if these graphics are outdated or not.
  
  
  
  Sound : Most of the sounds are quite common; gunfire, explosions. But the few sounds that do stand 
 out are the screams of the helpless dying terrorists. Some of the sounds may actually trigger you 
 to wince in pain as your enemies gurgle their own blood as you shoot them in the throat. The sounds 
 are quite sickening, but it does not make them bad, they are in fact quite good. Overall, the sounds 
 are quite common, but the screams pull up the mark. This game is meant to be played over and over 
 again (especially because of multiplayer) as you may want to see how much blood the body contains, 
 or how someone would react if they were shot in the groin and point-blank range with a pistol. 
 So to be honest, the only reason you would play the game again is to satisfy your sick hunger for 
 gore. But I must say, it is a good reason to play the game again. I would say buy. It's not that 
 hard to find, and now it's not too expensive. I do suggest that you save your money and not buy 
 the gold edition as you can find the patch that upgrades it to that. So, if you can, find the original 
 version of Soldier of Fortune 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 4 yrs ago and to my amaze I'm still playing it daily! The MP is the best FPS 
 online... COD1 is a close 2nd but for me I've zeroed in on SOF2... The single player was cool back 
 in the day, but if you want to join a clan and become a virtual part of it, it's the game you want... 
 I don't know if it's still selling but Raven made over 400 k copies because of the requests from 
 on-going players and those who've gotten the word on the game... Gold version has been out for 
 almost 2 yrs but even with the updates your sure to be on your way to complete satisfaction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgRyan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably my all time favorite first person shooter (i have many, but this one just 
 stands out)
  
  its not great because of the multiplayer (which is like a cheaper, not so fun version of counterstrike) 
 and its not because of the story (which is decent, but definatly not the best) and its definatly 
 not because of the graphices (i mean come on, this game is a few years old now!) but its because 
 of the fun you get in each kill. every kill in this game is unique. never before have i gone up 
 to each person i have shot and looked at them to be able to see where i took them down, and how 
 i killed them (and then give them a little extra) in this game each time you kill someone (which 
 you will be doing alot) you will be happy. the level designs are poor, and the ai could use some 
 work, but this game is still remarkably fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Even though that this game is more than 4 yrs old, I think it deserve being played, especially 
 by owners of "old" machines.
  The games runs very well on those machines, and of course even better on todays monsters.
  
 
  As a sequel, it is way better graphically from the first game, and the plot is a little cheesy 
 , but built well, and in the way it is presented, the dialogs are good, as well as the voice acting.
 
  
  The beginning of the game, to my opinion, is a bit boring, too much thrown at you to showcase the 
 game, including a stealth mission which is stupidly simple.
  
  The real action begins once you leave yhe Czech Rep. and going to Colombia. From here onwards, 
 the real action begins and you will be seeing a lot of action, and get to use many weapons.
  You will have intense firefights, and will be impressed from the enemy AI, as it runs for cover 
 and shooting from there, and it does not save grenades, so you gotta be careful.
  The enemy AI is not always that impressive for its time. Sometimes, when you shoot a foe and he 
 has a minimal injury, he acts like nothing has happened.
  
  Graphics wise, as i said , it is very good and runs well on the hi definitions on old cards (I 
 have 5200) . 
  Too bad there are graphic glitches here and there (the most obvious are the shadows - they float 
 in mid air when someone is above ground level, as well as there is the "floating corpses" phenomenon) .
 
  
  What i like in this game is that the missions are varied - you get to fight alone, with a squad 
 in the jungle (they never seem to die unless you shoot them ...) , handle some stealth missions 
 (Which I personally dislike, but in this game its OK if you handle them with all guns blazing ) 
 you defend your truck in a truck chase, and shooting your way around from a chopper - and the game 
 holds a few more surprises, considering its age, that is very impressive.
  
  The weapons feel real , but the most usable weapon is the M16 with the grenade launcher, and the 
 machine gun, which doesn't seem to be as effective as I expected (considering it's a 7.62mm weapon 
 - bullets that were created to kill, whereas the 5.56mm bullets were designed to injure) .
  
  This game is hard. I played it on the "Gun for hire" difficulty level, (one above amateur) , 
 and i had to use the save system too many times.
  Even so, the game is still very fun to handle.
  
  The sound is the only thing in this game 
 that is really lacking. The firearms sound is correct, but the music is almost nonexistent, most 
 of the time ambient music that repeat itself throughout the stage. Voice acting, on the other hand, 
 is pretty good as mentioned above.
  
  All in all, this game is very fun to play, very enjoyable, and a huge leap forward from the first 
 game in the series. Worth your time and $, no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  SoF 2:-
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  A very cool FPS game! A very nice sequel ! The game can give you days of enjoyment..... This game 
 is great mix of action and stealth! the guns are very cool! 
  
  Game-Play:- 
  
  The AI is pretty Smart enough to take you by suprise! You can tear apart your enemies jus by shooting 
 at them ! now thats wicked ;) ! The game is real long ! the multi-player is jus decent ! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The sceneries are really good! The graphics are good enough! 
  
  Sound:-
 
  
  The sounds are really good ! the guns sound good, the voice acting the done pretty well. 
  
 
  Conclusion:-
  
  Its one of the best FPS games i ever played. I might have missed lot of things about this game 
 in the review coz i palyed it long back !! anyways ive written watever i remember! 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Replay Value:8/10
  
  Story: 
 9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- 
 Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyzilla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  When first browsing the net for old games that will suit my computer nicely, I was told to get 
 Soldier of Fortune 2. Aft first, the title was not as flashy to me, but i decided to look into 
 it, and with the screenies and movies I saw, i got the game. 
  
  At first, the game was a little bit boring, making me greatly disappointed. But, after a minute 
 in the game, i was hooked. The large array of guns were excellent and the gore and violence, WOW. 
 (I enjoyed knifing the guys into pieces)
  
  Overall, a must get game. I loved it, and so will you. It may be old, but it's brilliant and has 
 very decent graphics, very. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  in Soldier of Fortune 2: Double Helix players are once again cast in the role of mercenary John 
 Mullins. He is given an assignment by a top-secret US government agency to track down the origins 
 of a deadly virus, produced for the sole purpose of causing massive destruction on enemy troops 
 and civilians. With germ warfare being such a popular subject these days, the plot of this game 
 just adds to this game's level of controversy. 
  It's full of violence and it's about tracking down international terrorists.
  
  The story might 
 be hitting a nerve, but in gaming terms, it's far from original. It seldom kept my attention. The 
 single-player portion of this game revolves around great action and certainly not the quality of 
 the narrative. John Mullins is your typical tough guy and the plot is straightforward, to say the 
 least. So we have your archetypical Rambo with a Dirty Harry voice on one side, and an equally 
 uninspiring plot on the other - an ideal setup for a great action game!
  
  And that's what SOF2 is - a great action game! 
  
  I should say that SOF2 is probably one of 
 the most brutal action games I've played, Its great all-around performance both in single-player 
 and multiplayer and its groundbreaking technology overshadow some of its drawbacks, making it a 
 must-buy for every action gamer out there; just as long as you can tell a difference between a 
 polygonal model and a live person
  
  Overall: Great all-around military shooter. Groundbreaking technology, fantastic visuals; multiplayer 
 is crackingly addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Trav1s_
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  When Raven first introduced Soldier of Fortune 2, most people thought that it wouldnt be more 
 than another blood and guts fest. The first SOF didnt have much in the plot or character department, 
 and was carried by its fast and bloody gameplay. A lot has changed since then, moving from the 
 Quake 2 engine to the Quake 3 engine, but more importantly Raven has put a few more games under 
 its belt for experience.
  
  
  
  Nice shot
  
  
  
  That used to be a soldier
  
  
  
  2 seconds of battle
  
  
  
  
  Raven is really building its name up to one 
 of the most well-known developers around. With hits like Star Trek: Elite Force and Jedi Knight 
 II, everyone expects games with Raven on the box to be high-quality. They seem to be the masters 
 of taking an existing story or theme and converting it into a good first-person shooter. One big 
 exception is Soldier of Fortune, which is a home-grown Raven product. While it still uses ids 
 engines, SOF is Ravens baby.
  
  So how much has Soldier of Fortune progressed since 2000? While theres still plenty of gore, the 
 really the only thing left from the original SOF is John Mullins, the man with the worse mustache 
 in the world. Theyve changed everything from the GHOUL rendering system to a story you may actually 
 want to pay attention to.
  
  
  Thermal goggles
  
  
  
  Hes fired up
  
  
  
  Check all the bullet holes
  
  
  
  
  
  As good as the Godfather 2?
  One marked 
 improvement from the first Soldier of Fortune is the story. Everyone agrees that the story, especially 
 the ending, of the first SOF was about as good as a swig from a can of paint thinner. Barely any 
 plot, terrible characters, and an ending worse than an episode of Thundercats. Thankfully, Raven 
 spent more than five minutes on the story of SOF2. The plot involves John Mullins saving the world 
 from an evil organization bent on terrorism and world domination. Well maybe its not that different, 
 but this time there arefar fewer plot holes. The story doesnt get in the way of enjoying the action, 
 but youre still definitely not playing to move the story along like a good RPG. It does the job 
 and little more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: louieville123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  If you get this game, you shouldn't expect much from the single player. Tell you the truth, ths 
 single player is not good at all. But, the multiplayer must be one of the best. I played CS a lot 
 until I found SOF2. This game blew CS away and has still got me hooked onto it. The good thing 
 about this game is that in multiplayer, you are able to change many things: different colors in 
 your name, switching between third and first person view, ect. So, if you don't like a multiplayer 
 game, this isn't the game for you. But, if you do like games like CS this is definitely a game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald47
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The Review Deck statement say it all. Had I played this game three years ago, I might have enjoyed 
 it more but, there have been so many FPS since like the Hitman and Max Payne series, Medal of Honor, 
 Call of Duty, etc, etc. The graphics are poor, the violence displays are 3rd rate and there is 
 no compelling story line, just run and gun. For those gamers with low end systems and graphic cards, 
 this game may be OK . It can be found online for $5 or so. It's just not for me! I will move on 
 and try Halo-Combat Evolved, Call of Duty 2 and finish Half-Life 2. This game will be sold on eBay 
 shortly.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The 1st Soldier of Fortune iv played is this one No.2. I mind 1st playing it on the PS2 and thought 
 it was crap. But i gave it a 2nd chance, and i got it for the pc. And i have to say, its highly 
 addictive. Now that im really in it, i can see thats its a damn good game. The graphics are not 
 that hot, but as long as i can make out whats going on its cool. I really like the gameplay, very 
 well done. Shooting someones leg, arm or even head of is funny lol. Nice voice acting. Ok story. 
 Not the best shooter ever. But a damn good shooter to have in your collection. The jungle level 
 is amazin. The enemy is smart... very smart. Eliminate them in dangerous single and multiplayer 
 modes. A good game for shooter fans like me lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first version of this game. When I went out and got this version I was very 
 excited to play it. Over all it was a fun game, not as fun as it predicessor, but fun. I really 
 did not like the instant spawn of the bad guys, I like it when I clear an area I don't have to 
 worry about some guy just spawning there a second later. The graphics were acceptable for the time, 
 but otherwise not that remarkable. Game play was good, very addictive at times, but otherwise been 
 there done that kind of thing. The game was suppose to sport the best gore of any FPS but I have 
 to say that I was not impressed. I would liked to have seen more. All in all it scores better than 
 some, less than others in my book. A good game if your really bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  So we are talking about Soldier of Fortune 2 - Double Helix.
  I play this game since 1 year, but the thing is the Single Player mode really sucks. I dint like 
 the story line and its just not interesting. 
  However, the Multi-player mode is a lot better, since its against humans and the RPM mod is there. 
 It makes to game better, with adding sounds/scores/etc.
  
  However there are some negative points about the Multi-Player,
  there are a lot of campers which 
 hide behind stuff and kill around corners.
  This gave me a lot of aggression, lol.
  Also there are spawn killers which wait at the random spawn points to kill people. This sucks too.
 
  
  But the good points are more important, teamwork is possible.
  Nice weapons, graphics not too bad, and alot of servers. with low pings.
  
  So I recommend 
 this game for Multi-Player Use only.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 5/10
  Solider of Fortune uses exceesive gore to try to win people over, and it failed horribly. The gore 
 effects are way to exagerated and disturbing. The story in SOF is non-exsistent. SOF also tries 
 to be like Half-life, and once again, fails horribly. The action is pretty intense indoors, but 
 outdoors it seems dull. The online is addicting (despite the games flaws) and the campaign is garbage. 
 It is lame and repetitve. SOF is nothing more then a Medicre shooter with extreme gore.
  
  Visuals - 8/10
  The gun and player animations are outstanding. Highly detailed, smooth, and beautiful. 
 But the level animation is nothing great.
  
  Audio - 6/10
  The guns sound pretty real, and so do some characters. Other characters sound like a mentally retarded 
 dog. The lack of sound effects is also a minus.
  
  Value - 8/10
  The campaign is fairly long, but it is boring as hell. I skipped most of it and went straight to 
 online. Which was a blast for a while. There is enough stuff to keep u coming back for a fair ammount 
 of time.
  
  Overall, SOF 2 is nothing more then a medicre shooter with intense online play. I wouldn't suggest 
 buying it unless u are a fan of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix is on of my favorite Cgames that I have played. The gameplay 
 is great with a length single player plus one of the best mulyiplayers that I have played. Soldier 
 of Fortune II is a great game to plays great. The graphics in the game look good and the exploses 
 look great. The levels look good but are not the best on the PC. The guns and weapons look good 
 and this is a grea looking game but some times the game will look messed up if you don't have a 
 ok graphics card. The sound of the guns are great and you can here the enemeis screaming when being 
 shot at. The game over all is great and many shooter fans will love the single player but don't 
 gtthis game if you don't have online becuase that is were this game is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihalisp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  It is far better than counter strike and all these titles of this kind! You have to buy it! I was 
 one of those who didnt find anything interesting in playing games of this kind! But when i played 
 once in multiplayer on internet i was filled with enthusiasm.
  
  It is far better than counter strike and all these titles of this kind! You have to buy it! I was 
 one of those who didnt find anything interesting in playing games of this kind! But when i played 
 once in multiplayer on internet i was filled with enthusiasm.
  
  It is far better than counter strike and all these titles of this kind! You have to buy it! I was 
 one of those who didnt find anything interesting in playing games of this kind! But when i played 
 once in multiplayer on internet i was filled with enthusiasm.
  
  It is far better than counter strike and all these titles of this kind! You have to buy it! I was 
 one of those who didnt find anything interesting in playing games of this kind! But when i played 
 once in multiplayer on internet i was filled with enthusiasm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepheronX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be sort of interesting, the blood and gore style adds onto the gameplay, making 
 it more violent but fun non the less. The game itself is sort of long, and what i love about the 
 game is the jungle levels, making it more of a feel that you really are in the jungles. Not as 
 good as Far Cry's jungle and gameplay, but with gore addon, it makes the feeling that you really 
 are there.
  
  You cannot have more fun running around shooting people in a video game than anyother fps. Great 
 game, great value, and the best possible game imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakrath
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:45 am PT
Review:  So what makes Soldier of Fortune II fun? It's not a shooter that really stands out in the crowd. 
 Yet, there are still some features that are rather nice, and all these combined really do make 
 a lasting product.
  
  So, what's so good about it? Gore. Everyone who plays shooting games knows how satisfying it is 
 to see a hostile human body splitter and splatter into several pieces. And this game delivers just 
 that. When you fire a bullet or a shotgun shell into somebody's face, you really see the effects 
 of the said bullet or shotgun shell being inflicted on the said face. And the results are gruesome. 
 
  
  Now, underneath the superficial layer of gore, blood and gore, we find a game that is actually 
 really fun. The gunfights, wich is all this game is really about, are great. They're fast paced, 
 frantic, mad and a whole lot of other words meaning chaotic. The hardware you're given feels powerful, 
 from the silenced sidearm to the brutal Assault rifle with a mounted grenadelauncher, making every 
 kill feel as satisfying as the last. The enemy AI also puts up a good fight, using grenades to 
 keep you on your toes and making good use of cover. 
  
  Now, there are some flaws in the game though. 
  
  The Stealth mechanic for one. The game explains 
 early on how to sneak around and hide yourself from enemies. This technique isn't really useful, 
 except in a handful of levels, where you have to avoid setting off the alarm (Even though you don't 
 HAVE to avoid it, but avoiding makes your life alot easier) .
  
  Another one of the game's flaws is it's story. In a nutshell, the story is this: Terrorist's have 
 gotten their naughty little hands on some bio-weapons of mass destruction. You're John Mullins, 
 Terrorist killer extrodinaire, and your organization (The Shop) has sent you to dish out some heavy 
 duty punishment on these baddies. That's really all there is. Thankfully you can press the 'Use' 
 button during cutscenes and just get to the part where you cruelly murder everyone.
  
  Visually this game looks nice, considering the Quake III engine that powers it. The enviroments 
 are kinda bland, although some of them look nice (Like the Seaward Star: Exterior level) and each 
 of them is a good setting for flyin' bullets. 
  
  The sound in the game is excellent. The music fits the gritty tone of the game, and the guns sound 
 powerful. When you fire a gun, you really hear a gun being fired. And it sounds great.
  
  So, all in all, this game is a nice bit to have in your collection. The 15-20 hour Single Player 
 campaign make a very nice value, and the multiplayer modes will keep anyone who feels like blasting 
 away at they're fellow man amused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartdotnet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  John Mullins is a mercenary taking ad-hoc contracts from an agency known only as "The Shop". As 
 a one-man army, he fights terrorists around the world to avert a variety of global disasters. The 
 action in SOF II is more tactical than in the typical first person shooter. John's enemies show 
 uncanny accuracy at range and employ a variety of tactics that will counteract a typical run and 
 gun approach. Grenades are the most devastating weapon in the enemies arsenal and it doesn't take 
 long to get used to hastily retreating at the clicking sound of a grenade landing nearby. Enemy 
 weapons fire provides enough challenge that you need to employ cover and advance cautiously. The 
 difficulty is balanced well enough to give a nice sense of tension without being frustratingly 
 hard. Close combat is very rare in SOF II and getting close enough to an enemy to use your combat 
 knife without being detected is rarely worth the reward. The HUD shows a sound meter in the form 
 of a graphic equalizer, but this is pretty much useless throughout the game. Apart from a few stealth-oriented 
 levels, if you are moving, the enemy will hear you and begin firing long before you are close enough 
 to slash at them. This really doesn't affect the gameplay though. This game is all about high-firepower 
 weapons and using them to mow down fields of enemies. Most situations can be handled comfortably 
 by establishing ample cover and carefully picking off your enemies from a distance. Ammunition 
 is never in short supply and there are ample health packs and armor bonuses scattered around the 
 levels, meaning that you don't ever need to be too conservative with your resources.
  
  Once you have conquered story mode, there is a random mission generator that can provide a short 
 amount of bonus mileage. The premise here is that you configure a level from a handful of pre-defined 
 mission types and the mission generator builds a new level for you. The mission types range from 
 strikes on key enemy targets, to assassinations to hostage rescue. The landscape generator does 
 a good job of creating playable environments and the difficulty remains well-balanced. Enemies, 
 items and objectives are dispersed throughout the randomly generated levels fairly evenly, giving 
 the levels a less random feel. These random missions quickly become repetitive, but do add some 
 additional value once the story mode is complete.
  
  I've loved the Soldier of Fortune games now for years but I hadn't played SOF or SOF II for several 
 months. I recently re-installed SOF II and started to play through the main story mode again. Even 
 though I have experienced the delights of games such as Halo II and Far Cry, SOF II still holds 
 it's own. The gameplay is still compelling and I still find the continuous firefights to be very 
 addictive. My only gripe with SOF II is the save game restrictions placed upon the default difficulty 
 modes, but that can be overridden by playing on "Custom" difficulty and selecting unlimited saves. 
 I hate games that place restrictions on the frequency or total number of times you can save your 
 game. Save restrictions started in an era where memory and storage were at a premium and are totally 
 unnecessary in modern games, especially on a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajkloft
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  This review will be based mostly on the multiplayer experience.
  
  Single Player: The story is Alright, with graphics getting a slight boost from the original SoF. 
 The numerous weapons make for many ways to shoot your enemy. Body parts even blow off in sync with 
 a shotgun blast to the leg. Sound is good along with the music.
  
  Multiplayer: WHERE THE EXPERIENCE HAPPENS!!! Multiplayer is extremely fun and provides quite a 
 challenge. There are the occasional hackers who cheat, but so many servers allow you to easily 
 change to a more "user-friendly" game. With multiplayer support up to I believe 64 players, the 
 most I've seen in a game at any one time was 24. It was INSANE. Everyone is extremely friendly, 
 and you will hardly ever hear anything derogatory towards another person. 
  
  I STRONGLY recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 23, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  This game was released in 2002, and the graphics still hold up to todays games. The water effects 
 aren't as good though. The glass Breaks as realistically as you would expect it to, actually It 
 breaks more realistically than Half-life 2 and Halo 2. Shooting it makes a hole, and hitting it 
 with the butt of the shotgun causes the entire pane to flay out in many bits. Grenades blow out 
 all the windows in the area. The sound is really good too. As you probably already know, you go 
 around the world in many different levels. Enemy soldiers yell in their native language and make 
 real comments like: He's right here or Grenade! Plus lots of screaming when you blow them away. 
 When you are in a different country people will say that stuff but in their own language. Pretty 
 good.
  
  Now for what you want to hear about: the gore.
  You can blow off arms, fore-arms, hands, feet, calfs, thighs, head and 4 sections of the body. 
 The head can be sliced into many bits with the right weapons, and the chunks fly. Once an appendage 
 is gone then blow sprays out, similar to bloodrayne 2, but it stops inbetween each spray for more 
 realism. All the chunks make the "appropriate" splatter. Flame grenades are cool because parts 
 of the body can be blacked and charcoly. And lets not forget Bloody Bullet Holes! Bullet Holes 
 get pasted onto the enemy wherever you shoot them, even withing pixels of another hole. Once I 
 even shot out a guys intestines with a shot gun, and another time I sliced them out with a knife. 
 Pretty fun stuff. Any ways, try the demo, and go to gamefaqs to unlock the gore in the demo. This 
 game has really good Graphics, and "Graphics". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mhael03
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played. It is one of the few FPS that really allows the player 
 to move and not feel like they are in water while doing so. The single player is so-so but the 
 real fun is the multiplayer community with many new mods and maps. Really conveys a sense of freedom, 
 with practice you can be a one man army and do not need to have a good team to have fun. However, 
 a good team can make the game fun as well. The hit boxes when someone is leaning are alittle messed 
 up is really the only complaint I have with this game. Graphics are dated but it is 3 or more years 
 old. They by no means are bad or unplayable. I find it to be more fun than Half-Life 2 and Counter 
 Strikes's multiplayer. A truly fun way to waste some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 4, 2004 9:39 pm PT
Review:  iI thoght this game would be great well........ its pretty terrible at least its single player 
 is 
  I cant even beat the first mission cuz u are suppose 2 use stealth but there is a real problem 
 okay u sneak up on the first guy kill him silently with ur knife and all of a sudden some guy sees 
 him thru a wall comes and tries 2 kill u of course u kill him but then unlimited enemies follow 
 and of course u die... real quick.
  
  multiplayer is much better thogh some real good game types i cant reccomend this game unless u 
 buy it for multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2004 3:35 pm PT
Review:  .. in the graphics department.
  
  Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix is a fun game. It's a good way to forget about stress or to 
 just unwind after a long day. The basic principle here is to run around and blow people away using 
 a range of weapons. 
  
  The level of detail is high, the first time i ran up to someone and sliced at him with a knife 
 and saw blood squirt made me say "thats pretty cool". Like the original, location damage is in 
 the game, only this time it's pushed up another level having more zones so when you shoot someone, 
 the bullet will actually go in where you shoot at. You can throw knives, i rather enjoyed throwing 
 a knife into an enemies neck and listening to them realistically gargle on blood, clutching their 
 throat as they fall to the ground struggling to breath. As i said, this game is graphic from the 
 way killing someone looks to the sounds of it. It's not a game made for young kids! 
  The game is about mindless violence and nothing more. If you don't like that sort of thing, well 
 you wouldn't be reading this. If what i described above gets you curious then try the game out. 
 It is nothing special though and there are much better games out on the market. 
  
  On top of everything, i prefer the original. It was just easier to quickly jump in and run around 
 for a while letting stress out. The sequel does have a quick fight type mode where you can choose 
 your weapons, choose your mission (escape, sabotage, assasination etc) and choose your other equipment. 
 It doesn't offer as much as it sounds as the missions are rather repetitive. Once you've played 
 one assasination they are all pretty much the same. 
  
  Worth getting if you want more of the original, although for some the original might be the place 
 to stop and move on to something else as SoF II doesn't offer anything new and fantastic to draw 
 people in. It's main feature if the level of detail in shooting people. Now, if only they put this 
 level of detail and gore into some other games with great story lines...
  
  It should be rather cheap now, so if your curious check it out. If you missed out playing the original, 
 also worth playing through but for those that are SoF veterans, most likely you'll be dissapointed 
 and be left with the "been here, done that" feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 15, 2004 12:12 am PT
Review:  This game has a decent story with a sensible progression through stages. Varied environments keep 
 the game interesting and the AI is believable enough. Graphics look a little dated and the sound 
 is merely average.
  
  All the weapons are great fun to use (even though the OICW is a bit cumbersome) but I still find 
 myself using a core few for the majority of the time: USAS for closed areas, OICW (5.56mm) /M4 for 
 open spaces, dual mini-Uzis for medium range with lots of enemies. I am glad you can finally shoot 
 while leaning around corners but why not when prone?
  
  On some levels it appeared as though you were to use stealth but since the enemy can see you from 
 miles away - and even through walls - it always ended up being full action. I think that keeping 
 those occasional levels true stealth would have added some needed depth to the game.
  
  Minor defects included: putting the trapped scientist out of his misery with a grenade yet still 
 hearing his moans of pain (its a ghost!) , and - similarly - taking off an enemy's head via USAS 
 only to hear them still screaming. Some script errors forced me to reload and replay certain portions 
 due to a necessary event not being triggered.
  
  This series will be immortalized as the first FPS that allowed you to take off limbs and heads 
 with well-placed gunfire but that will be about it, as everything else is rather forgettable. Zero 
 replay on single-player, I didn't get a chance to try MP since I played this game more than 2 years 
 after it came out. Buy this game for your collection for its unique feature but only if its 10$ 
 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Overlord-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2004 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Comon people, can you name another game where you can just blow off someone's head with a shotgun, 
 or cut someone's head off with a knife? No. That is quite simply why this game rocks. Some might 
 say that this game is too gorey, I say: this game is not gorey enough. As it is though, it is the 
 most gored up game on the market, which is why it is so fun to play. I just play the randomly generated 
 missions so that I can kill these terrorists in gruesome ways. The graphics are decent, with lots 
 of blood and missing limbs. The sounds are also good, especially the sounds envolving the impact 
 of a bullet/dull knife with the warm body of your opponents. There is a feeling of satisfaction 
 after you close in to your enemy after being shot at from afar and shoot his/her face off with 
 your automatic shotgun, then proceed to desecrate their bodies by sawing off their limbs with your 
 knife. My only suggestion is that in the next installment, they allow you to scalp your enemy and 
 collect their scalps that could be stored in an online profile. For each scalp you could include 
 a video of their death as well as a short description of how you came to kill that individual.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDIguy103
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2003 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game has rather steep system requirements, but like Tribes 2 if you have a capable gaming 
 machine then the game will play damn well and look damn fine as well. However the single player 
 campaign has a few scripting bugs and although very enjoyable at parts it can prove tedious to 
 others. I loved the single player campaign, although the story seemed sort of campy like Metal 
 Gear Solid with bio rather than nuclear weapons, and it got frustrating at times. Of course my 
 FPS playing skills have improved radically from playing SoF2 on the higher difficulty settings. 
 I would also like to bash Activision and their marketing crew for calling SoF2 "realistic". Oh 
 yeah... before I forget the stealth missions were painful to play... I also found that ammo was 
 too plentiful in the game making the game on the hardest difficulty setting (Soldier of Fortune) 
 sort of easy (lather, rinse, repeat with the M4 or OICW or USAS-12) . I'm not saying the game is 
 cakewalk on that setting, but there's no tension when you have a bunch of extra guns and ammo lying 
 everywhere.
  
  I would have tanked the gameplay even greater if it had not been for SoF2's robust multiplayer 
 and the great selection of MODS on the internet. Although not a CS killer by all means, it does 
 provide a refreshing and prettier alternative to that landmark game. Hopefully Raven will do wonders 
 with Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy and Quake 4. I purchased SoF2 last May, I guess I've been lazy in 
 putting a review, but the game has done well this past year, although the single player is rather 
 unforgettable (hence an 8 rather than a 9 for gameplay) and generic although f*cking intense, the 
 multiplayer saves the day with quick, frenetic gameplay. I find the game to be tough on newbies 
 though, they die too quick...
  
  All in all the poor scores for this game are rather unjustified since it minimum requirements are 
 crap, you need at least a GeForce 3 or Radeon 8500 (Geforce 2 and Radeon 7500 barely cut if for 
 higher detail) . If you don't have the hardware, but have an Xbox don't miss out on this game. It's 
 awesome decently long and with its multiplayer superb staying power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bretwalda
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2003 7:31 am PT
Review:  I think I know why most of the people that gave this game a low review is because thay had a cheap 
 Graphic card, I have a killer computer but my graphic card was cheap, after buying a new card the 
 Radeon 9000 pro 128 MB. the graphics look way diffrent. The best graphics the I ever saw. Stop 
 being so cheap and go Buy a good graphic card. To find out if your card Su**s try to install NOLF2, 
 if it won't let you play it that means, your graphic card is no good, and the Multiplayer is the 
 best, the best out there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
