-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier of Fortune: Payback
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soldieroffortunepayback/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks pretty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible, frustrating, painful gameplay.
 Falls well below standard set by previous two games.
 Lousy artificial intelligence and gunplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 999 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Activision
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 14, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This shooter is a painful exercise in pattern memorization plus frustrating trial-and-error gameplay. 
 

  If you've ever wondered what happened to the Soldier of Fortune franchise, you're not alone. The 
 first two Soldier of Fortune games were popular shooters in their day, blending fun single-player 
 and multiplayer gameplay with the concept of playing as a mercenary. But after 2002's Soldier of 
 Fortune II: Double Helix, the franchise seemed to fall off the face of the planet. Unfortunately, 
 it should have stayed missing in action because the series has been resurrected with Soldier of 
 Fortune: Payback, a shooter that embraces all the wrong lessons that have been learned over the 
 past decade.  

           Don't let its looks fool you; Soldier of Fortune Payback is one of the most frustrating 
 shooters of the year.      

  At first glance, Payback looks like a very pretty game. The visuals aren't cutting-edge, but there's 
 an attractive quality to them, from the lavish depth-of-field blur effects that kick in whenever 
 you reload your weapon to the lush lighting. You no longer play as John Mullins, the hero of the 
 first two games, but rather as a new mercenary caught up in a very clich and badly told tale of 
 a worldwide terrorist organization that's so clever it brands all of its operatives with the very 
 same tattoo on their necks. It's a wonder they're so difficult to find.  

  However, it all goes downhill quickly because Payback reveals itself to be a relentlessly linear 
 and highly scripted shooter with a lot of flaws. Perhaps the most frustrating of these deals with 
 the fact that the game relies on a checkpoint save system with no ability to quicksave, which means 
 that if you're killed, you have to restart from the last checkpoint. That wouldn't be so much of 
 an issue if those checkpoints were frequent and numerous, but they're not. Thus, much of the game's 
 six to eight hours of gameplay is spent trying and retrying to get through the many sections of 
 the game. Though there's a regenerating health system, you still die all too easily. It's not uncommon 
 to have to replay a section a dozen times or more before you finally beat it.  

  The artificial intelligence is bad and consists mainly of two scripted actions. Once triggered, 
 a bad guy will either run straight at you or stand in the open and shoot at you. There's no sense 
 of dynamic behavior in the way the AI reacts to what you do. The weapon modeling is nonexistent; 
 there's practically zero recoil on any of the weapons, even the light machine guns. On the flip 
 side, even though the weapons all feel incredibly lightweight, they do a ridiculous amount of damage. 
 The first Soldier of Fortune games were "edgy" in that you could practically dismember opponents 
 with gunfire. The same goes for Payback, though it looks like the developers just copied and pasted 
 the same code from the earlier games because the visual effect is almost exactly the same. Arms, 
 legs, and heads all get shot off with absurd regularity while blood gushes everywhere. (The game 
 does boast a low violence option that tones down this carnage.)  

           The single-player is six to eight hours of banging your head against a wall.      

 
  The music is actually pretty catchy, but the rest of the audio is lacking. The sound effects all 
 seem canned, and the voice acting is terrible. The script certainly doesn't help either because 
 the dialogue would be fitting for a straight-to-VHS action movie. The game also ends in a silly 
 cliffhanger that assumes that gamers are going to want more of this action.  

  Additionally, Payback's multiplayer is very generic, with such modes as deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag. There's a whopping five multiplayer maps total, so there's not a lot of variety 
 there either, which is also disappointing, considering Soldier of Fortune II's popular and fun 
 multiplayer mode.  

  The PC game is slightly less expensive than major titles, but the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 games 
 are full priced. Nevertheless, they're all a terrible value proposition considering the sheer quantity 
 and high quality of shooters this year. Unless you like pain and frustration, there's simply no 
 reason to play Soldier of Fortune: Payback when there are so many other better games on the market. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  this is my review for the game SOLDIER OF FORTUNE III:
  
  so i will start by saying that i didnt played the first games i only played
  PAYBACK and i have 
 to say that PAYBACK is all about shooring,
  blood, cool killer that you play with..
  
  so i will start the review by talking about the graphics, the graphics is ok for 2007 there are 
 better looking games than SOF PAYBACK but its ok dosent bother that much... the visuals are nice 
 water looks nice, fire, explosion and the rest of the visuals that you see in the game
  
  the sounds are nothing special its like every other FPS sounds of guns explosions, screaming, and 
 thats it.. nothing special like i said
  
  the gameplay is nice, the weapons selection is very nice and every mission you pass you own a new 
 and better weapons...
  
  the game has lot of blood that makes you shoot your enemy bodies even when you kill them just because 
 you want to see more blood, theres a lot of action during the game, the missions are interesting 
 but the main problems and the only problem in the game is that the missions are short!
  
  the missions and all single player mod of the game is just to short and U can finish the game in 
 one day of non-stop playing, also i just rememberd another problem.. the boss battles.. its like 
 fighting in a regular enemy with more health the boss battles are booring and after you finish 
 to kill them
  you arent has happy as you think you should be because its to easy
  
  the AI isnt that great like every review said... some enemys will try to attack you with there 
 guns but i think its not that bad cause that way you have even more enemys to kill by your ShotGun...
 
  
  if you see this game.. dont buy it... i loved it but still its to short and if you are a type that 
 want long games dont spend money on it but if you are a type that loves to beat a game in a quick 
 way... you should buy it..
  
  i love that game and got it for my birthday i dont know if i had a chance to buy i would buy it 
 or not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  A PC exclusive Review.
  
  This review is based on the Single Player Experience... And trust me guys.. I've completed this game 
 with a sigh of relief...
  
  Soldier Of Fortune titles are well known on the PC Market, as both first two titles are PC Exclusives.. But 
 now since it has manage to make its first debut on the Consoles.. Will it gonna be as strong before 
 on the PC, or is it just gonna fall short because of the console hardwares? Well.. We're sure about 
 to find out...
  
  So i opened up the rough material crafted box.. slide the disc out from a paper casing.. that's right.. there's 
 no Normal Plastic DVD Casing. And while installing the game.. i decided to read the manual... NICE!! 
 THE MANUAL IS JUST A TWO PAGE BASIC MANUAL! so close the manual and light up my cigarette while 
 i waited for 5 short minutes to install the game... Done.. So lets run the game...
  
  Now if you're one of those PC Gamer who love to calibrate or change every Games' Video Options 
 and Settings.. then i'm pretty sure that this game will gonna disappoint you in that portion, as 
 this is one of the very few games that simply WON'T ALLOW YOU to configure a Single graphic option.. YEP! 
 No Graphics options! Just the resolution and Brightness... But just by glancing over in SOF & SOF: DH.. there 
 are really tons of graphics options which you can scale back and forth.
  
  Arite.. Looking at the sound options. Theres no EAX support for the game unlike the previous two 
 games.. No Audio Device options to select, such as OpenAL , Hardware, DirectSound3D or Software.. Though 
 the game supports 5.1 Surround Sound Speakers, the only options available are volume adjustments...
 
  I have to point out that removing EAX HD support is really a stepback for the developers at Activison 
 Value compared to the last two PC Only Titles by Raven Software.
  
  So move on to the game controls.. The Controls can be mapped by any keys.. and i'm a bit enlighten 
 to see that it can support up to 4 mouse buttons and the wheel up and wheel down.. But it's a shame 
 that Mouse 5 cannot be detected, since they manage to support mouse 4.. And Unlike its predecessors... there 
 are no Leaning and Weapon Specials this time around.. and there's no throwing of knives either.. that's 
 a minus especially for a PC game ... and a downgrade for the third installment of the series.. Though 
 there's a sprint function this time around.. and its only quite useful especially when you're tired 
 of walking to reach your next objectives.
  
  So those are the options... Now lets get to the story first before i jump straight into the gameplay.. Instead 
 of Mullins, you play Mason.. A hired mercenary trying track down corruptions and dealers... while 
 giving protection and free the captured black civilians with Chinese accents.. Sounds Weird? Well 
 the African civilians sounds even weirder when you put your ears on them.. Anyway, most of the time.. Mason 
 is a hero.. and a one man show.. he will fight against multiple of enemies at one time.. finish off 
 a boss on each level and then went to for a briefing menu just like in the Hitman Games and the 
 first few Tom Clancy Rainbow Six PC games. Each mission will link to the next mission as to contain 
 the flow of the story.. but the story is so straightforward.. and right at the end.. its just a disappointment 
 especially when the game is just about 4 hours long.
  
  Arite.. Time for a gameplay... The best phrase to describe this game is.."A Console Port" As you 
 move your character around.. you can feel that the movement is not as precise as a PC game should 
 be.. and the handling of each gun is one of the ugliest point in the game.. There's no recoil feel 
 on the weapons. But the good news is, You can strafe left and right while firing your gun accurately, 
 well at least that that make things a little bit easier.. so don't worry.. though the crosshair enlarges 
 while you move, you will still hit your target with great accuracy.. Doesn't make sense? Of course 
 it don't.. but it surely does make sense when you're in Payback... Sprinting is available this time 
 around.. but its a little annoying to feel the panning of camera is limited to a certain degree 
 of an angle especially when you're using a mouse.. so what did you do..? sprint only straight to 
 the finish line.. as it really feels awkward trying to pan the camera left and right while sprinting. 
 There's only one mission that you need to ride behind a lorry and fight a boss, other than that... its 
 just run and gun all the way and because of the regenerating of health.. you can survive in easy 
 difficulty.
  
  As you progress, you will unlock new weapons.. which actually quite a variety of them and which 
 you can choose from during each map load out... ranging from SMGs to Rocket launchers, and you can 
 also choose to customize your weapon by attaching scopes and silencers.. BE WARNED though.. coz that 
 wont make much of a deal as you'll run out of ammo real soon... and since most of the enemies are 
 using AK47 through out the game.. except on the last level.. you'll probably be stuck with enough 
 AKs that you collected from bodies that you've decapitated, Using a shotgun is just not as useful 
 as before..
  Rate of fire are available for some weapons.. but not that necessary due to the pace the game was 
 built on. All you wanna do is spray... You can carry up to 10 grenades Only,, and what i also meant 
 by that is Grenades Only.. No flashbang.. or smoke grenades..
  
  And whats a Soldier of Fortune without gore and decapitations? Well even with the Ridiculous amount 
 of gore.. you will not likely gonna love it compared to the past games. With just a single burst 
 of fire from a rifle to the head of an enemy will suddenly vanishes the enemy's head away, just 
 like magic.. it disappeared within a second.. without leaving any brain tissues behind.. just blood.. and 
 its bloody stupid!
  
  But the game contains even more Stupider things as you progress when you faced SO SO SO and i really 
 mean SO SO SO MUCH Frustrating Boss fights. It is so frustrating especially when you CAN'T QUICK 
 SAVE for a PC game and even more frustrating when the boss just stay at one corner waiting to shoot 
 you with a bazooka. True enough some of you may argue that "If you're a hardcore FPS shooter, you 
 wont find this an issue" Frankly speaking... this is not an issue.. the checkpoints are there.. but 
 its just dumb seein a normal human being taking shots to the body more than a cyborg can.. Its just 
 frustrating!
  
  Another issue with the game is the Design.. the level design is acceptable.. though is quite lame 
 and linear.. The Major problem is the sound design, its actually one of the worst i've heard... because 
 of the poor voice acting, you just feel like skipping the cutscenes and mission briefing.. fortunately 
 you can, and you can't exactly hear where the enemy is shooting you from even with proper audio 
 positioning hardware especially when they are a distance away from you.. and Mason will suddenly 
 moan "YOURGH!" like what is he sayin..? "EEYOURGH!!" i'm not kidding guys.. that's the exact word 
 that came out from Mason when he was being shot at.. Hilarious.. but frustrating when he shouted 
 "Yourghh!" and then died! .
  
  The hit indication have a very weak impact too.. whenever you are shot.. it indicates where you are 
 shot from, but there's very very little of screen shaking.. just indicators around the screen can 
 be seen.. but you wont sense that you are actually being shot at.
  
  The A. I behaves just like Japanese Soldiers.. They tend to do Banzai Charge Attacks on you.. it felt 
 so irritating when somebody just tryna keep on moving around you giving a stroke of a rifle butt.
 
  
  Graphically the game looks good due to the lighting effects.. only the last level have few destructible 
 objects.. But on some levels.. the lighting effects are just too overlit.. i've cursed this game more 
 than 10 times while playing due to the ridiculous bloom effects which may prevent you from detecting 
 some of the hidden enemies... Textures models are not detailed enough especially on trees and death 
 animations are boneless.. I've encountered many glitches where the ragdolls of the dead body parts 
 just fidgeting about as if they are still a living body part.. Cutscenes are cleverly done in a 
 first person perspective.. but too bad.. its not interesting due to the inexpressive, and unimpressive 
 voice acting. and too bad you can't see if this Mason would have the same mustache as Mullins or 
 shall i say, Captain Price (From Call of Duty) coz there's no way you can see your character's 
 face.
  But i have to respect that even there's no graphic settings in the options menu.. the game runs 
 smoothly without any drop in framerates.. so i give a snap on that part..
  And lastly, there's too many repetitive skins textures being used for the enemies.
  
  
  So 
 there's No doubt Soldier Of Fortune Payback is one of the most gorgeous looking budget game... But 
 Never Judge a book by its Cover... Soldier Of Fortune Payback don't feel like its Payback time for 
 Mason.. Instead it only makes you feel that its time for Soldier Of Fortune to payback your time 
 that you have wasted on it... Next time.. get an extra driving missions in the game.. so that if the 
 Soldier is not welcome on foot.. at least he have the wheels to bring his fortune back... get what 
 i mean.. Wheels Of Fortune is more fun than this Console Port Game!
  
  Game Reviewed and Played on Windows Xp Sp3 32-bit, Intel Core 2 Duo E4700 2.6Ghz, Sapphire Ati 
 Radeon HD4850 Catalyst 6.11, 2GB RAM, Creative X-fi XtremeGamer (March 2008 Drivers) Creative SBS 
 A500 5.1 Surround Sound Speakers.
  
  By,
  PUREVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamyskis
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I picked up Payback out of pure curiosity - I loved the first two games, admittedly because the 
 sheer brutal nature of them just gave them a pure visceral atmosphere that many games do not reach. 
 Then I saw Payback - SoF for the next generation - get a complete thrashing by the press. I saw 
 a copy for 5 and decided to give it a crack.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised. While SoF really does offer nothing new, and lacks anything resembling 
 originality, it is a good, but short blaster that is fun while it lasts, just as long as you keep 
 your expectations down for anything amazing. 
  
  The graphics and sound are respectable, with good lighting effects, and the atmosphere allows you 
 to believe not that you're in a real battlefield, but at the very least in a real action movie.
 
  
  If I have any criticism of the game, then it would have to be the very trial and error nature of 
 it, which encourages careful approaches in contrast to the run-and-gun style of the action. This 
 contrast is interesting but it often feels stilted. The enemy AI is also trashy, but then they 
 are intended to be cannon fodder with big guns - no the worse for it.
  
  Recommended for a pickup from a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  INTRO:
  This is the 3rd release for the Soldier of Fortune series. Although the reviews have been mostly 
 negative, if you are an experienced first person shooter fan, you can have a lot of fun with this 
 bargain basement release. 
  
  As the reviews state, this is not a game that is breaking new ground- but think about it: how many 
 games actually do bring something entirely new?
  
  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
  The graphics are very nice, but I highly recommend a 512MB video card. I first ran it on a 256MB 
 card and although it was playable, it was slightly jerky and the frame rates were lagging. During 
 multiplayer things got a little worse.
  
  STORY:
  There's not much of a story here to bring up. You are a mercenary who once again, blasts through 
 14 levels with powerful weapons. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game has plenty of checkpoint saves, and although the reviewers complained about the infrequency 
 of these, if you are an experienced shooter, and don't set the game to it's hardest setting, then 
 you will be fine. Graphics are beautiful, and gore is heavy (unless you disable it) . The weapons 
 are fun, realistic, and easy to find everywhere. Load times are also very fast- I was impressed! 
 Mutliplayer works fine, but very limited to the number of games; I typically saw no more than 5 
 going at a time. 
  
  SUMMARY:
  If you enjoy shooters, do not require that every game you buy is something uniquely new, and like 
 games in this concept, then I recommend paying no more than 10 bucks to get this. For that price 
 you can't go wrong.
  
  14 TOTAL LEVELS
  Al Qa'im: Outskirts
  Mogaung: Cliffs
  Mogaung: Jungle
  Mogaung: Farming Village
  Mogaung: Construction Site
  Eshkashem: Hillside
 
  Eshkashem: Caves
  Eshkashem: Mountain Village
  Llebo: Outpost
  Llebo: Diamond Mine
  Llebo: Prison Camp
  Donetsk: Brothel
  Donetsk: Garage
  Donetsk: Club Evolution
  
  COBRAMAN 
 SS 007
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is consider a defining series of the classic fps games. it defined how single 
 player FPS for modern gaming should be. Its latest titles SoF: Payback falls short of its predicessor 
 in so many wise as it tries to reinvent itself.
  You play the role of a mercenary who seeks revenge for having his partner turn on him, after being 
 coerced by wealthy underground individuals. this leads to a series of levels that take you on a 
 global game of cat and mouse.
  The story to the untrained eye sems solid. However it tangents so much you practically ignore why 
 you started all this in the first place.
  Anyhow this game is beautiful visually and people with a mid range system will love it on directX 
 10 compatible PC's. The controls are fairly standard so no need to sit over a manual trying to 
 find "crouch". and the weapon customization you get to play around with before every third level 
 is crisp and simple. However, thats all the game has going for it. The AI for your standard enemies 
 is fairly easy to outwit consisting of the need to get up close and pistol whip you while throwing 
 down supresive fire.
  The boss AI on the otherhand is far too clever for its own good. and relies on many cheap tactics 
 such as the ability to hit you in the most awkward angles imaginable, spamming powerful attacks 
 when u get to close, and not going down after taking what logic would dicate to be a killing bow.
 
  
  *spoiler alert*
  
  my case in point being the younger of the two irish brothers. i attempted to rush him and reduce 
 his skull to nothing using a shotgun. to try and render his greande launcher ineffective. i got 
 four shots to the face at point blank off before of all things he fires his gun killing us both. 
 now this would seem to make sense if not for the fact that his head was a piece of bone attached 
 to a body at this point.
  
  finally the allied AI is exceptionally stupid as it gives you at most 1 warning that it needs help 
 before it dies. It also has a bad habit of running off ahead of you while your busy dealing with 
 6 or seven guys close enough to kill you both.
  
  multiplayer is thankfully 100% dead.
  
  all in all i would probably torrent this game if you MUST have it, or wish to try it out. so 
 on the whole it recieves a 6 out of 10
  
  lesson from this game: smarter AI makes players happy campers :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immartinez
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I will make it brief. This game is hard.
  
  The checkpoints are far apart and dying in between checkpoints is a major bummer as you may have 
 to backtrack a couple of blocks.
  
  On the other hand, once you know where the enemy is hiding the parts you will have to repeat will 
 be much much easier.
  
  This game requires patience, a good tactical mind, and a strategic approach to munitions management.
 
  
  Fans of realistic shooters will greatly enjoy this game. Realistic meaning, if you're surrounded, 
 shot in the back, step on a bomb, or whatever, your guy will croak.
  
  If you haven't quite mastered the FPS genre yet, you will find many of the levels in this game 
 frustrating.
  
  Also, if you're not very interested in a story or whatever, then this game is perfect for you.
 
  
  This isn't Bioshock or COD4, but it is a fun and challenging game.
  
  Give this game a fair chance and it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is back
  
  This is simply a good game
  
  Please do not attach me just yet I have played almost all the shooters to date. I know why some 
 of u would not understand. Just hear me out guys. The realistic approach to games is not possible 
 in a FPS I know it is hard to believe but the closest thing to a realistic shooter is a real life 
 simulation that was actually used to help train soldiers. The Name of that Simulator was First 
 to Fight it was released as a game as well and naturally received very Poor Reviews. Although it 
 is a very real simulator!!!!
  
  Reality is What we r looking For in a shooter isn't it ? The community is saying : we want realistic 
 shooters. But we r not getting realistic shooters guys it is just Mock realism even with Ghost 
 recon 2. It is simply .. Stupid.! In real life if a soldier has you in the crosshair of his rifle 
 u r dead. Simple. The first Guy who can accurately Target his opponent will put him Down. This 
 is real Life. Tell me what game did that? none So Far Why because it is Stupid. In Games u Have 
 Health and Stuff But no! COD2 was bold enough to remove the health and add an Invisible automatic 
 regenerate Item that is always with the player no matter what he do. (many other shooters followed 
 in this path.) It is really funny. The Following is what I experience in (realistic Shooter) I 
 get shot, red screen appears (or I die then reload the level) , I run For Cover, I locate the target, 
 I get my aim Straight I shoot my target falls yes I am happy I move forward I get shot etc.
 
  
  Do not Lie guys it is the same everywhere COD series, IGI 1 & 2, Ghost recon1 & 2, Rainbow Six.
 
  The pleasure of memorizing the loctions of your enemy the second time you load the level and the 
 advantage of Knowing where each guy hides gives u that special kick u kill more without dying & 
 you feel powerful knowing that the enemy could have killed u like he did previously but now he 
 can't u know his hiding place U get to shoot first!!!...
  
  Very True indeed SOF series did exactly what it used to do beforeThe bottom line is: well placed 
 enemies shooting u as if they are informing u of their location but not killing u (as if the game 
 developers r saying well we could kill u right now but that would not be real fun would it now) . 
 Others enemies just rush to your Cross hair as if saying enjoy shooting the hell out of us and 
 one must surely do. The overall experience is intense really intense not realistic but not old 
 school. The game is saying: I do not know where I stand but this $Hit works and it provides a huge 
 thrill. It is not Crisis nor Far cry it is simply a really intense game that is only playable at 
 the Hard difficulty Level. Intense but stupid not very serious but very Bloody. No excellent graphics 
 but simply Good ones. A Game That is beaten by SOF 2 but a good game overall. It is a natural Progression 
 of the series. Buy it, & try it.
  Please Recommend this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jantjabo
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  When just started sof: payback the graphics where kinda nice, not like cod4 but worthy. The first 
 levels were fun to shoot through, but then when you get to the mission where u have to protect a 
 slave ,you will get really frustrated because the ai is so stupid he will get himself killed almost 
 everytime unless you trie dozens of times to finally find him alive, even shooting al enemies very 
 quickly doesn't matter ,he just runs away from you into the bulletrain and dies over and over which 
 was the point were i decided that this game just sucks. AI really fails in this game. Soldiers are 
 pretty easy to kill, never the less u encounter situations where u face so much enemies u will be 
 killed in 5 seconds. I loved sof:1 and loved sof:2 and was so excited when i heared about sof:3 
 ,but i am so dissapointed in activision, no raven software involved???
  i guess that was a real mistake since they made sof:1 one of the all time shooters ever.
  So 
 i give sof:3 a 5.0 for the graphics and heavy weapons and the gore but i am kinda mild over here 
 i guess, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fewes17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Well then, Soldier of Fortune: Payback... I had high expectations when I first heard this game 
 was coming out, but since everyone bashed on it so much, I thought it was (like almost everyone 
 says) pure crap. However, when picking it up for PC I was actually quite surprised how fun it was. 
 I can certainly see the many flaws the game has, and I can understand why it's general rating is 
 so low, but I must say I had a good time playing it.
  
  The graphics.
  While not great, they do their job. However, there are no graphical options besides resolution, 
 and that makes this game feel like one of those sloppy straight-to pc ports. There are some minor 
 glitches, and the render distance seem like it is from a really old game.
  
  The controls.
  I can start off by saying that I hate HATE when game has mouse smoothing, but 
 SoF: Payback is withing limits for frustration in my opinion. I can see how this game would be a 
 lot harder on the 360 for example as you have to be quite quick with the aiming, but I haven't 
 gotten the chance of playing that version yet. I might also mention that the sprint system is, 
 well, retarded. 
  
  The gameplay.
  There's really not much to say about the gameplay, you just run and shoot. It's easy to grasp why 
 people seem to hate SoF: Payback though, since it's very frustrating that you flinch so much when 
 you get hit (especially when sniping) , and the fairly thin checkpoint system adds up to that. But 
 there's still something very satisfying about shredding down four soldiers with a single magazine. 
 This game is a also extremely gory, body parts will fly off if you so much as sneezes at the enemy. 
 However, I've always liked when you can shoot the enemy to bits in games (a feat you rarely see 
 these days in video games) , and it's quite hilarious (although sick) to shoot off the leg of an 
 enemy soldier and watch him limper away.
  There's certainly a lot of knit-picking to do. For example, there always seem to be a lack of cover, 
 and the enemies seem to spawn when you stand in a high open ground. Or how characters relevant 
 to the story (which is crap) seem to gain a magic suit of armor that takes five thousand bullets 
 to take down.
  One thing I found really great about the game is the generous amount of addons there are. Even 
 though a reflex sight, a red dot scope and an Eotech reflex sight basically are the same thing 
 (or at least do the same thing) , you can still choose between them, and I appreciated this a lot.
 
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Soldier of Fortune: Payback, and I'm going to continue playing it for a while 
 even though I went around it. I think it's worth checking out, but only if you're prepared to be 
 disappointed and play fps's, a LOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been with the Soldier of Fortune series since the beginning when I picked up a used copy of 
 SoF Platinum at my EB Games -back when they used to be a loyal PC gaming boutique. What would drive 
 Activision to dump off a hallowed franchise on its Value division is beyond me, and although it 
 wasn't half as bad as my predictions led me to believe, I can only imagine what current-gen technology 
 and the TLC of a proper studio what could have yielded. Nonetheless, when I saw it for six dollars 
 at Half Price Books, I obviously picked it up with fervor.
  
  Pre-patching, Payback was completely unplayable on my modest DirectX-9 Vista rig, but after applying 
 the 4mb 1.1 patch, all was well. The opening level places you in the Middle East, searching for 
 a sniper who is apparently cutting down allies; the story is foggy at best, although it doesn't 
 matter all that much since this game is about guns and blood. Payback guides you through a couple 
 jungles, said Middle East, a sort of Kazakhstan mountainous region, some caves, and closing out 
 in a brothel/nightclub. Art direction is pretty fantastic, as are the graphics which power them, 
 and every setting is varied enough to keep it interesting. The final two missions are the best-looking; 
 unfortunately, they are also the bane of what previously was a damn good game.
  
  Leading up to the brothel outing, missions are standard, linear, blast-the-enemy-in-the-face shooting 
 galleries, which is more than acceptable assuming anyone who is a fan of these titles knows what 
 to expect. Playing on the easy difficulty (because I have way too many games and way too little 
 time to spend on normal or hard) I died three or four times in those levels, but the difficulty, 
 which had been fairly even, became impossible with no warning or gentle curve. Every corner would 
 unleash a headshot or scripted explosion which would send me into a thousand pieces and force a 
 restart from the last checkpoint (which are fairly spaced; but checkpoints? It's 2008 (2007 when 
 the game was released) give me a break) . After I had spent perhaps four hours on all the previous 
 levels, it took me two to churn through the brothel. Once I reached the conclusion, which was chock-full 
 of a mind-boggling amount of scripted explosions, I decided I was through. The literal impossibility 
 (or lack of my patience) had driven me to do something I despise: cheats. Of course, Activision 
 Value was too good to code some in, so I found a trainer instead and blasted through the finale 
 in ten minutes. If it weren't for the final two missions, Payback would have been a pleasure to 
 play and conquer.
  
  Complimenting the graphics is a score second to none. I've played my fair share of games over the 
 years, and I have not once encountered a musical track better than Payback's. Gamefaqs states "Right 
 away you will be greeted with the obnoxious and generic soundtrack;" clearly, this reviewer failed 
 to play past the opening level. The Kazakhstan level in particular shines with auditory bliss. 
 Other reviews state bland and generic weapon effects, but I found no fault with these: a gun sounds 
 one way. It's not Payback's fault it's M16 sounds like Rainbow 6's M16; an M16 sounds the same 
 regardless. I especially found the .50 caliber rifle to be profoundly satisfying in all aspects.
 
  
  It being a Soldier of Fortune game, there are oodles of appendages to separate from their owners 
 in all fashions. Grenades lobbed into standing groups of baddies will put a huge grin on your face 
 as severed limbs and clouds of blood shower over the surroundings. The aforementioned .50 cal rifle 
 will stop a sprinting terrorist dead in his tracks and fling him to the ground. Dual repeating 
 SMGs transform once-pristine hallways into mausoleums of crimson. It's too bad the enemy artificial 
 intelligence is so, well, unintelligent. From blind charges to spotting you a mile off, enemies 
 are inconsistent in their attacks yet consistent in that each will be slaughtered swiftly. The 
 jungle levels are somewhat frustrating in this regard, since enemies will shoot at you from behind 
 clandestine bushes and shrubbery whilst you are left wondering where the shots originated. Thankfully 
 no single foe excepting bosss are complicated to eradicate: a single headshot will do, and most 
 weapons can complete this task from a good distance. The bosses themselves are no more than scripted 
 sequences where you must expend hundreds of shells into the boss. None are challenging... or particularly 
 interesting at that.
  
  It's a good thing I'm the forgiving type because the brothel and nightclub forays do well to destroy 
 a very solid shooter. I am overjoyed when my CAR-12 detonates a terrorist's skull from fifty meters. 
 When I rampage with my shotgun and I can halve my targets, nothing in a game makes me happier. 
 Too bad Activision Value's level designer spoiled a fantastic graphics engine. Otherwise, Payback 
 might have been an entirely different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Sure the boss battles take like 600 or more rounds of ammo to kill the boss while it only takes 
 him 1-3 shots to kill you. The Ai is ok at best but the weapons are fairly well rendered this game 
 is an ok game thats overpriced it decent on it own but it carrys a name that used to mean extream 
 fun and well once you beat this game theres no replay value. This game is fun and frustrating at 
 the same time. This game is exactly the same no matter what console you play it on. its fun to 
 dismember the AI but its not nearly as good looking as the second SOF and the game is very stupid 
 in parts like defending the stupid slave who runs every were and gets shot. this ggame is fun but 
 over priced and should be 15 dollors not 40. The weapons are ok but most feel under powered and 
 unrealistically accurate. So id wait to buy this game. Its not worth the 40 bucks so rent it for 
 console or wait for a major price drop. This game is fun but its just a half ass job that bored 
 money needing desperate game companies spit out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2k47
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  it is really exciting when you think that the game you are downloading on your pc is going to be 
 awesome, especially if it is a sequel of an immersive previous installment and has the "Activision" 
 logo on top which is enough to make you all fired up and excited for a really good action game.
 
  
  BUTTT, no , it turns out it isnt.. SOF3 is one of these games that cheat you and makes you reach 
 a stage where you really play the game just because you spent few bucks on it, nothin more.
  
  what you will find in SOF3 is that they took really good care with graphics, and weapon customisation 
 is awesome and creative, BUT wait, how does that help if mission 1 is no different than mission 
 2000!!!. You will be sucked in a twirl of boredom throughout the game and you will encounter the 
 least intelligent AI ever created. Basically , you go through every mission by doing the following 
 :
  
  1- wait for mission to load.
  2-crack your forefinger and your middle one as well.
  3-keep W pressed along with the left mouse 
 button.
  4-if you die , dont worry .. reload , cuz enemies will be respawned from the same place and if u 
 r lucky you will get to see them being "created".!!!!!
  
  WHAT A WASTE OF CLICKS!!
  
  this article was written after reading SOF3 credits ( credits, really!!!) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  And that isnt that much. AT ALL. I played the first SoF way back in elementary school, and that 
 was a game that i just laughed my ass of at. i mean you could should a guy in the balls and then 
 shoot both his arms off! great fun. but that was in like 2001 or sumthin. its 2008 now, and it 
 seems like the only update that was made to Soldier Of Fortune was better graphics. thats it.
 
  
  First off, the gameplay is extremely simple, and unlike timeshift or half life, there is nothing 
 unique at all. the voice acting is pituful, and you can tell they spent all their money and time 
 on the graphics and left the bland gameplay for the dogs. Most of the time FPS's arent boring, 
 and they are action packed with huge setpieces, fun weapons, and great vehicles (and fun multiplayer 
 too) . Payback is boring, repitive, and the A. I. is just plain stupid. (GT has a great review of 
 the game, definitely check it out) The A. I. will just run at you and they pop up out of nowwhere, 
 so you never know where the hell they are, and the collission detection, so its really hard to 
 hit anybody.
  
  The graphics are really the only reason i even played this game, and the only graphical thing you 
 can adjust is the resolution. No joke. That is the only thing you can change. Nonetheless, the 
 graphics look pretty good and ran smooth on my system, which isnt even a dual core. I only played 
 through the first level, but then i stopped because i was hating and bored with the game so much.
 
  
  If you want a gory, good looking, horrible playing, boring shooter, then i guess this is what you 
 are looking for. But i dont know anyone who is looking for that in any type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune: Payback
  This seems to be the 3rd installment of the SOF series, and frankly speaking, what ever happened 
 to the designers and developers ? i mean SOF was one of the coolest FPS ever and after playing 
 SOF-Double Helix i was expecting a bigger bang in the story and gameplay ! but this game seems 
 to be a total let down, what ever happened to John Muller ? The new Guy seems to have the Attitude 
 but no talent ! the character can not turn while running or look at the sides while taking cover. The 
 gameplay is too short and gives a not-so-new scenario where 1 organization is wanting to wipe out 
 the evil scums. The graphics are pretty buggy, and the environments are repeated. The AI of the enemies 
 are like Gamespot said, just taken from the previous 2 SOF games. they tend to run towards you and 
 stand in the open...!
  
  On the brighter side, the thrill in playing this installment is what keeps a player going... the 
 impact of the bullets are pretty amazing. the graphics are not all that bad... the explosions are 
 well displayed, the look and feel is entertaining. The soundtrack is awesome as well.
  
  I guess a hardcore Soldier of Fortune fan like me will not regret playing this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 3
Date: May 17, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this review with a bit of history - Soldier of Fortune wasn't the most sophisticated 
 game, but made up for that in spades with wholesome unadulterated gun-play and the GHOUL system 
 allowing the player to have a blast maiming the legions of goons thrown at them. The sequel Soldier 
 of Fortune 2: Double Helix went for a more 'realistic' approach to mixed results. Some thought 
 it was better while others such as myself considered it to be trying too hard and was less enjoyable 
 than its predecessor. Soldier of Fortune: Payback seemed to try and blend the two concepts together 
 - a quasi-realistic game with real-life weapons but with the mindless run 'n' gun of the first 
 game. It had potential, but somewhere along the line it failed horribly.
  
  Gameplay:
  Instead of John Mullins, you play some other generic tough guy mercenary with the typical deep 
 slow talking voice devoid of any emotion and no background whatsoever who works for The Shop and 
 you are thrust right into a mission with only a brief back-story. You meet your contact but it's 
 not too long before bullets start flying and the general formula of the game unfolds - follow the 
 mission marker killing anyone who gets in your path, fight off the reinforcements that magically 
 arrive as soon as you complete an objective, rinse and repeat. Early in the game you are betrayed 
 and the ensuing fight sequence is ripped straight from a Hollywood action sequence  while fighting 
 the bad guy he will taunt you saying how he 'saw the light' while you were foolish and blind and 
 lacked greatness, yadda yadda. But having said that, the game can be good fun with the good old 
 fashioned mowing down hordes of terrorists, and you could forgive the paper-thin plot.
  
  Before each mission you get to choose your weapons as well as kit them out with accessories such 
 as a silencer, various scopes, a hand grip, a grenade launcher, etc, and more will be made available 
 to you as you progress just like the other SoF games. However, once you've expended your ammo you're 
 going to have to drop your gun and use whatever the enemy is using since you do not come across 
 ammo supplies.
  
  Occasionally you'll encounter a boss such as a terrorist leader, but this is where the game falls 
 apart. Bosses are regular characters but with an arbitrarily high amount of health. You'll have 
 to empty several clips of ammo and explosives into them before they go down, and while you're blasting 
 away with a shotgun in their face they'll casually point their gun and kill you. This screams of 
 laziness and amateurish design, ruining what little immersion there was. An example of one of these 
 boss fights - I finally confronted one of the criminal bosses after having gone through a gauntlet 
 of bad guys while he taunted me through a PA system (no points for originality there) . The lights 
 switch to a dim red - making the room very poorly lit and then the 'fun' begins - the boss is armed 
 with a grenade launcher and will not hesitate to fire it at point blank instantly killing you, 
 but brush off the damage with his ridiculously high health. I stopped playing the game there after 
 goodness knows how many frustrating attempts and then accidentally pressing the restart level option 
 and had to fight all the way back again because there were no other checkpoints - yes, the game 
 uses the stupid checkpoint save system, no quicksaves, yet another terrible decision.
  
  There is also an extremely annoying bug present where enemies armed with shotguns can kill you 
 with one shot the split second they see you from across a large room. I have no idea how this game 
 breaking bug slipped through QA, or maybe because this was a 'value' title there was no need for 
 thorough testing.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very good. Although there is an over-the-top HDR effect present that cannot be 
 turned off which seems like it's only there to add a buzzword to the game's graphical feature list.
 
  
  The user interface is the bare minimum - you can change your controls, but this is the first game 
 I've played where if you bind an action to an already assigned key, it ignores the duplicate binding 
 instead of unbinding the previous key like all other games I've played. Again, more laziness. You 
 only have basic video controls that change the resolution and refresh rate to use, there are no 
 other graphical settings.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects of weapons are ok, and the level music is good. However, the voice acting is 
 terrible - clichd and devoid of emotion. When characters speak it sounds like you're listening 
 to an audio clip instead of the effect of the sound coming from them.
  
  Conclusion:
  While this game was known as being made as a 'value' game, the gameplay is simply too frustrating 
 to justify any amount of money. Don't bother with this travesty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croff
Rating: 1
Date: May 15, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Absolute garbage. I would not wish this on my worst enemy. To say the enemy are crack shots is 
 beyond belief. They should sack all of these so called "artists" of the gaming world until people 
 realise it is we, the gamers, that pay all the royalties, so these games can be made.
  No save poijnts in the games, ememies that fly everywhere when you shoot them, weapons that fly 
 everywhere when you change them, cannot aim at an ememy at close range in a cave.
  Graphics are the only saving grace, but beyond that I would rather go back and play the original 
 than to suffer this incompetence!!!
  Shame on you Activision. You obviously spent too much time on making this game for X360 and PlayStation. 
 If you seriously believe we will purchase any more of your crap you are probably right, but not 
 before I have had a chance to review any platform through this forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swehunt
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  I dont know why i did go and get this game, well the screenshoots fooled me perhaps, or the storyline 
 sounded fun perhaps.
  
  ____ _______ _______ Trubble_with_install _____ _______ __ _______
  I usaly begin my reviews 
 with a short background/storyline but this review I need to start with the install and the hazzle 
 with that.
  
  Vista has been around for a good time, Im surprised games dated release as soon as late oct 2007 
 dont have Vista support? I first installed the game and it started up normaly, the first intro/cut-scene 
 started normaly and I was ingame for 3sec before the game was falling apart..
  Screaming noise out of the speakers and blurry picture, in fact the whole computer freeze and I 
 was of to re-boot. Tryed a few times with diffent in-game settings... Same result.
  Then after reding up a bit about the game on internet forums I learnt S. o. f-P did not have Vista 
 support. Ok, so I downloaded the Vista fix and installed that.
  Yes, the game was playable but some grafic bugs were NOT fixed even with the Vista fix. BAD!
 
  
  ______ _____ _______ ___ Storyline ____ ________ _____ _________
  You are a merc, browsing thru diffrent tasks given to you by your agentcy.
  Nothing new or special, 
 just a get tru to the next level.
  The story is far from exiting, or even moderate, is bad in fact. 
  
  ___ ______ __________ 
 Game_play ______ ___________ _________
  Some FPS games are easy to take the control of, you feal like it's really you running around, shooting, 
 blowing up things.
  COD4 is a good example, you get one with the carractor (s) evry hit you take almoust hurts, and 
 evry move you make feals real.
  In Soldier of fortune-Payback the movement and shooting is horrid, no toush of reality at all, 
 feals like plastic or worse. A good comparrison in reality would be Wolfenstine 3D. One thing almoust 
 made me throw away somthing in anger was the abbility to use all the normal ingame FPS movment, 
 In all games I've played you can strafe and run simoultanious, not in this game. When you try runing 
 you only can run strait ahead.
  WHAT?!! Stupid, should this be a smart thing? Well I don't get it.
  
  ___ _____ _________ Vissual_and_sound 
 _____ _________ _________
  The vissual does not impress me, there are a few good effects like motion blurr but it do not wheigth 
 it up to all the graffic bugs. And the textures used in this game is no way near real. Even after 
 bumping the resolution to max it does not look real. A plastic world.
  The sound is a bunch prerecorded sounds taken from a 70's mini-Moog synth, well thats not entierly 
 true but they do NOT fit in place and are far from realistic. Stereo or 5.1 separation was far 
 from good, from what direction are they shooting at me? The gunfire sounded and looked like a plastic 
 gun with makeup powder.
  
  ___ ___ ___ ______ ___ ____ Conclution___ ___ ____ ____ _________
  Anyone that belive this is 
 a fun game, just drop it!, the game itsealf stinks.
  I actually did un-install the game rather quick (And that acually did go fine!) , there are dussins 
 of FPS games that have much better "overall feel" to it.
  Modern gamers want games to be fun and almoust addictive, to attract gamers you give them what 
 they wan't and for me this game hit my "don't play list!"
  
  _______ _______ ______ ___________ __________ ________ _______
  Hardware I played this game on 
 was:
  E4500 @ ~3Ghz
  MSI neo2 FR
  Kingston PC2-6400 2GB in dual.
  powercolor HD3850
  E-mu 0404 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 4
Date: May 5, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  What where they thinking? This is an insult to the Soldier of Fortune franchise and to gamers everywhere. 
 Payback screams "budget title" from the first heavily scripted un-imaginative gun fight until, 
 an hour later, you realize that setting fire to your pants would be a far more rewarding experience. 
 
  
  Your enemies AI rank up there with that of your common garden variety rock and they are scripted 
 to the extend that they don't even shoot back until they get to the exact position where their 
 script tells them to go. Even their body parts seem to be "budget" purchases! A quick burst of 
 a small calibre SMG sends the enemies limbs flying everywhere like they where held together with 
 cheap clue!
  
  Bad voice acting and even worse hit detection, where you shoot some one in the leg and watch their 
 head explode (maybe the hip bone is NOT connected to the leg bone after all) ... I mean I once shot 
 a man's head and right arm clean off and then watched as he walked away holding his stomach... 
 Hey, I can live with no head and arm, but man... my stomach is very sensitive! 
  
  Considering the brilliance of the original as well as Double Helix, Payback is inexcusable!
  
 
  Don't waste your money on this! In fact, if some one gives you this game as a present... shoot 
 them immediately! No one needs friends like that! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been a big hit circa 1997. It is a linear run 'n' gun affair which requires 
 little skill or thought. Infact I would go as far as to say thinking is detrimental to progession 
 in payback, everytime I tried to be clever it cost me my life. The gore system is excessive in 
 my opinion. Don't get me wrong, I understand the fun in it. But ripping apart someone with a stream 
 of bullets just feels a little wrong when the game gives you little to no reason to want to. Play 
 Mafia or Max Payne 2 and you will understand how important it is to make you hate your supposed 
 enemies before being turned loose on them with an arsenal that could strip an elephant to its base 
 parts in a matter of seconds. The game doesn't totally suck but it doesn't do anything call of 
 duty 4 didn't do better, and seeing as they were released around the same time it was even harder 
 to justify a purchase at that time. To be honest I never bought it, borrowed it from a friend. 
 People who will like this game include -: Moronic frat boys, serial killers, stump f***ers, racists, 
 violent racists, very violent racists, your mother maybe, Dick Cheney and your immature little 
 brother. If you do like this game and aren't on the list I apologise and invite you to email me 
 to organise a fight sometime. Seriously though DO NOT let your children get hold of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToBsTaRoo9
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  I believe that the fun rating should be added to the review process and be performed by a group 
 of 5-10 people of different styles of play and then give the average total of scores out of ten. 
 The total amount of bodies certainly makes for a power hungry game not ot mention the pretty visual 
 aspect. iam just trying to say let this baby get some patches then make the verdict that will probably 
 put this game out of contention for anything. this is my 1st review so cut the winging. I believe 
 that the fun rating should be added to the review process and be performed by a group of 5-10 people 
 of different styles of play and then give the average total of scores out of ten. The total amount 
 of bodies certainly makes for a power hungry game not ot mention the pretty visual aspect. iam 
 just trying to say let this baby get some patches then make the verdict that will probably put 
 this game out of contention for anything. this is my 1st review so cut the winging. I believe that 
 the fun rating should be added to the review process and be performed by a group of 5-10 people 
 of different styles of play and then give the average total of scores out of ten. The total amount 
 of bodies certainly makes for a power hungry game not ot mention the pretty visual aspect. iam 
 just trying to say let this baby get some patches then make the verdict that will probably put 
 this game out of contention for anything. this is my 1st review so cut the winging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Lost a couple of points straight away because of no quicksave - needlessly frustrating. (If anyone 
 was able to get through the section where you have to escort the old slave to the diamond mine 
 and he insists on running ahead and getting himself killed repeatedly without tearing out great 
 fistfuls of hair as I did, then you're a better man than me, Gunga Din) . Apart from that, I found 
 it quite entertaining. The graphics were good, the AI was acceptable, and the weapons packed a 
 useful punch. There's no storyline to speak of, but that isnt really a handicap in a game of this 
 sort, where the thrills are visceral rather than cerebral. I have to come back to the lack of quicksave 
 though. One of the earlier SOF games had a limited quicksave (5 saves per level I think) . Why on 
 earth couldn't the same thing have been used here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronobst
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game has been heavily bashed by gamespot for a few fair-enough reasons but the game does have 
 its qualities. 
  
  The graphics are near second to none for the gamer that hasn't played games like Crysis. Although 
 I might mention that you still will need a powerful system in order to run it at the highest resolution; 
 which brings up an extremely notable flaw: there are no graphical options whatsoever except for 
 the changing of resolutions, making playing this game an absolute slow-framerate, lag-infested 
 hell for the gamer who does not have a high-end PC.
  
  And the gore OHHH THE GORE!!! Awesome. You can literally make mincemeat out of your enemies shooting 
 off arms, legs, heads, feet, you can even shoot the severed limbs into smaller pieces! All the 
 while spurting out gallons and gallons of blood spraying in the air and on the walls and graphically 
 depicting chunks of meat and shards of bone with great clearness.
  
  Whereas Gamespot has described the shooting and power levels of the weapons bad, I think they are 
 great, feeling as if they have the firepower of real guns.
  
  The game has an extremely punishing amount of difficulty; even on easy you will constantly be restarting 
 little portions of scripted enemies and inbetween the restarts you will also have to face the agonizing 
 load times, just for the checkpoints.
  
  All in all I think Soldier Of Fortune: Payback is a great shooter that possesses great gunplay, 
 graphics and gore but has almost no replay value and is extremely short, making the most memorable 
 thing about this game the gore by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changsta_chang
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why people gave it such low scores...... sure there were some bugs compared to 
 COD4/Crysis etc but this is totally different. Payback is like an unlimited play arcade game where 
 you can just go in and rip people into pieces...... and yup that's right I said rip people into 
 pieces..... the last time i checked Crysis and COD4 had pretty much zero gore in the game. Either 
 way..... if you play SOF with cheats/trainer it's FUN TIMES 1 MILLION....... the graphics and map 
 designs are BEAUTIFUL and nice to look, I'd say equivalent to Rainbow Six: Vegas graphics.... lots 
 of sick weapons in this game to customize and choose from...... music during gameplay makes it all 
 the more exciting..... can't complain about dialogs in this game either... speeches didn't sound 
 corny at all. 
  
  Conclusion: This game is absolutely underrated...... I gave it an 8... critics should at the very 
 least give it a 6...... because this game definitely 'passed'.
  
  and did i mention it was MAD FUN!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucketmaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  If , like me, you loved soldier of fortune 1 and soldier of fortune 2 : double helix, then am pretty 
 damn sure you'l love this too! Like the other SOF's . The graphics are excellent and its quite 
 violent. Ye cant beat a good ol fashioned BLOODY FPS. Also quite a good wee arsenal of guns in 
 there, and youre able to customize the guns like have the red dot sight from COD4 and some sniper 
 scopes and grenade launchers. Personally i love shootin hell outa people with the 'rip yer body 
 to shreds' shotgun.
  What makes this game a bit better from the other 2 SOFs is that ye get bosses to fight, terrorists 
 in helicopters and tanks etc. It is quite difficult at times because you dont get quicksaves, but 
 i think quicksaves make games too easy anyway! I dont know why people are moaning about this game 
 being boring because its the complete opposite. I guess every other game except crysis and COD4 
 is crap to those bawbags. I was nearly put off by those clowns when i seen the first reviews for 
 this , but then i thought - "no theres no way any SOF could be crap!"
  But trust me, If you like the other 2 then get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roscoe245
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  After reading all the negative feedback on soldier of Fortune payback I was compelled to write 
 this review, as in fact the game is really not that bad that people make it out to be, in a nutshell 
 you play the role as a mercenary soldier who is hell bent on killing terrorists, which is the favourite 
 theme of our time at present.
  
  So what does this game have going for it the than the other games that are out there currently, 
 for the most part this game plays on the terrorist theme of the day and believe me there is a major 
 emphasis on this aspect of the game, as you will find yourself killing Arabs, Asians, Russians, 
 & Africans. (Supposedly The main enemies of the West?) And watching their limbs fly all over the 
 place as you choose from the wide range of weapons available with multiple customisation options 
 at your discretion, to take down and decapitate your enemies.
  
  The violence in this game is second to none, it's a very satisfying feeling when you pick up a 
 AK-47 or a M16 and squeeze back on the trigger and mowed down multiple enemies and watch their 
 limbs fly into the air, but this novelty wears off eventually as the gameplay itself is relatively 
 good but is fairly lacklustre and can be at times frustrating if you are looking at this game from 
 a simulation point of view you are going to be fairly disappointed with the game, but on the other 
 hand if you're looking at this game more in the sense as an action packed waste any person on the 
 screen that you can see you are going to thoroughly enjoy this game, as the enemies will come at 
 you in waves or should I say drones.
  
  On the flip side to all of this the game does have some major falls within it which really lets 
 it down as it could have been a truly awesome game and the great sequel to the previous soldier 
 of Fortune if the following had being worked on some more.
  
  First of the AI is pretty horrific the enemies will literally appear out of thin air, the AI is 
 scripted pretty badly they either jump out at you and attack or jump out at you and attack, and 
 that's really all that the AI consists of, which by today's standards is fairly poor.
  
  Graphically this game looks fairly good but you will need a relatively high-end machine to play 
 it, but the one thing that gets to me probably the most about this game is that there is no advanced 
 settings for the graphic options, which really by any game standard is unacceptable, so you're 
 not able to tweak any graphic setting within the game at all, and the resolution settings of the 
 game is fairly low as well so if you planning on playing this on a widescreen TV such as myself 
 you can only get it viewable at 1024x768 which really sucks.
  
  Multiplayer, this aspect of the game is best described as lame and really lame about as far as 
 I'm aware there is no in game chat available, maybe the developers decided they would disable this 
 feature so that you're not able to see all the people chatting about how bad the game can be in 
 multiplayer mode, and as far as multiplayer experience goes is best described as fairly poor and 
 generic oh and incredibly buggy as well.
  
  Game plot, the story behind this game is to say the least uninspiring, and the cut scenes allude 
 a cheap and nasty feeling about them, as every single cut scene consists of you looking at some 
 briefcase laptop, and the ending is incredibly lame, but i shall not spoil the surprise for you 
 ;) 
  
  I just hope that they bring out a fairly large patch for this game to remedy a few of these problems.
 
  
  Summary, all in all this game is fairly enjoyable and I would not be put off too much by the bad 
 reviews of this game has got, I feel that game spot has been fairly harsh in their rating of this 
 game and there are certainly a lot worse the games out there such as the (The Mark) that come into 
 the same shooter theme, this game will give you a fairly fun and enjoyable experience of mindless 
 shooting of very linear enemies, and will give you surprisingly plenty of laughs along the way 
 with some of the in game jokes, such aswhatever you say boss lady" and the mindless violence 
 aspect. This game is really a great concept, but missed the grade by shooting itself in the foot 
 (no pun intended) if they just worked on a few other aspects and spent more time developing this 
 game it would have been definitely a top first person shooter game for this year, all in all get 
 this game if you can get it fairly cheaply and if you're into the current climate theme of global 
 terrorism and are you are not expecting a simulation FPS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduls
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised that people were actually capable of making something this crappy... it looks and 
 sounds like a low budget action flick from the 60's. DO NOT waste your money. this game makes no 
 sense at all, i would really love to know personally what activision was trying to prove.....
 
  
  ----pros:
  weapons are sorta nice
  
  ---cons:
  no automatic fire
  retarted AI mediocre voice acting
  features a nice bed-time story
  once dead, you get the honor 
 of playing the whole level again
  no graphics options 
  
  
  this game is the first and final coffin nail to the SOF series... once again, we have lost a great 
 title in the hands of dum idiots...
  
  end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review end of review 
 end of review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midnightmare
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Back in 1999 the first "Soldier of Fortune" set new standards, though not in gameplay but in virtual 
 violence. A system named GHOUL made it possible to disfigure your enemies in any way you could 
 imagine. The gameplay felt a bit half-baked and so did the story but all in all it was a lot of 
 fun to play through it. The second one, "Double Helix" improved really everything. A polished version 
 of the Quake engine made it look very good (though not great) and this time even the gameplay and 
 the story were exciting. 
  
  After approximately five years a new one was announced, called "Payback". Soon later the first 
 screenshots appeared and they looked simply stunning - beautiful lighting effects and an improved 
 damage model made fans of the series drool over "Payback" and expectations were accordingly high 
 after the great sequel. So the release date approached and the first professional reviews came 
 out and stated that this game was a freaking mess. Sceptical as I am I didn't believe it at first, 
 but - believe me - after playing this game for half an hour you can doubtlessly tell that it is 
 nothing more but horrible.
  
  You play as a lone mercenary and run around somewhere in the world (Middle-East, jungle etc.) shooting 
 the bad guys who are, ironically, primarily minorities such as arabs, asians and blacks. You ask 
 why? There's no answer because the presentation of the story and the story itself is so lame that 
 you will most certainly not waste your time and watch the "cutscenes" where you stare in your badly 
 rendered laptop and are told uninteresting things about uninteresting persons by a uninteresting 
 woman whose uninteresting name I don't even remember.
  
  Playing the game feels very complex: You pick up weapons (two at one time at max) and fire them 
 at other humans. Then, after that, you pick up another weapon and fire it at someone. When you're 
 finished with that, it might also happen that you get a weapon. After you got that weapon you can 
 feel free to fire it at people. As you can imagine, this ends up in an endless bloodshed. Really, 
 there's nothing else happening but shooting, shooting, shooting and, from time to time, slicing 
 up a "terrorist"'s throat with your knife. Doesn't that sound exciting? Oh, I forgot! Here and 
 there you can even plant explosives or jam other stuff. But most of the time you pull the trigger. 
 Well, this doesn't have to be bad, look at games like "Call of Duty 4" where shooting also is the 
 most remarkable and memorable task, but the overall gameplay of SOF3 is so screwed up. For instance, 
 there is no recoil at all, you can fire and fire without one bullet missing its target. A jumping 
 button is superflous because you aren't able to sneak into the enemy camp or something like that 
 though the maps can be huge and there's plenty of space to walk around. There's always only one 
 way you have to go, if you want to go somewhere else, you are held up by a clumsy barrier like 
 invisible walls. Great. The difficulty doesn't even vary by harder tasks or tougher enemies, simply 
 by the damage bullets take and sometimes by the amount of enemies, also the 'bossfights' are simply 
 struggling with an enemy who has more life energy.
  
  Indeed, the visuals aren't bad, and that's what we expected. But images can also lie to you, in 
 movement, the game doesn't roughly look as good as on screenshots. The animations look clumsy and 
 out of date and so do explosions or fire effects and in addition to that there's no option to improve 
 the graphics quality but the resolution. The level-design is really good in the first level but 
 gets weaker and weaker. The character design is not spectacular but decent, the problem is that 
 you see the same type of enemy over and over again. There are probably two types of enemies in 
 each level. Same with the sound: It's not good but it could be worse. The dismembering visuals 
 are completely over the top, firing one salve makes the enemy fall into every single piece. It 
 might look nice in the beginning but you get annoyed pretty fast and you certainly WILL contemplate 
 disabling this bloodbath in the options menu.
  
  What makes this game even worse than it already is are bugs. Not just bugs appearing sometimes, 
 bugs you have to face one after another. For example: You are in the jungle and there are wooden 
 suspension bridges with a "railing" made of ropes above you with enemies on it. Standard situation 
 for a shooter. What do you do, you try to shoot them from below, if they're right above you, you 
 walk away a bit and shoot them from the side. This is impossible in this game because the space 
 between the vertical rope pieces of this "railing" build an invisible wall. The only way to solve 
 this problem is throwing grenades up in the air and hoping they will explode on the height of this 
 bridge. Okay, you can get through this, but the next bug is at least as big as those from Starship 
 Troopers: You shoot at an enemy and the bullets fly through him. This happens over and over again, 
 the only solution is to kill him with a well placed grenade. You don't believe how annoying this 
 is. There are plenty of other bugs like people being stuck in the wall but also simple sloppiness 
 in design: It is really unbelievable but if you're at the right place at the right time you'll 
 see the enemies fall out of the air into the map. This is so ridiculous.
  
  There are no further words needed: This game is goofed in every single way except the graphics 
 who are at least tolerable. The rest is more than just awful. I haven't played such a bad game 
 with such good predecessors. Don't buy this game unless your frisbee must be extra-expensive. Buy 
 COD4 or dig out Vietnam Black Ops or its sequel, they're as bad as SOF3 but probably anyone who 
 owns those will give it away for free. Simply ask! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gnoblar-the
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
 =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( =' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I cannot believe I was suckered in to past glory of the Soldier of Fortune series. I am even more 
 upset that I actually spent money on this steaming pile. Maybe a class action lawsuit is needed 
 to get our money back... we got robbed.
  
  I suggest anyone looking into purchasing this game just spend a bit more for Crysis... or just save 
 the money and buy something later. I am regretting ever picking up this box.
  
  Excellent choice of weapons
  Scenery well done
  Game play is horrible
  
  Take it from me, 
 avoid at all cost or you will be sorry.
  
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words 
  Review 
 must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words
  Review must have 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EX7R3M3
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where to start.... okay i'll start of by saying DONT BUY THIS GAME... okay now i'll tell you 
 WHY... and the reason being because it plays simply horrible, the game is such an insult to sof1 
 and 2.... this peice of crap should never have been released, it feels like they just put the cod 
 4 graphics (which is a good thing) and did no work what so ever on game play, ai and overall storyline 
 which is pathetic, omg if i could give this a 0 outta 10 i would.. but gamespot wont let me. so 
 1.0.... and it's not because of advertising or any of that malarkie... it's just cuz it only gives 
 1.0 up to 10... so 1.0 outta 10 is what this peice of crap game gets because i wanted to rake my 
 eyes out of the sockets after playing it... the only thing good is the graphics... which are cod4 
 type of graphics... some nice effects there.. but overall it's disgusting game and should be missed 
 at ALL COSTS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alladat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  7 hours due to 30 second reload times (really) and being able to be killed too easily. the bosses 
 were so irritating to kill because it took a trillion rounds to kill each, so you never knew how 
 much longer you had to hold out. no mini map kept me from brutalizing the enemy (spoiled playing 
 rainbow vegas) . there are very few single player campaign achievements and i could not find the 
 flame flower. i had to adjust my gamma all the way up for some caves, but i would have to lower 
 it even more than 5 to kill the glare in evolution. the lighting really was bad, but the sound 
 and ability to tactically kill enemy (left leg, right arm then head) was really entertaining, though. 
 i had to start evolution over because after i killed everyone, the stairway was not revealing itself, 
 i could see it, but the game thought i had another enemy to kill, i guess. but after i replayed 
 it, it worked ok. i liked some of the levels (desert mountain and jungle) but thought the door 
 openings were retarded in the brothel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandyboy
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  After recently abandoning Soldier of Fortune 2 multiplayer i was pleased to hear number 3 was on 
 its way.
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Upon starting the game i noticed that the game looked very smooth, clean stylised and sharp. Nice 
 shadows, Textures and Lighting. I liked little touches like the bullet holes in the environment, 
 a bit better than your average dot. Although its no GoW, Cod4 or Crysis it looks good enough to 
 be next gen.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well, Guns sound like guns should... The music sounds ok, But the voice acting is beyond terrible, 
 your main character has a rediculous typical brute voice and tone however even this is poorly realised. 
 The sound is barely but only just....
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now this is what seriously lets the game down, Why would they make it look so pretty and spend 
 such little time on the core mechanics of gameplay. First of all there is no lean... Which if your 
 a fan of soldier of fortune will annoy you right away. when your sprinting you can only go forward, 
 as soon as you press the sprint button you will go hurling in a straight line.
  This game is a run and gun game, i was playing tactical at first and i found it really hard as 
 the enemys have an incredible shot, will almost always see you before you see them, i feel there 
 is no skill involved what so ever. The damage modeling has also taken a huge step backward. you 
 can no longer shoot guts out, no longer slice enemys with a knife seeing apropriate cut marks. 
 however it is fun to shot someone to bits, arms legs and head can be blown off, throats can be 
 shot and arm and let hits register well.
  The multiplayer is rubbish, laggy, lack of maps etc just bog this thing down. ask for game play 
 just take the single player and add it to multiplayer and you can gather its pretty terrible.
 
  The story is on par with sof1 and sof2, basically it makes excuses for you to kill hundreds of 
 guys.....
  
  
  In the end Sof3 is a huge dissapointment, it is playable but only just.....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  This game is the is a perfect example of how to ruin a good franchise!
  
  Good Points:
  
  Customizable weapons from the start.
  Blood and gore! :P :D
  Body dismemberment! :P :D
 
  
  Bad Points:
  
  AI is terrible.
  Voice acting is horrible.
  Level design is poor.
  Gameplay gets boring after the first ten minutes.
  No leaning mechanic 
 unlike the first two games.
  Enemy AI is able to shoot you through walls.
  Mounted guns are useless as you have to wait a few seconds for your character to grab hold of them.
 
  Checkpoint system.... oh so console!
  Invisible walls.
  Texture glitch (might because i'm using the latest drivers but it still shouldn't be there) .
 
  Weapons have no recoil at all.
  Multiplayer is a complete joke.
  Hit detection is atrocious.
  
  This is a mediocre game, even the blood, gore and body dismemberment 
 can't rescue it. They took a mediocre game put a few references to "The Shop" in it and labeled 
 it Soldier of Fortune just to cash in on Christmas. 
  
  This game is a big steaming pile of poo and you would be much better off buying COD4. 
  
  Is 
 this what we'll have to put up with from the new Activision Blizzard developer/publisher? Here's 
 hoping not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast2ghl
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, let me say that I have played many, many games over the years and there aren't 
 too many that I haven't enjoyed (out of the ones I chose to play) And out of these games I did 
 choose to play I didn't play very many "value" branded games. That being said I think this may 
 just be the best "value" game I have ever played, I might even go as far as to say that I enjoyed 
 this quite a bit!
  
  I just finished playing Crysis and before that Call of Duty 4 on my PC the last time I played the 
 FPS genre and so I obviously knew that this game was not going to come anywhere close to the experience 
 that those two provide. But that didn't stop me from wanting to try it out. I read all the reviews 
 on here took a brief look at them at least and noticed that this game was not getting very many 
 good reviews. The problem I had with this was that in the screen shots it looked pretty cool, and 
 the fact that most people were expecting this to play like a high budget game such as Crysis or 
 COD4. The fact is folks...... it isn't like those games, it looks good graphically, it runs quite 
 smooth actually on many different configed PC's, but it does not have the in depth gameplay that 
 Crysis has or the amazing story that both it and COD4 have. 
  
  So with that aside what do I think you should do? Well if you go into Soldier of Fortune: Payback 
 and don't expect much..... much like I did..... then you will probably end up enjoying the hell 
 out of it because of its great bloody shooting action. Yes it has gore but its mostly just lots 
 of blood squirting everywhere and limb dismemberment, DOOM 3 was worse by far. There isn't much 
 of a story to the game, and what little there is is mostly just an excuse to put you in some exotic 
 locales (jungle's in Vietnam, deserts in middle east) and let you run free to shoot the hell out 
 of bad guys.
  
  The weapons are varied and all feel pretty right actually, they feel nice and powerful and none 
 really feel overly powerful or under powered. The pistols are all nice and accurate feeling as 
 well so for instance you won't go into a fight with a pistol and one shot kill a guy unless you 
 hit his head, they all take a few well placed shots to down a guy, Desert Eagle excluded, no more 
 then 2 shots with that gun.... Other nice thing about the weapons is they all look pretty great, 
 nice textures, sound great, and you can modify them a bit with some simple attachments like scopes, 
 and silencers etc... The categories are:
  
  Assault
  Shotgun
  SMG
  Explosive
  Pistols/Side Arms
  
  It's much like Rainbow Six or SWAT 4 in this respect...... and I like 
 that!
  
  Graphically its pretty decent, looks like something between Bioshock and COD2, there are some nice 
 new shader effects and the Jungle level is somewhat reminiscent of Vietcong or even a little like 
 Crysis. The bad part about the graphics is that there is next to nothing to allow you to tweak 
 them in the options menu. All you have is resolution setting and that's it. I play the game at 
 1650x1080 on a 22' flat panel LCD monitor and it looks pretty nice.
  
  Sound is decent, nothing special, nothing crappy, just in between. Weapons all sound good, music 
 is there and comes in in certain scenes to make more of a Hollywood style feel to the action....
 
  
  Control is not too bad, feels like most other big FPS on the market, except the running. From what 
 I have found you seem to only be able to run in a straight line and cannot turn when holding shift...... 
 weird....
  
  The difficulty I have been reading about is somewhat true. I did have a bit of trouble passing 
 through the first part of the second level in the (the desert one) as it was tough because guys 
 would just be on rooftops with grenade launchers and I wouldn't see them till they hit me. but 
 once you get to the checkpoint its all good, you can reload from there if die. As well the jungle 
 level was hard at times too because of the nice placement of enemies and the fact that they all 
 ware green camo so its really friggen hard to see them at times....
  
  There are not really any bugs that I have come across, as I saw this being mentioned in other reviews, 
 I have yet to come across anything huge........ oh wait, when I first tried to start the game up 
 and play it it loaded the first level and the sound was all messed and I went to shoot the first 
 guy and the game quit to the desktop. This was because (as I later found out with a quick search 
 on google) out of the box, this game does not work on VISTA even though it says it does.... so 
 anyway patched it and it runs fine.
  
  So the bottom line with Soldier of Fortune: Payback is that if you go into the game not expecting 
 anything huge or spectacular, then I bet you you will have a blast with the gunplay and the bloody 
 deaths they can create. I found it to be a pretty enjoyable experience if you are willing to put 
 in a little time to get past certain parts because sometimes guys will just show up from around 
 a corner and before you can see them your dead. 
  
  I enjoyed it, although it isn't for everyone..... try it out like I did you may be surprised.
 
  
  On a side note I've spent about 3 hours on the game and am on the third level set right now... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taka1980
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Beneath the good Point that Soldier of Fortune: Payback got some pretty visuals, this game is really 
 not worth buying.
  
  You don't get much of a Story at the beginning of the Game. Just a bad looking Cut scene with some 
 blinking pictures, a female voice that tells you what to do, and your own very masculine wannabe-cool 
 voice that responds with useless one-liner. These Cut scenes are covering a rough story and build 
 a weak bridge between two levels.
  
  The A. I seems like a mix of scripted running actions and suicide intention.
  
  The Aiming is..... nothing 
 you can influence.
  The different Weapons have no real practical use. Most of the time you just run around with one 
 weapon shooting everything that moves until your ammo runs out. The option to customise your Weapon 
 is as useless as the different Weapons itself.
  
  All together:
  When you buy SOF: Payback, you get a really nice looking brainless shooter full of an overstate 
 amount of gore and no Story. After a few levels you just loose the appetite of killing more without 
 seeing any reasonable Story that explains your actions and give them a background.
  
  My Advice:
  You will have much more Fun and a better feeling by investing your precious money 
 in a Game like COD4 or Crysis (if your Machine can handle it :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  A couple of months ago I was very surprised to see some screenshots of this new game in the Soldier 
 of Fortune series. I had not expected that they had a game almost ready.
  
  I first thought of downloading a demo, but I quickly found out there was none. So.. I took a gamble 
 and simply bought the game. Well, it turns out that wasn't a mistake!
  
  It's very fun to play and although it definitely has it's flaws, it's very much a game to my likings. 
 It requires a lot more tactic than the previous games, because this game is sort of different when 
 it comes to the action. There's still tons of action, but as the Gamespot reviewer probably has 
 found out the hard way, running around like Rambo will get you nowhere.
  
  It's not that the AI is extremely intelligent, they're rather well placed throughout the levels 
 and the jungle provides them with very good cover. Sometimes you'll be shot from a for you still 
 unknown location for quite some time, because you've missed a bridge above you or because it's 
 simply quite tough to spot enemies that shoot behind the cover of leaves.
  
  Well... as for anyone complaining about the difficulty. This game is really NOT that difficult. 
 It just requires a much more stealthy approach than we are used to from this series.
  As I said, the enemy AI definitely won't blow you away, mostly it'll search for cover and now and 
 then peak and shoot at you. Don't expect them to notice a fallen comrad when you snipe from far 
 away when they haven't noticed you either, they'll still just stand where they were... unless they 
 somehow turn towards their fallen comrad, but that doesn't happen all the time. 
  
  The enemies wll notice gunfire up close though, so it's not that they are unbelievable unrealistic 
 either. Their AI is acceptable, but it's a close call. 
  It's a good thing this game isn't about clever enemies, but more so killing a lot of them. You'll 
 run into plenty of enemies, boss battles included, although mostly those are only difficult because 
 you'll still face a lot of normal enemies during the boss battle-chases. In this respect it does 
 a lot of things good by the way, it keeps the action going and although you can't go run in plain 
 sight like Rambo, it's still a game with a good speed action-wise. Mostly because killing enemies 
 will alarm others nearby and you'll not have much room for error in some situations. Still, if 
 your approach is right, you will know exactly where the enemies will be... even the more annoyingly 
 placed, like right around the corner near the door of the small houses. 
  
  As for the story... it's told by rather cheesy voice-overs during cutscenes in the game and briefings. 
 And while it does a good job at giving you the info you need, like objectives and story line, it's 
 actually a point of the game I dislike the most. The weak AI (or at least their lack of more intelligence 
 or interaction that is... because their aim is fine :p ) isn't very noticeable because most enemies 
 won't live very long anyways and it's not like this game is easy... because failing to spot an 
 enemy may prove fatal or at least will give you a tough time. I can't emphasize enough though, 
 going all rambo-style will get you killed quickly. I think this game is a lot more realistic in 
 a lot of ways than it's predecessors, but I don't think it's better than Soldier of Fortune 1. 
 It's definitely better than SoF2 in my opinion, but I felt the gameplay and gore in SoF2 was toned 
 down way too much. 
  
  SoF1 was a little over the top perhaps, but it was great fun that way. You'll still see blood and 
 gore all over the place in SoF3 (it can be switched off with parental lock if you want to) , but 
 it never gets disturbing actually. I think people will be offended sooner by Bioshock than SoF3 
 for sure, even if violence like this tends to be a big issue for some people.
  
  As for the gameplay itself, it's more or less what you would expect from a game from this series. 
 There's a lot of shooting going on and the mercenary world turns out to be rather dangerous. You 
 can change weapons during missions (and off course pick them from fallen enemies) , but you can 
 even customize the weapons you start out with when a new mission starts. It's a nice touch and 
 although you usually run out of bullets for the guns you start out with, the customization actually 
 has an effect on gameplay (expect the obvious; silencers, dual wielding of certain guns, extra 
 mag and so on) .
  
  As I said in the intro, SoF: Payback is a pretty nice looking game. It won't beat Crysis, but it 
 does have more or less all the latest shaders and effects as you would expect in a modern game. 
 It will even remind you of Crysis a bit because of the jungle setting... they did a great job at 
 getting the jungle look convincing and although wild animals and so on are missing it's still a 
 pretty dangerous place as explained before.
  
  The game runs very well, even on mediocre systems and it really looks good enough on the high-end 
 PCs too. I think it's about on par with games like Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 and perhaps 
 even with Rainbow Six: Vegas graphics-wise, but not quite. Perhaps not everyone will be satisfied 
 with the graphics, but really it'll most likely be simply because they are spoiled by the recent 
 wave of top-notch FPS games and somehow nobody can resist comparing them. In the end Crysis and 
 Soldier of Fortune: Payback are two very different games.
  
  I've also heard people say 'yeah, it's Activision Value so don't bother buying'. Well, although 
 it does seem visible at some points that this was a game of lesser priority for Activion, it's 
 production values are still great and it's very fun to play. The price for what you get it very 
 good value, no pun intended! 
  No matter how cheesy and clich the game becomes at certain points in it's story , it's always 
 a fun ride.
  
  The settings is pretty interesting too ranging from the jungle to the dessert, but I guess I would 
 spoil too much of the story if I would go into more detail about it. Even with the few flaws this 
 game has, it's still very much a good game. I can recommend this game to anyone who likes shooters 
 in generally, especially because it's a fun and unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassocoth
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  its a game to remember. Well is my opinion. The latest SOF makeme feal like a mercenary and this 
 new SOF isnt a exception.
  
  Es un juego para recordar, bueno es mi opinion. El ultimo SOF me hizo sentir como un mercenario 
 y esta nuevo SOF no es la excepcion.
  
  La IA es un poco mala, comparandolo con otros juegos de la misma especie.
  
  En si es un juego 
 solo para aquellas personas que realmente les gusten los tiulos de la Saga y que sobre todo les 
 guste el gore.
  
  La grafica se me hace buena y el sonido de las armas realmente hacen explotar mi sistema de Onkyo 
 7.1 canales.
  
  Concluyo que es un buen juego para pasar el rato.
  
  EJBE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsaligi1072
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I just now got to play because of some problem with vista, but they put a patch out that fixed 
 the issue. Man i dont see why this game is getting such poor reviews, it is an awsome game, how 
 you can sit back with a sniper rifle and shoot peoples legs, arms, and heads offf!!!!!! Gota love 
 it the graphics are really nice as well with solid framerates. 
  Not alot of options to tweak you graphics but o well the multiplayer well makes up for it. I would 
 reccommend this game to anyone! O yea im giving it a 10 just to make up for lack of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is a game series where the main attraction has always been the blood and gore, 
 and this third entry, named Payback, is no different. Like it's predecessors, this is a no-brain 
 run'n gun shoot'em up. If you're looking for a deep first person shooter that will amaze and astound 
 you (A. K. A Crysis) , you're looking in the wrong place. If you just came home from a long day's 
 work with your boss nagging your behind off all day, then SoF: Payback might be your game.
  
  Take heed, though. This game is gory and bloody. Not so much as the first two games in the 
 series, mind you -as I've yet to disembowel anyone with a shotgun- but still, this is not for the 
 faint of hearted. Exploding heads, dismemberment and general  
 are the order of the day here. You've been warned
  
  So, let's talk story. Without the slightest introduction, the game drops you off in this Middle-Eastern 
 city with a guy named Miller. You don't really get any background on who you are (You don't play 
 as the old protagonist Mullins anymore) or who Miller is. All you're told is that you are to protect 
 some Chinese ambassador. About 10 seconds later you're allready shooting terrorists in the face, 
 as you try to reach this ambassador guy. When you do, Miller turns on you, mucks everything up 
 and from there the story just doesn't make sense anymore.
  
  It's not like you should really care, though. The game isn't even trying to tell a tale here, and 
 the story really feels like it's just there to give you an excuse to shoot a legion of terrorists 
 in the face. Wich is really what the game is all about, and what it does right.
  
  If you're used to Ye Olde SoF gameplay, some aspects of the game are going to feel familiar to 
 you. The weapons, although not too accurate, are all insanely powerful, literally tearing enemies 
 apart (Very, very literally) . Enemies pop out from out of nowhere (Also, sometimes literally) , 
 and your basic assignment is to shoot them. A lot of them. This takes place in jungles, terrorist 
 hideouts in the deserts, industrial areas, etc. 
  
  The health system takes a different direction, though. No longer will you need to scavenge for 
 medkits and armor. This time around, the health system is very akin to Gears of War or R6: Vegas. 
 The more shots you take, the redder your screen will become, eventually leading to your untimely 
 demise. But if you just take some cover, wait for a few seconds, you'll recover comepletely. This 
 takes the tedious scaventing for health and armor away, but also makes some firefights ridiculously 
 easy or difficult, depending on wether you can find proper cover.
  
  It's ridiculously easy to see that the enemies are pure cannon fodder, though. They're all completely 
 braindead. Sometimes they'll get smart and run for cover, but most the the time they'll run straight 
 at you, shooting (Or not shooting) , or more ridiculously, trying to get behind your back to punch 
 (Not shoot, punch) you. These guys are a sad bunch, really, but I guess it kind of makes you feel 
 less guilty about tearing them to pieces.
  
  The game moves forward at a breakneck pace, and it's really over before it gets boring. An average 
 player should spend no more than 10 hours to get through the campaign, 5-7 being enough for the 
 more triggerhappy among us.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Technically, the third Soldier of Fortune sports nice graphics- but spiritually, it's lost in its 
 mindless violence. While you may have fun with the game like I did, you still can't help but wonder 
 what would have happened if Raven took the job to make this game. Alas, that is a big "IF" - and 
 now, we face the final product...
  
  Story - non-existant. There's some kind of doublecross that makes you kill a billion soldiers. 
 Yep, that's about it. The Shop makes its return, but unfortunately, it is the ONLY thing resembling 
 the original (the name anyways) . Gore is more comical unlike real, cover-your-eyes gore. While 
 you could say SOF had a similar thing as well, I still prefer the original which had a FREAKING 
 STORY. Let's move on....
  
  The voice-acting varies from bad to mediocre, although it is more of the former. No real kickass 
 villain is there like in the original; you'll just find yourself blasting foes to oblivion. The 
 weapons can be customized, which surprised me; but it still doesn't do a lot to help a already 
 broken game.
  
  Multiplayer is simple - mediocre. A lot of glitches are in the game, which prevents players from 
 at least enjoying what they can salvage from this game. Vista users, also be warned- you need to 
 patch the game in order to play it and even after that, you'll notice that the sky is all f***** 
 up.
  
  I still play it from time to time but only when I'm bored. My advice: skip this game unless you 
 really enjoy killing nameless faces for no reason at all. It all depends on what type of a gamer 
 you are... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Thats right, gore gore and more gore, for though this fps you will be shooting off peoples arms, 
 legs heads and limbs, the graphics look very good, but the constant repeat of the same thing over 
 and over again tears this game down, not to mention the fact that you will find hardly anyone online, 
 so you are better off watching a wall dry then trying to connect to xbox live, the game play is 
 decent and there is a large selection of weapons at your disposal, the game is not bad, but I would 
 suggest you spend your time on a better modern war game, like Call of duty 4 or battle field 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WRYTR
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics look good. The gore is great. It's all downhill from here. This is the only first-person 
 shooter I've ever seen that doesn't have a health meter for your character so you never know how 
 low your health is until you are dead. There is no armor meter either. The lean left & right function 
 are not present so you must step out from cover to see your surroundings. There are no in-game 
 saves. It's based on a checkpoint system. There are no med kits or armor to find so forget about 
 healing yourself during a mission. Although the enemy A. I. is terrible, they are great at detecting 
 you immediately and seemingly never miss when they shoot at you. You are limited to carrying 2 
 main weapons, a side-arm and grenades. Once you run out of ammo for your starting weapons you won't 
 find more unless you trade it for a fallen enemie's weapon. The paths are very linear. Your character 
 is a special forces soldier, but can't seem to climb a bleepin rock. For fans of the first two 
 games all I can say is you'll like the effects and the blood is better than ever, but that's about 
 all you'll get out of this. It was obviously made on the cheap. The initial release has the black 
 speck effect all over the trees and it will about drive you nuts. You can spend the bucks or wait 
 for it to reach about $20.00. Hopefully by then some patches will come out to fix these terrible 
 mistakes in the games production. I'm having fun with it, but there are some serious negatives 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game should not be released this year, but last year, because the graphics are not that good 
 for this time. We have DX10 and a lot of beautiful games out there. I will list some pros and cons.
 
  
  Pros:
  - The Gore - Very nice, we can see the bone broken, lot of blood when you take the enemy head out 
 with a sniper shoot.
  - Weapons - normal variety of weapons and accessories.
  
  Cons:
  - Old graphics, old engine.
  - Almost no recoil when you shoot.
  - NPC has no AI, very very 
 dumb.
  - The bullet trace is ridiculous.
  - When you jump seems that you are flying.
  
  Conclusion: Dont buy it. If you bought already, ask for a payback.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbowen_99
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  I loved the first two SOF games, especially SOF2. I can't imagine why Activision chose to go with 
 a different developer from Ravensoft, who produced the first two games. There is so much wrong 
 with SOF Payback, it almost seems cruel to point everything out. 
  
  Let's just start with the graphics. Apart from the resolution, there are NO other graphic options 
 -- no AA, no texture options, nothing, zilch, nada. This is a DX9 game? Really? The graphics are 
 no improvement at all on SOF2, which is five years old -- and might actually be worse.
  
  Then there is the AI, which is just retarded. Enemies jump out in front of you and often just stand 
 there, waiting for you to shoot them.
  
  Bad voice acting, terrible sound, it's just bad, bad, bad. Not only should you not buy this game, 
 you should complain to Activision for releasing such an awful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender140
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  the new developer has made a terrible thing to the franchise.. i want raven and john mullins back!
 
  the only thing not awful is graphics, which is quite good. but gore is ridiculous. whereas in 
 the first two installments it was creative and fun to watch, here it is awful.
  i'm angry and sad. it's a crap and total letdown.
  no
  no
  no
  no
  no
  no
  no
  
 no
  no
  no
  i do not want another soldier of fotune to be made like this. this is wrong.
  if you want fun, 
 play the raven's masterpiece of the first two sof's.
  i''m done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kegger-
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  For all intensive purposes, I couldn't let a butchering of SoF, a game I rather enjoyed, get a 
 mediocre score when it deserved a terrible one. I haven't played it, but the game mechanics sound 
 terrible, and it sounds like someone gutted the last two and attempted to build a game using the 
 parts from it and 3 other bodies. So I'm giving it the lowest score possible to counteract the 
 7.5 and 9.0. A game with a following as large as the last two, should not be left to wallow in 
 it's own blood, watching it's comrades exceed its gameplay and graphics. So let us say a hymn, 
 for soldiers left behind, and good series, that died too soon. A shot I take for thee, rest in 
 peace, Soldier of Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmo67
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed when I played this game. I was hoping that it would as good as the previous 
 versions! The game does not even feel like the previous versions, instead it is like a low budget 
 attempt at reviving a game that was once great! The only thing that reminded me of the Soldier 
 of Fortune gmae is some of the sound effects, such as rusteling of the gear before the mission 
 starts. This game is the result of what happens when companies try to save money, but end up wasting 
 money and not getting desired sales from such poor quality! Do not buy this game until you see 
 it for $5.00! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3808221
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, honestly this game sticks to much of the SoF. Realistic weapons, pretty fast action fps, and 
 its fun all the attachments that you can equip.
  
  No, as far as physics is concerned, their OK but I've seen better for sure. But lets get to what 
 I hate about this game.
  
  First off, if an enemy is over 75 yards away, you can hear their weapon fire. If their farther 
 then that you cant see muzzle fire even if its night.
  
  Realistic spawn? Not really, I've seen enemies appear out of mid-air. Unless its harry potter and 
 they can aspirate, bad job.
  
  And the most annoying thing ever: on a level you have to protect a guy who has no gun. Not only 
 that, the enemy is aiming for him, and he doesn't take cover. So he runs into the open down before 
 you realize whats going on and gets shot killing you and starting the level over. After doing this 
 6-7 times, I decided to del the game and return it. Sure, I did lots of tactics, but nothing worked. 
 And I played it on easy to see what the game is like.
  
  Not only that, but this game is repetitive. Find a slave, he tells you where to go... find a slave, 
 he guides you. There are a million and a half ways of moving information or gaining information, 
 why do you have to find a slave?
  
  This game tried to reflect current political going ons, but its own spin on it is rather see-through 
 and boring. I feel as though a guy sat down and did a 7cell story board that they went with.
  
  Probably the most boring FPS I've played next to Hexen for the n64. Its ok to play, but its 
 just that, ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svart666
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  It just sucks... its a shame, don't try to play it, it doesn't get any better.
  i tried to go on few maps to see if theres any good left in this game, there is not. i was not 
 expecting anything special, just a decent Soldier of Fortune game, but NO! fuck you!
  heres a list of some crappy things (you already know...) :
  -voice acting
  -controls
  -movement?
 
  -story
  -AI
  -maps
  -almost every shot (with pistol too) makes enemy dismember something, like a head or leg (wow, powerful 
 weapons!)
  -there is some nice graphics, but most of them isnt
  -awful game!
  
  
  well, i dont need to play this anymore, never ever again, it almost made me cry : (
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackMayHoffer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I personaly liked this game alot. Lots of violence. different death animations. Shoot an enemy 
 in the crotch and he groans and grabs his bleeding groin, awsome! Shoot the bad guy while he is 
 on the move left to right and he falls properly according to gravity and direction he was running. 
 environment looks good. even up close textures do not blur to much and the enemies look very good 
 up close. 
  Sound is good, guns are loud and sound realistic and different from each other. music is very intense 
 and does not gets in the way of the action. Like your in an action movie. 
  
  Lots of guns! each level merc can pick from more and more types of weapons and put different accessories 
 on them, sights, grenade launchers, grips, silencers, good variety of weapons to pick up during 
 missions. 
  Really good weapon animations, reloads are realisticly animated. 
  Accuracy is realistic, first shot is pretty accurate but if you go full auto there is proper climb 
 and start to really suffer for accuracy.
  On the flip side controlled bursts work properly, 3-5 shots , short pause repeat, can sustain accurate 
 suppressing fire.
  
  Grenades are quite good, they go off real fast , not in 20 seconds! and they do have a good kill 
 radius but they are not the super bomb that wipes everything off the screen.
  
  Yeah there is not much back story but that's not the point of the game. Its to get in the action 
 not to sit down and talk about the MERC'S childhood!
  
  
  In my opinion people giving this game less that 6 just don't know what the heck they are talking 
 about or were expecting some sort of CRYSIS, COD4 killer or something .
  
  Good game , lots of violence, blood , weapons, explosions, good difficulty, try it U will like 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  As many others out there in gaming land, I was anxiously awaiting this latest installment of the 
 SoF series. When I finally got my copy & began to play through the first couple of levels, I quickly 
 noticed a few things about it.
  This is definitely NOT.... the SoF we played & loved so much it the first two games. The newest 
 game fairly screams "ported console", as in no graphical settings/tweaks, no in-game saves, no 
 health pack/med kits, no ability to lean or go prone. Despite all these shortcomings though, there 
 are still some positive points that make Payback somewhat salvageable.
  
  The gun modeling and reload animations are among some of the best I've seen in any FPS title (and 
 no, I haven't played CoD4 yet) , with lavish detail and realistic handling characteristics. The 
 various weapons have a nice, throaty "Boom!" sound effect, with some nicely rendered echo from 
 the gunshots & grenade explosions. Aiming tends to be a little too loose & quircky with iron sights, 
 but the addition of a quick-aim receptacle helps this.
  
  For not having a scaleable graphics menu the game's visuals actually look pretty decent. Nice particle 
 effect from explosions, dust debris, smoke, etc.. all contribute to the overall look & feel that 
 any modern shooter must have, along with the bloom rendering & sky effect. Bullets impact nicely 
 against buildings, raising lots of dust, & the vehicles you see in many of the levels can be blown 
 up with sustained gunfire.
  
  Unfortunately, the SP campaign suffers from some wildly ranging AI difficulty and shortcomings. 
 At times I would advance through a level or part of a level quickly ; the next moment be tearing 
 my hair out from insanely accurate & unrealistic fire from enemy AK's at 300 yards. There are also 
 areas of the game where nonstop enemy spawning occurs, which is always a BIG no-no... in my gaming 
 book. Coupled with some needlessly trying boss fights & in one particular instance, an escort mission 
 where you are tasked with rescuing a braindead prisoner, the SP game runs out of steam & becomes 
 somewhat of an excercise in tedium. I found playing the MP maps more enjoyable, especially the 
 Team Deatmatch games, and would recommend this to anyone who is thinkig about checking out SoF3. 
 
  
  Overall, I can't recommend SoF Payback at the current retail price. Too many things have been left 
 out or poorly done... BUT, if you can pick up a used copy for a few bucks, it might be well worth 
 your time to check it out, especially the MP part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Front on Crysis and COD4, SOF Payback is one more FPS game, but if you like SoF series, you have 
 to play SoF PayBack, because its a evolution of SoF legacy in the series, the action and history 
 in PayBack keeps the same line of SoF Double Helix (You are an mercenery soldier working to an 
 Intel-Agency against a terrorism organization) that is all, because the remain in the game its 
 more realistic and advanced than Double Helix. Start by the great graphics and more realistic physics 
 on the PayBack, the sound its good but nothing great and the controls keeps the line of a great 
 FPS game.
  If you have have experience in FPS games, youll be able to play SoF PayBack without thinking that 
 this game is a very hard game, but if you dont... maybe you have practise before start play SoF 
 Payback, this game will challenge you.
  
  I like this game, and I recommend it.
  
  Good to add in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKevas
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  The Good things about the game:
  Blood, blood, blood and yeah... blood. 
  Graphics are kind of good.
  The Havok Engine.
  
  The Bad things about the game:
  AI kind 
 of sucks.
  Story is just boring.
  Multiplayer is not really a lot of fun.
  No cutscenes.
  The Ending is dissappointing.
  
  Soldier of Fortune is a franchise which is 
 known for its violence. The game starts off with a conversation between Thomas Mason (the guy you 
 play) and a girl named Casey which is apparently your boss and friend (?) . Well anyway, the story 
 is kind of boring and I didn't even bother thinking about what the game was about. Something about 
 oilpipelines and after the conversation you just start in front of a pile of burning cars. And 
 that is another thing which is bad. There isn't really any smooth transfers. You just have this 
 conversation with Casey and starts somewhere in a different country. I don't even know who you 
 work for, how can Thomas transfer to every country like that? Is Casey a rich kid or something? 
 Some cutscenes would have been nice. Once you have played through the first mission then you have 
 pretty much played every mission in Soldier of Fortune in a way. Because every mission is pretty 
 much the same even though the maps look different. You need to protect someone on maybe on mission 
 but they are still pretty much same. It starts with you killing a bunch of terrorists and ends 
 up with a so called boss fight. And the bossfights are really boring. It is just an enemy with 
 a lot of health. That just brings the action down. All enemys get killed by a few shots then you 
 meet the boss which need you to fire many many many many shots. How come? He doesn't really have 
 any sort of body armor. And the ending is really dissappointing. It just ends with you saying "B***H!". 
 Or well... you have this wonderful radio transmission after that which is really boring and you 
 don't really understand much of it.
  
  Soldier of Fortune is all about the blood really. And payback have lots of blood although you can't 
 really split the body as much as you could in SOF2. The splices are limited to legs arms and you 
 can of course blow up the head. And the blood is exactly what I love about Soldier Of Fortune. 
 With the havok engine the game just feels right. They fall in a right way when you shoot of their 
 legs and stuff like that. The graphics is kind of good too. But the bad things is that you can't 
 turn it down. You can just change the resolution. Talk about lazy programmers.... The game just 
 feel really low budget. It feels like they got tired of working with the game after a while. I 
 forgot to mention. But on the first mission you do have some teammates. Although they are not so 
 helpful and I don't know how you know them since it doesn't seem like you are working for the military. 
 
  
  Although the single-player have a boring story you can still manage to play through it because 
 of the blood and the lovely havok-engine. But if you get tired of the singleplayer there is always 
 the multi-player. The multi-player really seems like it wasn't finished or they were too lazy to 
 even bother making it good. Well anyway. The Multiplayer have 6 different modes which is Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Elimination, Team Elimination, Capture The Flag and Demolition. If you have played 
 FPS before you probably know about all the modes. Demolition is not so usual in every FPS. But 
 that just seems like a lame copy of Counter-Strike. The multiplayer doesn't really have much entertaining 
 stuff. There is only 5 maps and you have all these modes. The game lack one thing which every multi-player 
 game should contain. That is the chat-function. Come on Activision. A chat-thingy is at least what 
 everyone should have in a multiplayer game. No voice-chat either. It just feels like playing against 
 bots if you ask me. Just feels lonely. You can't say anything to other players. It is just boring.
 
  
  Well to sum everything up. The game at least lives up to the name Soldier Of Fortune by having 
 blood. But the game doesn't feel finished in any way. If they developed it a year more or something 
 it might have been a really good Soldier Of Fortune-game. The story is boring and a little confusing. 
 Cutscenes would have been nice instead of the boring radiotransmissions.
  The graphics was kind of good and the havok-engine is still really good. Multiplayer is not worth 
 playing.
  
  So if you like Soldier Of Fortune because of the blood then you should buy the game. But if you 
 think story, multiplayer and such things are important then you shouldnt even bother even testing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Hetfield
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm a pretty big fan of the SoF franchise (well, a pretty big fan of the first two game in the 
 series) , and when I've heard in October that SoF3 is about to come out in one month, I went crazy.
 
  November 2007 was (and still is right now) a big month for gaming, and one of the games that I 
 really wanted to see was SoF3.
  Once the game came out, I heard it's really bad and I told myself to wait a little bit, and not 
 to buy the game yet.
  My friend got the game, and I played at his house (he has a really strong computer) .
  When the 
 game ended, I found myself laughing.
  
  First thing you understand is the fact that the game's setup doesn't need a serial, which is pretty 
 stupid in terms of today's standards with all the warez, and not only that, after I finished playing, 
 I discovered you don't even need the game's disc inside the drive.
  "Oh, well, let's give it a shot", I said.
  When I started the game and went into the options 
 menu, I was shocked - not video options (except resolution and brightness) , very limited controls 
 options (no quick save, no leaning) ... the game seemed to me like a port that no one had given 
 thought to.
  The mouse sensitivity was really high, and it was only on 4, so I decreased it to 2, and it was 
 fine.
  Only after a short shock and mouse sensitivity adjustment, I started playing the game.
  
  Once 
 you start playing the game you realize that the most beloved John Mullins is no more, and instead 
 of him you've got a jerk called Thomas Mason.
  I really liked playing as Mullins, he was really special, and.. gifted at chopping organs.
  And 
 now they replace him? It's just not cool, especially when this Mason guy has no personality.
  OK, back to the game.
  The game starts in the middle of the battlefield, and as you're about 
 to shoot the first guy you see (an event which occurs two seconds after you start playing) , the 
 game crashes! Yippie!
  I download a patch, install it and start playing again.
  Right in the first mission you get to see how the game works - you shoot, you reload, you shoot, 
 you reload... on and on, no single excitement for one single moment, everything is the same.
  At first, it's pretty cool to chop the enemies legs, arms and head, but after a while it really 
 gets boring .
  Not only that, you can't really play with the organs, like in the last two SoF games (where you 
 could chop the fingers, or dig through the skull and reach the brain) ... in SoF3, if you shoot 
 someone in the arm, it falls off from the shoulder and down, and if you shoot the head, it blow 
 off.
  The gore is not fun anymore!
  The boss fights can be really (! really!-! really!) annoying - you shoot the boss in the head for 
 about sixty times, and he still doesn't die, but guess what?!? He can kill you with the aid of 
 about three to four bullets.
  Only after many (! many!-! many!) times that you die, you shoot a car near him (by accident of course) , 
 it explodes, and he dies... WTF was the only thing I could've got out of my mouth at that second.
 
  
  Now, regarding the technical side of SoF3.
  The game's graphics are pretty nice, though at some areas the game looks pretty bad, overall the 
 graphics are good.
  One certain good thing that I can say about the graphics is that the blood looks good, it sprays 
 and it stains the floor with some red tomato sauce.
  Once certain bad thing is that the levels backgrounds look awfully bad.
  Speaking of the audio 
 - it's decent.
  The sound effects are actually pretty good, thanks to the sound of the weapons.
  The voice acting 
 is really amateurish, especially the voice of our playable character - Thomas Mason, who seems 
 to force the F words out of his mouth.
  
  When the game ended, I was shocked.
  "Man" I said to my friend who was sitting next to me through the whole playing time "fu**ing four 
 and a half hours of gameplay".
  The game is really short, and as you can understand in the previous sentence, it serves about four 
 and a half hours in the single-player.
  When talking about multi-player, I can say it can deliver many playing hours, if you can survive 
 without the chat and without the fun of the SoF2 multi-player.
  Yes, the multi-player has no chat, and you can't talk with anybody during the game.
  In addition, 
 the multi-player is just not as fun as SoF2's multi-player was, I have no idea why, but it's just 
 not as fun... maybe because of the lacking gore, maybe because of the lack of controls, maybe because 
 the fact there is not chat... there are many reasons.
  
  Well, in conclusion, I've learned that SoF3 is not really a part of the SoF series, not for me 
 anyway.
  With below mediocre gameplay, short playing time, barely enjoyable multi-player, and the fact that 
 the PC game is a poor port from the next-gen consoles, SoF3 more than fails to deliver.
  
  5 out of 10.
  
  (sorry if I have any English mistakes, I'm from Israel)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  soldier of fortune is already a classic FPS, specially for guys like me that played the whole series.
 
  but in payback there are really a lot of problems.
  well the game is fun and period
  but for the rest it really gets bad.
  well the graphics are pretty the gameplay simple and fun.
 
  the problem is in the progamming of the game.
  there are a lot of stupid bugs as bodys that disapear, enemies that can only be seen in a certain 
 distance (ridiculous draw distance) .
  the A. I of the enemies is horrible too.
  sometimes they stay running around you, waste a lot of time to aim and to shoot.
  the problem 
 is that those bugs really compromises the fun in many situations.
  a pitty realy.
  what i can say is, player SOF playback just for the fun.
  forget about realism, just kick some 
 ass and have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: szekreny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  the good: 
  It has beautiful graphics, and can still run well on my 8500GT:)
  The story is good.
  Very realistic, bloody and spectacular injuries i. e. I shoot down his leg, 
 he falls and shakes on the ground (or just starts shooting at me again) .
  There are a lot of weapons we can choose before every mission.
  There is no health status seen. 
 If we are hit, the screen gets red and red and red and then we die. There are no health packs. 
 We regenerate very quickly.
  
  The Bad
  We can only change the resolution.
  Stupid enemies (bad AI) . They don't hide, have no tactics, just always run in front us.
  We can't 
 save the game, there are checkpoints.
  The game is too easy.
  Version 1.0 has display problems (patch1.1 fixes it.)
  bosses have steel skin.
  Enemies are 
 clones. They all are almost the same.
  default mouse sensitivity is too high.
  Lot of bugs (bouncing arms, guns)
  
  All in all, despite all the bugs, I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunain_Hunny
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  I expected better... but then again, its a budget game... the first thing to put me off was the absence 
 of graphics settings, no cranking up anything but the resolution, simple controls, no lean or prone... graphics 
 did look OKAY, not very bad, alot has been said about the damage modelling, well enemies do come 
 apart and bleed to gory deaths... but it gets boring after a while... the game is okay... but definitely 
 much better to choose from... I would only recommend it to someone on a budget... but still when 
 you compare it with other A list titles, you are disappointed, I think they should stop the series 
 if it is going to continue this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbordi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  lets get to it!!!
  
  its a bloody game.. of course it is.. it is soldier of fortune dammit ;D
  
  the game is very 
 simple.. you are a mercenary that does missions received through a computer from some random girl..
 
  you were suppose to protect someone (cant remember the name)
  anyways.. when you get to him, your teammate betrays you and kills him..
  then the story picks 
 up from there.
  
  gameplay is very easy.. basically its just click and shoot, well you can draw out your knife for 
 close combat, but its really way more satisfying shooting the hell outa the bastards running at 
 ya :p
  
  graphics are just right.. not to good, not to bad. no one should have any problem running this 
 to say it like that.
  
  the game is easy though.. since the AI is retarded, very retarded.
  all the enemies just jump 
 out at you, and dont seem to have any interest in taking cover, well they take cover sometimes, 
 behind cars or explosive barrels. not to clever, eh?
  though they lack intelligence there are many of them, a whole bunch.
  which makes it funny to 
 just blast your way through em, and see the limbs fly.
  
  in all its a decent game in a way... hmmm..
  
  well it is bloody and gory, and you can shoot 
 of limbs. it covers for the bad story and terrible AI :p right?!
  
  i think this is worth a rent.. at least :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmok1165
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the most realistic fps I have ever played and here is why:
  1) When you shoot someone in the leg he falls down and can still crawl and shoot you back.
  2) 
 When you reload a weapon you focus on the weapon and the rest of the screen is blurry.
  3) You can no longer run and jump while shooting in 100% accuracy like in sof2.
  4) Real damage!
 
  5) AI response to sound, throw grenades and sometimes if your not looking they will sneak on you 
 and hit you with their rifle.
  
  Bad stuff:
  1) They removed the ability to lean.
  2) You can only change the resolution.
  3) Some of the bosses are not human! I shot one of them 
 100 bullets in the head until he died.
  4) They removed the ability to lean.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This would be a good game if (1) you don't have any expectation of an actual story, (2) would like 
 to run-n-gun for awhile, and (3) you paid $9.95 for it. (My suggestion is obvious ... wait until 
 this game's price comes down (it's definitively not worth $40+.
  
  I definitively don't object to mindless FPS games like SoF Payback if the FPS part is done right. 
 So what went wrong?
  
  First, graphics/video in this game are OK, but shadows rendering is an example of how NOT to do 
 things. Due to a really lousy shadows job, 5 or 6 year old games look better than Payback ... and 
 some of them much better.
  
  Second, blood and gore ... well, you can turn it off if you are bothered by it. The funny thing 
 here is that the ragdoll physics are so much over the top and unbelievable that instead of a "wow" 
 or "yuck" factor upon a body dismemberment by a single sub-machine gun bullet the result is usually 
 comic rather than taken with any kind of seriousness.
  
  Third, the game AI is horrible. The bad guys will 2 out of 3 times line up so you can just easily 
 mow them down or after you shoot one of them in the leg (and that leg miraculously separates itself 
 from the rest of the body) 3 or 4 others will came to the exact same spot to be killed (unless 
 of course they stand right next to an explosive barrel and commit suicide by shooting the barrel 
 themselves.
  
  Fourth, game mechanics are so dated that even the simple move as lean left/right was not implemented, 
 not to mention prone, take cover, or anything more complex than crouch.
  
  Fifth, awful game options/settings, especially in the video/graphics department. Video settings 
 ... nothing beyond the screen resolution and brightness. It gives you a rather clear picture that 
 Payback was develop with gaming consoles in mind. Too bad, since many of the visual and esthetic 
 problems could be resolved by tweaking AA, lightning, shadow quality, etc.
  
  Sixth, the AI spawning is awfully timed. In most cases you can look at the spawning spot that's 
 empty, make a step towards the objective and suddenly previously empty spot will be filled with 
 enemies. Kinda defeats any use of the sneak and quietly snipe your enemies away tactics. BTW, the 
 game seems not to be sound aware -- meaning, whether you use a suppressed/silenced weapon or not 
 enemies respond in the one pre-scripted way. It would be nice to have the AI scripted to respond 
 to, say, a loud shotgun attack differently from a sneak and silently snipe attack.
  
  On the positive side there are plenty of different weapons in this game, from a variety of snipers, 
 assault rifles, SMGs, down to pistols. A very nice collection that any FPS game would be proud 
 to have. Many of them also have attachments (suppressors, scopes) that you can mount before the 
 next map starts. The negative side to this is that you can't, say, remove suppressor once the level 
 starts. Also, there seems to be no decrease in bullet impact damage or range when suppressor is 
 attached. One thing worth mentioning for many is to reduce X/Y mouse sensitivity to 4 or even better 
 to 3 so you can actually aim faster without excessive reticule movement.
  
  The weapons sounds are pretty good too. Ambient sounds seem to be OK too, but somewhat too loud 
 even when not too close to the source. Background music, voice acting are on a cheesy side (but 
 you probably won't even notice while trying to figure out where enemy shots are coming from in 
 that washed out, blurred, and awfully shadowed environment) .
  
  The other positive is also relatively fast response by the publisher to the reported game bugs 
 by issuing a patch (1.1) .
  
  Overall, Payback, doesn't feel like SoF series many people used to know. Apart from its trademark 
 blood and gore there is not much of SoF left in Payback. As a game on its own, Payback could be 
 a source of a rather pleasant but non-immersive entertainment given that the visual quality, the 
 AI, and the gameplay mechanics improve considerably in the future.
  
  (Note: The game packaging is minimalistic ... read=cheap, but also includes a separate SoF Platinum 
 Edition CD. Neither of the games have a serial number, but the CDs need to be in the tray during 
 the gameplay) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: but_chik13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what the heck other peoples problem is their taste seem so obtuse, on the one hand 
 they praised FEAR for it "ground-breaking and stunning" graphics, the sparks off the walls, the 
 torn limbs flying here and there the bloom effects even the fires albeit a little slow still looked 
 nice. When i saw the reviews for this game i was truly disheartened, Ive always enjoyed playing 
 SOF ive always been a true follower i was actually an inch away from not buying it, but then i 
 said f*** it and did it anyway and i have to say I AM IMPRESSED! They totally revamped the Havok 
 engine we all know and love from the previous SOF games and with and with such little requirements 
 needed, i mean it has kind of a semi bloom and like i said the fires seemed to be moving as if 
 in lower frame rate but the game is presentable and done well. There are some lapses of course 
 like what the other writers have suggested which i seek to ask to the people who made it. Why cant 
 you adjust the graphics? It is a PC game after all, but then again its no big deal you can always 
 adjust the graphics of the your vid card through the control center and if you cant or dont know 
 how to do that, then dont play... any at all
  
  It seemed to me it filled up what the other games like Crysis, COD: modern warfare, Ghost Recon, 
 RAINBOW SIX VEGAS and the rest of the shooter games that came late last year lacked which is... BLOOD! 
 Dudes come on! when you shoot a guy in the head with a friggin shotgun or an AK-47 IT WILL BLOW 
 UP! I dont give two ounces of crap what you say someones head should splatter against a friggin 
 wall when you shoot it with an assault rifle. When i played R6: vegas and i shot my first soldier 
 about two teaspoons of blood fell on the ground.... what the F*** was that? well anyway ive said 
 my piece and thanks for reading through the bad punctuatiions, be well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirilltch
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  First of, this fps is not ment to be anything like the games we know, its not Crysis or COD4. It's 
 a mindless shooter for those who just want to jump behind the computer and blow of some limbs.
 
  Lets start from the beginning. Nowadays most games come with tons of protection. This games just 
 doesn't have any, atl east i couldn't find any. It seems like the developers just didn't bother. 
 And this is not the only thing that this game is missing. There are also almost no options to tweak 
 the graphics, the only thing you have is the resolution. Which really doesn't make that much of 
 a difference. Although the performance doesn't totally suck it is still a long way from anything 
 disent. On a midrange system like X2 3800 cpu, 2gb ram and an X1950 pro, with 1280x1024 you get 
 around 40 fps (20 at some points) . If you crank it down to say 1024x768 than you wont see any magor 
 improvment, maybe a gain of 5 extra fps. At this frames the game is very much playable.
  As for the story, not much to say here, its boring and short and the cutscens make you wanna go 
 grab a drink. Now if all this doesn't bother you, than you might actually enjoy it. Because there 
 is one good point in this game, and that is the gore! Although not very realistic, it is strangly 
 very satisfying to shoot someone in the groin and see him grabbing it, or maybe just grab a shotgut 
 and start shooting there limbs of. If this doesn't sound like fun to you, than i would strongly 
 advice you not to try this game. It will be a complete waist of money.
  Personally this is not my cop of tee, i had moments during the cut scens when i just hit esc and 
 exited out of frustration.
  Verdict:
  Performance: 3
  Graphics: 6 (if you can max everything out, else don't bother)
  Sounds: 2
  Gameplay: 7 (not 
 for everyone)
  Replay value: 6
  Overall: 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weirdo999
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  When I played this game, and haven't seen any reviews, I thought it wasn't really that bad, at 
 least not as bad as Van Hellsing on the GBA haha. The graphics are not that bad really, okay, they 
 are not as god like as crysis nor that game is as open enden as that game, still, if you compare 
 it to the first medal of honor game, well, then this does look better.
  
  Although it is very annoying that enemies just pop up and spawn, that is very old skool, reminded 
 me of Serious Sam. And the gameplay is kinda like that game, you just run and gun all the time, 
 although you kinda can sneak around and take out people with your sniper rifle :P. Heads pop like 
 melons, yummie, although it's not the goriest game ever, it's alright, it does contain more blood 
 then Crysis I think.
  
  But if you really wanna see a gore fest look at the movie dead alive. Now that is gorey with a 
 capital G. The levels are okay, even though story is weird, I'm not that far in the game, but I 
 haven't been bored just yet, although I can't focus any thing so it's a miracle that I play this 
 game for almost 3 hours now, almost in a row. Yes, I am clearly insane, but hey, if it's fun, why 
 not. And I guess that is the most important factor, the fun level.
  It's just plain fun blasting enemy after enemy after enemy. It's almost like serious sam but you 
 die faster. About dieing, you can't really save, you have to wait for a check point and that can 
 be annoying as hell, because there aren't many check points you encounter, so if you do f*ck up, 
 you are screwed and need to do the whole thing again.
  
  I do like the fact that you can take cover and regain health, at least you don't have to look for 
 medkits and armour. Which is good, although in the heat of battle you really cry for a medkit, 
 but then you just take cover, take a breath wait a moment. And you're good to go.
  
  Now for the ai, this really takes me back to Serious Same, they are really brain dead, although 
 sometimes they take cover. Which is really funny to see. The strangest thing I've seen is when 
 I was hiding behind a wall, they were shooting at the wall, no, not waiting till my head pops up 
 and shoot, noo they just keep firing and I sometimes peaked around the corner and just take them 
 out, 1 by 1. Hoozah!
  
  Now the last things I want to talk about is the audio and the aiming. The aiming is not bad, you 
 just kinda get used to it, and the blur when you're reloading is cool at first and then it gets 
 annoying. Now the last thing, the audio, the audio is alright really, it's not bleeps and bloops 
 anymore, guns sound like guns and dying people kinda sound like dying people. Although, they tend 
 to say stupid stuff, but I wasn't really paying attention, I was to busy killing them hahaha. 
 
  
  All in all not a very bad game, just pick it up when it's in the budget bin and you'll have a blast 
 for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davini44
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  You must be on something if you expect this to be anything but a mindless brutal gore filled shooter. 
 Why bash something you do not play . The game has a gore-less option if you cant take the bloody 
 goodness. The difficulty is set beautifully in the single player. It seems that it is meant for 
 vets. The AI is on par. Bots will throw grenades at you from over a building when they "hear" you 
 fire. Keep it commin Activision. Poor aussies dont know what they are missing.
  
  I and many like me enjoy the gore and FPS action. The best part about the packaging is the free 
 platinum old version included. Value ... yes indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hnjerrylin
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  1 - you can't not change the graphic options in this game. (except for the resolution, lol)
  
  2 - no more leaning
  
  3 - weapons has to be changed with "next weapon" button and "previous 
 weapon" (oh no this isn't a joke, but it's funny)
  
  4 - the sensitivity is way too high for me (i adjusted it to zero, and i am used to use 1.3 in 
 cs, this feels like 2 to 4)
  
  5 - the recoil doesn't let the gun jumps up
  
  6 - texture problems on the trees (i am using 8600gts)
  
  7 - if you equip grenade launcher, 
 you don't see the hands carrying the gun. (except while changing ammos)
  
  8 - sometimes the enemies' bodies disappear so fast even while standing. (just like those photo-made 
 old school arcade light gun shooting games.)
  
  9 - some textures are not detailed. (check the G36C)
  
  10 - the enemies head in this game 
 is just in one piece, it's not able to be disassembled, no more details on eyes and brains.
  
  11 - not much cut scenes. (in the beginning, i haven't finish it cuz i wanna share the pain 
 first.)
  
  12 - the guy kind of moves too fast for a tactical shooter and there is no option for walking.
 
  
  While this game will much better to NOT be the sequel of SOF2, well, it did, and brought out tons 
 of disappointment to me. without most of the goodies in SOF2 and the basic options for a PC game, 
 this game is obviously aimed for consoles. and did this game get banned in other places because 
 of gore? no... no, sounds to me that is the official way to say it. this game doesn't even have 
 as much gore as SOF2. it's banned so people won't get pissed off after they play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sad third chapter in the SOF gaming saga. It's obviously a console port to PC executed 
 poorly. The real shame is with a few additional features it could easily have been a great follow 
 on to the first two. 
  
  No save game function (preprogramed save points only) , no leaning or proning, virtually no GFX 
 or sound adjustments in the options menu, frequently wouldn't run in Windows Vista (as first released -- the 
 patch may have fixe that, but I'm not sure) , weak weapons with far too much shot dispersion, I 
 could go on, but you get the drift. Though I haven't tried it yet, from all accounts MP is so poorly 
 done and unsupported it's a joke. No real sense of story, as all the former trips to the shop to 
 kit yourself out, and briefings to get mission intel and objectives have been reduced to pregame 
 menu screens and quick, captioned in game voice over briefings. 
  
  On the positive side, the graphics are good, the gameplay is fun -- enemies are numerous and aggressive 
 (if not all that intelligent) , sound is good (though suffers from no scaling options) . Excellent 
 weapons selection and customization features. More on the game play, however fun it may be, be 
 prepared for a particularly nasty convergence of the "no save game" feature and the boss battles 
 at the end of most levels. Can you say TEDIOUS, BORING, and REPETATIVE? If you can't now , you'll 
 be able to after a couple of these encounters. A save game feature would have totally eliminated 
 this problem. 
  
  Did I mention the gore? SOFs main claim to fame......... yes, it's over the top. The blood looks 
 more realistic to me than in either of the first two games, though specific entrance and exit wound 
 decals (depending on hit location and weapon caliber) are a thing of the past. All bullet wounds 
 are now the same generic blood decal and limbs are severed far too easily.
  
  At $40.00, this poorly executed shooters is overpriced, my advice if you wer a fan of the first 
 two is wait for the bargain bin. At $15-$20, Payback would be acceptably priced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Story: Who knows.
  
  Graphics: Suprisingly decent for environments but soldiers and guns look bad.
  
  Audio: Lame.
 
  
  Missions: Kill lots of dudes, kill a boss, press a button, etc.
  
  Controls: FPS.
  
  Features: Lots of gore, blood, and limbs falling off.
  
  A. I.: Stand and Shoot Stupid.
 
  
  Loading Times: A lot but quick.
  
  Multiplayer: Lame.
  
  Requirements: Low.
  
  Weapons: A lot but look bad.
  
  The Good: Environments look good.
  
  The Bad: Just another 
 shooter.
  
  The Ugly: When an A. I. stands by an explosive barrel and SHOOTS IT HIMSELF (Suicide) .
  
  Replay 
 Ability: Low to none.
  
  The Bottom Line: When it's $5 at Walmart? Sure. Now? Heel No. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a die hard fan of the previous SOF games, they were gory, fun, and the story and characters 
 in them were excellent.
  HOWEVER, THIS game... THIS GAME is not ever worth of carrying the "Soldier of Fortune" logo... because 
 this game... is horrible...
  Graphics : 6
  The graphics are not HORRIBLE, but they aren't so good either. The lightning is pretty good, but the 
 textures aren't. The characters look like a slightly improved version of the character textures 
 from the previous games. The environment looks really bad. And overall, the graphics are very outdated.
 
  Audio : 5
  The music is decent, but everything else is not. The voice acting is HORRIBLE, and the effects are 
 bad.
  Gameplay : 3
  Boring as hell. It doesn't have the spirit SOF1 & 2 had. This is a pure, dumb and boring shooting 
 experience, with some sweet gore that SOF was always famous for..
  The game is short and linear, and boring all the way. And not to mention the boring story and the 
 unbalanced difficulty.
  Value : 2
  Nothing to add here, the game is boring, short, and linear. Therefore, the game is one time only ride, and 
 barely at that...
  Overall: I had this feeling this game is going to suck, but THAT much??
  Shame on activision on making such a horrible game, while even giving it a SOF logo. This one, is 
 a complete disgrace for the SOF name. It should had gotten at least 1-2 years to develop, and MAYBE, JUST 
 MAYBE, this game would had lived to the SOF name...
  To cut long story short....... get Call Of Duty 4.... it's MUCH, MUCH better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakrath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is a game series where the main attraction has always been the blood and gore, 
 and this third entry, named Payback, is no different. Like it's predecessors, this is a no-brain 
 run'n gun shoot'em up. If you're looking for a deep first person shooter that will amaze and astound 
 you (A. K. A Crysis) , you're looking in the wrong place. If you just came home from a long day's 
 work with your boss nagging your behind off all day, then SoF: Payback might be your game.
  
  Take heed, though. This game is gory and bloody. Not so much as the first two games in the 
 series, mind you -as I've yet to disembowel anyone with a shotgun- but still, this is not for the 
 faint of hearted. Exploding heads, dismemberment and general  
 are the order of the day here. You've been warned
  
  So, let's talk story. Without the slightest introduction, the game drops you off in this Middle-Eastern 
 city with a guy named Miller. You don't really get any background on who you are (You don't play 
 as the old protagonist Mullins anymore) or who Miller is. All you're told is that you are to protect 
 some Chinese ambassador. About 10 seconds later you're allready shooting terrorists in the face, 
 as you try to reach this ambassador guy. When you do, Miller turns on you, mucks everything up 
 and from there the story just doesn't make sense anymore.
  
  It's not like you should really care, though. The game isn't even trying to tell a tale here, and 
 the story really feels like it's just there to give you an excuse to shoot a legion of terrorists 
 in the face. Wich is really what the game is all about, and what it does right.
  
  If you're used to Ye Olde SoF gameplay, some aspects of the game are going to feel familiar to 
 you. The weapons, although not too accurate, are all insanely powerful, literally tearing enemies 
 apart (Very, very literally) . Enemies pop out from out of nowhere (Also, sometimes literally) , 
 and your basic assignment is to shoot them. A lot of them. This takes place in jungles, terrorist 
 hideouts in the deserts, industrial areas, etc. 
  
  The health system takes a different direction, though. No longer will you need to scavenge for 
 medkits and armor. This time around, the health system is very akin to Gears of War or R6: Vegas. 
 The more shots you take, the redder your screen will become, eventually leading to your untimely 
 demise. But if you just take some cover, wait for a few seconds, you'll recover comepletely. This 
 takes the tedious scaventing for health and armor away, but also makes some firefights ridiculously 
 easy or difficult, depending on wether you can find proper cover.
  
  It's ridiculously easy to see that the enemies are pure cannon fodder, though. They're all completely 
 braindead. Sometimes they'll get smart and run for cover, but most the the time they'll run straight 
 at you, shooting (Or not shooting) , or more ridiculously, trying to get behind your back to punch 
 (Not shoot, punch) you. These guys are a sad bunch, really, but I guess it kind of makes you feel 
 less guilty about tearing them to pieces.
  
  The game moves forward at a breakneck pace, and it's really over before it gets boring. An average 
 player should spend no more than 10 hours to get through the campaign, 5-7 being enough for the 
 more triggerhappy among us.
  
  In the visual department, the game does allright. The enviroments vary from slightly drab to quite 
 good looking. Live enemies animate a bit oddly, but they usually don't live long enough for you 
 to notice. Dead enemies are a far neater bunch, with Havok enabled on everything you shoot off 
 them. The game's main attraction, the blood and gore, looks good. Enemies spurt blood, crawl around 
 in panic when you shoot their legs off, and generally die in very satisfying ways.
  
  Audio isn't too different. The music isn't bad, with usually some cheesy action flick music playing 
 on the background. Voice acting isn't bad either, but nothing remarkable. Guns sound excellent, 
 though. From the squeek of a silenced sniper rifle to the satisfying boom of a shotgun, these babies 
 sound like they mean it.
  
  All in all, if you just want some stupid fun and aren't bothered by shallow gameplay and a convoluted 
 story, this is your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome in some ways like the graphic part mm mmm really good the game play is also 
 good kinda ^^
  
  Well the worst thing about this game when its a SOF 3 game you should expect lots of gore and blood 
 no not so much in SOF 3 like in the first 2 SOF games, but still its good if you dont like bloody 
 games or you dont want it to feel like a SOF game.
  
  The shooting and the parts falling of not so good like the Double Helix but that had flaws to like 
 they didnt jump when you shot them in the leg like the first SOF that was awesome with that kind 
 of stuff.
  
  Here on SOF 3 there are less blood the Double Helix and less parts to blow away or slice up : ( 
 really bad considering this is a SOF game but that its probably because the original game company 
 didnt make this game.
  
  It starts really strange the first map you are thrown in to the game directly without any story 
 or anything you just start shooting talibans or something.
  
  Weapons really nicely done and the new running system little like Gears of War except the 3 person 
 view.
  
  If they wanted to make this game so good and really feel like a SOF game then they should have 
 done like this a story like SOF 1 and the parts when you shot they jump and get hurt, on the second 
 stuff they should use in the third game as well should be the lots of slice and shooting part of 
 from the second and the last thing is from SOF 3 was just the graphics that they have, there is 
 the ultimate SOF game with the good stuff from the old and the new :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Soldier of Fortune series is mostly known for its over-the-top violence and gore. The first 
 two were uncomplicated, but ultimately quite entertaining and satisfying games. While the third 
 game in the series gets the first one right it fails miserably at being a good game. It seems like 
 Activision's idea of delivering a similar experience to the first two games was to deliver a game 
 that plays exactly like them. The problem is that they are 5-7 years old. The result is the most 
 generic and outdated game ever.
  
  The game immediately sets the tone with its appalling menus. There's no doubt this is a budget 
 title. Upon further inspection you notice that the menus are also useless and not really designed 
 to be used with a mouse and keyboard. The only graphics setting you can change is the resolution 
 and refresh rate and you have to fumble around in the weapon selection screen.
  
  But who cares about the menus. Sadly enough for this game, what matters is how the game plays.
 
  
  The game further establishes the tone with a poorly implemented briefing. There's no easing into 
 the story, you don't get any back story or anything. It's explained to you by some woman that you 
 need to find some Asian dude and all of a sudden you just pop up in the middle of a street somewhere 
 and start shooting.
  
  The actual shooting part is one of the few things the game doesn't completely fail at. The weapons 
 sound quite beefy and due to heads popping like watermelons and legs falling off it's moderately 
 satisfying. But. You can't aim down the ironsights properly, you get to view down it but all it 
 amounts to is that you get a zoomed view. And the bullet spread seems to be quite large, so you 
 can't really precision aim, making it futile trying to get headshots and also quite boring. You 
 basically just aim in the general direction of their heads and hope for the best. It all seems 
 to be more designed for run n gun tactics rather than cover and aim, and it does the run n gunning 
 ok, but the weird thing is it quite often forces you to take cover and aim at enemies far far away.
 
  
  Another problem with the firefights is the ridiculously stupid AI. When they're not scripted to 
 run somewhere they either run straight at you in a cluster or just kinda stand there. Sometimes 
 they even run past you. That's not to say that the game is a breeze. The AI does a bit of damage 
 and there are quite a few of them, so you need to actively use cover occasionally. There's a tiny 
 glimmer of hope buried beneath it all there. But it's more difficult than it should be due to the 
 AI also being unfair. Enemies can be really hard to spot at times, you don't notice they're there 
 until they shoot you in the chest. So again, you're looking for the red crosshair. There are also 
 times when the AI spawns behind you in environments you've already cleared. Which is stupid as 
 all hell. And guys on bridges are freaking invincible. I can't hit them, have to throw grenades 
 up there.
  
  The one aspect of the firefights everyone wants to hear about is the gore. The trademark of the 
 series. It's a disappointment. Heads pop and limbs kinda fall off, that's it. Games like FEAR and 
 Gears of War do a much better job. Hell, SoF2 was a lot more detailed. The one thing Payback has 
 over it is the ragdoll physics. But even though it is quite fun to stab people's legs off with 
 the knife and then stab them again and watch them flop around, or watch the bloody fireworks after 
 a grenade, it gets old, and the bodies disappear in like a minute. Ragdoll physics isn't really 
 all that impressive any longer anyway.
  
  The visuals aren't particularly impressive either. But it looks ok, perhaps even good, kind of 
 like a mix between something like Black and CoD4. It doesn't look hideous, and there's this flickering 
 foliage bug, so this is definitely the best part of the game.
  
  The audio on the other hand, is atrocious. As I mentioned the weapons sound pretty good, but the 
 voice acting is terrible, as is the audio mix. A guy can stand five meters away and you'll barely 
 be able to hear his gun. Explosions are similarly subdued. This further adds to the frustration 
 of the firefights. Sometimes you won't hear the enemy and you won't see him, the only way you know 
 he's there is by the red hit indicator and crosshair. Think there's a bug cause I could barely 
 hear secondary characters talking and enemies' weapons really are ridiculously silent.
  
  But perhaps it's a good thing I can't hear people talking. Not so much because the voiceacting 
 is awful (it's bad to mediocre) , but because the dialog is so unbelievably stupid. "Stop calling 
 me boss lady!" is the writer's (presumably one of the developer's kids) idea of a funny. Ha. Ha. 
 
  
  Furthermore there are the ocassional first person cutscenes. But unlike other games, in Payback 
 the game takes control of the movement and camera for you. And it's very poorly implemented. All 
 of a sudden the camera will just swing away leaving you to wonder what the hell is going on. These 
 lil cutscenes are really poor too. In the first one for example, Thomas Mason (that's you) will 
 turn around and aim below a guy on a rooftop, but hit him anyway, then Miller double-crosses you 
 by shooting the guy you were suppsosed to protect (spoiler, haha) . And that's it. So they're pointless 
 and jarring.
  
  Another example of a cutscene that gives you more of an idea how juvenile the writing is is when 
 you find some terrorist guy in a warehousecave or whatever it was. The guy pleads for his life, 
 Mason gets upset and pulls out his gun and curses and threatens in an aggressive manner cause he's 
 a badass marine special ops delta army force ranger who kills terrorist scum without even thinking 
 twice about it, eventually he puts his gun away, for some reason the terrorist dude then gets all 
 lighthearted and mocks Mason for being a weak infidel or something and that if their positions 
 were reversed, he would've shot Mason. Mason says "Good point." and shoots him in the throat. 
 
  
  Speaking of throats, a lot of games these days feature interactive environments. In this one you 
 can interact with certain objects (mostly barrels) , while some can only be affected by explosions 
 while some aren't affected at all. It's weird. The level design feels really sparse, so the weird 
 lack of interactivity is quite tangible. The level design is weird too, sometimes you get these 
 alleys or passages that lead to nowhere, or optional dead ends that act as a trigger for enemies 
 to spawn. It makes no sense. The only compliment I can give the level design really, is that at 
 least it's varied. One moment you're in a middle-eastern urban environment, the next you're in 
 some jungle somewhere.
  
  If it were priced according to its quality ($10) I'd still have problems recommending this game. 
 The fact that its released in possibly the busiest and most high quality Q4 ever makes it absolutely 
 impossible. Couple that with a pricetag of $30-60 (EU-NA) and it's more impossible than a backwards-flying 
 pig from the planet Tykzor playing the banjo while firing lasers from his eyes, rainbows from his 
 ass and inventing Dr. Zoidberg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-909
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics are "OK" and I really mean OK because the background in the maps are 
 just large blurred textures and this game doesn't even support AA. When I played the first mission 
 I thought "Hey, do I know that sound?" YES I DO the background sounds are also used in Call of 
 Duty 2. The maps look cool, but are very, very small.
  
  Hmm wat about the multi-player?
  Ok I would like to ask some players in the servers about the game, how they thought about... WTF 
 I can't?!!, you can't even chat in this game! They removed like 80% of the SoF II Double-Helix 
 controls. And you can't change any graphics only the resolution, that's all.
  
  My thoughts and conclusions...
  
  
  
  Like It's not even finished yet...
  
  Greets 
 Shadow
  
  BTW Ignore my time spent thingy, it's like 10 minutes and sorry If I humiliated the developers, 
 but I'm just tellin tha truth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune 2 was the one the best FPS games around when it first came out. Lots of people 
 have liked it and played. It had some unique visuals and ideas, and as consequence it became a 
 game to remember.
  
  Personally, I was a fan of SoF2. So when I first saw SoF: Payback was released, I remembered these 
 good memories and had the game. But that was a huge mistake!
  
  SoF: Payback has nothing to do with SoF:2 and I am telling you this from the start: It sucks big!
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics doesn't seem old, but also they are nothing special too. 
  
  Sounds: Sounds in this game, especially voice acting are like a big joke. They are terrible. Also 
 they will make you hate this game.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is also a bad joke. Ok I know, guns pushes when shoot but why I can't shoot 
 anything properly? 
  
  You should listen your war partner in game shouting "Take that you bastards!"and sounding it like 
 "OMG I am bored to death while recording sounds for this game, can't they make it quicker!". Whole 
 game looks like made just to annoy people who liked SoF2. Nothing special, nothing fun, nothing 
 good! 
  
  If you bought this game before making some investigaiton about is it good or bad, I probably know 
 want you : PAYBACK !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezali_basic
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like a straight to bargain bin title. Sure it is a "value" title but the price 
 feels more like a rip-off. despite having decent graphics it has no art direction, no originality 
 and most of all no fun. It's a gallery shooter without the trimmings. Apart from extreme gore SOF 
 games were never known for their single-player mode or fancy AI or even having the best graphics. 
 SOF games especially SOF2 had great controls and multiplayer modes (random map generator!) . I'm 
 hoping that Raven soft is working on a true sequel SOF3 ...
  
  This game feels like a straight to bargain bin title. Sure it is a "value" title but the price 
 feels more like a rip-off. despite having decent graphics it has no art direction, no originality 
 and most of all no fun. It's a gallery shooter without the trimmings. Apart from extreme gore SOF 
 games were never known for their single-player mode or fancy AI or even having the best graphics. 
 SOF games especially SOF2 had great controls and multiplayer modes (random map generator!) . I'm 
 hoping that Raven soft is working on a true sequel SOF3 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnifeInFace
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Soldier of Fortune (SOF) series, and I haft to say that I'm very disappointed 
 with it's latest installment, "Payback", for the PC.
  
  Let's start with the story. This time around you don't play as John Mullins from previous games 
 in the franchise... Instead you play a unknown loner named Thomas Mason working for some vague 
 and discrete mercenary agency. Your task is to find evidence that the Chinese are in the process 
 of using slave labor to construct and operate oil pipelines in several parts of Asia and the Middle 
 East. The story is as interesting as watching the small needle of the clock go by so I'll leave 
 it at that.
  
  The gameplay is something of a "traditional", uh-sorry, "typical" first person shooter, you run, 
 shoot, reload, crouch, repeat. That's it! You might haft to use your "INTERACTIVE KEY" (I smell 
 console port) once in a while, but that's it. Not to mention it's hard to figure out where your 
 getting shot from because the gun's seem to make no noise.
  
  The graphics are the only good thing about this game. It actually looks pretty good, the player 
 models, weapon models, even the bump mapping and bloom seem to be up to date. It also has the trademark 
 gore engine that made the series what it is.
  
  It's just a real shame that such a good looking game went to such a waste. It should have been 
 delayed a year and the development should have been passed on to Infinity Ward, or something.
 
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bro2hq
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Like most games with less though put into it then required I hope it gets fixed with a patch. Soldier 
 of Fortune has a record. 
  Soldier of Fortune Gold 
  Soldier of Fortune Platinum Edition
  Hopefully they will look at player feed backs and make a patch or upgrade that will fix the problems. 
 Alot of this is also that the company and creators has such low confidence in there own product 
 that it didnt even make it to some popular NEW RELEASE area gamer sites. That says everything in 
 itself.
  My problems with the game personally.
  
  I play PC version.
  
  Unrealistic damage feature. You cant see your health and you can always go on as long as u hide 
 behind the wall and wait for a few seconds for the red warning screen to go away.
  
  Another is unrealistic suprise element. Enemy somehow knows where you are right away and hardly 
 miss a shot even if your behind cover. I ran behind houses in the game and a machine gun guard 
 on top of the hill was tracing every footstep i made with gunfire. All I heard was bullets jumping 
 of the wood of the houses i was running behind without him actually seeing me.
  
  Sound still needs work on surround sound control and volume control.
  
  I think they were going 
 for action packed thriller but it didnt work out too well.
  
  Like every other bad release out there, they shoulda took a little longer to work out the problems 
 with the product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vit4l1ty
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Highly anticipated game for the SOF2 community and for me it was a waste of money and so not worth 
 the wait. The environments suck, the graphics suck, everything sucks. You can not interact with 
 the environment except for a limited amount of objects like cars, barrels, etc. The gore in this 
 game can be compared to SOF2, theres no improvement at all and im even inclined to say that SOF2 
 is better than this game in every aspect... if you have a good system you can crank the graphics 
 on sof2 and will look just as good as payback (maybe not as good but more pleasing to your eyes) . 
 You cant customize the graphics except resolution, the controls are very limited, lean function 
 was removed. What they should have done is just give SOF2 a face lift like counter strike. This 
 game should not have been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ageadi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  I expected this game to be like SOF 2 except with upgraded graphics. It's not... 
  
  The first thing I noticed were the horrible controls. When you sprint you are unable to use your 
 mouse to turn into the direction you choose so you are forced to run straight... 
  
  The graphics are a little cartoon like. Gun models are well designed. The "depth of field"effect 
 can get annoying after a while. Especially when you reload. 
  
  Gameplay is extremely repetitive... At least in SOF2 you felt like you inflict different damage 
 to your enemies with different weapons. Here the character models break apart the same way with 
 just about every weapon So you never feel like you are seeing or doing anything new... 
  
  AI stinks... Your enemies seem to know where you are miles away before you even get a chance to 
 spot them.
  
  Sound is alright. 
  
  
  But most of all is the lack of options to tweak. Like Textures, Shading, V-sync etc etc... They 
 are missing unless I missed it.
  
  That being said the game is still fun due to the ridiculous amount of violence. 
  
  Before 
 you buy wait for a demo...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinpointX
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This title obviously does not belong on the PC. Cauldron simply ported over a console game without 
 even thinking about the differences between the platforms. You have to be a SOF2 player to truly 
 understand how dissapointing this game is. Yes, you played the game for the gore, but the majority 
 played the game for its solid, competitive multiplayer. Pay back's multiplayer has no anti cheat, 
 no lean, no color tags, NOT EVEN A CHATTING SYSTEM. The game does not even come with a CD KEY. 
 Even if Cauldron decides to patch in an anti cheat, how is it going to work without a cd key to 
 ban? So if there were 2 words to sum up Payback, it would be:
  Horrifically Dissapointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konigstrom
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Go play Soldier of Fortune II instead. Or, perhaps stick your head in a blender.
  Either would be preferable to this garbage. The violence is one of the main reasons people will 
 buy this, and it isn't even that great. The only pro to this game is the way some of the weapons 
 behave themselves when firing. That's the ONLY plus to spending your time on this.
  
  It doesn't even attempt to thatch together a story, and the first mission just throws you out there.
 
  
  Oh, did I mention you aren't playing as Miller?
  
  Ditch this.
  
  With Lackluster gore, terrible presentation, shoddy controls, no attempt even at a story; you're 
 better off with COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdazcment
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow! Where do I begin? First thing is the saddest AND scariest thing of all in a game which can 
 be played on line. NO cd key required to install or play. (I would bet that the Torrent sites are 
 flooded right about now.) No Punkbuster support. (for now) That combination right there is enough 
 to scare the living bajesus out of anybody wanting to buy this game.
  
  How long did it take them to make this game? 3 months? 3 weeks?
  
  I see now why the place 
 where I bought it had only 1 copy in stock for PC . 
  
  I am truely disappointed in the option menu interface. There are hardly any graphic tweaks at all. 
 Its unbelievable that a game coming out in this technological era gives just a small amount of 
 options to adjust the visuals. The graphics do look good though. And it even plays good on my single-core 
 2.6 P4.
  
  Their are also very few options for movement/actions/etc. And you have to hit the Escape key to 
 apply the changes & get to the previous screen. There is not ONE SINGLE back button on any of the 
 interfaces. I guess that wouldn't have been so bad except for the fact that the game comes with 
 absolutely NO friggin instruction manual ..... PERIOD! (only an insert that shows how to install 
 it. (I guess thats a "VALUE" install manual for dummies) lol
  
  The Game has NO leaning at all. (And they use the name Soldier of Fortune in the title of the game 
 ... Bahhhh!) And there is still jumping A. K. A. bunny hopping! lol 
  
  The weapon sounds are very nice though. And the Noob Nade attachment ....... WOOT!! The only thing 
 is you have to reload it. No auto reload on them. Of course you get 17 of them. (in SP)
  
  The Shotty sounds like a cannon when you shoot it. 
  
  The grenades suck also. No ability to 
 cook them anymore. Just click & it throws it. The explosions are cool. 
  
  As for Multiplayer! Hmmmmm? Not many servers up yet. There is no way to change color in your name. 
 NO CHAT feature! (wth is that all about? is this the first MP game these people have made?) I know 
 sometime chatting in the game gets ugly & offensive & distractiing, but this IS a Mature rated 
 game right?
  
  The gameplay is very smooth though in a 12 player server. Not sure what the max player is right 
 now, but I hope its at LEAST 32 players.
  
  Another thing that I am not sure about is that if NOBODY needs a cd key (to create a GUID or hash) 
 to play the MP game. HOW can they be banned from a server for being an ?
  
  I have a feeling that there will be some people (modders) or the developers adding things to this 
 game. (one could only hope)
  
  As of now my impression of this game after playing it makes me want to gargle with Listerine because 
 I am pretty much vomiting in my mouth.
  
  I will though, give a little credit for graphics even though this title is NOTHING remotely close 
 to SOF2. (or sof1 for that matter) And hopefully the ability to be modded & expanded upon. I just 
 don't know what these developers were thinking when they made this Atrocity.
  
  BAD Activion ....... BAaaaaaaaaaaaaaDddd! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
