-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldiers of Anarchy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/soldiersofanarchy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Silver Style
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 8, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its annoying technical issues, Soldiers of Anarchy is a lot of fun. 

 For many people, there's something appealing about any game that lets you lead a team of soldiers 
 in a postapocalyptic war zone. So it's odd that this setting hasn't been used more often in computer 
 games. Soldiers of Anarchy features a setting that's similar to the one used in MicroForte's Fallout 
 Tactics, though its gameplay is more reminiscent of that of Red Storm's 1999 strategy game Shadow 
 Company. Both of those games let you control multiple characters in real time in a mission-based 
 format, and now German developer Silver Style has taken this genre into a fully 3D world in which 
 a few humans hid in bunkers while the apocalypse took place and then crept out later to jump into 
 a tank and shoot at things. And the game gives you better weapons along the way so you can shoot 
 bigger stuff, which is also good.           If they have you outgunned, you can outsmart them. 
    

  Soldiers of Anarchy does a nice job of creating a world that's appropriate for its setting. It 
 has a desolate landscape that effectively conveys a sense of wide-open space, and this is complemented 
 well by the weather effects and lighting. The graphics are generally outstanding, and some of the 
 vehicle models are really great. Additionally, the animations are beautiful. The game has smooth 
 and realistic movements that range from general combat actions to getting in and out of vehicles 
 and climbing over walls. Unfortunately, the character models are pretty homogenous, which makes 
 it difficult to tell them apart, especially since the game's generic voice-over doesn't help. For 
 instance, most of your characters are supposed to be Russians, but all the voice work was provided 
 by Americans, so you'll tend to forget. These incongruities make Soldiers of Anarchy a technically 
 inconsistent game.   

  Each mission involves multiple goals, only some of which are revealed at the beginning. Scavenging 
 for weapons is important, as you need to collect ammunition and you can trade extra weapons for 
 more powerful ones. Soldiers of Anarchy has a great variety of weapons, and this variety not only 
 adds to the tactical choices you have in each mission, but it also adds to the game's atmosphere. 
 You'll find that many of the missions have hidden boxes of weapons that add to your stash, but 
 hunting for them doesn't get tedious because you can finish the missions without scouring every 
 inch of the map. The game focuses on the right things: combat and the tools of combat, like interesting 
 guns, tanks, mines, grenades, and so on. The story is told using brief cutscenes that are triggered 
 when you reach certain points in each mission, but they're integrated into the game engine much 
 as in Warcraft III, and if you want to skip them you can just click through.           The quality 
 of the unit animations adds a lot to the game.    

  While you'll do plenty of exploring, the game revolves around periodic firefights. No character 
 can stand being shot for more than a few seconds, and a burst from a heavy machine gun will take 
 a character out before you have much chance to react. However, the single most important aspect 
 of the gameplay is the fact that there is no ability to pause and issue orders. You can stop the 
 game if you need to take a break, but this freezes the screen and prevents you from doing anything 
 until you resume the game. For this reason, Soldiers of Anarchy actually requires a bit of dexterity 
 with the mouse and keyboard, especially because you have to make extensive use of the two different 
 camera modes (free and follow) to track all your soldiers. Your units will do their jobs individually 
 even if they're widely separated, so as long as you're able to assign units to different groups 
 and manipulate them with hotkeys while managing the camera, you should theoretically be able to 
 get by fairly well.   

  Unfortunately, you can't be sure your soldiers will obey your orders, because the pathfinding in 
 the game is terrible. And it's not even consistent -- five of your characters may set off immediately 
 for the waypoint you set for them, but the sixth may decide to run in the opposite direction for 
 a while. Or, a group may be approaching a destination and one of your characters will suddenly 
 veer off into the woods, loop around, and come running back. Unfortunately, this tends to happen 
 at the most inopportune moments -- otherwise, it might seem like a practical joke that the developers 
 quietly added to the game. Unfortunately, the joke is ruined by the fact that if you order a character 
 to sneak up on an enemy, and he decides to take an alternate route, you're most likely going to 
 be reloading your last saved game immediately afterward. You can adjust pathfinding in the options 
 menu, but even setting it to maximum appears to have no effect except to use more of your computer's 
 resources and slow down the game. Silver Style's solution to this problem was apparently to put 
 a note in the game's documentation that advises you to save often.    

 Soldiers of Anarchy's pathfinding is even worse with vehicles, which are almost incapable of driving 
 in a straight line down a road. They'll either weave drunkenly from one side to the other (leaving 
 the road entirely) , or, if they make it to the waypoint you specified, they'll suddenly veer off 
 at a 90-degree angle and maybe drive up a hill. This bad driving also extends to scripted behavior. 
 In the very first mission, you're supposed to follow a character to his village, but this can take 
 as long as 10 minutes, as the guy drives crazily around, up and down the same road and then maybe 
 off into some trees, up a hill, around in a circle, and then back to where you originally met. 
 It all sounds hilarious until you need one of your vehicles to carefully drive around a minefield 
 and it instead drives over a mine and ends the mission that you forgot to save. The fact that Soldiers 
 of Anarchy's load times are a bit long doesn't help, either.           The story isn't one of the 
 game's strong points, but it moves the action along.    

  The last issue with movement in Soldiers of Anarchy is the fact that when you give a unit a new 
 waypoint, that unit momentarily pauses, but the game keeps going. In other words, if a truck carrying 
 your entire team is trying to get away from an enemy who's firing on you with a bazooka, thanks 
 to the bad pathfinding, it may try to drive  toward  your enemy. And if you try to correct the 
 problem by giving the truck another order, the truck will stop and pause while your enemy merrily 
 continues to bombard you.   

  These issues are so maddening because Soldiers of Anarchy's developers got so many other things 
 right -- it almost seems unbelievable that they could have missed these obvious problems. The game's 
 tactical situations are interesting, and they require plenty of stealth and strategy. The game 
 has lots of puzzles scattered throughout its missions, but it does a great job of making the answers 
 intuitive enough that solving them makes you feel more a part of the world. For instance, vehicles 
 leave tire tracks when they drive around, and this is a key to solving an early puzzle in which 
 you're heavily outgunned but have the advantage of surprise. In the end, they're not so much puzzles 
 as they are good tactical problems. You'll need to take note of tactical considerations, like enemies 
 being able to spot you from much further away depending on how you order your troops to move. As 
 you might expect from a real-life tactical battle, the prelude to 15 seconds of gunfire will sometimes 
 be several minutes of circling and scouting. It works well -- so well, in fact, that you wonder how 
 that part of the game could turn out so well when other things were completely missed, like the 
 fact that it takes forever for soldiers to get in a vehicle because they get in one at a time, 
 even if the vehicle has four doors.           Between-mission actions are handled cleverly.    
 

  The character and equipment management between missions is also nicely done. You return after each 
 mission to your bunker, where you can heal soldiers, trade for new items, reequip your squad, repair 
 and modify your vehicles, and get your mission briefing. The game forces you to make choices between 
 missions with an ingenious time element, which gives you a limited number of hours to perform various 
 tasks. And if you need equipment and don't have anything you want to give up in exchange, you can 
 take the unusual alternative of going into your lab and making some performance-enhancing drugs 
 that you can then barter for guns and ammo.   

  Despite its annoying technical issues, Soldiers of Anarchy is a lot of fun. This is true in part 
 because of the inherent appeal of wandering around a postapocalyptic landscape and picking up cool 
 weapons to shoot things with, but the game also features good art direction and solid scenario 
 design. Soldiers of Anarchy even includes a full map editor (although its documentation is pretty 
 sparse) . Additionally, the developer is apparently working on a patch that will supposedly let 
 you pause the game and give orders. The game's various bugs are obviously a more pressing issue, 
 but if they're fixed, Soldiers of Anarchy could be a truly terrific game. Then again, Soldiers 
 of Anarchy is still recommendable even as it stands.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dominus_tecum
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Yep, the story is post-apocalyptic, but the game itself doesn't convincingly sell the environment. 
 That is, If you played the game sans the occasional dialog, you would never be able to tell it 
 was post-apocalyptic as opposed to some generic modern combat game -- M60's, AK-74's, Humvees, Migs 
 and a bunch of dilapidated buildings do not a post-apocalyptic game make. The gameplay itself EVEN 
 AFTER THE PATCH is fairly disappointing. I've read the initial review that complained of the lack 
 of a pause to issue orders and the terrible pathfinding. The patch doesn't do all that much to 
 help the pathfinding, making me wonder just how bad it was, and the pause feature seems only to 
 upgrade the frustration level from pulling-your-hair-out to plain annoying. Get Fallout Tactics 
 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that it would be like the recent UFO games but implemented in a way 
 I would have liked. I was half right.
  
  The emphasis of this game is not turn-based like UFO at all. It's real-time with the ability to 
 pause the game at any time and make command decisions if the need arises.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I want to start this portion by saying that the installed version of my game has a bug in it 
 from the offset that adds to some of the frustration I experienced. Apparently, due to one of the 
 many codecs my PC needs whenever the game repeats a music file I have to wait 25seconds for it 
 to reload in which time the game freezes. And the only fix for it? Remove all except basic MicroSoft 
 codecs. Fantastic.
  
  According to the games forums they had experts that helped them with the weapon stats. That stinks 
 more than the local water treatment centre in mid-summer. I'd like to see anyone survive a direct 
 hit with a .50cal shot let alone continue fighting. So realism is out of the question right away. 
 But that didn't make the game less fun, just meant that you had to play about with the game to 
 see how things would react and that took some time. Things like a single RPG7 round completely 
 annihilating an apartment block. Sweet moses!
  
  Pathfinding is a tad awry as well. Vehicles are often getting lost, driving into buildings or taking 
 the long way round that means driving right into the minefield you made an effort to avoid. Means 
 a lot of shift-clicking to queue commands which should not even happen. Soldiers are just the same. 
 You order them to sneak around the back of a house as to avoid being shot to crap by the BTR you're 
 trying to avoid and what does he do? Walks around the front of the house to get to the back. I 
 don't usually scream at my PC but I found myself doing so in abundance.
  
  Another niggle that could raise a buddhas blood pressure to dangerous heights is the grenade throwing. 
 The system itself is fine but stand too close to a wall or building and for some reason your soldier 
 just launches it into that object and blows both it and himself up. You have to stand quite a way 
 back. Another thing you have to learn to do.
  
  It's not all bad. Although the game is riddled with annoyances it does have some perks. The story 
 is somewhat interesting. Not very inspired but it at least makes you want to continue.
  
  The fights can be quite exhilarating. Once you've placed all your men in their locations and set 
 the ball rolling, seeing the fight turn your way fills you with a certain amount of pride. More 
 because it seems the game is fighting against you constantly that overcoming all the bugs and weirdness 
 that you've managed to beat the enemy. Seeing your decoy lure a T55 tank down a street only to 
 have your two TOW humvees zoom in from the rear with complete success is something to behold and 
 the amount of relief you feel is almost tangible. This is usually because you have to out-think 
 the enemy rather than out-gun. You're rarely given the means to outright fight the enemy so you 
 have to be inventive. This is where the game really comes into it's own. Superior weaponry doesn't 
 always mean victory. It's all about superior tactics. And that is what is keeping me playing it.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Seeing as though the game is almost 4 years old now, it would be unfair for me to rate the graphics 
 by todays comparison. Back then a 3D strategy game was something quite new and even today the graphics 
 look quite pleasent. We're not talking Act of War level, we're looking, again, at UFO Aftermath 
 level. Everything looks like it's supposed to be, there's a few niggles with appearing textures 
 but I can let that slid as this happens in a lot of games and the cause is usually to aid texture 
 compression.
  
  My only real nerks are the models for the AK-74 and MP5. They looks similar but they're not AK-74s 
 or MP5s. The MP5s all have straight 9mm magazines which isn't that common. The more common curved 
 magazine would've been better. To be honest, it looks more like a shortened G3 variant.
  
  Sound
  
  Which side of the coin will it land...
  
  The sound effects are fantastic. The 
 weapon sounds, although not perfect, are pretty good and you could believe that it was an actual 
 AK-74. 
  
  Now... the voice acting. Oh dear god. What is it with these european games and their english voice 
 acting. Some of the characters I can understand being from Texas or the American Mid-West but almost 
 everyone in post-apocolyptic Russia is American. There's the odd Brit thrown in at various points. 
 To be blunt, it's rubbish. It sounds like one guy putting on different voices. I die a little inside 
 when a cutscene comes on.
  
  Value
  
  At the time of release, I'm very glad I didn't buy it like I was going to. The game still feels 
 unfinished after all these years. It had so much potential yet fell flat on its face in the eyes 
 of the gaming community. Pick it up now in the bargain bin or 2nd hand on eBay or Amazon and you'll 
 get a good day or two of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gawk24
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun innovative game that I personally picked up in the bargain bin. I had loads of fun 
 with the action oriented RTS. The way you command the charactors is simple, like all RTS's, except 
 you only worry about a small group of soldiers instead. On the first mission you go and destroy 
 these mutant animals. Why? That is where the story starts, you and your team lost in a forest. 
 One of my favorite aspects of the game was vehicles. This adds more depth and variety to the game, 
 but most of all fun. Even the tutorial mission was a blast to figure out. One way SA beats other 
 games, even shooters, is the fact that the enemies drop their weapons. I was amazed! I only wish 
 the bodies didn't disappear in midair. Anyway I had a lot of fun with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 9, 2004 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Soldiers of Anarchy would have been a good game if it was completed. It seems slapped together. 
 The controls are difficult (and you are expected to be able to quickly, and I mean extremely quickly, 
 respond to events) . You are forced to go through a list of menus for every action you would like 
 to perform. While I believe there are hot keys, only the most dedicated fan would likely be able 
 to memorize all of them. Combined with poor graphics and generally slow gameplay, I would only 
 recommend that someone get this game if it was located in the bargain bin at Wal-Mart. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
