-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldner: Secret Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soldnersecretwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 321 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Wings Simulations
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jun 22, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soldner features some neat innovations, but these original elements can't compensate for its fundamental 
 stability, control, and gameplay problems. 

  Soldner: Secret Wars had the bad luck to arrive in stores just about a week after the very similar 
 Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising. Both games are team-based multiplayer shooters along the lines 
 of the popular Battlefield series, both are set in more or less the modern era, both include a 
 variety of combat vehicles, and both sport a silly, unnecessary subtitle. Unfortunately for the 
 generally rickety-feeling Soldner, Joint Operations is better in virtually every way, except for 
 maybe the subtitle. And even if Soldner was the only game of its kind in town, it still wouldn't 
 be good.  

          This bot refuses to leave the truck he just flipped over.     

  In the year 2010, wars will be fought in secret by "rather small" but highly skilled groups of 
 mercenaries called "Soldners" -- at least according to the five or six sentences of plot that are 
 wedged between the customer support number and the system requirements in the manual. The game 
 lets you customize your Soldner's appearance in a variety of ways. You can mix and match different 
 faces, shirts, pants, helmets, boots, gloves, and hairstyles for a unique look. Once you're done 
 picking a wardrobe, your Soldner has access to an impressive number of vehicles and weapons. There 
 are more than 60 different guns in the game and more than 70 different tanks, jeeps, helicopters, 
 and planes (though no boats) . While it's nice to have access to such a wide variety of equipment, 
 the game provides no useful information about any of it other than a small, blurry picture and 
 a price. What's the difference between a BMP-2 and a BMP-3? How many crewmembers can an AH-64 carry? 
 Apparently, it's all part of the secret, because there's no such reference material either in the 
 game or in the manual.  

  This lack of information becomes a problem primarily because Soldner uses an equipment-purchasing 
 system similar to the one used in Counter-Strike. You start each round with a set amount of cash, 
 and you receive cash awards for various things such as enemy kills and securing capture points. 
 Server admins can set the initial funding, but on the default setting, it takes a lot of playing 
 to earn enough to afford most of the vehicles. Despite the vast amount of drivable equipment, the 
 pricing structure ensures that vehicles are actually less common in Soldner than they are in either 
 Joint Operations or the Battlefield series. In a week of playing, we never once saw a single jet 
 in the air, much less a dogfight.  

  Assuming you can purchase a vehicle, you're not going to be happy with its performance. Nothing 
 in the game controls well. Chopper controls run the gamut from very touchy to absurdly touchy. 
 For instance, it's almost impossible to keep an Osprey's rotors pointed toward the sky. Cars, trucks, 
 and tanks offer no sense of weight, and many of them have a tendency to roll over at the slightest 
 provocation. You can flip an Abrams tank just by turning it too sharply on level ground.  

  The game's interface is sluggish and ugly. There often seems to be a distinct lag between clicking 
 something or pressing an action key and seeing an effect. Some interface elements are just baffling. 
 For instance, a key press toggles sprinting, but sidestepping turns the sprint off. Maybe there's 
 some realism excuse for this, but from a player standpoint, it's counterintuitive and annoying. 
 Moreover, Soldner represents a devolution of certain heads-up display elements standard to other 
 games in the genre. When you're inside a vehicle, both Battlefield 1942 and Joint Ops display a 
 diagram of the vehicle that shows both your position and the other available seats. Soldner abandons 
 this clean, clear design element in favor of a single number in parentheses that represents the 
 vehicle's current number of occupants. Since the game relays no information about any of the vehicles, 
 the only way to figure out how many people will fit into a given craft is to actually load players 
 into it until the game tells you that you can't anymore.  

  Graphics and sound are generally average. Character models are detailed, and the levels feature 
 some impressive view distances. But individual elements in the environment are more often than 
 not kind of ugly, blocky, and plain. The game also includes one of the worst, most distracting 
 rain effects in gaming history. And, for some reason, a bored-sounding guy says "Soldner" pretty 
 much any time a new menu loads.  

  Several different multiplayer game types are available. The most popular is conquest, which is 
 just like the multiflag capture-and-hold gameplay in the Battlefield series. And "popular" is a 
 relative term here. Though the game has spent more than a week on store shelves, it's rare to find 
 more than 100 players online at any given time. There are often fewer than 50. Maps support only 
 32 players at once, though the steep server requirements keep many of the available servers locked 
 at 16 or 24. While playing, we also experienced several lockups and crashes to the desktop.  

 
          The annoying rain effect.     

  There is a single-player campaign included in Soldner. It's an endless series of randomly generated 
 missions. It's also broken. The bot AI is awful -- enemies put up nothing more than a token resistance 
 and often get stuck running against walls, rocks, and trees. They'll drive vehicles, but usually 
 only long enough to flip them over or crash them repeatedly into any intervening obstacle. Worse, 
 after five missions, something happens that causes the game's frame rate to drop to unplayable 
 levels, even on equipment that far exceeds the recommended system requirements. So even if you 
 wanted to play the single-player game, it's almost impossible.  

  Soldner does feature some neat innovations. For instance, environments are fully destructible. 
 Buildings and trees can be knocked down, and you can even blow chunks right out of the ground, 
 which can make it harder for vehicles to approach an entrenched position. Unfortunately, though, 
 these original elements can't compensate for Soldner's fundamental stability, control, and gameplay 
 problems.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tuxedoman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Soldner is a 3 year old game that has taken alot of crap but underneath it all it is actually an 
 ok game. Many people insult the game because it has many bugs, some of the graphics could be better 
 ans many other things.
  
  The actual game its self is interesting with the ability to be able to change the way your character 
 looks, his camoflauge and select your own weapons and vechiles. Now u can take advantage of this 
 because u can actually hide your character properly. Unlike BF2 wheres the mec wear a green uniform 
 in the middle of the desert you can actually wear camoflauge that suits the situation. The game 
 also lets people dress up like idiots aswell because i go generaly get anoyed when ive found an 
 awsome sniping point in a bush and a guy dressed as a pink pimp comes next to me and gives up my 
 position. One of the actually refreshing things about soldner is that name tags dont appear on 
 enemys so u can stay very hidden but if you kill someone the camera shoots right in your direction. 
 The graphics in the game are not realy that good but it makes up for it with a almost unlimited 
 view distance so sniping guys from 1000m is actually quite refreshing as compared to struggling 
 to even make a body shot on a enemy soilder on BF2 from 300m away.
  
  The sound is absolutly terrible like seriously its shocking but a very intersting thing about the 
 sound is that the gunshots can be heard very clearly from about 100m away so you do know when shots 
 ae being fired at your or a freind. Apart from that its bad but not without its charms.
  
  The gameplay is unique as i have pointed out so id u want something fresh get it
  
  The value 
 for me is excelent because i got the game for $5 from a bargin bin
  
  Probably yhe biggest part of the game are the weapons and vechiles
  With 70+ weapons int he game 
 there are going to be clones and there are some weapons dont even have a diffrence between eachother 
 but they have a different skin. The vechiles are weird for example flying the planes is realy quite 
 strange using the mouse and the holicopters feel like paper clips in the air so yeh.
  
  Over all the game is fresh and fun if your can manage to look over all of the flaws in it now it 
 may be hard for some but for tohers its not that bad. If you want my advice dont come into this 
 game expecting a flawless game just come into it expecting somthing that isint perfect but has 
 some good points and because i payed $5 for it meh im happy
  
  (P. S my spelling sucks as you may know so meh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  ok.... im going to go with the bad first.... well all is bad
  1. lag... i have an alien computer... well almost like one and even with everything on LOW! its 
 very slow either walking running or driving... no hope
  
  i like the idea of the destruction... but i noticed not everything its blowing up
  
  2. seems 
 not many are playing it... : (
  
  3. just lag all around... i hate it i can play BF2 everything on HIGH!!! and play 100 times better 
 then this game on LOW!!! always getting connection problems.... and alot of players are having 
 the same trouble
  
  4. others may think its good cuz maybe they can play it well... but i wouldent reccomend this to 
 anyone unless you really really think it wont lag or do this wierd stuttering
  
  5. stick with battlefield, call of duty, F. E. A. R, and just other good FPS's
  
  6. those who 
 say its the BEST!!! dont know how you do it but : ( i cry alone
  
  7. other then the bad... seems it could be a good game but something isint right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 2 years ago, it had a lot of vehicles (helis, jets, tanks, ...) , weapons, around 
 30 or 40 maps, a good destruction system and the rest of the features, but the game had a really 
 bad netcode, everyone was getting crashes everytime, and was being disconnected from the game.. 
 now, 2 years after the release the game (with lots of patches on it..) a lot of bugs were fixed, 
 the netcode is fixed, the game was balanced (giving more power to some weapons, less recoil to 
 others and so on) , new vehicles, weapons and something like 50 maps were added. I can't say the 
 game is perfect (the graphics are something outdated now (well, with AA and AT it still looks ok) , 
 the destruction system isn't perfect but is great and add a lot of possibilities to cover your 
 self under trees or to destroy builings where there are enemies hiding, the costumisation of your 
 unit is really great. There are 7 multiplayer modes (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Vehicle, 
 Conquest, Hostage Rescue and Super Conquest) , the maps are really big (much bigger than any other 
 game) and with different themes (snow maps, jungle maps, forest maps, urban maps, desert maps) . 
 The game is still alive with a little community (you can find 200 players every time.. since 2 
 years ago, no more nor less) , but the best part of the game is when you play with some team mates 
 (like 3v3) in infantry maps (at least thats my opinion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: Destructive Terrain, Not many people bought into the hype.
  
  Cons: The original developers did not do their job , and released something that most college students 
 end up actually making a better product without being paid for it.
  
  Single player, if you want to call it that, its bugged and it doesn't work right. The only thing 
 that was singular in this game for me was the need to shove a sharp stick into my eye. Choose an 
 eye, either way it's still gonna hurt like hell.
  
  Multi player, it gets better! Well only slightly, you get to watch others suffer with you! The 
 net code, well sucks, even patched it could've been coded better by a retarded, blind, deaf mute, 
 missing both of his arms, with narcoleptic tendencies.
  
  Battlefield killer? Yea right, keep telling yourself Wings and Encore, it's more like trying to 
 kill the genre.
  
  One, thing I rate on is finished retail product on release, I know many say this title is much 
 better now, and should not reiceve the horrible ratings. I do believe the negitive ratings are 
 very warrented, this game was and still is a lemon, its not those who rate it bad that brought 
 this backlash upon them, it is the developers themselves at blame for failing to release a good 
 product. Quality speaks for itself, and even if a group called Project 0 has finally fixed it, 
 it is three years too late.
  
  The community is small for a reason, and its not for a lack of exposure. It scary how hard the 
 community tries to put a good spin on this game when quite a few of its good reviews are from new 
 one shot gamespot accounts. 
  
  Pass off this game, and Marine Corps: Semper Fidelis (Same Game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game at first was a total let down when it first came out, but with the new updates and weapons 
 and vehicles included in the updated make this game Worth playing and extreamly fun to play. ITS 
 A NEW BREED OF MULTI PLAYER and is the most fun online game I have up to date and may remain that 
 way. This game is just so fun. Its pretty Accurate as to who Made the Vehicles and has just total 
 fun. I highly recomend this if you are a fan of the Battlefield series but if your into the hide 
 behind cover the hole round this is not for you because their is no safe place every thing can 
 be DESTROYED with in secons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samu99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I played the demos that first got out for Soldner and to be honest with everyone , it wasn't Jack 
 and **** , you couldn't even connect to a server or if you could of , the lag would make it unplayable. 
 Same thing with the Gold version of Soldner when the game first came out. But now , getting into 
 a working server never got easier and the ping is unbeleivable compared to before! They fixed almost 
 every aspect of the game from the physics to the server browser. (We also got to thank 'Project 
 0' the company who took over Soldner to make the game stay alive and continue making it improve.
 
  Anywho , the amount of content which includes tons of vehicules , weapons and destructable land 
 and buildings makes it even better.
  
  Now that the game got fixed up to almost its full potential , now would be a good time to try it 
 out :)
  
  
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Soldner is the most fun I've had in a modern war game since Battlefield2. It's landscapes, and 
 numerous choices on weapons, vehicles, and aircraft make this game like Battlefield2, except this 
 is more free-for-all. Th maps are ENORMOUS and you can practically go everywhere and anywhere you 
 want. This game is the adventurous, and distructive game we lacked before. Marine Corps is available 
 in a patch after getting this game, which today might be $19.99. Get this game if you love distruction 
 and large scale maps! Multiplayer is sooooo fun too, basically the funnest thing is multiplayer 
 because you get stingers when someone gets a F/A-18 Hornet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AG-Vuk
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  Great potential as a game , some great concepts. Very poor support , poor code which seemed to 
 be beyond repair, so jowood/wings dropped it's support of the game, unfortunately . The sad thing 
 is that the game was then turned over to modding group with little or no experience , which is 
 now hoping to hang on long enough to benefit from the release of Panzer Elite and possibly the 
 use of that game as vehicle by which to revive this game. The game suffers from a chaotic mix of 
 lack of leadership and bad administration which further aggravate gameplay that consumes a great 
 deal of bandwidth and memory. Again great potential , more companies should evaluate the things 
 done in this game for future incorporation. Extremely poor administrators in the current form. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgamer33
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Since it forst came out there have been a lot of changes that have occurred to the general gameplay. 
 One is the sounds. They are much better with the new patach and are more likely to get better as 
 time goes on. Compared to other games it seems more versatile in how it has the ability to evolve. 
 In most games I have played the game didn't change much in terms of how they played. Small changes 
 were made to modify the scoring or things like that. WIth this game they have changed things from 
 jumping to aiming to recoil and vehical physics to the point where it is MUCH better than the original. 
 Thos in the past who have played it and give it a bad reveiw have not played the current version. 
 And thos who have thought "Well I will see what has changed" and play with the new patch probably 
 are used to games like BF2 and think that the game sucks before actually plaing for awhile. This 
 game takes more skill and training than any other game I have played. You definitly get used to 
 it after a while. Besides these things, having a buttload of weapons and vehicals at your disposal 
 makes it much more fun than games like BF2 or 1942 or vietnam where the tanks and vehicals are 
 determined by the map. Besides that athere is also a 4000 square mile or so map base meaning you 
 don't ket killed if you get lost like in BF games. The small maps in the BF games make fast aircraft 
 unreasonable since it is so easy to leave the battlefireld area. Soldner has a virtually unlimited 
 map area and allows players a freedom in movement. Another aspect is the ability to hide in bushes. 
 In games like BHD and JO you can hardly see through the tall grass and bushes and stick out a bit 
 when in the bushes to the point where you can see out making hiding impossible. In soldner a sniper 
 can lay inside bushes or fallen tree branches and shoot form a well concealed position. Since the 
 game is cheap and doesn't have the high system requirments others do it makes for a cheap fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomvanallen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Battlefield 2 is a lot of fun too! I've also put down a lot of hours into Joint Operations, 
 but Soldner is my pick of all the similar games I've tried. I actually just installed this game 
 after a long break. To my pleasant surprise there was a lot of action going on the servers, and 
 I ended up playing it all night long, and even continued when I got up again. Since the demo servers 
 now are down, I'm gonna convince my friends to buy it as it probably can be picked up at a pretty 
 good price now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KensKarts
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 5:40 am PT
Review:  I have had the game sence it came out. And you it was not very good. Had server problems. they fix 
 that .Now that after the last patch came out it is alot better. It just takes time to get used 
 to the vehicals & to set up the way you want it to be. all in all it is fun to play. Also ALOT 
 OF NEW MAPS that auto rotates. Good online server manager. Can control server easly done. You can 
 change all the setting with out shutting down server. I waited for this game to come out & at first 
 it had problems but now almost all have been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2004 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I played the beta demo for this game and I was more than convinced to buy this game then when I 
 bought it the first thing I saw was the cinema and I nearly crapped my self it was so awsome! I 
 was gonna try out the first player action since the beta demo only gave you online play I played 
 it and that is the worst SP i have ever ever played its pointless. Its got no story the way you 
 get weapons are stupid and there is no point in doing anything you dont progress in anything it 
 just gives you more moissions and it just really really sucked so after getting over my dissapointment 
 in SP i decided to go back to MP and I did and it was really fun the new levels kept me hooked 
 to try them all and the hundreds of new weapons they put in since the beta demo made me want to 
 never stop playing till I tried them all I was hooked for so long and now I have made soldner a 
 purely online play since SP should been never made its really that bad and team members are really 
 really really stupid like you can tell them to follow you but never can tell them to halt and if 
 you tell them to open fire they act really stupid fire a little then just stand there pretty much 
 till they get killed and you cant alter your team member look only there camo and if you do that 
 it takes the name you have in the name slot in the configure player and gives it to your teamate 
 and you and if you change it youll just end up changing his name and if you try to change it back 
 it just gets crazy and messes up and then you cant get your name back and it just gives a big headache 
 so I recommend if you buy this game only buy it to play online cuz SP blows! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planecrazyjones
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2004 11:04 pm PT
Review:  As a combat infantryman having served in Baghdad, Iraq, during Operation Iraqi Freedom, I have 
 to say this game is horrible. Tactically, from a weapons employment standpoint, it is inaccurate. 
 The reports of weapons sound like arcade tunes. 
  
  Graphics: Who says time travel is impossible? I just journeyed back 5 years tonight. U. S. type 
 uniforms are outdated; we wear kevlars now, not the old steel pots. Light infantry guys don't wear 
 gortex all the time either. 
  
  Vehicle simulation is rediculous. I drove the M1026WW Weapon Mounted Humvee, and the one I took 
 for a spin in the game was unbelievable. 
  
  I must have toyed around with the game for 20 minutes or so, being quite sure I was missing something. 
 Well I was'nt, the game just does'nt diliver. Look, a game can only be so accurate. But atleast 
 Ghost Recon and Raven Shield attempt to recreate the battlefield as precisely as they possibley 
 can while being restricted to a moniter and keyboard. Programers should think of producing tactical 
 simulators as such: Try and make a documentary where the player plays an active role as a personage 
 in that documentary. 
  
  This game could have been excellant if they spent more time on realism instead of this super hypothetical 
 hogwash of a plot. Should have researched the military much, much more with an emphasis on weapons 
 sounds and employment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stott
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 1, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  It is an interesting and unusual game in the sense that realism is pushed for the ground soldier 
 and the Helo pilot. The tanks are off any realsitic simulation as the rest of the game. It still 
 needs a lot of working on for the graphics, the dynamic of moving a soldier with the mouse. When 
 a soldier walk your view bounce up and down, that is unrealistic, if you do when you walk, you 
 know you are qualifying for a visit to a doctor office. This games has great ideas but badly realized 
 through an unfinished programation. The single mission game is a joke. However, this is how "Wings" 
 work. They get an incoate game at the price of a fully develop game and issue patches for years 
 to come. Joint Operations has nothing to fear from Soldner. 2 very different products in their 
 qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncpiment
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 30, 2004 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game as good and bad part, but mainly bad parts, the good part is that there are tons of weapons, 
 vehicles and maps. 
  The bits that put this game down are the bugs, the multiplayer game is so buggy that you spend 
 more all the time trying to connect than playing, and when you connect you get logoff for sloppy 
 code. Other parts that make this game bad are the way vehicles are controlled. 
  
  
  My advice to you is to play the demo and get your own opinion for this game, you may get around 
 these problem but for me was a waste of money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aperez428
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 28, 2004 7:27 am PT
Review:  Pros: Concepts and variety of weapons, clothing, and vehicles. 
  Cons: Unfinished, Untested, and leaves desperate for a fix to such a great game.
  
  I am a 
 A+ Certified technician and have a P4 3.2 P4C800E with 2GB of DDR 400, 2 30GB 10,000 rpm Raptors, 
 Geforce FX5900ultra 256mb which I built and test myself. I am an owner of BF1942, Desert Combat, 
 BF Vietnam, UT2004 and any first person shooter with vehicles in them. Soldner is a great game 
 as far as the concepts and features that where put into the game. It could live to be a great game 
 only until they find a way to make it run smoother when jumping into vehicles. Even though its 
 the most solid part of the game, Ground fighting is very fun but could get annoying sometimes since 
 the engine sometimes tends to be unrealistic (for example when you run on land the soldier is running 
 fast and the ground your covering is slow, vehicles vs. soldier weapons can be frustrating when 
 your in a Tank since can't hit a soldier because it does not aim low enough) . I love the game enough 
 to wait until they patch all these problems in hopes that it will gain more fans, adding to its 
 multiplayer component. Releasing a game to early with bugs can detour a possible future with consumers 
 and could lead gamers to turn there attention to other games, leaving people who bought the game 
 playing single player. Don't by this game until there is at least a second patch available or you 
 will be upset for paying for an unfinished product.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus4444
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 22, 2004 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for some time now and needless to say i didnt expect what 
 i got.
  Gameplay can be different at times, it depends basically if your ina vehicle or not. The running 
 around on foot is extremely boring and you either die in about 5 minutes from a sniper or by a 
 vehicle. 
  If you are in a vehicle the game can be rather fun due the destructive power of the engine and 
 physics. And also there are many guns and vehicles are your disposal too.
  Graphics are decent. it does its job, the one thing that stands out is the amount of foliage and 
 agriculture and terrian that is amongst the levels. Not as detailed as you may want them, but again 
 it suits anyone who doesnt give a crap about graphics.
  Sound is cool, all guns vehicles and ambient sounds have their own little feel to them. Tanks sound 
 freaky when they approach.
  
  IF YOU LIKE COMMAND AND CONQUER: RENEGADE OR ANOTHER MAKE OVER OF A BATTLEFIELD 1942 THIS GAME 
 MIGHT SUIT IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindmagestic
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 22, 2004 8:37 am PT
Review:  Pro :
  
  - Destructible environment
  - Lots of vehicules and weapons at disposal, very funny
  - Plenty of different Huge map (perhaps 
 too big)
  - Hand weapons like assault rifle, sniper gun, hand gun are very realistic, the way you will target 
 an ennemy will vary, the sound of a gun is unique, you have also the force feed back every time 
 you fire.
  - You earn monney every time you conquest a checkpoint or kill/destroy an ennemy and also empty 
 vehicule. With this monney you can upgrade your equipment or buy some powerful helicopter, tank, 
 or jet. 
  
  Cons :
  
  - The solo campaign is only a training mode !!!! Nevertheless it is very useful
  - The victory 
 is always in the same manner, conquest all strategic point on the maps. straight forward way.
 
  - The snipers are too powerfull.
  - The ennemy when hidden over cliff are almost impossible to localisate before you die 2 or 3 time 
 (I hope you are a good sprinter) . It's not like far cry when some one spot you, you can see him 
 with the reflection of is weapons even if he is far away. 
  - The game rest too laggy, and they are minor bug. Another patch is needed.
  - The physics of 
 vehicules is not realistic. Much more arcade gameplay Example :
  with a car when you hit a tree you are bump but not crashed.
  - Only 32 players can play in the 
 same time. BUT THE LAG is omnipresent. Compare to the concurrence it's is very short (joint operation, 
 battlefieled)
  - THe game is boring if you can't have a vehicule or take a lift to travel a from a point to another 
 point in the map.
  
  
  The impression that i have it is to be a bit frustrated. You better be a sniper or a tank gunner 
 if you want to have good stats. It's worthless to be a simple soldier even with the most advanced 
 gun (OICW) and simply walking town to town, you will very soon fall against a tank, or be it by 
 a bullet sniper. 
  
  bye 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
