-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldiers: Heroes of World War II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/outfront/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 820 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Best Way
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soldiers: Heroes of World War II is a very good game that should appeal most to hardcore strategy 
 fans, due to its intricate, challenging gameplay and great presentation. 

  The past few years have seen no shortage of games based on World War II. Sometimes it seems as 
 if every other product by a European developer is a WWII-based strategy game. Despite adding to 
 an already saturated genre, Soldiers: Heroes of World War II distinguishes itself with attractive 
 graphics and challenging gameplay, which is an interesting hybrid of strategy and action. The game's 
 level of challenge often borders on being punishing, but fans of tactical strategy games will find 
 that the effort is worth it.  

          The game offers extremely detailed environments and units.     

  Soldiers is in some 
 ways reminiscent of the Commandos series, but the scale and nature of the battles you fight make 
 it a little more comparable to a real-time version of this year's Silent Storm. You can control 
 your troops in standard real-time strategy fashion by selecting, pointing, and clicking. The context-sensitive 
 controls do a good job of letting you position troops smartly behind cover and corners, jump fences, 
 or take over vehicles and fixed-gun emplacements. Where Soldiers distinguishes itself is that it 
 lets you take direct control of individual soldiers or vehicles, using the mouse to aim weapons 
 and the arrow keys to move and steer. While this is presented as an option, it is, in fact, a necessity, 
 because directly controlled troops are infinitely more efficient than the ones you order around 
 more indirectly.  

  One of the more impressive aspects of Soldiers is its gameplay engine. The fully 3D engine makes 
 few compromises in presentation, and it features detailed unit models for both infantry and vehicles. 
 Soldiers can run and crawl or hide inside of buildings. You'll see them unsling guns from their 
 shoulders before firing and smoke cigarettes (with wispy puffs of smoke) when they are standing 
 around. If they're garrisoned in a structure, you'll see them break the window before firing out 
 from it. Tanks offer fully articulated turrets and cannons, and the game's dozens of vehicles are 
 accurately modeled in speed, loadout, and weapon power.  

  Soldiers' artists and animators have done a great job of giving the game a varied look -- especially 
 with regard to death and destruction. Wheels pop off of armored cars, turrets snap off of tanks, 
 and you'll see vehicle crews bail out of their crippled vehicles that are on fire. Shoot a guard 
 out of a tower and he'll fall from it like a movie stuntman. Toss a grenade into a garrisoned house 
 and you may even see a dead soldier fly out of the window from the blast. See enemy vehicles parked 
 in a fuel depot? Fire a high-explosive round into the gas cans and you can set off a chain reaction 
 of explosions that destroy all nearby vehicles and level neighboring structures.  

  The environments in the game's large maps are also well detailed. Towns have dozens of buildings 
 and houses, which can be explored and garrisoned by infantry. Foliage is plentiful and interactive. 
 Troops can crawl in tall grasses or hide in bushes. Tanks and other vehicles can knock over trees 
 and even plow through stone walls. In fact, you can level just about any building in the game if 
 you have the right firepower, which adds to the strategy. About the only thing holding back the 
 game in the graphics department is that the engine is fairly slow. Frame rates drop precipitously 
 when there are too many troops and vehicles onscreen, and in-engine cutscenes look as awkward as 
 a slide show. As for sound, the game's sound effects and music are pretty good, but it's not anything 
 exceptional for a game of this type.  

  The detail put into the graphics extends to the gameplay. Each soldier and vehicle has an inventory, 
 and every class of weapon has unique ammunition and accurate magazine capacities. In just about 
 every mission, you'll find yourself discarding empty weapons and scavenging dead bodies for new 
 ones. You can even remove the machine gun from a tank or other armored vehicle and carry it around. 
 The game includes more than 100 weapons from the US, German, British, and Russian arsenals, ranging 
 from handguns and submachine guns to grenades and antitank rifles.  

  Vehicles play a huge role as well. In missions where you don't start with one, it's possible to 
 disable an enemy vehicle, repair it, and then use it to protect yourself against the enemy. Is 
 your armored car out of gas? You can pick up a barrel of fuel and refuel it, and you can even siphon 
 gas out of other vehicles. Your tank is out of shells? Head over to that destroyed Sherman and 
 scavenge the cannon rounds out of it. Vehicles are even modeled with the number of crew members 
 in mind. Most tanks, for example, work most efficiently with a driver, a gunner, a loader, and 
 a commander. It's possible to crew it with just two (a driver and a gunner perhaps) , but then you 
 won't be able to turn the turret while reloading, as the gunner has to reload the gun himself. 
 Try to crew a tank with one and you won't be able to even move the tank while reloading.  

  All of these details sound great on paper, but where Soldiers starts to fall apart a bit is in 
 the mission design and control aspects. The game comes with 30 missions in total, spread out over 
 four campaigns (Russian, British, US, and German) in a set of stand-alone missions. In just about 
 every case, you're presented with seemingly impossible odds to overcome. The very first mission 
 of the Russian campaign asks you to assault a town fortified by about 100 German infantry, a half-dozen 
 88mm antitank guns, and about a half-dozen or more tanks. Your attack force: one light tank, one 
 armored car, and two additional infantry beyond the six crewmen in the two vehicles. Thankfully, 
 you don't face that opposition all at once, and there's no fog of war in the game, which theoretically 
 allows you to see everyone and everything from any point on the map. But even with those advantages, 
 just about every mission in the game will be a stiff challenge, with long odds to overcome. Expect 
 to reload missions many times over as you explore different approaches. Once you've found a viable 
 route, you'll also find yourself quick-saving frequently. Players with little patience may find 
 Soldiers to be frustratingly difficult at times (the presence of multiple difficulty settings does 
 little to alleviate this) , but those with more determination will find the game pretty rewarding 
 once they've figured out a viable solution to a mission.  

  The control issues stem from the difficult odds you always face and the fact that the game basically 
 forces you to directly control at least one vehicle or soldier at all times. That being the case, 
 it's tricky to try to be in several places at once, managing infantry on the left flank while checking 
 on a machine gunner in the center and also keeping an eye on your tanks on the right flank, and 
 things like that. In some missions, it's actually easier to get by after a few of your soldiers 
 are killed, so you can concentrate on controlling just one vehicle or a couple of troops. The game 
 does include options to pause and issue orders as well as to trigger a slow-motion feature, which 
 can help you deal with particularly overwhelming moments. But overall it's still very difficult 
 to keep tabs on having to control two or more different sets of troops.  

          100-to-1 odds? No problem!     

  As for multiplayer modes, the game was originally 
 supposed to include a head-to-head deathmatch feature, but only a cooperative mode ships with the 
 game. You can play any of the campaign missions and most of the stand-alone missions in co-op mode 
 with up to four players. Each player is assigned his or her own troops and vehicles at the outset, 
 and troops can be transferred to other players as well. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be 
 a proper online matchmaking function -- a rudimentary direct IP connect is all that's included, but 
 you should be able to browse LAN games easily at least. At any rate, playing through Soldiers' 
 missions cooperatively can theoretically help resolve some of the issues of trying to manage your 
 forces all alone in the single-player mode.  

  Overall, Soldiers: Heroes of World War II is a very good game that should appeal most to hardcore 
 strategy fans, due to its intricate gameplay and great presentation. However, others may be put 
 off by the game's difficulty, which can make missions seem like trial and error at times, or by 
 the control scheme, which can make for some frantic scrambling with the mouse and keyboard. For 
 those undaunted by these issues, there's a lot of solid gameplay to be found in the game's dozens 
 of tough scenarios. So, if you're a strategy fan who's not tired of the WWII setting yet, and you're 
 looking for a challenging game, Soldiers: Heroes of World War II should fit the bill.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: robrob12345
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:59 am PT
Review:  This game is an ace for anyone who loves RTS but really wants a bit more action - oh and as well 
 as some deep strategy. Can you have it all? Well, yes. 
  
  Not seen this done before and loved all the Panzer games which are kinda close, but direct control 
 is the way forward. 
  
  Shame that Codemasters are not supporting the game any more as when i came back to play it for 
 a second time i was getting blue screen of death. Had upgraded since orginally played and found 
 out that it dont like dual core machines (or so someone said) . However, I figured out if you install 
 the Vista patch  - and I run 
 XP - then the game works again... 
  
  In summary I am pretty sure that for 4 (at least thats what it was on Amazon) I have rarely got 
 better value for money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  SHOWWII came well after the Commandos series and a bit before the Company of Heroes series. Basically, 
 it's the best of both worlds in real-time squad-based tactical gameplay. I'd say it doesn't have 
 quite the scope of COH nor the personality of Commandos, but what it has is pure unadulterated 
 squad-based WWII gameplay. This is definitely my favorite style of gaming. I'm also a huge fan 
 of Desperados and Silent Storm. Silent Storm is turned-based but still very comparable as a squad-based 
 WWII strategy. Unlike these games, your units are not as specialized or unique among themselves 
 in SHOWWII nor do they have their unique personalities - you don't get as invested in them. But 
 as a squad, whether allies or axis, you play a small team of soldiers in more micro-situations 
 than a full on battle you find in more clickfest type RTS games like your AOEs and the like. Generally, 
 except in certain timed situations, this offers you a bit more casual experience in which you can 
 enjoy setting up your strategies to destroy the enemy and meet your objectives. With that said 
 though, this game is certainly a challenge.
  
  A unique aspect on this game compared to others of this ilk, is more focus on the use of vehicles 
 like tanks. While not dominant, use of vehicles by your squad is an important part of the game 
 and extremely enjoyable and challenging. One of my favorite things was finding some half damaged 
 enemy tank that happened to have a repair kit nearby - you could fix the tank, hop your men in 
 it, and wreak some havoc. Did I mention that vehicles explode?!
  
  Each soldier can basically do the same thing and use the same weapons. However, due to limited 
 inventory and weight, you can have soldiers focus on using certain types of weapons like heavier 
 machine guns, rifles or even grenades. This allows you to load up on certain ammo for the weapon 
 type. Some of the battles are pretty intense and challenging. You can set up men to fire automatically 
 like ambushes that can be very effective. Another nice feature though is the auto aim. Auto aim 
 allows you to select a certain unit and while hold a button like CTL, you can directly fire at 
 an enemy or vehicle. This feature is especially effective for sniping or firing tank missiles from 
 a distance. 
  
  SHOWWII is really a rich tactical strategy game that offers hours upon hours of fun and exciting 
 gameplay as well as a rather decent modding community for additional scenarios. The graphics and 
 sound are top notch for the time. I don't quite put this in the some class as Commandos or Desperados, 
 which are true classics. I think one of the main reason is that those games had a bit more charm 
 to them. Otherwise, SHOWWII is really one of the bests of this very neglected genre and will certainly 
 provide a shot in the arm to those gamers that enjoyed the other classics but haven't tried this 
 one out. Honestly, at this point, it's probably unlikely that these folks haven't already enjoyed 
 this game but then there's always new initiates around the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is not Crysis, Call of Duty 4, or GRID when it comes to graphics. Yet it is one of the 
 most time consuming most entertaining games I have yet found for the PC. The theme of the game 
 can seem to get quite repetitive and boring after a while, but what game doesn't? This strategy/action/slightly 
 role-playing game is VERY addictive. Yes, slightly role playing. You are in command of only a few 
 characters at the start of each map and you have a task of (basically) wiping out the whole map 
 of enemies by outwitting them. Each guy has a small inventory in which he can carry things around 
 with him. You can also change each guys helmet/hat as you find them through the level. You can 
 choose what guy carries what gun and so on so forth. Another AMAZING part about this game is you 
 can take direct control of each individual player. So when one of your guy's is outnumbered and 
 you don't trust the AI of him to wipe them all out, you can just take direct top-down view control 
 of him and wipe the enemies one by one. One thing I'm VERY picky about is the bullet reception 
 in a game (how many bullets something can take before dying) . And this game (if on hard mode) excels 
 in the bullet reception aspect. No more taking 12 sniper shots and ducking behind a wall and waiting 
 for your health to replenish between each shot. If you're interested in WWII, buy this game. If 
 you're not interested in WWII, buy it anyways. Everything on the map is completely destructible 
 as well. So you can go in the map with a German Tiger tank and literally level the whole map. Another 
 cool thing I found was that the skeletal remains of destroyed tanks and dead bodies stay on the 
 map throughout the entire battle. The game is so addicting for the fact you have so few guys to 
 wipe out an entire map. So you have to be smart and crafty like lighting a field on fire to try 
 to escape 12 guys searching for you. Or taking over an enemy AA guy and shooting up the rest of 
 the enemy AA guns. The game is just a masterpiece in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phdietrich4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing to me that over 4 years after this game originally released, I find myself - and others, 
 judging by some of the reviews here - still captivated by what I believe is STILL the best WWII-based 
 tactical war game ever made. I know there are many, many others in this genre that came out before 
 and since SHOWWII, and I've played some of them, but none capture the level of gritty detail (video/audio) 
 that this 'old' game presents. What's interesting is that finally, after all these years, I'm able 
 to appreciate this great game in all its difficulty (and it is frustratingly hard at times... but 
 not impossible) and eye-popping detail (I'm able to max out the settings) after building a new 
 machine with an 8800 GT graphics card. Before this, on my other old AGP-based machine (I upgraded 
 my old graphics cards a few times in the past couple years, but was essentially still using the 
 same machine) , game play was severely hampered by extreme lag at times, such that the only difficulty 
 level remotely playable - and then, only at times, sort of - was on the 'easy' level. But now, 
 'normal', 'hard' makes no difference: my 8800 GT and my new machine just eats this game up.... and 
 it's a whole new experience!!!! Finally, I'm playing this game the way it was meant to be played 
 all those years ago... So, my only con would be it takes quite a system, or at least something fairly 
 modern with a very modern graphics card.....
  
  I simply love this game!!!!.... And, if you give it a chance, you will, too.... (and get the standalone 
 sequel, Silent Heroes, if you do, as it's basically the same as SHOWWII with more missions...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed playing this game. I have completed all campaign missions. 
  This game is a very unique one. While the creative and useful feature that alows you to take direct 
 control of a unit is nice. You can control the soldier directly. Select a soldier, press 'end' and 
 you're in control mode.
  The game's graphics are really well made. There are 4 campaigns (English, German, USA & Russian) 
 with about 7 missions in each.
  The game is excellent if you are looking for a challenge because some missions can be hard. You 
 should also save games frequently as you might lose half your force in one unexpected attack. There 
 is usually more than one way to accomplish each mission.
  one of the problems in this game is "lack of the heroes". characters on this game is very simple. Breifing 
 & mission discription is a bit confusing. Take careful notice of the mission brief at the start!
 
  I recommend playing Commandos before going through this, as you'll be much more accustomed if 
 you do. If you prefer to jump right in, don't skip the tutorials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for $6 at half price books and it was the best $6 I ever spent in my life. the 
 game puts you in control of a small squad of men usually between 1-5 men, which you must guide 
 on incredibly difficult and in depth missions. the easy setting how ever is great for annihilating 
 anything in your path. it runs well on low end machines. this game will suck you in for hours at 
 a time. however the community support seems to have vanished and so dont expect any extended content 
 other than the expansion that came out recently. multilayer is effectively dead too unless you 
 can play with a friend. all in all this is a great game by itself, its just to bad it never got 
 any attention otherwise this could have been a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venusivy
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I loved the game. This game had amazing graphics (for its time) , an engaging soundtrack 
 and sucked you in in a way very few other WWII games have. I would love to review more of the game 
 for you, but I CAN'T PLAY IT anymore so I'm going only off of found memories.
  
  It seems there is something fussy in the programming of S: HoWWII that does not like dual core processors. 
 When I say doesn't like it, I mean Blue Screen of Death kind of doesn't like it. Where's the love? 
 Some other suckers that bought the game and then bought a dual core at some point like me might 
 only crash out to desktop, but it seems that very, very few people can actually play this game 
 with a dual core processor. Just check out Codemasters' community forum.
  
  So, there is an obvious bug and there are thousands upon thousands of gamers who are all scratching 
 their head and what does Codemaster ssay? We don't support dual core nor will we be realeasing 
 a patch or a fix for this issue. We aren't even going to give you a hint as to how to deal with 
 it. Thanks for the money, especially those suckers that bought the game just recently with the 
 totally unreasonable thought that it would work on their computer. Software is unreturnable. Sorry 
 suckers. But then they go and release a patch for Vista (which screwed up DirectX 10, btw) for 
 the two suckers who bought the ultimately flawed new OS. Support sucked.
  
  So, what do I give this game? If I could still play it, I would give it probably an 8.5 or a 9, 
 but since I CAN'T, since I am in fact rating nothing more than a plastic DVD that works better 
 as a cup coaster than it does as a game, I give this game a 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toysaow
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  before i starter play solidiers hero of world war 2 this demo , i love this type game, and i feel 
 first time what type game is my like, so i buy this original game, also in my first life buy original 
 game and collection. after faces of world come out, same type of my love games, so i buy it and 
 collect it. now faces of war 2 is coming soon and i will collect soon again. becouse i love it 
 this type games, in my life i first time to feel, and let me know what kind call the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayEagle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is an all out great game. Like I said, the makers of Company of Heroes probally got alot of 
 their ideas from this game. Because, like CoH, just about everything is destroyable. Even the ground. 
 but onto the review.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty good game overall. You got 2 ways to play, Single Player and Multi Player. Unfortunatley, 
 no one ever plays multiplayer anymore, at least not for me. Can't find a single game. The single 
 player also has 2 ways to play. Campaighn, in witch you pick from 4 armies. The Russians, British, 
 Americans, and Germans. there are about 4-5 missions for every army. The other way to play single 
 player, is with bonus missions. You don't really unlock them, they are there from the beginning 
 and no others are unlocked.
  The only thing that really bugs me about the game is the only time you ever play Germany is in 
 the Camp. Everything is destroyable, as a matter of fact, I just LOVE leveling every building in 
 after a battle. And after the mission I like to see the outcome fo th ebattle, cause the dead guys 
 never go away. Like a REAl battlefield.
  
  Graphics: When it was released, probally the best of its time. The graphics are awsome. Good and 
 clean.
  
  Sound: Music is pretty good too, although some are pretty annoying. I always liked the German music 
 best...
  
  Value: Its worth whatever you pay for it, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Don't believe the negative aspects about this game, you would be a complete idiot to miss out on 
 this game. When you buy it, be sure to get a guide for the game to see you through it, as it can 
 be tricky at times.
  Hundreds of weapons and ways to use them! Fire your sniper rifle to take out a soldier in a machine 
 gun tower, suppress the enemy to make them keep their heads down, then throw grenades to kill them.
 
  Submachine guns and Sniper Rifles to Bazookas and Anti-Tank grenades, the ways to kill or be killed 
 are almost infinite.
  Fire a round from a Sherman's cannon at a German Tiger Tank and watch it ricochet off and attract 
 the Tiger's attention. Place mines to destroy enemy infantry or armor, and protect your flanks, 
 or be surrounded and picked off.
  Tanks to armoured cars and even coastal boats, the intricate and engaging game play will keep you 
 playing for hours on end, and replaying it many times.
  Fight for Victory, Fight to Survive
  Soldiers: Heroes of World War 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 20, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is originally my brother's game he first saw it on Cybernet show and I said this game 
 is cool but then we saw a game (and I am not sure it's the same game we saw on TV) on a store 
 on NY where I also bought DBZ Supersonic Warriors. However he bought it and when we came home he 
 found that there's only one disk!!! So after my father talked with the company with one of the 
 representative of EB games we got the second disk and it all happened half a year after we bought 
 it
  Well I also wanted to play this game because I played the demo and loved the game. So my brother 
 let me to install it on my PC. This game has no plot it just telling the story of 4 operations 
 (campaigns) of USA, UK, USSR and German armies. Each as 5 levels (UK has 6) . The graphic of the 
 game is fantastic for a strategy game and it's very detailed when playing on the highest settings. 
 The environment is very interactive and when you drive with a tank you can see the buildings and 
 the trees getting smashed and everything of course is destructible and there are very cool realistic 
 explosions in the game.
  The game itself is highly realistic (besides may be the fact that each missions you fighting with 
 3 poor soldiers against an almost regiment of enemy soldiers) . There almost countless weapons 
 from any kind: pistols, grenades, vehicles, rifles, SMGs, MGs, and even frightening weapons like 
 Katyusha rocket launcher and huge cannons. The Sound of this game is very good either although 
 not amazing. You need to be careful to your ammo because it's not unlimited as well as fuel for 
 vehicles because your vehicles can't drive forever. Remember. If you vehicle damaged you'll need 
 to fix his damaged parts because if not your vehicle wouldn't be able to drive, shoot etc. (depending 
 on what part of the vehicle is damaged) . The fact that you play each time with about 3 soldiers 
 against almost a regiment of soldiers is of course very frustrated but when you succeed to beat 
 them you feel extra satisfied and ultra challenged. This is not an impossible game but it's pretty 
 hard though. This game features a nice training campaign and a few quick battle maps. Unfortunately 
 you don't get a reward after you complete a campaign
  
  The game features a very nice MP mode which is very simple the maps in the MP mode are the same 
 maps of the SP mode. It also has a Co-Op mode which is very cool and it plays like it was in the 
 SP mode against the same amount of enemy soldiers but your soldiers divided to the number of players.
 
  
  At last this game is very much recommended for people who want to an ultra realistic game and very 
 satisfying this is the right game to choose. This is undoubtedly a great strategy game that will 
 keep you excited and challenged for a couple of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  FINALLY!!!! a WW2 game that forces you to think!
  GOD this is a good game, wonderful graphics, completely distructible terrain, and he abillity to 
 take control of your units!
  
  Here is my list of pro's and con's
  
  Pros:
  
  -Refreshingly Realistic
  -A very hard game forcing you to think hard before to rush in
  -Realistic 
 AT weapons, (YES FOR ONCE A TANK WILL GET DAMAGED BY A BAZOOKA)
  -being able to repair a damaged tank, even if your tank has been hit by a miss fired 88 round
 
  -Infantry have a purpose!
  -Co-op gameplay, finally!
  -the abillity to play it over-and-over again
  -it cost very little to buy
  
  Cons:
  -Bugger 
 all missions
  -Some control issues
  -sometimes the AI can pull off a bull#### shot with a Pistol that can kill your objective from 
 a mile away!!! (GRRR SUCH A PAIN!!!!)
  
  All in all, a rather good game, barely any flaws.
  It may prove that most people will not play 
 this due to the level of difficulty, but that happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Merry
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game and i installed it fine then when i went to play it it said SOLDIERS. EXE has 
 been modified or has a virus iwas obviously confused because i just bought it so i reinstalled 
 it like it suggested and again same thing so i contacted codemasters on their website and they 
 said that it may have some thing to do with my videocard. long story short i have a 20 dollar paper 
 weight because i can't take it back to the store i bought it at. and the weird thing is that another 
 game i bought it's called faces of war it works fine and it's from the same guys. needless to say 
 i am upset because i can't do anything about this. i wish i could have played it. the game looked 
 pretty good oh well i guess i'll try to sell it to somebody. the only reason i'm rating it is so 
 that i can post this if you have the same problem then i hope you can return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  First some moaning:
  
  Company of Heroes? Can't stand it. Very pretty but it's just Dawn of War in WWII, prop your chin 
 in your hand and gaze vacantly at the screen pointing and clicking... yawn... snooze...
  Faces of War? What happened there? Such a shame. Was supposed to be a follow up to Soldiers but 
 they just ruined it trying to run it as a squad based game rather than individual soldiers and 
 with too many enemies. Total chaos, awful, uninstall, back on Amazon. I have my own ideas of how 
 to produce a follow up to the excellent Soldiers; publisher - contact me!
  
  So now I am back to playing Soldiers for a third time on my new PC (the one I built especillay 
 for CoH... what a disappointment but on the other hand running Soldiers on max settings breathes 
 new life into it too) .
  
  So whinges out of the way, what is Soldiers about?
  
  For me it is the most realistic WWII RTS-'style' game out there. You do everything that CoH promised 
 but failed to deliver. (I say 'style' as it has strategy but you can be a third person shooter 
 too and even role play to an extent by using certain equipment.)
  
  This game is very realistic: If you lay a mine and a light AFV hits it the explosion will make 
 you jump - that AFV is toast. If you hit a personnel mine with a heavy panzer it will just take 
 out your track and immoblise it. Same for panzerschrecks-hit something small and it's gone, hit 
 a tank from the front and it might bounce off or need a few hits but you can aim for the tracks 
 or the engine to stop it. If it happens to you, take out any infantry with the machine gun then 
 pop a man out of the tank, give him the repair kit and he can fix it. Brilliant! In CoH you have 
 to lay entire minefields to do anything useful as each little 'pop' will only take a bit of health 
 off a tank running across them (and it keeps running!) . What sort of realism is that?
  Buildings ARE written in blocks that can be partially destroyed - use a high explosive shell or 
 satchel charge to take them down (nice tutorial in CoH doing the same thing, never saw it again 
 in the game) . You can even take out the enemy inside just by burying them in the rubble.
  So many things to look for too - usually looted from vehicles, supply crates and downed soldiers: 
 bazookas, sniper rifles, heavy machine guns, assorted grenades with various ranges and effects 
 (sticky bombs particularly useful) etc etc. One of the best effects is lobbing a grenade into the 
 back of a building and seeing the enemy come flying out through the front windows. Do the same 
 thing to see how high you can lift that guy out of the machine gun nest! Which type of grenade 
 works best? What is the range you can throw each one?? Great stuff, total realism. True, it's a 
 bit cartoony but that gives it the fun element; what a blend!
  
  No resource gathering other looking after the men that you start with (use cover, the mouse tells 
 you how) ; just loot stuff from the fallen and make sure you have enough bullets. If you have a 
 few soldiers always try and get a heavy machine gunner, bazooka and rifle amongst them. Brilliant 
 mixture of missions from 4 campaigns too: US, UK, German, Russian. The German one is particularly 
 good as it attempts to recount the Michael Wittman story at Villers Bocage (okay not very accurately 
 - it's a game - but it's a good angle!) . Loads of ways to complete each mission too so this is 
 why my third time through it (in about a year) is also still fresh) .
  
  The best bit must be the direct control system. Should be in all games like this. Sure, you can 
 point and click your tank but it's better to toggle this control on and off and drive it with the 
 cursor keys while aiming and shooting with the mouse. This is the bit that takes some patience 
 to grasp but once you do it becomes second nature and you can drive anything in any direction with 
 precision, flank those panzers to hit them in the rear! Do the same with soldiers and your rifle 
 man becomes a one shot-one kill sniper. Did I say it was realistic already...?
  I could enthuse for hours about this game. It's a bargain bin measly couple of quid/bucks and if 
 you give it a fair learning curve you'll never put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Hi guys, i think that this game is great because it is similar to the very famous commandos but 
 for a lot of things is better! For example u can use vehicles! great the idea to repair the vehicles 
 and to refuel them using a gallon. (u can take fuel from other vehicles and put it into your tank 
 or car or maybe your truck) also ammos can be loaded and stolen from other vehicles! u can use 2 
 or more weapons it depends if u have enough space in the inventory. a lot of kinds of grenades 
 and weapons! the graphics are good enough. great also the fact that u can pay various campaigns 
 with Germans, allied and Russian troops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  You can be the British, USA, Germany or Russia and you do lots of missions so are fun but some are 
 not....
  
  Gameplay : Really annoying gameplay.
  
  Graphic's : Really funny graphics espically when you blow someone up and the arms blow off!!
 
  
  Sound : Good SFX, Sound, and funny voice acting by the soilders!
  
  Value : Very hard missions will take ages to kill hilter.
  
  Overall : If you ;like real time 
 stragy and like world war 2 this might be for you well its only a fiver so its not like tyou losing 
 much be an good solid game overall.
  
  L@@K at my other reviews including sonic rivals click NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Gag! Codemasters made the claim that this game would not be overinvolved, and that it was not a 
 puzzle-solving game, requiring you to save constantly. In fact, you will be saving as often as 
 you would in a FPS. Which is, a lot. No puzzle-solving? Okay, let's call it management challenging 
 ( or more realistically, a serious dose of micromanagement) . You are, for the most part, in charge 
 of a re-inforced squad, or platoon of tanks with some mechanized infantry support. Therefore the 
 rank you play as would be equivalent to Captain, the usual rank for such a post. The graphics are 
 good, with destructible buildings, damage points on vehicles, sharply detailed units, etc. They 
 are a bit bland, though along the lines of Bltzkrieg .
  But, as the bard says: ... and here's the rub! The gameplay is not what Codemasters claimes. This 
 IS micromanagement. Imagine that you are this Captain, or even a Major (usual company level rank) 
 and as you fight a battle, you, yourself, have to run out and resupply your troops and vehicles 
 with ammo, fuel and repair any damage. While doing so, you must also direct the displacement of 
 your forces, explain to everyone their roles so that they will perform them (obviously they missed 
 basic training) , and plan suitable tactics at the same time. You are now, on top of being the Senior 
 Officer commanding, a Logistics Officers (G4) , Intelligence Officer (G2) , Planning and Operations 
 Officer (G3) , a FAC (Forward Air Controller) and drill instructor. You are also the Engineer Unit 
 attached, so you will be fighting with yourself about logistics support and ammunition supply for 
 your troops (who are you several times divided) . Confused? You should be. Your foe, however is 
 well trained and behaves accordingly. Units react autonomously to each situation as real troops 
 do (unlike yours) . Okay, so this is a game and should be fun. I had as much fun when I last did 
 a stocktake at EB Games (and prabably took as much time) . Sorry fans and fellow air-conditioners, 
 but I am not a fan of the Commandos series, which this game is a LOT like. If your into this sort 
 of workplay, then this is your thang. If not, head for Codename Panzers , C&amp; C or Act of War 
 , though the latter can get quite hectic and begin the slide into micromanagement at times (though 
 only in the latter large scale battles) . Its' out on budget now, so give it a whirl if you've just 
 had ten cups of espresso and a handful of chocolate-coated coffee beans, and you want a break from 
 pouring over spreadsheets. It is also very light on the missions included, but the ones you get 
 are very frustrating so will have you re-playing them quite often. At the end, there is no reward 
 for your efforts (much like the poor Volksgrenadiers who tried so hard in The Battle of the Bulge, 
 but were let down by lack of training and a disastrous plan to begin with) . Play through the tutorial 
 and if you don't feel a sense of impending micro-management headaches, then this is for you (you 
 number-crunchers you) !
  And all you wishihng well fools with your fortunes... someone should give you a ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_man666
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  ............ ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. 
 
  ....................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. I have spent hours on it trying to run the campaign missions with no losses. 
 Very hard to do so, even on the easy level.
  
  There's only a couple of things wrong with this game, in my opinion. 
  
  1. There is no way 
 to tell the soldiers to STFU! I do not want to hear their corny responses to every order I give. 
 -3
  2. No true campaign mode. Even though the troops follow you from mission to mission in the campain, 
 but I'd like to see them gain experience. (Similar to how Close Combat did things.) -4
  3. I have found some pathing issues where I tell a soldier to move and he does the chicken dance 
 when he can't figure out how to get where I wanted him. -4
  4. What is up with these guys throwing theis grenades and shooting each other?!? There have been 
 many times when a tank of mine fired at an enemy tank and blew up the armored car or troops in 
 front of it! The shells have colision detection, so they do their thing, but the AI should have 
 seen that there was an obstacle in the way and not fired. -5
  
  The game has decent graphics and sound and despite the faults I have enjoyed it very much. Overall 
 score from me is 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptg2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I really like how this game lets you complete most missions either with tanks/vehicles or on foot. 
 The tank vs tank combat is awsome! Armor and the type of ammo used makes a difference. The enviroment 
 is totally destructible and gives you a great feeling of realism. It might take a few games to 
 get the hang of the controls. Theres nothing like disabling a tigers tracks and then kicking it 
 in the a$$. Well maybe taking out 5 shermans with one tiger and still having time for some lunch. 
 Or picking off a german patrol on route to retreving rocket launchers. Give the demo a try and 
 if you like it get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  One of the game's best aspects is that everything in the environment can be used in one way or 
 another. If your troops stumble across an abandoned jeep, AA gun, or tank they can use it (of fix 
 it) . You can tell your boys to hide behind anything that could possibly provide cover, go into 
 a house, or go prone and slither across the field on your belly. However, everything can also be 
 torn apart, so if you are hiding inside an abandoned farmhouse and a German Tiger tank decides 
 to blast the house to smithereens -- you're going along for the ride. 
  
  Soldiers also puts you behind the wheel of many vehicles from the Second World War. Everything 
 from Tiger and Sherman tanks to armored personnel carriers and motorcycles with side cars are represented. 
 Each mode of transport has a maximum number of occupants it can carry, but they also have a minimum 
 number of passengers thats required for efficient use of the vehicle. In a tank, for instance, 
 a gunner, a loader, a driver and a commander are needed for peak efficiency. If one position is 
 vacant, another member of the crew can fill in when needed, but they have to vacate their post 
 first. So, if you only have one unit in a tank, he can drive until he needs to shoot, at which 
 time the tank stops and he fires the gun. In order to move again, he has to stop shooting and reloading 
 to drive. This game of musical chairs is all handled automatically and the empty spot is filled 
 with the person whos least busy at the time, but its far easier when you have a full crew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sboorujy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Finally a WW2 RTS game that isn't too simplistic yet playable. The direct control feature allows 
 you to play like a third person shooter. Graphics are awesome and the ability to destroy everything 
 on the screen is fun. This type of game beats the heck out of all games where you continue to churn 
 out units and win through attrition. Very realistic. Need more missions or random game creator. 
 Have yet to try any missions not at easy level. Can only imagine how difficult it can get. Be ready 
 to spend too much time playing, wives will hate you for it. Great bargain right now, especially 
 when newly developed games don't hold a candle to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindprobe1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed playing this game. I have completed about six of the various campaign missions at 
 this time.
  
  This game is different from a lot of the recent RTS games in that you don't keep cranking out units 
 to wear down the opposition. What you have at the start of the mission is pretty much all your 
 going to get. This causes you to be a lot more cautious in your approach. You should also save 
 games frequently as you might lose half your force in one unexpected attack. There is usually more 
 than one way to accomplish each mission and the fact that you are able to interact with just about 
 any object or building in your environment gives you more options.
  
  The "less is more" part comes in when operating the various vehicles. At first I thought having 
 a big, heavy German tank would be the answer to most of the problems. The complication is that 
 any infantry unit carrying a rocket launcher or big enough hand thrown explosive device can take 
 you out or at least damage your treads and make you immobile. It is sometimes easier to have your 
 tank crew get out and arm themselves with various weapons and complete missions on foot.
  
  At this point in time this is a very inexpensive game with good graphics and challenging missions 
 that are different than most RTS games. If you enjoy military small squad tactics this is a definite 
 thumbs up for you.
  
  At this point in time this is a very inexpensive game with good graphics and challenging missions 
 that are different than most RTS games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubxyz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games i've ever played. it's not as hard as they say, but it definitely 
 takes more patience and getting used to than your traditional RTS which is why i love it so much. 
 it may not be for everybody, but i think with patience anybody can enjoy it. there is so much to 
 do, and so many ways to do it, i've played this game thru many a times and had a unique playing 
 experience every time. the effects and physics of the game are some of the best too.
  
  the big things that make it different:
  
  - DC: direct control (don't like the AI?) take control 
 of that unit yourself! taking control of the right unit can turn the game around. driving a tank 
 backwards while mowing incoming soldiers with AT grenades down with your machine gun, and during 
 the reload, swapping to HE rounds, turning the turret and blowing that half-track to smithereens 
 is such an awesome feeling. DC a sniper and take out masses of soldiers from 100 yards away. time 
 a grenade and lob it 25 yards watching it blow up above a group of four soldiers, killing them 
 all. lobbing grenades into windows and watching soldiers fly out is an awesome sight too. this 
 is just a taste of the things u can do...
  
  - Equipping your soldier. another one of the turning points of this game. big clips, and lot's 
 of grenades is the thing to remember :-) and don't forget to pick up more ammo as you go. this 
 is one of the aspects i love, that reminds me of XCOM. it's also nice how at the start of some 
 missions you have your previous soldiers, and their equipment. this will make the next mission 
 a lot easier if you had your soldiers well equipped and didn't lose any of them.
  
  - Destructible environment. this is one of the things that sold me in the demo when i played it 
 back before the game came out. driving tanks thru buildings, or blowing them up with HE rounds 
 and watching them crumble to the ground, or catching things on fire with matches or molotov cocktails 
 and watching them burn to the ground along with the soldiers near or inside.
  
  - Partially destructible vehicles. don't like the way the tiger one-shots your sherman? blow his 
 track with a HE round, then go around him and one-shot him from the rear. then repair his tank 
 and enjoy one-shotting the rest of the enemy. don't forget the M1919A4 200 round machine gun on 
 your sherman (one of the best guns in the game) . 
  
  cool things you can put on your to do list in this game:
  
  - sneak up on an enemy soldier 
 and kill him with a knife from behind
  - throw that same knife 30 yards and kill another soldier
  - kill chickens... or pick them up 
 and throw them at other soldiers
  - punch a soldier in the face and watch him fall to the ground
  - beat a soldier to death with 
 a chicken
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  
  Your respective loved one will be hearing this said from you a lot once you start playing this 
 game. Its highly addictive & the only thing stopping me playing it more is that Ive completed 
 it!
  
  This brilliant game by Codemasters (operation flashpoint) is basically a WW2 RTS BUT with a major 
 twist. You can control the soldier directly. Select a soldier, press end and youre in control 
 mode. Wherever you mouse will go, he will aim, whenever you press the button, he will fire. It 
 is possible to play the entire game without this feature, but there are certain situations when 
 its a must to use it. For example 10 infantry units & 1 tank are storming your position, it would 
 be much more efficient to take control yourself & lob an anti-tank grenade, run back to cover & 
 start finishing off the infantry. 
  
  There are 4 campaigns (English, German, USA & Russian) with about 7 missions in each.
  
  I 
 found the best missions were when you start out with 1 man with a knife lost behind enemy lines 
 & you build up your armory by stealth fully taking out guards & pillaging their weapons. Finally 
 escaping in a stolen German tank.
  
  Heres my P&Cs
  
  Pros:
  
  *Unique RTS game play. Direct unit control. Ive never seen this done in another game and it works 
 beautifully!
  
  *Realistic units & limitations. Tanks main gun can shoot 100s of meters while a Tommy gun is only 
 effective up to 50 m. Tanks have strong armour up front & weak in the behind. Machine gun units 
 are very powerful, watch their rounds tear through morter turning houses into ant hills which is 
 quite realistic.
  
  *SALVAGE!!!! My favorite aspect of this game! With many weapon type & characteristics it pays to 
 salvage, you never know what youll find on that dead body.
  
  *Great use of real life tactics. Use your men to cover the flanks while you push up ahead. Throw 
 grenades just before storming a building & watch the enemy pore out!
  
  *Completely destructible environment. Know theres a tank on the otherside of that building!? Well 
 start firing! Youll get him eventually.
  
  * Armored & infantry compliment each other perfectly. In some games (eg C&C) you can just build 
 up an army of tanks & win the game that way. Not in this game! One anti-tank enemy can ruin your 
 tank commanders day! Thus is pays to have a few infantry with sub-machine guns trailing behind 
 the tanks in case some sneaky krouts get through with a pazerfast.
  
  Cons: 
  
  * Not enough missions! Could also do with a random mission generator.
  
  * Breifing & mission 
 discription is a bit confusing. Take careful notice of the mission brief at the start!
  
  * Game not fully realized. I say this meaning this game has amazing potential & with bigger maps, 
 more objectives & more game options this could truly be the ultimate WW2 RTS game.
  
  Conclusiong:
  
  Even though ive finished this game, I still find myself playing it, which for 
 me is a very good sign that this is an amazing game. If you like an RTS with more depth & fulfillment 
 than your standard RTS, grab this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukey405
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I haven't even played this game properly, I got through the tutorial and thought. "this game doesn't 
 seem too bad". but then I watched the intro for the US campaign and realised that this game sucks. 
 
  
  The historical accuracy is ridiculous, it's as if they didn't even research any of it. The Market-Garden 
 level is preposterous, first of all, the drop takes place at night time, when in reality it was 
 a daytime drop. Also, it implies that the drop was a disaster, and many men died with survivors 
 scattered all over the place, when it was actually a clean drop, with minimal injuries and the 
 only casualties were from falling equipment, many of those who did drop said it was the best drop 
 they'd ever had. this sounded more like a description of the disaster that was the D-Day drop of 
 June 6 1944. It was because of this inaccuracy that I decided that this game wasn't worth my time.
 
  
  On the positive side however, the game mechanics are interesting with a "Direct-Control" mode whereby 
 you can take control of a single character similar to an FPS except with a dodgy top-down Camera. 
 Graphically the Game is fairly impressive, for an RTS at least. The sound is good, with decent 
 music and SFX, there are some annoying voices in the game however but these don't really ruin the 
 experience.
  
  Overall, if you aren't bothered about historical accuracy (Which I'm a stickler for) then you may 
 be interested in this game for a fun action/RTS experience, it's ok especially since it's only 
 5 now. However, if your looking for an WW2 RTS which is a little more realistic, then go for Blitzkrieg/Blitzkrieg2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Soldiers is a very promosing game. It offers realistic gameplay that makes you really think about 
 human resources like any other game seen to date. You really have to think hard if you're gonna 
 put that one little soldier through all that fire, because he's your last grenadier and you only 
 have tank pilots in reserve.
  
  To thrive in this game, you'll need to conserve everything, as almost all of the resources are 
 spent per move. Using a tank drains gas. Every missile you fire is gone forever. Every single shell 
 fired from you turret is a unit of ammo. And if you don't care where you go through with the said 
 tank, it will be damaged in the most various of parts. So, if your wheels are damaged, you can't 
 move, same with the turrent and cannon.
  
  The game's graphics are really well made. That's why this game is a huge system hog. It will take 
 some machine to work every little shadow that the game renders and all of the beatiful detailed 
 made from real locations in Germany, Russia and France. The game just feels authentic and real, 
 from the look of the soldiers and their voices, and the music makes even a more dramatic experience.
 
  
  Control-wise, the game behaves like a RTS. You can bind keys to your keyboard and use them to your 
 will. The mouse will act as a pointer. But there is a catch: you can direct control units with 
 the cursor keys and fire with the mouse. This makes the game even more realistic, since you'll 
 steer that tank avoiding the little plants, that's how precise it is.
  
  Soldiers, like I said above, is a very good game, you'll enjoy its difficulty, it surpasses some 
 really good RTSs in terms of that. I recommend playing Commandos before going through this, as 
 you'll be much more accustomed if you do. If you prefer to jump right in, don't skip the tutorials 
 and don't rip your hair out of your head, arms and legs... :)
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Soldiers is a very reallistic experience that most of ww2 games and commandos fans will know to 
 aprreciate. Although it has it downsides, this game is all about exploding stuff and people.
  
  The engine of this game is maybe the most reallistic one i ever encounterd in strategy and 
 tactics games. When you explode a building it will see so real that you will invite yout freinds 
 over just to watch it.
  In the game you will take command of individual soldiers and sometimes a tank or two and you will 
 clean out cities from german forces.
  
  In most parts of the game you will have to face with hundreds of german soldiers and viechels and 
 you to find the perfect way to beat them.
  also quick save is very important in ths game and take a big part.
  The difficulty is sometimes 
 frustraighted but this game is very balanced and not that hard. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vul52988
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Soldiers is one of the best looking and best playing WW2 RTSs around. Everything in the environment 
 is destroyable. Enemy troops react realistically to your attacks. Ammo conservation is VERY important 
 for each individual troop and tank.
  Adding to the realism is how vehicles are actually dammaged, tanks especially. Say you fire an 
 armor peircing round from your tank at an enemy vehicle. Say the shell hits something useless or 
 something that wont cause much dammage. The enemy vehicle will rock from the impact but it won't 
 take much dammage. Now say you hit an ammo bin, or the engien. KABOOM!!! Explosions look amasingly 
 realistic.
  Infantry, appropriately, can't do much to tanks, but arent helpless. A small collection of rockets, 
 AT grenades, and mines can be used to take out enemy armor if need be.
  All in all this was a great game that got no recognition. If the company could have marketed beter, 
 I'm sure this game would be recognises as the premier WW2 RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvgeniBuzov
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  Alot of guys here alredy reviwed this game nicely, but I want to put in a couple of words also.
 
  
  This game is really stunning. I played alot of WW2 straregy games, but this is the best one without 
 any questions for me. Everything in the game is great! 
  
  The graphics in the game are awsome! Anything in the game can be destroyed, used for cover, etc... 
 You will really enjoy assaulting a Nazi infested village in this game!
  
  The gameplay is very nicely done. It's very easy and not annoying. You will get the hang of the 
 gameplay pretty quicly.
  
  The sound effects are very good too! They are not anything special or unique, but they are still 
 very nice!
  
  Storyline... Well it's WW2 afterall, so the storyline is intresting too! There are 4 campains in 
 the game 
  
  1. Soviet Campaing
  
  2. British Campaigh 
  
  3. US Campaing
  
  and 4. German Campaigh.
  
  all of them are very fun and challenging.
  
  The difficultry 
 means alot in his game... I beat the whole game on easy and though"why does everyone think this 
 game is so hard?" Then I tried beating the game on hard... I couldn't even beat the Soviet Campaing 
 on hard...
  
  If you like WW2 and RTS, then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maltaneesefalco
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very unique one. While the creative and useful feature that alows you to take direct 
 control of a unit is nice, the difficulty routinly directs players elswhere. 
  The game is excellent if you are looking for a challenge because the missions can be very hard. 
 While the missions are challengeing the ability to do them however you like is a lot of fun, for 
 example if you need to take or go around an enemy base you can do it in several ways:
  A: If you are good with infantry and grenades you can launch an infantry assault that is quick 
 and nimbel.
  B: If you prefer using tanks you could launch a tank attack, 2A: If you dont have any tanks you 
 coud steal one from the enemy.
  C: You could just sneak around or through it. 
  In many command and conquor games the tanks are your back bone and usually destroy infantry. In 
 this game however a small squad of infatry can stop any tank.
  overall the game is an excellent one. The scenery is beautiful, (and completly destructable.) The 
 one problem in this game is the difficulty, while an really easy game is no fun a hard game should 
 have a leats a few cheats for the less able stratagists. Another problem that is a pet peeve of 
 mine is the germans in the game spoke with ridiculous accents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragunova
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is different from other World War II RTS's like Panzers or Sudden Strike. Here you only 
 get to control a few soldiers. And my favorite thing about it is that you can equip any soldier 
 with anything you find on the battlefield. Rifles, MGs, helmets, body armor, even mine detectors. 
 Anything can be used for cover, you can command your soldier to hide behind a tank or even a wheel 
 from an exploded vehicle.
  
  The thing I don't like about Soldiers is that all of the missions tend to feel like 'Special Forces' 
 missions. You are given a handful of men to take out a town full of enemies. This is where it gets 
 very hard. You will die a lot, and finishing missions will mostly be trial and error.
  
  Usually you will find yourself repairing and stealing enemy vehicles just to have a fighting chance. 
 There are a whole lot of vehicles to choose from. You can equip machine guns on to vehicles such 
 as cars, and also scavenge MGs from other vehicles.
  
  Overall, Soldiers is a really fun game. Anybody who likes this genre should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:11 am PT
Review:  Developed by relatively unknown studio "Best Way", Soldiers: Heroes WWII is something of a diamond 
 in the rough. Having partnered with Codemasters may have been their biggest mistake.
  
  The game engine is one of the best RTS engines I've come across in years. It takes advantage of 
 good resolution textures and great animations, as well as great sound effects and some decent voice 
 acting. The engine brings everything together in a fluid and enjoyable experience, subject to a 
 few minor errors or oversights.
  
  The Soldiers engine looks at least as good as any other current generation RTS, though you'll have 
 to have some serious current-gen hardware before you'll max your framerate in-game. The engine 
 is locked to a variable level frame-rate, but even my AMD 64 3500+ and a BFG GeForce 7800 GTX OC 
 dropped below 30 frames per second when it came to a large-scale battle. I can't say for sure, 
 but I hypothesize that it might be due to the game's apparent lack of a dynamic LOD (level of detail) 
 system. Units appear just as detailed when you're zoomed fully out as when you're up close and 
 personal. This might be okay, if you've got a monster of a system, but otherwise, that detail is 
 lost in between the pixels of your monitor.
  
  The interactive environment is one of the game's strong points, as tanks and larger grenades can 
 cause buildings to topple over, leaving rubble on the ground, which you can then use as cover for 
 your troops. Bushes become natural points of ambush, as the enemy won't see you if you hide in 
 the right places. Your troops can even take up residence next to one of your tanks, or even one 
 of the enemy's, though you'd better hope it doesn't move, as you'll become a soldier pancake in 
 no time if you're not careful.
  
  With the dynamic scenery, there is little wrong, though it is sometimes frustrating to point your 
 soldier to the exact right position, especially if the fog-of-war is activated. Additionally, it's 
 somewhat unrealistic that a large part of destroyed building rubble ends up evaporating from the 
 battlefield, leaving only conspicuously large peices behind.
  
  Not only can your soldiers hide in bushes and behind walls, peeking both over and around, they 
 can occasionally inhabit a building's window, conveniently placed for German-mowing. The upper 
 stories of buildings won't be accessible to you, though there will be a German on every other one 
 in the course of the game.
  
  The AI in the game has it's shinig points, but after a while of playing, you'll realize that the 
 direct-control mode availible to you is the only way to kill anything in real-time. For some reason, 
 firing my MG42 full auto is just as accurate as firing one bullet at a time, but since I'm shooting 
 so many bullets, it's no wonder I can kill more than ten times the Germans than my soldiers can 
 in RTS control mode. The AI is also flawed when it comes to your soldiers taking cover. A soldier 
 hiding behind a wall will duck-and-cover from all enemy fire, but not just fire coming from the 
 other side of the wall. He'll curl up into a ball as a German pumps 20 to 30 bullets into his side, 
 all the while thinking that ducking is actually helping his efforts. Just shoot the bastard and 
 be over with it. Your soldiers won't have as many problems if they're taking cover in a bush, as 
 there's nothing for them to duck behind, and the walls you do hide behind don't help that much 
 anyway.
  
  A german soldier throws a grenade into the bush you're hiding in. You quickly dart away from the 
 grenade, temporarily ignoring enemy fire in favor ov avoiding the greater imminent threat. At a 
 safe distance, the grenade detonates, completely destroying the bush that you were just hiding 
 in. Instead of finding new cover immediately, you run back to the scorched bush, perpetually recieving 
 a barrage of bullets from your friendly German neighbors. That's a typical moment, and one sure 
 to be repeated again and again if you're partial to the RTS style control that Soldiers affords. 
 It is, however, inevitable, unless a fury of left mouse button clicks tells your soldier just where 
 to go at the right moment.
  
  Though plagued by some technical issues, the Soldiers engine really shines, but you're also bound 
 to get an "out of sync" error at least once when you try to play one of Soldiers' pleasantly varied 
 multiplayer modes (cooperative is my personal favorite, followed by Battle Zones, oddly reminiscent 
 of Battlefield 1942's flag capture system) . For a game that could have been truly great, a lack 
 of post-production support (only one significant update) causes Soldiers: Heroes of WWII to miss 
 out on the action that it really deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:48 am PT
Review:  At first, Soldiers: Heroes of World War II seems like another RTS with destructible environments 
 and fairly good graphics. However, the game also plays like a third-person action game (a good 
 one) and has elements of an RPG. The game is extremely realistic. It isn't just detailed in terms 
 of graphics and tank damage detail. The creators also paid very close attention to detail in terms 
 of the machinery used, the weapons required to take out certain vehicles, and also the methods 
 used to take care of the vehicles.
  
  The RPG factor in this game can be seen in the form of equipping characters with different weapons 
 (which are kept and used in the next level) and armor. It isn't a major factor, but it adds a little 
 while really not taking away anything at all. The action factor is the most important addition, 
 since the game's physics are as accurate and detailed as those of an FPS! You can take direct control 
 of a unit and play the game as an over-head action game. You can then assign other units to support 
 that unit. Unfortunately, you only have a set number of units for the ENTIRE CAMPAIGN, so your 
 units are definately NOT expendable. Therefore, using RTS commands when staging complicated attacks 
 really is not an option. 
  
  The game includes anything from motorcycles and unarmored cars to some of the heaviest tanks used 
 in World War 2, such as the Tiger tank (in fact, one of the campaigns focuses on such a tank) . 
 As mentioned earlier, the vehicles in this game vary greatly. First, there are motorcycles and 
 cars. These provide little to no protection, but can be used to haul items around in their inventory. 
 They offer little to no protection, can be destroyed with machinegun fire, and are almost completely 
 useless in combat (large target, poor armor) . However, machineguns can be mounted on them and used 
 against infantry. Any grenade will either disable or destroy this vehicle, assuming your infantry 
 aren't shot while inside the vehicle. Then, there are armored cars and half-tracks. Most of the 
 time, these cannot be damaged with the lightest, anti-infantry grenades. However, larger (moderate-strength) 
 grenades will take out the wheels/tracks of the vehicles. Most of the time, these vehicles are 
 only equipped with machineguns. If you are lucky, you will find one with a zenite cannon. Then, 
 there are the heaviest vehicles: the tanks. There are light, medium and heavy tanks. Tanks usually 
 come with a cannon (of different strengths) and a machinegun. There are two types of shells for 
 each cannon size: AP and HE. HE is good for destroying light vehicles, infantry and buildings. 
 AP works against armored targets. In general, all tanks are invulnerable to light anti-infantry 
 grenades, somewhat vulnerable to medium grenades (can take out track of tank) , and can only be 
 destroyed by the heavier grenades (AT grenades) . With the exception of vehicles and stationary 
 weapons, AT grenades and rocket launchers are some of the only weapons that can destroy tanks. 
 Molotov Coctails MAY kill the tank crew, but much of the time they cause no damage. The game also 
 includes some stationary weapons (anti-tank, MG) . There are rare appearances of artillery, but 
 that's pretty much it.
  
  Infantry can also be used effectively. In fact, one of the most interesting aspects of the game 
 is using infantry in urban environments to disable and destroy tanks/superior forces. They can 
 even be equipped with different armor and helmets. Once again, very realistic. Tanks can take damage 
 in each track (disabling movement) , turret (disables cannon rotation, machinegun rotation) , cannon 
 (disables cannon, but turret can rotate, allowing for machinegun fire) , engine, and (I think) gas 
 tank (leading to destruction of tank) . Cannons can only use certain size shells. Machineguns can 
 be removed or mounted. Fuel needs to be added to tanks (can be transfered in barrels or canisters 
 from tank to tank) . Shells can be scavanged from tanks with similar weaponry. Pretty much anything 
 imaginable. Tanks can even smash through most buildings, adding to fun as well as realism. Of course, 
 vehicles can be repaired with repair kits, UNLESS the damage they take is permanent (for example, 
 completely blowing off a wheel of a car will render it immobile forever) .
  
  However, with the good, comes the bad. The game is simply too short. Some of the campaigns also 
 prove to be tedious as opposed to fun. For example, on one mission, you have to lay out 5 pieces 
 of wood to signal a plane. This includes pouring gasoline on it, too. Then, lighting it ablaze. 
 Also, many of the campaigns are just frustrating and not all that fun. The German campaign is great, 
 since you get to ride a tank pretty much on every mission. On the Russian campaign, you end up 
 playing each level with 3 soldiers (that's it) and have no vehicles, unless you get lucky and steal 
 an armoured car. The biggest letdown, however, is that there appears to be no "Skirmish" mode. 
 There is a multiplayer mode, but no way to customize a battle between the player and a computer 
 opponent. Such a feature would be great, but, unfortunately, is has been left out.
  
  Overall, the game is amazing and will provide many hours of fun. Unfortunately, some tasks prove 
 tedious and the game is simply too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocalypseBK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought and played Act of war: Direct action a supposedly great RTS, and that compelled 
 me to right this review. You see i bought soldiers heroes of world war two some time back and still 
 cant help but feel it never got the credit it deserved, for me it totally wipes the floor with 
 so many RTS games, act of war included.
  
  Why? well i dont really know where to begin, but here it goes. Soldiers is a world war two themed 
 RTS, so if your into WW2 games your sure to like it that bit more. It features authentic WW2 vehicles, 
 weapons and environments but unlike most RTS games Soldiers dosent use the theme of building bases 
 and producing units etc. instead your put in control of a small squad of men on each mission, sometime 
 you may have some vehicles to start with but you'll always be well up against it in terms of odds! 
 Your small squad can come from any of the four feature campaigns  
 and you'll have some objevctive on the map. Graphicly your troops are in a lush environment, Tanks 
 leave track marks, the smash through walls, explosions wreck buildings and send bodies through 
 the air, bullets rip into troops sending blood a-fly and just about everything is destructable! 
 Whats more it all obeys a fantastic physics engine, for example when your send a shell into the 
 side of an APC you can send it rolling in flames off the side of the road, you'll even see the 
 surving crew members come splilling out in a state of panic, some of the on fire, when it finally 
 exploads parts will fly into the air, theres no pre set animations for such events, it all depend 
 on the given dynamics of the situation. 
  
  On top of this great graphical backdrop to the game there is a fantastic attention to detail here, 
 you can make troops garrison buildings, or hise behind wass and debris from behind which they will 
 periodicly peek out looking for enemies, even firing. its a great site when your men and positioned 
 side by side behind walls peeking out the sides and obove firing at enemy troops who employ all 
 the same tactics. You can even search bodies for equipment, ammunition and weapons, if that wasent 
 enough you can even streal ammunition from dameged of vacant tanks or vehicles, for example you 
 could steal the MG-42 machine gun of a crippled panzer and have one of your troops wield it! Not 
 only that but all vehicles need fuel too, so you'll need to steal it form other vehicles or barrells 
 and top up when you get low, you may even have to repair using tool kits.
  
  The deatil is unmatched, who needs bases and unit production when you can have such fantasticly 
 open ended and detailed gameplay set in a graphical special effects setting that is the gaming 
 equivilant of watching saving private Ryan in all its battlefield splendor. Each mission has superb 
 replay appeal, you can do each mission in so many different ways. the detail is so deep that you 
 can actualy use matches to start fires, and you'll even need a full crew to opperate a tank properly, 
 only got two guys in the tank? then you can only two things at once meaning you'll have to forfit 
 being able to move the turret while your driving and reloading etc. the detail and graphics is 
 where this game really wins, German sniper popping your guys from that building, then get close 
 and throw a grenade in the window, its amazing, you'll hear and see the g; ass break, you'll see 
 and hear the blast and sometimes even see that german sniper fly out of the hole you put in the 
 building and watch him crash to a bloody death below lwaving the building with damage acuuratly 
 moddled on the physics of the balst and wjhat caused it.
  
  On top of this graphical splendor there is also a direct control mode, you can contro, your men 
 via a conventional RTS point and click style or switch to a direct method where as oppsoed to issuing 
 the orders you do the moving, aiming shooting etc. Its a great addition to the controls that adds 
 even further depth to the game.
  
  its only draw backs are a slightly short supply of single player missions and one or two annoying 
 bugs which were not ironed out via the patches. However the short supply of missions is offset 
 by the incredible diffuclty of the game even on the lowest settings, and the open ended play and 
 supurb 
  effects make the replayability of the missions high.
  
  All in all for any WW2 fans and especially RTS fans this is a detailed, beautifully presented RTS 
 game that offers a break from the conventional build up and conquer gameplay and gives us something 
 different. At the price its going for these days its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asyouwish
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome! All built-up area, vehicles, plants and animals are destructible. In 
 reality not a good thing, but here in this game it is thrilling fun to shoot Hitler's Reichs-army 
 into hell.
  All graphics are absolute realistic to the level of todays top-speed-computers (a lack in most 
 previous 
  The artificial intelligence given to the opposing forces and the own troops, when switched to 'fire 
 at will' and 'move at will' is quite advanced for a strategy-game and the animations of REALLY 
 EVERYTHING in this game is plainly thrilling and very realistic - to the level of realistic gore 
 too.
  Again, nothing to inspire too in reality, but in this game Reichs-army soldiers (and own troops) 
 are realistically - shall we say 'disassembled' when an explosion sends their limbs flying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Are you a Blitzkrieg fan and have played through the game (and maybe its expansions) but are looking 
 for something more, something more immovative and yet something that has the same amount os strategy 
 included? Then stop reading this review right here and run out to buy Soldiers: Heroes of WW2.
 
  
  Gamespot was slightly right by giving this game a rating in the 7's from the beginning because 
 it did have quite a few problems and difficulties but after you apply the recent patch that has 
 come out, you will be amazed at how fun and innovative this game is!! Never believe a review from 
 Gamespot if 100's of users who have played the game give it 9's and such. 
  
  The graphics, sound and gameplay are truly great and yet all three miss something slight that I 
 cant get my finger on at this time. Yet, overall, this game is stunning and I cant wait to go and 
 buy Outfront 2 (a game which is sort of a sequel to this one) .
  
  Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is all about carefully choosing your men to attack the enemy carefully and trying not 
 to lose any men other wise the task for the next's mission becomes a lot harder. The physics on 
 gun fire and bombs exploding cause mayhem, your tanks can crush down enemy walls and can lose tracks 
 get hit in certain parts of the body making the metal become shattered, but thats not all when 
 you lucky you can either find or automatically have a tool boxes somewhere, and repair your tank, 
 this makes your tank like new, but where ever you tank was hit, it still is weak even after a slight 
 touch up with the tool box
  You can actually control the tank itself buy using the arrow keys and the mouse to move and rotate 
 the turret gun on the top of the tank. These are the best parts of the game really.
  Even though tanks are there, there are infantry with many many different weapons of arsenal to 
 choose from, same with the tanks, lol Tiger and King Tiger tanks really do improve the excitement 
 in the game for sure
  Must buy for any WW2 lover or any strategy game lover
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoman6007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2004 7:31 am PT
Review:  Now that the MP patch has been released. This has got to be one of the best WW2 RTS that I have 
 played. The game play is awsome, you buy your troops and go in to battle. Depending on the map 
 and game type, you decide if you need infantry or tanks. You dont get to buy a lot of troops, for 
 the amount you get at first its enough to get you going and keep you busy. With direct control 
 mode. It makes for a great game play. When you have an enemy tank going by, you can aim for the 
 tracks and stop it in its tracks so to speak. The game play can get intense also. There are so 
 many different soldiers and tanks for 4 different nationalities. the maps are well done. also the 
 sound is awsome. If you played the demo and thought the game was to hard its not. MP plays very 
 smooth. So if you thought about getting this game and decided not to, think again. Every thing 
 on the map blows up. You can drive your tanks in to a house and the walls come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh666josh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:37 am PT
Review:  It is a pretty good game, many challenging levels that are fun. The attention to detail is awsome. 
 Excellent graphics, The multiplayer needs abit of work, but in the next patch, they are supposed 
 to fix that. It is especially fun when you are facing unnbeatable odds and start using gorilla 
 tactics and such, And for only $39.99 its one hell of a deal. Its fun creating little side missions 
 in the missions, like after running out of ammo for your tank, sending a few men to take out anouther 
 tank and scavenging the ammo and such out of that, or just repairing it and using it yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin30
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I finally got this game the other day and was really excited to sit down and play because of my 
 intriguement with WW2. When I finally got past the install and the reboot and the cd read error 
 and the reboot and the Starforce remove and the reboot and the Starforce install and the reboot 
 the game started up.
  
  I really enjoyed the training and the presentation of the game, but then I got into the first mission 
 and died and died again and died again. wtf? Why do we have to make it so hard?
  
  I have been playing this game for a few days now and I am still trying to get past the second mission. 
 But I'll keep plugging away because I'm bound and determined to beat this thing.
  
  I think the graphics are adaqute, the sound is rather good, but the gameplay is awesome. If it's 
 weren't so damn hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 4, 2004 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game! VERY Realistic you take cover you blow up buildings it just incredable I thought 
 RTS Action War games could get better and they did this game definatly was overlooked for a higher 
 score! THE EDITOR IS AWSOME even though its not offcial at the moment the official will be so great 
 and you can create your own battlefield favoring your favorite army with superior and smarter and 
 even more well equipped if you'd like army you choose between britian, USSR, Germany, and America 
 this game is so interactive and so many choices can be made this this game will entertain you for 
 weeks on end! its totally worth the price and the price isnt even a full price your getting AWSOME 
 DEAL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2004 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me say one thing - if you downloaded the demo and were quick to delete it as I was you need 
 to give it another serious try. When I first tried the demo I found the interface cumbersome and 
 didn't play more than 10 minutes. However, after reviewing the game again and digging a little 
 deeper I decided to give it another try. This is what I found. 
  
  This title is an absolute hoot and I cannot say I have had this much fun on my PC in ages. Although 
 I tend to try types of games, I'm actually an FPS/MMO die hard, so this really isn't my genre. 
 With that said, there is a little of everything in this title for everyone.
  
  When you really get into it you'll quickly find Soldiers is like Jagged Alliance and Commandos 
 on steroids. The attention to details is a 10/10 - absolutely superb and the gameplay is a blast. 
 You'll have more fun tossing grenades, looting corpses, driving vehicles, planning your attack, 
 and blowing the you know what out of everything in sight. And I must say, the detail they put into 
 the destructible world is unmatched. Sound is great and the patch allows you to customize the keyboard, 
 which is a godsend. Mind you, it will take you one mission to get used to the interface, but once 
 you do you'll be rarin' to go.
  
  I've finished three mission now and cannot wait to start another. I also can't count the number 
 of times I've fallin' out of my chair laughing when I pulled off something hilarious. The latest 
 was lobbing grenades over a house to blow up a tank, when a sniper took a pot shot at me. I got 
 hit, dropped one serious mutha of grenade, and watched my arms and legs blow about 200m from point 
 of impact.
  
  What more can I say. I'm very glad I gave this title another try and it's evident the developers 
 put some serious work into this. Great job guys! A must have for any type of gamer who wants to 
 have some serious fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2004 11:14 am PT
Review:  Soldiers: Heroes of World War II is quite simply one of the greatest games I have seen in years.
 
  
  Rarely does one find a game anymore thats offers a real challenge, but this one certainly does, 
 rarely does one find a game that is crafted so well that the difficulty is not frustrating, and 
 the game play is so well done that you really almost enjoy trying the mission again to see if you 
 can do better this time. Soldiers: Heroes of World War II is a game that does this, and much more.
 
  
  The game is a real-time strategy game, but not at all in the traditional sense. There is no base 
 building, nor is there a need to spend time collecting wood. You are given your force allotment 
 at the beginning of the mission, and thats what you have. This makes you truly care about your 
 units, and not send them wholesale into the fray as you would in a standard RTS. Attrition is not 
 a viable tactic, and careful use of your troops is key to victory.
  
  As with any review, we start with the graphics. Wow. The engine this team has crafted is incredible. 
 The amount of detail apparent on each and every unit, structure, weapon, impact effect, and the 
 landscapes is amazing. Everything is FULLY destructible. Tanks can drive through houses, knock 
 down trees, blow huge craters in the road, destroy bridges, and then blow up the debris that is 
 left! This makes the game play very satisfying, you won't forget the first time you wipe out an 
 entire German troop carrier and the house next to it. Or drive through an entire neighborhood to 
 cut off some troops escape. Explosions and fire is very well done, and the water effects and shadows 
 are impressive as well. Overall, the graphics and presentation is outstanding.
  
  Sounds are quite well done as well. The voice acting is above average I would say, especially the 
 pre-mission briefings. Weapon effects, explosions and screams are quite well done, and add a lot 
 to the immersive factor of the game, a good example of the detail is the sound of the airborne 
 debris hitting the ground after one of your HE shells blew up a house. The music is very subtle, 
 I haven't really noticed it too much so far, and so its neither distracting nor particularly noteworthy. 
 
  
  Game play is where this game truly shines, and there are a number of clever innovations. The game 
 can play like a traditional RTS, albeit, with a much more tactical focus as you have a limited 
 amount of units. The fantastic interface allows your units to take advantage of cover with a single 
 click, or you can order them to fire around a terrain piece, crouch behind a wall and snipe, jump 
 over the wall, etc. Weapons, equipment, ammo and even vehicles can be pilfered from your enemies, 
 and this will alter your strategies. Sometimes you might want to just 'soften' up that tank and 
 have the crew bailout as opposed to blowing it into pieces. Perhaps the most exciting thing is 
 the 'direct control' feature. This literally turns this game from an RTS into an action game with 
 a single button. Direct control allows you to move a unit manually, and engage the targets of your 
 choice, so instead of clicking the unit, and clicking where it goes to; you click the unit, enter 
 direct control, and move using the arrows, or the WASD keys. This feature allows you to maximize 
 the effectiveness of your units, which is welcome because you are usually outnumbered. In addition, 
 its just an enormous amount of fun to drive a tank through a fully deformable map and cause mayhem.
 
  
  Multiplayer is fully supported, as well as co-operative multiplayer natively! Unlike many other 
 strategy games you choose your units before hand, much like a traditional tabletop strategy game. 
 With the direct control feature, this can make for some great matches, where you directly fight 
 your friends in multiplayer.
  
  To sum up, this game is fantastic. It is rare that I feel Gamespot is wrong in its score. This 
 game is certainly worthy for anyone who enjoys strategy games of any complexity, or due to its 
 focus on combat and not base building and resource collection, action game fans that might want 
 to try something a bit new.
  
  Pitts
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperboy2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 29, 2004 10:12 am PT
Review:  This is the most fun with an WWII RTS in a long time! The missions are tough but I can't stop playing! 
 There are many outstanding qualities in this game. The total control of the environment really 
 adds to the enjoyment. The exploding equipment and flying body parts is the best I have seen. The 
 game speed seems a little high with tanks and men moving faster than would seem normal so I wound 
 up playing most of the time at half speed. A more precise control of game speed would be helpful. 
 If you are a fan of Blitzkrieg, Panzer Claws, H&D and Close Combat you will love this complex game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2004 7:54 am PT
Review:  For me, this game has the most impressive 3d game engine I have ever played. The amount of detail 
 and elaborate physics have no rival. With that said, the interface is the exact opposite. It is 
 very rough and hard to get use to. Thankfully the recent patch allows keys to be remapped. 
  
  Still if you are willing to put time into the learning curve of this game, it turns out to 
 be a very satisfying RTS game. Though I would say it's more a tactical than strategic in it's gameplay.
 
  
  There is lots to appreciate in this game. The package as a whole is well done. It has detailed 
 storylines for all the campaigns and the voicework is not that bad. The unit voices do get repetitive 
 though. The vehicles in this game are very detailed and quite impressive looking. All in all I 
 would say this game has a very strong immersive factor thanks to it's outstanding 3d engine and 
 terrific artwork.
  
  To those that have yet to see it in action, think of one of the myth games done in WW2.
  
  
 I will be eagerly waiting the next game done with this breathtaking 3d engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatthewMerrell
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2004 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have only played the Demo. The graphics could have been better, but they will suffice. The voice 
 overs are week also. The game is hard even on the easy setting but I enjoyed it. The attention 
 to detail is awesome: How the soldiers die, how equipment is destroyed (the equipment is modeled 
 beautifully, you can tell when the equipment is destroyed) . Each individual Anti-tank gun is mdeled 
 well. You can pick up dead soldiers weapons and ammo (all of them) you can repair tanks and vehicles 
 that are not totally destroyed and use them again. You can refuel vehicles. Buildings are fully 
 destructable. I love it! I love the attention to detail. Its the little things that make a difference 
 to me. Well done guys! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
