-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier of Fortune
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soldieroffortune/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,212 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player mode is a long series of often-amazingly intense firefights. 

 Much of the prerelease hype surrounding Activision's Soldier of Fortune focused on the fact that 
 developer Raven Software had hired an actual mercenary, John Mullins, as a consultant. His role 
 was to help ensure that the first-person shooter delivered a simulation "as close as players can 
 get to experiencing the dangers and thrills of authentic mercenary combat." Either that plan didn't 
 work out, or actual combat is a lot more like Quake than anyone but Colonel David Grossman ever 
 expected. Soldier of Fortune is filled with genre clich&amp; eacute; s: exploding barrels, health 
 crates, implausible door-opening mechanisms, and thirty-on-one firefights in which Team Thirty 
 is wildly outmatched. Thankfully, it's also damn fun.  

 Throughout its development, Soldier of Fortune has also been infamous for the level of realistic 
 violence the developers promised would be included in the final product. In fact, two different 
 versions have been released - a regular version that includes all the gore (although you can choose 
 to turn it off) and a bloodless, Wal-Mart-friendly "tactical" version. So does the violence in 
 Soldier of Fortune live up to the hype? It's pretty gruesome - thanks to a proprietary rendering 
 system nicknamed GHOUL, you can target specific body parts. Shoot an enemy in the neck, and he'll 
 grip his blood-spraying throat as he drops to his knees. Shoot him in the calf, and he'll hop around 
 on one leg. Limbs and heads can be blown clean off with a shotgun blast. It's all sort of absurd 
 and over-the-top. Even though there are a number of different target areas, enemy reactions to 
 being hit in any specific area remain generally constant. Thanks to the repetitious death animations, 
 the outrageous violence quickly fades into the background.  

 The enemy characters' artificial intelligence is forgettable as well. The bad guys tend either to 
 charge straight at you or take potshots from a fixed position. You can often poke your head around 
 a corner and calmly plug soldiers several times until they die without ever arousing their interest. 
 Likewise, vaporizing the head of a guard will tend not to alarm other guards standing a few feet 
 away.  

 Soldier of Fortune uses a modified version of the undying Quake II engine, and it looks good, if 
 not cutting edge. In-game objects have the blocky appearance associated with id's engine, but Raven 
 has done some excellent work creating a few memorable environments using the aging toolset. The 
 levels range from great looking, such as the New York and Japan missions, to the same barren, inexplicably 
 torch-lit castle and the crate-filled warehouse you've visited a thousand times before.  

 Yet even though the graphics are slightly dated, the dim-witted enemies are little more than strawberry-jam-filled 
 turrets, and the plot is thin enough to be effectively absent, Soldier of Fortune is still enjoyable 
 because it delivers some of the best pure shooting action since the original Doom. Pretensions 
 of realism aside and with apologies to the no-doubt-very-experienced John Mullins, Soldier of Fortune 
 is one-hundred-percent game with no simulation baggage to weigh it down. The single-player mode 
 is a long series of often-amazingly intense firefights.  

 Two small innovations add to the game's intensity. The first is a sound meter that rises as you 
 fire your weapons. When it reaches its limit, enemy soldiers are spawned. While it at first seems 
 like a feature meant to promote a stealthy play style reminiscent of Thief, it actually encourages 
 accuracy over furtiveness. No matter how low the sound meter, you can't sneak by enemies in Soldier 
 of Fortune. To keep thenumber of soldiers who need to be dispatched to a minimum, you must make 
 your shots deliberately rather than spray gunfire indiscriminately. The GHOUL system complements 
 the sound meter. A well-aimed head or neck shot will take out guards with a single bullet and eliminate 
 the need for loud, sustained fire that will inevitably draw more enemies.  

 The second innovation is so simple that it's a wonder it's not used more often. Although you can 
 save anywhere, you are allotted only a certain number of saves per level. This effectively eliminates 
 the "take a step and save" style of play that can ruin the pacing of a shooter, though it still 
 lets you save your progress after difficult sections. You do have the option to enable unlimited 
 saves if you prefer.  

 Several multiplayer modes are included, and match-ups are supported through WON. net. As with any 
 game competing with Quake III, Half-Life, and Unreal Tournament, only time will tell if Soldier 
 of Fortune develops a big enough fan base to maintain a significant and evolving presence online. 
 All the weapons with the exception of the rocket launcher are instant-hit, and a "realistic"-mode 
 option adds a fatigue meter and one-shot kills, which make for a different first-person shooter 
 experience. But even though it's stable, multiplayer Soldier of Fortune doesn't offer much more 
 than what is already available in other games or in free add-ons such as Half-Life: Counterstrike. 

 Soldier of Fortune's single-player game is its biggest draw, and it's a blast. You won't be inspired 
 to play it all in one long sitting since it's pretty much the same surprise-free activity from 
 beginning to end: shooting and more shooting. But taken in small doses, it goes a long way. It's 
 a pure video game skills test in the best sense of the phrase; it's both fun and challenging.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Carnage1995
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune was made in 2000.
  
  Graphics are out-dated in this modern time but still acceptable IMO.
  
  Sound are really good. 
 The weapons sound realistic, voice acting wasn't bad either.
  
  Now gameplay, I have to say the gameplay is great! Lots of shooting and killing! Including the 
 gore which isn't really disturbing. The storyline to me was "Okay" you are John Mullins fighting 
 against bunch of "baddies" including tanks and helicopters. What was fun about it is that example 
 you shoot the enemy in the ass he starts grabbing it and falling on the ground. Better shoot him/her 
 on the leg and starts hopping around on one foot. Did I mention "her"? Yes I did, there are enemies 
 which are women. The character models are very er... boxy. But still very addicting single-player.
 
  
  Overall SoF isn't that bad. Its a fun game and I enjoyed playing it and recommend that you buy 
 it. Can't find it? Search the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is not a realistic game. I first played this game at age 10. Okay, I was young 
 and downloaded the demo from GameSpot, thank you very much. I was amazed by the graphics since 
 I didn't get new video games. My dad saw me play the demo and he loved it and would just play the 
 demo on hard with only using knifes and slitting their throats. Due to that my dad bought the game.
 
  
  The graphics are a technical achievements because head get blown off, limbs can fly, and the microwave 
 gun expands the stomach of the enemy like a balloon until bursting into chunks of flesh flying 
 in all directions. GTA games get flak for being violent, but none of them are as violent as SOF. 
 even one shot with a powerful SMG makes a person an amputee. Its not realistic since you can single 
 handedly take down a rouge terrorist organization, small armies and Neo Nazis.
  
  The plot with nuclear weapons being stolen is nothing original. SOF is a very fun shooting game, 
 because it is so silly action packed awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  I am not violent in my nature, and neither a first person shooter, but as I killed the main boss, 
 I was thinking about one thing, and one thing only, and that was "Damn, I wonder how sexy Jessica 
 Alba is without clothes"
  But when I realized I just finished this awesome game I just had the need to review it here, and 
 to tell you how awesome it is.
  Well, we're speaking on a game that was made 7 years ago, when most of counter strike newbies were 
 probably still in diapers, so basically it doesn't have amazing graphics, and no, it doesn't need 
 any dual cores nor Nvidia 8800GT Graphics Card, but it still manages to deliver some fun hours.
 
  While playing through the first levels, you wish it'll never end, actually, you are thinking the 
 same through the more advanced levels.
  
  So the game is about John Mullins, which is a soldier of fortune (How surprising!) that accomplishes 
 many missions across the globe. you will come across nice arsenal of weapons, though, not huge, 
 yet it manages to get the job done. the main thing about this game is gore and stealth, so if you 
 aim for the head, don't expect the person to fall down in one piece- you might put a nasty hole 
 in it, if not blowing it entirely.
  I said stealth, that means that most of the time running into a room filled with bad guys is a 
 good idea, in matter of fact, it's not brilliant to run at all! so it'll be better to try shooting 
 from around the corners, with the cute "Leaning" option, you just lean, aim, and BAM! you can pass 
 with out any fear :)
  
  there's also something 'bout weapons noise, like, if you're shooting someone with a shotgun, a 
 bar on the bottom of the screen will rise-
  if the weapon is more noisy, it's only fair that the bar will rise more.
  as the bar is rising 
 it means more people will be attracted by the noise, and in other words, that's not good!
  
  Well let's just sum it up right now- gore, stealth, tactical shooting, head shots, groin shots 
 (it happens :/) , Armor, Head shots, weapons, cash, Head shots, blood, fun, Head shots, explosions, 
 hostages, Head shots, save limits, slots limits, Head shots, and unfortunately short gameplay and 
 you'll sometimes probably wander around the level without knowing what to do next (This game would 
 use a map or something) .
  
  Few last words:
  If you like tactical shooting, and/or gore, you should but this game.
  
  Final note:
  Jessica 
 Alba is hot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookeygrn_309
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  A very great game had me entertained from beginning to end... This game delivered the game play, 
 graphics, Story, multilayer, no wonder it went platinum
  (the platinum edition is the one i owned) This Game must be in your collection or just might be 
 playing it. the gore engine is terrific for its time, i had hours of fun with the gore engine, 
 and the missions are all action packed and a variety of weapons from .45's to rocket launcher, 
 one of the most enjoyable FPS i have played to date!!! and the multilayer so freggin awesome i 
 was enjoyed for months. This is just plainly cool!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I liked this game. It was OK for me at that time. Graphics, Sound, Visual Effects, Weapon Design, 
 Storyline and everything. In the year 2000 it was a great job making such a thing.
  
  BAD:
  1. The limited save times (Even when you set the option to unlimited but sometimes when 
 you're playing in Hard Mode it automatically changes)
  2. Sub machine gun really $ux. It's not much accurate and it's a bit weak upon enemies. It takes 
 time killing an opponent with that gun. You'll feel better if you use your 9mm hand gun!
  
  Good:
  Weapon Design and Visual Effects were great. You know it gives your @$$ pleasure carrying 
 a 0.44 Magnum and blowing one's head. Or when you carry the machine gun and you just've to keep 
 on pressing the Fire Button and watching your enemies getting scattered around. The way that they've 
 designed the places. It's not boring and I didn't feel dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Nothing's more effective for blowing heads off of bodies than a blast of buckshot from a 12-gauge 
 shotgun. Except maybe a .44 magnum. Oh, and a 9mm submachinegun makes corpses dance like Ricky 
 Martin on speed. Also, a shot to the crotch from any gun will make you feel very sorry for the 
 poor bastard on the receiving end of things.
  
  Life as a mercenary, or as a thuggish conscript in some evil overlord's gang, is rife with such 
 dangers. Raven has added a brutal edge to the action genre in Soldier of Fortune that Xatrix's 
 Kingpin pathetically failed to inspire through lame over-use of profanity. The result is probably 
 the most violent game ever to come to the PC.
  
  Soldier of Fortune has you taking the role of John Mullins, a real-life mercenary. During the game 
 installation, a mini-biography of Mullins reveals that this guy is one genuine badass. In his shoes, 
 you work for a company called The Shop, which takes covert contracts from various governments around 
 the world to undertake missions that are too hot for their own military forces to handle. You start 
 off with a hostage situation in the New York subway system and move on to locations all over the 
 world. As you progress through 31 vaguely connected missions, you learn that something big is going 
 down, and, surprise, you're the only one who can stop it.
  
  And stopping it involves getting down and dirty with the most visceral, violent action ever. Head 
 shots result in a blood sprays and leave behind the stump of a head, brain matter fully visible. 
 Gut shots cause intestines to spill out, and limbs can be blown off with ease. Every bullet leaves 
 behind gaping exit wounds from which blood gushes out by the gallon. Your victims scream and writhe 
 in pain, clutching their wounds in a futile attempt to stop the blood flow. Cops and hostages get 
 blown away, and the sea of blood grows.
  
  Parents and sensitive gamers should be wary; the E. S. R. B. has given Soldier of Fortune an M rating, 
 and it deserves it. Raven has had the foresight and good sense to include a good violence lock, 
 which enables you to set the gore to a more timid level.
  
  Soldier of Fortune has the Quake II engine at its base, upgraded with Raven's GHOUL technology, 
 which is the powerhouse behind the incredible level of detail in the location-based damage. It's 
 possible to shoot the helmet off a soldier's heads or blast a gun out of his hands. This is a big 
 part of SoF's appeal. Arms, legs, the ... er... nether regions, the gut, the throat, chest, and 
 head are separate damage zones, adding great detail to the generic damage model of other FPS games. 
 The effect is impressive. Wanna play nice merc? Then just shoot the guns out of the hands of every 
 bad guy you see. Feel like being the Angel of Death incarnate? Then waltz through a level aiming 
 for nothing but head shots.
  
  Thankfully, Soldier of Fortune is not just about the violence, but has some brains, too. You're 
 rewarded with survival for understanding the value of patience and cover, and penalized with death 
 for rashly charging in to every gunplay situation.
  
  Enabling you to take your time and plan strikes is the ability to lean around corners. It's vital 
 to learn how to use this function effectively - it lessons the likelihood of getting hit while 
 offering a fairly clear line of sight to hit enemies.
  
  Another important thing to learn is patience. If you move slowly and carefully, you'll be able 
 to take out the bad guys piecemeal rather than risk getting overrun. Lastly, watch your back. You 
 never know when some fool will get the drop on you.
  
  There are some inspired levels. One of them has you fighting from one end of a train to the other 
 while a gunship peppers you from above. Another level has you gunning through a run-down hotel 
 full of hostages. With the high level of gore, you can't help but wince when you fail to save an 
 innocent bystander or get a little overzealous and accidentally kill a hostage yourself during 
 a heated shootout.
  
  Ensuring that you're packing enough heat there are 12 distinct weapons. Some are specialized, such 
 as the rocket launcher, while others are excellent all-around weapons, like the heavy machinegun. 
 Everyday sniper rifles complement more esoteric options such as high-tech Microwave guns, which 
 cook enemies down to the bone. You also have grenades, C4, and flashbangs available to blow up 
 or blind enemies.
  
  It's quite an arsenal, and you'll need every bit of it. Hardcore gamers will breeze through the 
 first half of the game fairly easily, but toward the last couple of levels, things get rough, fast. 
 Ambushes are the deadliest early challenge, so be wary of dark alleys. Luckily, the difficulty 
 levels can be tweaked: you can set the rate of enemy respawns or even turn them off completely. 
 Personally, I liked having it turned off. There's nothing more annoying than having to clear a 
 room again every time you go through it.
  
  So despite the high praise and great design decisions, why doesn't it get an Editors' Choice Award? 
 SoF is a good game with some real inspiration, but it's not an instant classic. Sure, it's deeper 
 than the average shooter, but not by much. The last few levels start to get tedious as you survive 
 ambush after ambush. Also, there are too many button and switch finding puzzles.
  
  Multiplayer match-ups are better than average, but not revolutionary. Some of the DM maps, such 
 as the office complex, have witnessed epic battles, but most of the others are mundane. The extra 
 multiplayer modes (Assassination and Weapons) are pleasing additions, but they're nothing spectacular.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, SoF is a fine game that does provide hours of fun. But once the initial eye-opening 
 effect of the game's violence wears off, you're left with a shooter only slightly better than the 
 rest. It's nowhere near as realistic as Rogue Spear or SWAT 3, and lacks the real ingenious creativity 
 of Half-Life. Ultimately, it's an entertaining and memorable first-person shooter with a healthy 
 serving of bone and gristle thrown in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  SOF is one of those cult classics that everyone has played or at least knows about. It was one 
 of the uber gore soaked games that the ESRB feared and PC FPS warriors loved. SOF is best known 
 for its detachable limbs and ultra violence. Not only that, but its known for its amazingly fun 
 shootouts as well.
  
  Plot: SOF pits you as John Mullins, a former Military hero turned merc who now works for an organization 
 known as "The Shop who stages aggressive non-millitary operations against terrorist organizations" 
 (note; quote taken from game) . The game starts when a subway station is taken over by some punk 
 a$$ leader known as Sabre. Unfortunately, NYPD can't handle the situation, not even New Yorks finest, 
 So, John and his partner Hawk are sent in to get the situation under control.
  Following the re-taking of the subway you and Hawk embark on many other missions against very evil 
 terrorists across the globe. The plot really goes nowhere after that and is almost non-existant, 
 but why would a game with action this good even need a plot?
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in SOF is just plain kicka$$. The shootouts are as exhillerating as you 
 cold possibly imagine and the guns pack serious punch, and don't forget to mention the ability 
 to blow off limbs (and heads, and organs) . The weapons include standard pistols, shotguns, sniper 
 rifles ect. But you can also obtain a flame thrower and a super cool Microwave Pulse Gun that can 
 shoot through glass and fry enemies guts. The AI also gets better and more elaborate as you progress. 
 It all adds up to you haveing one hell of an awesome, blood soaked thrill ride. Sound: I almost 
 always keep this paticular section short, so: The voice work is well done, the guns sound great, 
 and the music fits very well.
  
  Graphics: For when this game came out, the graphics are quite impressive. Characters look good 
 but have really robotic movement animations which can look pretty weird, but its obviously not 
 a big deal.
  
  Overall: Soldier Of Fortune is just a really fun FPS that any fans of the genre should definately 
 check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I loved that part of the game. I have'nt seen any other shooter like it. Even in Gears of War!
 
  
  Typical story mode the levels were fairly well done. I don't know why Gamespot put it as hard difficulty. 
 b/c its variable, its fairly managable on easy difficulty then put to medium and hard it gets alot 
 harder.
  
  Sounds were very well done all enemies screamed when shot. Graphics were one of the best for its 
 time. even today it looks like a PSP shooter if not better.
  
  I wouldnt play this title since theres so many newer, faster, upgraded versions of this shooter 
 out there. jsut the fact that you can decapitate enemy's with the shotgun like blowing arms and 
 legs off and there still alive is pretty damn cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well It may not boast anything particularly different on the FPS front, there is a plot that you 
 follow but essentially it does little more than to string together the various game locations where 
 your mission is to kill everything.
  The game has pretty good graphics, I still remember the wow factor from when I first saw it played 
 on a friends computer, fantastically funny damage modeling where you can shoot buts off of people 
 and have blood splurting out etc.. great fun.
  The thing this game does really well is that its fun, its just constant hardcore visceral run and 
 gun FPS, great weapons, great action. A must for any FPS fan . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the most graphically violent game 6-7 years ago, and like triple- chocolate-fudge-cream-cake, 
 this is sinful pleasure for the average FPS gamer. Though the graphics are way dated compared to 
 nowadays, you still can get a lot of entertainment out of it if you just want to focus on the gameplay.
 
  
  You can still get SOF out of the bargain bin and it's exactly worth that now. The story sucks, 
 which actually serves as a greater purpose of letting you just mind about the shooting, and that 
 is the main fun about this game. There are tons of enemy targets to shoot at with a dozen different 
 weapons (which actually are the usual suspects of any FPS games now) and the game keeps track of 
 headshots and groin shots something like an FPS simulator, which is actually quite cool. Treat 
 it as a practice game for future FPS titles and you may get more fun out of it than dealing with 
 it seriously, cos everything else's not worth your attention anyway. The gleefully sinful pleasure 
 however, comes from the gruesome death animations when you manage to deal super damage to your 
 enemies. Exploding heads and dismembered limbs from your power shots are rewardingly fun to watch, 
 like Postal 2, except the latter is way more sick. The sound sucks too by today's standards. Play 
 it off your laptop speakers and it still doesn't sound any different. Anyway, just focus on the 
 gameplay like I did and you may still find it a gem among other newer shooters.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The shotgun in this game is my favorite because it blows arms and legs off and the guys running 
 around like AHHH and youre sitting the laughing your ass off ( come on you know thats funny as 
 hell ) The other guns are ok but i just use the shotgun, the story is good and your enemies are 
 retarded. And I love retarded enemies, unless they are way too retarded and they just stand there 
 and let you knife them to death.
  
  People bleed a lot in this game and they alwaysgo oh my god im bleeding and everytime your going 
 hahahaha your bleeding
  
  So if you enjoy blowing limbs off and laughing buy it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Raven. The makers of Heretic. The makers of Hexen. The makers of Soldier of Fortune.
  
  Gameplay (7) : It's a Quake II era FPS. Simple controls, fun guns, and fast paced. There is no reason 
 to stand still in this game. The people that were complaining about this being too difficult probably 
 really suck at these kinds of run-and-gun FPS games. This is not Rainbow Six. This is more like 
 Doom II and Quake. DO NOT STAND STILL!
  
  Sound (8) : Okay, but not great. The voices are actually pretty good, and the sound effects of the 
 guns are pretty good for the time. The constant boom of a shotgun mixed with the cries of agony 
 as your victims flail about limbless is a treat on the ears. The music, on the other hand, is pretty 
 bad. But no worry, the sound of constant gunfire should overwhelm the lame background noise that 
 is suppossed to be music.
  
  Graphics (9) : For it's time, the graphics are pretty good. The innovative thing about SoF was it's 
 use of the GHOUL system. The GHOUL system made it so that when you shot a bad guy in the leg, he 
 would hobble about. You could shoot the guns out of their hands, and even blow off half their head, 
 or their entire head. This alone makes SoF a wonderful gem of a game. It is a non-stop run-and-gun 
 overkill game with gibs, and body parts flying all over the place.
  
  The background scenery is passable, but not very good. Models are decent, skins are very well done, 
 and gun textures are very well done too.
  
  Overall: A fun game. The strategic element of the GHOUL system is unfortunately overshadowed by 
 the fact that this game is a pure run-and-gun shooter. There is never a moment you should be standing 
 still, and this makes the limb-disabling functions seem more for occassional show than actual strategy. 
 There is also the problem of the game being extremely short. Die hard FPS fanatics should be able 
 to beat this in one sitting.
  
  All drawbacks aside, this is an easy and fun FPS in the vein of old-school shooters. The GHOUL 
 system make this game so much fun that no matter how many times you shotgun-blast some punk in 
 the gut and spill out his intestines, you still wanna play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  By the time Soldier of Fortune was released nearly seven years ago, I had tried the first title 
 in the Thief series and felt that all the slow, cautious sneaking and keeping to the shadows required 
 to avoid failing the mission altogether was deadly-dull. So it was that I greeted the news that 
 SoF included a stealth element with a long, low, heartfelt groan. The notion of hours-long stretches 
 of crawling along the floor and peeking from behind corners while actively avoiding all contact 
 seemed at odds with SoFs other advertised innovation of location-specific damage and a level of 
 gory battle trauma worthy of the games adults-only rating.
  
  I was very happy to discover that maxing-out SoFs noise meter does not signal mission failure, 
 but instead acts as a kind of reward system for accurate shots in short, efficient bursts. In fact, 
 the result of raising a ruckus is hardly a penalty, since sonic pollution simply prompts the enemy 
 to send even more lambs to the slaughter, which equates to more practice at kneecapping the bad 
 guys to see how many of them I could keep hopping around on one leg in agony at the same time. 
 I kept quiet in some areas only when my health rating was low and heavily-armed newcomers were 
 unwelcome, especially since some areas were very difficult to survive even without reinforcements.
 
  
  I also liked the fact that Raven included an option to cut out any concerns about drawing too much 
 attention altogether by turning off the noise gauge, although I was satisfied with a light setting 
 for the number of enemy responders. The game also allows for slightly more realism through restricting 
 the number of toys that the protagonist, John Mullins, can fit into his equipment bag over the 
 course of a mission, but Im a die-hard fan of the unlimited cargo capacity rule of design. Real-world 
 settings, physics, AI behavior, and damage models are all well and good, but I prefer to stock 
 the largest arsenal possible in my FrobozzCo Magic Zipper and rotate between each item in equal 
 measure than to face the difficult choice of swapping one much-beloved rifle for another just to 
 try out something new.
  
  The gameplay in SoF is exactly as Mr. Wolpaw and many other reviewers described: the different 
 underhanded factions that Mulllins must infiltrate might as well sport a Strogg insignia on the 
 lapels of their uniform for the lack of tactical intelligence they display. The games storyline 
 presents an excellent reason to trot the globe after a band of terrorists and their nefarious associates 
 in Siberia, Japan, Iraq, Uganda (the visit to which involves an excellent railcar-hopping scenario) , 
 New York, and two or three other hotspots, but the plot is far from intricate. Mullins simply sets 
 out along a path paved by his eye-in-the-sky, Sam Gladstone, and mows down anyone who tries to 
 draw a bead on him. Apart from the consideration given to the occasional bystander and one brief 
 segment spent in disguise, the player can expect a firefight around every corner. Although such 
 a setup might sound a bit repetitive, the drama and detail that Raven invested in each fallen enemys 
 death throes coupled with the number of powerful weapons available in an unchecked arsenal kept 
 the action incredibly interesting. I was even upset when SoFs short single-player campaign ended 
 when it did: just as I mastered the joys of phosphorous grenades and the Microwave Pulse Emitter. 
 The MPE was especially entertaining as the one fantastical item in an otherwise firmly reality-based 
 cache, although an electromagnetic weapon is no longer as far-fetched as it was at the turn of 
 the century, given that the real-world Active Denial System  which performs a similar, although 
 ostensibly less lethal, function as SoFs viscera-baking supergun  was just recently deemed ready 
 for deployment.
  
  Soldier of Fortune aged fairly well over the past several years due mainly to its straightforward, 
 gib-tastic gameplay. The Quake 2 pedigree assures that -- although the games environments are 
 incredibly angular and each characters face is painted onto a brick-square noggin -- motion, sound, 
 and lighting are competently arranged and even very endearing in their own no-frills sort of way. 
 SoF doesnt take itself very seriously  Mullins departure from every location is hastened by 
 a burst of fire at his heels in a fantastic nod to cheesy action films  but the games decapitations 
 and burst entrails arent played for laughs, either. Kid should stay away from this title, as well 
 as sticklers for Rainbow Six-style infiltration procedures and damage models, but average-joe gamers 
 who just want to gun down a few waves of bad guys before bedtime should give John Mullins unique 
 career path a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 683B
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Nothing you havn't tried before. But it's so well executed that there isn't one boring moment in 
 the game. The pace of the game is downright impressive. You will be shooting thousands of enemies/terrorists. 
 And you'll have fun all the way. The boss fight in the end was too easy. But that was the only 
 let down. The story is not important. You are a one man army!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics looks slightly better than a game like Half-Life, but just slightly. You'll get to 
 see the impact of your weapons as your enemies limbs and heads blows off. It's amazingly cool. 
 My favourite way to kill the baddies was to shot off both of their arms and throw a knife as the 
 ultimate finish. (Yes you can throw knives, how cool is that?)
  It is easy to find your way around on the different missions mainly because of the great variety 
 in the design. Which also adds good atmosphere to the gamplay overall. Compared to the graphics 
 standards of todays shooters, the game looks very dated. But its not so bad that you can't enjoy 
 the game. When you see a car with square wheels, it's soon forgotten due to the extremely fun action.
 
  
  Sound:
  All weapon sounds are exelent and so is the deathcries of your enemies.
  The dialogue sounds a bit corny. Could have been a rip off from some 80's action movie. The music 
 is also great.
  
  Value:
  On the easier levels it's over pretty quick. But it offers a good challenge on the higher difficult 
 settings. And I'm pretty sure that this is a game you'll be playing more than once. I found the 
 game used. But I'd say that it's at least worth 10-15$ or so. Tilt:
  The only bad thing about this game is the way your character looks. He looks like a grandpa. And 
 he's voice sounds stupid too. Fortunately you only see him in the cutscenes so it certainly dosn't 
 spoil your fun. Buy this game, NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Soldier Of Fortune For PC.
  
  
  
  ==========================================================
  The Good : Gory Shooting Action, 
 Half Decent Graphics, Levels Are Made Nicely.
  ==========================================================
  The Bad : The sound isn't very good, 
 Glitchy, Lighting effects could have been better.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  Welcome to the world 
 of Solider of Fortune, a game that allows the player to exterminate enemies with extreme prejudice. 
 Gameplay : Soldier of Fortune mostly consists mainly of going around killing every one you see 
 (except Hawk, more on him later) . Sometimes youll have to solve a puzzle, but these consist 
 of just knowing what to destroy and at what time. But hey, if the formula works, dont complain. 
 Now Im going touch on a subject that most people seem to make a big deal about: the GHOUL engine. 
 The GHOUL engine (whatever that stands for) gives the player the ability to witness first hand 
 what happens when you blast someone in the head with a shotgun. In short the GHOUL engine adds 
 realism to the game that most other FPS dont want to touch. Some people claim that the GHOUL engine 
 doesnt add to the game. Well I say that it does, as it lets you know that Yes, you did shoot 
 the guy in the leg by showing the enemy dancing around with only one leg. Guns: what fun would 
 a shooter be without guns? There is a wide variety of guns ranging from a 9mm handgun, a sub-machine 
 gun, and heavy machine gun (my personal favorite) , to some unique weapons such as the slugthrower 
 and the Microwave pulse gun. Simply put, Solider of Fortune is a pure shooter whose main focus 
 is, well, shooting. Come on, its a FPS; they all have the same controls, especially after you 
 customize them to your liking. The only thing that could take some time getting used to is the 
 addition of having buttons for items and dropping weapons. Graphics : The graphics of Solider of 
 Fortune are good. Yes, good just about explains it. I actually found that the graphics did the 
 job quite well. The environments are detailed, the guns look nice, and the character models are 
 well, ok. The character frames look good, but faces dont look that good. But who has time to look 
 at their faces if youre too busy blasting them in. If you like explosions, then youll enjoy this 
 game, as there are lots of explosions. Although, I dont know if its my computer or the game but 
 the frame rate seemed to dip during most explosions (just so you know, my computer is a P3 800 
 with an 11 MB graphics card and 256 MB of ram) . Sound : Let me simulate a typical scene in Soldier 
 of Fortune using only audio: *Bang Bang Bang * (Screams of pain) *Ka-boom *Chuga chuga chuga * (More 
 screams of pain) This basically sums up the audio in the game. The explosions sound good; the guns 
 make nice booming sounds and the heavy machine gun, whoo boy. Voice acting isnt anything worth 
 complaining about; its done quite well. All right, Ill admit it, SoF is no RPG, and so a stellar 
 story is not required. No matter, as the story in SoF is decent. Some terrorist faction called 
 The Order is bent on putting the hurt on America via nuclear bombs and its up to John Mullins (you) 
 and his buddy Hawk to stop them. The plot is more detailed then that, but I dont want to spoil 
 it. I cant tell you if the multiplayer of SoF is worth anything because I havent played it (stupid 
 firewall) . Overall, SoF is a good game. Due to its age, you should be able to find Solider of 
 Fortune for under $20, but as they say, its worth much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Stupidly looking characters created the terrorist fighting organisation, and in every mission handicaped 
 enemies are trying to stop our god-blessed saviour of the universe from ruining their plans, but 
 they fail greatly.
  Main character is unbeatable terminator, that doesn't burn in fire, drown in water and walks through 
 tornadoes like he was born in the north pole with blizzard in motion. The game made me laugh hard 
 - the sceneries with him running from explosions every time, and he looked like a puppet with hands 
 and legs moving in different directions. I'm not picky on the graphics, but this one is a laughing 
 matter.
  Another stupid thing: traveling to different countries and killing different races - "I'm the master 
 here, i will make MY rules in this country", i found it disgraceful.
  Kill effects is alright, knife hit marks on the body in different places looks good, but that's 
 about it. Even as a shooter game it is not effective - somewhat repetitive. NPC's are shouting 
 stupid things without a reason - very annoying.
  The only good thing is surroundings, SoF world looks good with creepy places to see and various 
 towns to visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Soldier Of Fortune takes you into a vilont game with tons of gore.
  
  GOOD- Long story, plenty of weapons, Pretty good mulitplayer.
  BAD- Rubbish graphics.
  
  
 GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is just like any other FPS, Aim shoot and kill everyone in site, the best thing about 
 it is the gore, take out your biggest gun and blow off some limbs.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  the bad point in the game is the graphics, there poor, blocky and blurry i know it was made in 
 the year 2000 but they coud've done better
  
  SOUND: 
  To be honnest with ya the sound is'nt half bad, speicly with the voice overs, the sound effect 
 is rubbish tho
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?:
  Well, i would'nt buy it in this day and age, but back then its recomendable to FPS fans, Only FPS 
 fans tho, not anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  If you see this in the bargain bin, yes it is a buy! Great action packed shooter fun. The game 
 moves quickly from level to level and was a blast to play. Some of the action sequences are great, 
 like fighting on a fast moving train which I'd say more about but I don't want to spoil it for 
 you.
  
  Excellent graphics for Quake II era too. The story is silly in my humble opinion but who cares? 
 I didn't buy SoF for its story. I bought it for the action and yes, I admit it, the gore factor, 
 which is played up more than it deserves but yes, it goes beyond other games of its day at times 
 and that suited me just fine.
  
  I like my enemies to know I mean it when I kill them. SoF certainly delivered that. For some cheap 
 fun if you can find it, it would be hard to go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaddyW
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Short version: On of the bloodies and coolest games of it's time!
  
  Long version: Raven did another great game on this one. The graphics are very, very cool for the 
 quake 2 engine and the game itself is so freakin detailed: You can shoot off helmets or gas tanks 
 on a enemy flamethrower. The weapons are very cool made and it's a lot of fun. The story... is no 
 big deal but enough to spend some lonely night without the girlfriend. Mutliplayer with it's many 
 patches (platinum version is the newest i think) is well done.. but more my taste a little bit too 
 fast.
  
  Enough now, time to watch a nice movie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hookid1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  if your not a **** the blood and gore isnt at all hard to handle! this game has a good story line 
 but not as good as the second installment, i like that you can go through the different levels/senarios 
 farely quickly because in sof II it takes forever and it kind of repettive. the butchers level 
 is memorable haha if you know what i mean. sof II has more debth and substance to it but drags 
 on. the range of weaponry is also good, theres knives for stealthy killing and throwing and then 
 standard hand pistols, shotguns if you think your enemies look better without bodyparts, rocket 
 launcer ( my favorite ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  i like this game but he gets a lil bit repetitive after a wile and that suck i think you go kill 
 and...........
  thats it!!!!! but never mind that 4 now
  this game is fun and long and thats good man!!!!!
  the graphics in this game is pretty good dont 
 you think? 
  sound...... well is avredge not much of something revolutionery i think
  story line..... like it:)
  
  this game is fun and long and i recomend 2 buy it or rent it at 
 gamefly my niggzzz
  
  the great news is that its violens like helllllllll se kepp awey from young children the my have 
 a brain damedge in the next few days...... in mean......2 blow someone head off!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  **** that magnificent!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  the game is recomendead to all childrean from 16+ for younger children its just to violenc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is purely a tough game. Enemies are tough, terrains are tough, weapons are tough 
 and so are you, the main character John Mullins.
  
  John Mullins is an actual SOF; getting paid to rid of all the evils from this Earth. Why? Because 
 he's tough, with means you (the reader and quite possibly the player) are tough. Tough but polite. 
 So polite you can sneak in Saddam's palace and excuse yourself to take his 'right hand man' General 
 Amun into questioning. Yes, questioning.
  
  Your main mission? To capture and locate the terrorist group who stole 4 nukes. Why is this concern 
 for you? Not much. After all, you are a nuke anyway. Error: you are THE nuke. But 'The Shop' doesn't 
 know this. The Shop doesn't know much anyway especially your main friend Sam (who by-the-way never 
 washes his clothes as he always wear that 'Harley-Davidson' T-Shirt and cracking jokes like 'Remember 
 the C4 incident with Hudges?' which you wish to reply 'nope' or 'Who Hudges anyway?'. But replying 
 'no' isn't tough anyway so you let Sam giggle) .
  
  What's heading towards Herculean proportions is that you earn loads of cash for your troubles. 
 After all, you are a SOF. So what's the cash used for in this game? Squat all. Now that's tough.
 
  
  The sound quality is extremely tough. Every weapon, even the silent ones will cause your 'PADD' 
 rating to climb up, hence more 'spawning' of enemies. Does this make sense? Not really. However 
 you don't care anyway. You're tough. Go ahead and mow down 465 yakuzas in the fire escape staircase. 
 You don't question where they arrived from. Neither does anyone else, including Sam.
  
  What's no-so-tough is the music score. Pretty lame in your opinion. You wish it was something from 
 Quake 2.
  
  Speaking of Quake 2, the game's graphics derived from a heavily modified Quake 2 engine. Tough? 
 You bet.
  
  Overall, it's a tough game. Can you take the heat? No? Go away and write a novel about some sniper 
 named 'Iceman' and a team leader named 'Tracker'...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Soldier Of Fortune is a very bloodthirsty game and players will often find themselves in serious 
 firefights with weapons such as rocket launchers and EMP launchers. 
  
  The game is very enjoyable even for those who hate war games. You get to travel through slaugher 
 houses killing enemies and even killing the odd cow along the way. The plot gets you involved in 
 the killing of Saddam Husseins right hand man and you even have the choice of sniping him your 
 self. You have to destroy whole gas terminals and ancient scottish castle in the need to search 
 for your enemies.
  
  The combat of the game is quite advanced for it's time as it involves state of the art slugthrowers, 
 EMP launchers and mint machine guns that can take off whole body parts with one bullet. Excellent 
 for the bloodthirsty kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Back in very early 2000 (Feb) I saw this little diddy on the PC Gamer demo CD and wondered if my 
 PC could handle it. After buying and installing one of the early 3dfx Voodoo PCI cards (with 16MB 
 of memory) I fired it up and the demo just hooked me. The only other PC game at the time that I 
 had played on Windows, was Rollercoaster Tycoon, years before that Doom, Myst and Marathon on my 
 old Mac Performa 630CD. So SOF at the time was "lifelike" to me and many others.... just over 5 
 years ago.
  
  Of course the first two levels of SOF are also the best, and both are in the demo. But for some 
 reason the gore and dismemberment fit right in with the theme and environment of the game .
  
  Here you are not walking through a wonderous valley full of trees and butterflies, slaughtering 
 animals and monsters. In SOF you start out in a cleared out Subway freeing hostages from a street 
 gang of skinhead, tattoo'd thugs with guns. It was brilliant , brutal, but fun. No tactical or 
 military garbage, or team members to order around, just you, a gun, and some a$$ kicking to do 
 (and heads to blow off - quite literally) .
  
  As the real life John Mullins, you'll head to a gritty desert slaughterhouse in Africa, an office 
 building in Tokyo, battle on top of a running train, blast your way through sewers and a Siberian 
 outpost, and several other locales. And it's all tied together at a hideout with some ex-Vietnam 
 pals who help to coorindate your mercenary trips and goals.
  
  Mercenaries are cool - they make good video game characters, in a Hitman 47 kind of way, but with 
 fast paced twitchy action. We need more mercenaries these days, and a lot less military and police 
 games if you ask me. 
  
  SOF is a classic, you have to appreciate it for what it is, and when it was made at this point 
 - it's still a very fun game, much like NOLF and Deus Ex still are (Quake 2 , Unreal and Lithtech 
 were all incredibly good engines ) .
  
  SOF does get repetitive near the end game and the boss fight can be tough to an extent. It can 
 be linear (fine with me) and the AI heavily scripted (but worthwhile) , but if you like FPS action 
 games, it's hard to imagine why you wouldn't like this classic. Shooting off arms, legs, heads, 
 and gutting torsos is a guilty virtual pleasure that hardly any games these days do . The violence/brutality 
 of this game is so bad, that it almost makes a statement for non-violence, after doing that for 
 15+ hours.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  Very entertaining game. Graphics and sound are great for its time. Pretty good physics too. It's 
 fun playing around with the many different hit boxes on each enemy getting them to react differently 
 with each shot.. Throwing a knife in your opponents head or foot never gets old. Quite entertaining 
 when you shoot your opponent in the stomach and have its guts spew out everywhere. The single player 
 missions are easy but still very entertaining. I would recommend this game to everyone but then 
 you would also have to get the second in the series. Much better graphics and much better gameplay 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is perhaps the worst game that uses the Quake II engine, and is one of the worst 
 games I've played in recent memory. I try to finish all the games I play, but as of tonight, I've 
 given up on SOF. I've been patient with it, having started two weeks ago, and slowly making it 
 to the final boss, but I've had enough.
  
  I'm playing at the challenging level. First, the boss can take more than ten rockets and still 
 not die. Maybe this is fine in other games, but similar looking enemies can only stand one. At 
 one point while fighting the final boss, two autoguns turn on, and if you are in their line of 
 sight, you're dead in about two seconds. They seem to be indestructible, but I wouldn't know, since 
 when I resorted to cheat codes, something I never do, I get a "cheats not available" message.
 
  
  I had a good initial impression of SOF. The first level is a cramped underground area, and blowing 
 away enemies with the shotgun, which makes a pretty satisfying sound, was pretty fun. However, 
 once you progress through the game, the ugliness of SOF becomes apparent. Inconsistent hit detection, 
 enemies that spawn out of thin air, one hit kills, enemies with ungodly aim that kill you the instant 
 you step through a door, and oh those godawful death animations in which you can't tell whether 
 a guy is dead or just wounded. Also a couple of irritating bugs, such as if you are in between 
 a door when it closes, your view will just snap to some direction, usually in the opposite direction 
 you were facing before the door closed. Also, the inability of you to deal damage to enemies while 
 they are in their "roll" animation. Another disappointing gameplay element is the limited saves. 
 Combined with the one hit kills style, you almost feel you're playing Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon 
 when you have to replay a section over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is right up my alley because i enjoy fps games. graphics are pretty choppy (no 
 fault of my computer) so i am going to grade poorly on that aspect. However, graphic content is 
 wonderful ... that is to say there are a lot of great bloody violent moments in this game. I enjoyed 
 the linear nature of the game and never had to consult a walkthrough to finish the game. i also 
 enjoyed the variety of surroundings from level to level. some levels are outside on city streets 
 and some are inside ... this helps to create variety and keep the player interested. there are 
 some classic moments like being attacked by a man coming out of a restroom stall and walking around 
 a corner to find a bad guy peeing on the floor in a subway station ... it's those kind of crude 
 moments that keep an adult gamer laughing, shooting and smashing the buttons. Even though this 
 game is 5 years old while i'm writing this, it's one of those games like the original doom that 
 has a classic kind of interface and appeal that is timeless. If you find this cheap somewhere i 
 would recommend purchasing it. again, graphics are a bit rough, game play is straight forward, 
 sound adds nicely to the game and you should be able to find this one pretty cheap since it 5 years 
 old, so value is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  While I was running out of new games to play, I decided to pick up Soldier of Fortune (and its 
 sequel) . I had played the demos to both games, and had wanted to find them and check them out. 
 This is a review of the first game.
  
  In Soldier of Fortune, you play as John Mullins, a mercenary for hire. The game has the typical 
 Hollywood-cliched plot: terrorists steal four nukes from a base in the former Soviet Union. In 
 the game, you must find out their plans and stop them.
  
  The game itself has your commonplace handgun, submachine gun, shotgun, plus a few out there weapons 
 like a slugthrower and a microwave-pulse gun. It's a good balance between realism and futuristic 
 weaponry. 
  
  Like in Quake II, you get to use certain items like grenades and plastiques in a seperate area, 
 but the keys that are usually bound to it (" [" and "] ") are a bit hard to use in the default WSAD 
 config. This is a similar problem I realized in Quake II. And just like Quake II, you have settings 
 where you can quickly use a certain item by using the keypad, but it's still a little unweildy. 
 
  
  Some of the weapons look oddly modelled, and some of the characters look pretty blocky. Also the 
 "lip-synching" is pretty odd-looking as it's not done as an actual open mouth. The game also has 
 a sound device that shows how noisy you are, but in the end it doesn't matter for you can make 
 plenty of noise and not have to worry that much.
  
  Another problem I had was that there's a few parts in the game where you must fight bosses (including 
 the final boss) that take a plentiful number of hits before they go down, as opposed to other foes. 
 This wouldn't be a problem if the bosses in question weren't human.
  
  These shortcomings, however, are redeemed with the GHOUL system, which gives you the chance to 
 blow heads off or someone's arm. It's amusing to constantly shoot your enemy in the arm and leg 
 constantly seeing them wince in pain.
  
  Every weapon in the game sounds as it should, and the music is over-the-top Hollywood-style music. 
 
  
  The game's multiplayer contains your common Deathmatch and Capture the Flag, as well as this new 
 mode titled "Arsenal" where you kill people with strong weapons first, then as you kill more and 
 more, you eventually have to kill them with the pistol or knife, which is hard when everyone has 
 stronger weapons than you do. There's also "Assassin" where you must hunt down and kill someone 
 while someone else will attempt to kill you. Arsenal is one of my favorite modes, and I hope more 
 games make use of a similar mode.
  
  I personally think Soldier of Fortune is an underrated game. While its sequel relied a bit more 
 on realism, the original is still a fun, little romp. While this makes the game seem kinda silly 
 with its stereotypical plot and other things, I think it makes the game more enjoyable. It's somewhat 
 campy, but it doesn't try to be that way, it just accidentally ends up that way. If you like throwing 
 most realism out the window, I'd suggest this game.
  
  Pros: Nice amusing storyline, nice variety of weapons, great multiplayer modes
  Cons: Sub-par 
 graphics, unrealistic boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 10, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune is just another average shooter, nothing ground-breaking or revolutionary about 
 it. It's not a bad game, just that there is nothing we have not seen before.
  
  In Soldier of Fortune, you play as a real person in a fictional world. Agent John (i forget his 
 last name) , was a real American soldier who became an elite and began to carry out special missions 
 for the US government. The missions and scenarios in Soldier of Fortune are all fictional, however.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty average. Enemies are stupid and the game is easy, only moderately challenging 
 on the hardest settings. There is a lot of realism, however, which is a highlight. This game emulates 
 real life combat quite well, in that enemies die from few bullets, and limbs can be blown off realistically. 
 It's particularly cool to throw knives into the legs of enemies, watch them scream, and then retrieve 
 the knife once the poor guy dies. However, the fun ends there.
  
  You travel all over the world in Soldier of Fortune, though each place and mission feels like a 
 repetition of the previous one. There really is nothing exciting or groundbreaking in this game...
 
  
  Graphics and sound are quite good, but gameplay, the most important part, is lacking. 
  
  Soldier of Fortune had great potential, but all we saw was another faceless shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune takes a rather simplistic license and turns it into a game that has a great 
 story and a gimmick of very realistic violence. However, its flaws hold it back from becoming a 
 great game.
  
  Soldier of Fortune starts off by putting you in the boots of John Mullins, a Soldier of Fortune 
 who is employed by a shadow organization to go on missions that could compromise the US if they 
 were linked to the operations. Your job along with your partner, Hawk, is to uncover a plot that 
 involves the theft of four nuclear warheads. The missions will take you from New York, Russia, 
 Iraq, Japan and the Sudan trying to track down and destroy the warheads while trying to find out 
 who is behind the mystery. It is a story that has a lot of thought put into it for a shooter and 
 I have to say that it kept me interested in what was going to happen next.
  
  The missions, about a dozen in all, are broken up into several segments that take you from your 
 drop point to the final goal of the mission. One moment, you will be fighting in an oil field in 
 Iraq and the next, a meat processing plant in the Sudan. It is great to have this kind of variation 
 in scenery and locations to keep the game fresh.
  
  The biggest hook of the game though is the realistic violence in the game. When you shoot somebody, 
 it is not pretty. Especially at close range. If you take a 12 gauge shotgun to someone at point 
 blank range, a limb or even a head will be removed from the body. It is gruesome and very violent, 
 but I felt that it added to the realism of the game and made you realize that war and espionage 
 is not pretty. When you shoot someone, it is not a nice thing and to depict the violence in a gruesome 
 manner reflects this point. I know that some ripped the game apart for this saying that it was 
 gratuetous, but I felt it lent realism to the game.
  
  The graphics for the time it was released are very good, but not great. The models are somewhat 
 detailed but tend to clip into objects at times. The damage models that occur after shooting someone 
 were quite good. The environments themselves were also good and never felt overused. You were always 
 in nice looking environments the interactions with these environments was quite cool. The falling 
 of tile that was shot at, or the exploding of doors as they were shot at were very nice graphical 
 touches. Also, the fact that damage was dealt out using a point system was another nice touch. 
 You could shoot off someone's hat, or shoot the gun out of their hand. It was all well done, if 
 not a bit rough at times.
  
  Sound was awesome. This was the highpoint of the game. The weapons in the game sounded amazing. 
 When I first fired off a round from the shotgun I had a grin form on my face. The booming sound 
 sounded just like an authentic shotgun blast. Samething with all the weapons for that matter. I 
 have fired off many weapons in my life and I have to say that the ones that were used in the game 
 that I have dealt with sounded very lifelike. Also the ambient voices were well done and dialogue 
 was quite amusing at times while also giving you a bit extra about the story. Unfortunately your 
 character seems a bit dry at times, but nothing that I was able to accept under the grounds that 
 you are playing a mercenary.
  
  Now I do have to ding the game for a few miscues, although only one really hurt the game in my 
 opinion. First off, limiting saved games was a big mistake. When I play games on a PC, one of the 
 things that make it different is having a hard drive. Therefore I want the ability to save as much 
 as I want to. No limits. The other problems were not so severe. I was a bit disappointed with how 
 linear the game was. It always had one path to follow. Also, after all the hard work that you put 
 into the game, the ending left a lot to be desired. No spoilers here, but you will probably put 
 it on your 10 worst ending list for PC games.
  
  Overall, Soldier of Fortune is definitely a game worth playing. While a bit short and the bad save 
 system, the game's story, graphics, sound and realism will more than satisfy your craving for a 
 good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  This game is ludicrously gorey. Right from the begining cutscene you'll know it. A hostage is situation 
 is in effet in the subway of New york and the Criminals behind it deside to waste a captive. A 
 gun is put against their head and It is blown right off. Then in a part I find funny, a cop is 
 walking around down there {Same cutscence} and a guy with a pistol runs up behind him and ... he 
 POPS A CAP IN HIS ASS! All we need is the unreal tournament announcer to go "HEADSHOT"! The the 
 thug procedes to shoot the dieing body a few more times on the ground. I like that Cutscene.
  
  Specular Lighting is used alot in this game. It could be shinier than Halo, and that's incredible. 
 Now lets hear about the ghoul engine! Ok. It separates the enemies body into {I don't know} parts. 
 You can basically shoot a guy, and he reacts depending on where you hit him. Shoot him in the leg 
 and he'll hop around and scream. Shoot in the arm and he'll grab at it in pain. Hit him in the 
 head, or nuts and he dies. Along with a bullet hole in the 'region' you hit him in along with blood 
 and tiny little chunks fly. Blood gushes out of the bullet hole for 3 seconds and make 3 splats 
 on the ground. Also, it depends on which weapon you're using. If it be a pistol, nothing happens 
 but a bullet hole. Shot-gun, you can blow off something. Anything explosive, whatever is close, 
 is Gone. I put an explosive near a dead body, but left a fair amount of room and he got blown in 
 half. There's even a microwave gun. You can make people expand until they burst into big gibs. 
 I like the flame gun though. There's lots of variety of gibs, depending on how their made. Microwave 
 gun makes big red chunks, limbs fly as if it's ready to eat! when a limb gets seperated a big bone 
 pops out with red things all over it.
  But...
  ... guess what? Soldier of fortune 2 Tuned down the gore than what's in this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
