-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic CD
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soniccd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.0, 8.1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 399 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Aug 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless you're a true Sonic fanatic, avoid this one. 

 Unless you've been living under the kitchen sink for six years, you've probably heard of Sonic the 
 Hedgehog, Sega's zippy blue mascot. Well, Sega Entertainment has finally brought the spike-haired 
 wonder to the PC with their new release, Sonic CD.  

 Sonic CD is a translation of the 1993 Sonic the Hedgehog CD for the Sega CD console system. It's 
 a typical side-scroller: you know the drill - you speed through board after board of flashy eye 
 candy and collect trinkets (coins, rings, jewels, etc.) , eventually confronting the supreme embodiment 
 of evil in a final showdown. More specifically, in Sonic CD you assume the role of a cute little 
 hedgehog and attempt to conquer the mischievous Dr. Robotnik, who has stolen your girlfriend, created 
 an almost innumerable army of robotic creatures, and constructed a Sonic cyborg twin just to piss 
 you off. Sonic runs, Sonic jumps, Sonic's eyes bug out when he is about to fall off a cliff ... 
 but that's about it. Sonic CD is uninspired at best and the constant sequence of level, level, 
 boss, quickly becomes tedious and monotonous.   

 Among the best features of the Sonic the Hedgehog series for Sega game consoles were its fluid movement 
 and its feeling of true high speed as Sonic peeled around the surreal landscape. Even on a Pentium 
 133, Sonic CD was a bit jerky, and numerous CD accesses slowed the action in a few spots. Overall, 
 the graphics are colorful, attractive, and true to the original, but the slowdown really hurts 
 playability. Even worse, the bonus stages, originally psychedelic, reality-altering experiences 
 unto themselves, are flat and dull in Sonic CD.  

 Even with all of its downfalls, Sonic CD does have a few tasty treats. Unlike the console version, 
 your game is automatically saved at the end of each round. (There was nothing more frustrating 
 than losing your last Sonic near the end of the final stage and having to start from scratch.) 
 This would generally be a good time to look out for flying controllers, game systems, and televisions. 
 Also, there is a nice variety of levels, each with a unique look. My personal favorite is the pinball 
 machine-inspired level with numerous bumpers and flippers allowing you to catapult Sonic around 
 the screen. Within each level, Sonic can also travel into the primal past or industrialized future 
 of that level by triggering a Time Warp. This can be very useful, as Sonic can find and destroy 
 Dr. Robotnik's Enemy Transporter in the past, thereby eliminating all enemies in past, present, 
 and future levels.  

 Unfortunately, these treats aren't enough to make Sonic CD stand out as a unique gaming experience. 
 Those who have played Sonic on a Sega game system will find nothing new here, and PC gamers who 
 enjoy side-scrollers may be disappointed with the performance of Sonic CD. The repetitive gameplay, 
 combined with a $50 retail price, make Sonic CD a mediocre title at best. Unless you're a true 
 Sonic fanatic, avoid this one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog and its subsequent sequels proved to be huge moneymakers and bonafied system 
 sellers. So it came to no surprise to anybody when a version was announced for the Sega CD all 
 those years ago. After all, if Sonic was such a huge success on the Genesis then he would be equally 
 big on the CD counterpart. And that was the ultimate purpose for a CD Sonic game; to sell systems 
 (in the US anyway) . Unfortunately, the ultimate Sonic game was given poor marketing and the music 
 was messed with in the US version. Nonetheless, Sonic CD stands as an excellent game and one that 
 is better, overall, than its Genesis counterparts (in my opinion anyway) .
  
  The story this time around revolves around Dr Robotnik's (aka Eggman) evil plan to chain two planets 
 together in order to rule the world, er, worlds, I guess, or something like that. Why does he chain 
 two worlds together? How is it possible to chain two worlds together? Don't ask me, as the story 
 is not really important in this game (actually, I don't care) . Ripping off Mario, Sonic know has 
 to save a distressed little pink hedgehog, named Amy Rose, from the clutches of Robotnik and his 
 rebuilt henchman, Mecha Sonic, who returns from Sonic 2 with a much nicer design. Beat the game, 
 save the world (s) , get the girl and do some time travelling in-between. Time travel effectively 
 and you get a better ending. 'Nuff said.
  
  Sonic CD was one of the few Sega CD games to effectively take advantage of its medium. It offered 
 a great, though choppy, intro and end anime and a CD quality soundtrack that was pretty good (although 
 I hear the Japanese soundtrack is much better) . One of the main drawing points of the Sega CD is 
 the load of extra memory to use, so the developers decided to use a time travelling gimmick to 
 add more levels to the mix, kinda. You see, when Sonic hits a post with the words, "future" or 
 "past" on it, he will have the opportunity to travel to the specified time. Once a post is passed 
 and he gains enough speed, he will be transported to a future or past version of the level with 
 slight changes and a different colour scheme. It's kind of cool, albeit gimmiky. The whole purpose 
 of the time travel is to go in the past, destroy an evil device and that zone's future will be 
 saved. This must be achieved in each of the zone's 2 acts in order to ensure that that particular 
 area of Mobius is safe from future hardship (i. e. no more flowers) . Since the game has seven acts, 
 if you add it all up there are over 50 levels. That's a record for a Sonic game and this could 
 not have been achieved on cart due to cost of memory. I guess this feature legitimized Sonics adventure 
 in the world of the Sega CD.
  
  Another thing that Sonic CD did to take advantage of its new hardware was to add bonus levels that 
 actually used Sega CD's scaling and rotation abilities. The bonus levels turned out pretty well 
 as a result, although I did have hard time judging my jumps to destroy the required number of probes/UFO's. 
 Also, there were many other little things that were added to give the game a little more jazz. 
 The title screen displayed forward scrolling clouds (really neat) and a few levels were given an 
 absurd amount of background layers (6-3) . There is even a point where Sonic approaches a loop, 
 and as he starts to go up it, the view switches from side scrolling to a semi-Sonic view of the 
 action. You can actually see the earth twist in the background. The effect is smooth and clean, 
 although I wonder if it could have been done without the aid of the Sega CD's hardware.
  
  On a whole the graphics are typical Sonic fare, which is a good thing, as they always remain clean, 
 colourful and sharp. The way Sonic is drawn is very similar to the way he appeared in Sonic 1. 
 A few new frames of animation were added to give him a bit of a facelift though (watch him spin 
 as he hits a springboard) . I actually prefer the way he was drawn in Sonic 2, as he looked much 
 cleaner, slicker, and a tad older. I wonder why they did not use the Sonic 2 frames as the game 
 was released a year after that chapter. A forgivable flaw, nonetheless. Over all the graphics are 
 among the best ever displayed from the weakly Genesis colour palate and, as with every other official 
 Sonic game, you would swear that this wasn't a Sega game if it were not for the controller in your 
 hands.
  
  The music is okay, nothing spectacular but well done and some of the tunes are pretty catchy and 
 fit there assigned levels. My favorite tune is from level one because I just love that little guitar 
 solo. An interesting little point is that all of the music in the "past" levels is done using the 
 sound chip in the Genesis/Sega CD and it sounds pretty damn good and is insanely catchy. One piece 
 of music I absolutely hated was the main title and ending theme. They hired some no talent hack 
 to right bad lyrics and gave them to an equally bad singer whose voice only serves to give me a 
 headache. The song just rots, and its unfortunate that is used during the opening anime as well. 
 I am absolutely sure that the music is better in the Japanese version, but I'll never know and 
 maybe my source is wrong. There is some voice thrown into the game as well but its typical grainy 
 Genesis voice.
  
  Basic game play is typically Sonic, what more can I say. He is given a new standing spin dash that 
 looks good but is mostly for show and the original spin dash has been changed for the worse. The 
 cool oval shape of it has been replaced by his 'rolled-up' animation and you can no longer charge 
 it by tapping the button. Even worse you have to wait a second before you can release and zoom 
 off. I would kill to get the true spin dash placed in this game; I would kill Yuji Naka himself 
 (although he had little to do with this game as his name is not to be seen in the credits) . Level 
 structure is very similar to Sonic 1, just to let you know, and it works quite well. I have a few 
 gripes though as I can never get enough speed in certain levels to time travel. This annoying aspect 
 should have been fixed as well as other parts of the game that reek of being rushed to the market. 
 Also, the bosses are way too easy, easier than they were in the Genesis games. Overall the game 
 is quite nice to play through though, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
  
  I would have to recommend this game to any Sonic fan, as it is quite good. If you have a Sega CD 
 that still functions I recommend you buy this game and play it through at least once. And don't 
 forget about the upcoming Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast. I was able to play it and found it 
 to be quite enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Sonic CD is a great old school Sonic game. It's colorful, the gameplay is easy to get into and the 
 old style Sonic gameplay is fun.
  
  Exploration has never been a big part of Sonic games, but in Sonic CD you can travel through time 
 and explore the levels in their more natural form or after Robotnic has turned them into cold, futuristic 
 environments.
  
  You can also search for transporters and destroy them to stop Robotnic's goons from entering an 
 area and saving the future of that place.
  
  Unlike the Sega CD version your progress gets saved after you defeat a boss.
  
  The speed is 
 still there, there is well placed enemies and obsticles (spikes) waiting to strip you of all your 
 rings. The level designs are entertaining such as a pinball style level, in the forest where you 
 bounce off springs alot and run across open areas and up giant trees, in space where there is a 
 lot of fast running, carnival type environment where you can bounce on balloons and colorful blocks 
 will send you flying high in the air, under-water, in factories where you have to run on moving floors 
 going in the opposite direction and the more dangerous factory where you can be crushed easily 
 and have to work your way through a maze.
  
  The boss fights were entertaining, the pinball level meant you had to maneuver your way through 
 the stage using the flippers and taking out Robotnic. Robotnic still uses a giant mechanical suit 
 against you. My favorite boss battle was where you had to outrun the robot version of Sonic and 
 dodge it's attacks and make it to the end of a section before it where it will crash and be destroyed. There 
 was boss battles where you have to run on moving floors going in the opposite directon while dealing 
 with the boss. The final boss isn't that difficult but rings are scarce in the level before you 
 face Robotnic's final machine.
  
  The graphics are very colorful, you see palm trees and blue ocean and the bright green grass and 
 color of the soil all blend well. The wood parts of palm trees have a lot of detail in their structure 
 and shades of color and you see cliffs in the background and waterfalls. The carnival levels (which 
 I thought were the best looking of the game) have a very colorful pinkish structure, and blocks that 
 light up and electronic devices and signs that are lite up nicely as well as balloons. In space 
 it looks very futuristic. The future versions of the stages look very industrial and metallic. But 
 even the things made out of metal, such as the industrialized stages and Robotnic's inventions still 
 look colorful and have bright colored patterns on them.
  
  You even see colorful scenes at the carnival when Amy is following Sonic and trying to cuddle him 
 and you see the colorful love hearts. Then you see Amy get kidnapped by the robot version of Sonic 
 and it races off with Amy and it adds a sense of drama.
  
  However the graphics do look a bit blocky and not as sharp as the Sega CD version.
  
  The music 
 for the levels is entertaining, it is even beautiful for the under-water section. The music for the 
 boss fights gives a danger feel but you hear an annoying ''oh ho ho'' laughter by Robotnic that 
 sounds more like Santa Claus.
  
  When you get an extra life you just hear a yes!! but no Sonic themed music.
  
  At the presentation 
 you're shown a FMV of Sonic and hear a song about Sonic and it's quite enjoyable. When you finish 
 the game you see a FMV ending too.
  
  The game is a bit short though, you'll breeze through it quite quickly. Perhaps they could have added 
 some more levels for the PC version since the save feature was added too.
  
  Overall a great old school Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicteamUSA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  PRESENTATION:
  Pros:
  + Save Feature finally!! Allows you to save high scores and your fastest times.
  + Superior, 
 retro, high quality animation movies not only captures the speed of Sonic, but they also help immerse 
 you into the story and its charm.
  + Revolutionary game design adds alot of depth to keep this aging well. The time travel concept 
 is amazingly thought out and carefully implemented to allow players to explore the level designs 
 without getting bored so quickly.
  + Variety in menu screen interface, keeping you from looking at the same boring title screen.
 
  + Two different endings and time stone collection encourages you to play through the story mode 
 multiple times.
  + Revolutionary Special Stages take advantage of the Mega CD's Mode 7 capabilities, unlike other 
 crappy Mega CD games.
  + Introduces Metal  Amy........... lol.
  + Stands out from the 
 other genesis Sonic games due to a different developer within Sega of Japan that handled this game.
 
  
  Cons:
  -- The title screen looks a little too forced. You dont even get to see the ocean much at all in 
 the game, so what's the point of putting an ocean in the background??
  -- No Co-op or Multiplayer is kind of dissapointing. This game would have greatly benefited from 
 Co-op.
  -- When you play in Time Attack mode, the time travel concept is removed : (
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Pros:
  + Sprites look cleaner and there's enemy variety. 
  + Backgrounds are extremely 
 beautiful, professionally drawn out to look big and imaginative. Pixels are used to the best availability 
 to not look protrusive or ugly. Backgrounds even scroll, with up to 5-7 different background layers. 
 This effect helps immerse you into this games world.
  + Visual effects are extremely advanced. 3D Special Stages aren't pixelated at all. The Special 
 Stages even utilize more advanced background skyboxes. Effects utilize a pschedelic shine to objects 
 for a nostalgic visual appeal.
  + No framerate issues!! Yay! =D
  
  Cons:
  -- None
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Pros:
  + Control is stiffer and much more precise, which hugely benefits from 
 the level design. Jumping from platform to platform no longer requires you to hold back the control 
 stick to prevent yourself from falling.
  + One new move, the Super Peel-Out. This move is used exclusively for this Sonic game. This is 
 very helpful for allowing you to rup up vertical 90 degree slopes and performing speed-runs, which 
 reduces the frustration of surviving a level. It's also better programmed then the spindash. Not 
 only is this new move helpful, but it also has a cute, new animation with Sonic's feet movements.
 
  + Fun, creative boss battles that don't rape you of your rings.
  + The game mechanics are very simple and adaptable for young ones without cramming a bunch of scripted 
 sequences or annoying puzzles like Sonic 3 & Knux did.
  
  Cons:
  -- None.............. again =D
  
  SOUND:
  Pros:
  + Good sound effects, especially the explosions.
 
  + There are some cute litte voice clips yelps. Like Amy's cry for help as Metal Sonic captures 
 her. Sonic also has a clip where he saysYESwhen he gets an extra life. Like I said, it's 
 cute.
  + 2X the soundtracks = 2X the ear pleasure :)
  + Both sound tracks are diverse and give two types of nostalgic values to the game.
  + The US 
 soundtrack is soothing and stays truer to the modern Sonic games music direction. Not annoying 
 in the slightest and actually stimulates your brain during gameplay without you even realizing 
 it. The theme song, Sonic Boom, kicks ASS!! Nice guitar riffs with classic 90's style female vocals.
 
  + The Japan Soundtrack is hip, cool, and very, very catchy. This soundtrack reveals the hip early 
 90's side of the game. None of them are as migraine inducing like some of the other genesis Sonic 
 games are, which is a relief.
  + I think both soundtracks have something for everyone to enjoy =)
  
  Cons:
  -- Sonic's jumping 
 sound effect is a bit loud.
  -- The Japan Soundtracks theme songs aren't as cool as you'd hope sadly. They sound more like crappy 
 saturday morning cartoon opening themes. Not very suitable for Sonic. The vocalists are another 
 problem. They have very inappropriate tones and actually make the themes sound embarrasingly bad 
 and out of tune. 
  
  DESIGN:
  Pros:
  + Thanks to the time travel concept, there are over 50 different level designs to explore!!
  
 + Superior enemy and object placement actually allows you to survive a level without memorizing 
 every single part of a level like the genesis games do.
  + Which brings me to my next point... and I know some fans are going to hate me for saying this, 
 but I'm actually glad Hirokazu Yasuhara wasn't involved with this game. And there's two main reasons. 
 His enemy placement is infuriatingly annoying. I can't count the countless times I've lost all 
 my rings when I try so hard to survive a level even after playing that level countless times trying 
 to make it to the end in one piece without throwing the damn controller on the floor. The other 
 main reason is some of his design ideas. Don't get me wrong, he did establish Sonic's level design 
 philosophy and appeal, but some of his design can be questionable. Bottomless pits, Spikes hanging 
 from every Freakin' corner and wall, and some parts of design that lack flow. Sonic CD, however, 
 combines the perfect amount of leg room, with the perfect amount of navigation exploration, wtih 
 the perfect amount of multiple paths. Levels have the perfect amount of length as well, and don't 
 drag on. You also won't be seeing parts of level designs repeat. Each Act is carefully designed 
 to offer good appeal. 
  One level your running through an island, the next your in an obscure world with pinball elements, 
 but even with all these pinball elements, you still get the perfect amount of leg room. The next 
 level your navigating a bright, colorful labyrinth of water, the next you're litterally bouncing 
 80 feet in the air after touching a gravity altering ground as you land on rotating platforms allowing 
 you to use your brain to make each careful decision without falling in a bottomless pit. The next 
 level, you're running through conveyor belts, the next you're running through a beautiful highway 
 in the stars as you speed through long stretches of pipes, the next level you're in a race for 
 your life with Metal Sonic!!!!!! Oh yeah !! =D Then you finally get to Eggman's base.
  + Lots of obscure design art and objects prevent the levels from looking bland without disorientating 
 you. 
  + Special Stages are great, fun, challenging in design, and very clever.
  
  And there you have it, Sonic CD is quite simply superb, and all of its variety and concepts have 
 allowed it to age well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumster76
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Sonic CD was a great addition to the Sonic franchise, even if its development time meant that it 
 was more inspired by the original Sonic the Hedgehog than the sequel. Nevertheless, the core mechanics 
 were there, the implementation was perfect, and, at the time, the music was exceptional for a console. 
 Unfortunately, the Sega CD was not a successful endeavor, and SEGA's PC devision was less than 
 an afterthought when Sonic CD's port was conceived.
  
  Sonic CD for the PC is almost deliberately poor. The game itself is barely compatible with Windows 
 95 or 98, requiring the user to lower his or her Color Level to 256. After that, there are two 
 options for window size: small and full screen. However, the full screen function does not work, 
 resulting in a blue screen. Windows XP users have to find a number of fan-developed patches to 
 get the game to run, and, even then, it could crash at any moment. The rest of the options, such 
 as smooth and choppy scrolling, are almost irrelevant since the game is so unplayable. In the end, 
 Sonic fans would be advised to either buy a Sega CD and copy of the game itself or consider less 
 legal alternatives to get the game running on their PC.
  
  SEGA has always been known for its stellar talent, but it's just as infamous for its poor decision-making 
 capabilities. Sonic CD for the PC is the result of both; An excellent Sonic game that was given 
 too small a port budget. Sonic fans know that, at one point or another, they'll need to either 
 replay an old Sonic game or find a more obscure one that never reached the mainstream. For those 
 that want to seek out this Sonic game, try one of the options I listed above, because the PC-specific 
 port is as rewarding as vacuuming your motherboard. On a related note, there is a demo of the PC 
 version, and those still unconvinced of the poor quality should indeed find and download that instead 
 of spending the money necessary to acquire the full physical copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Sonic discovers time warp facility upon kidnapping of Amy... but there is no sign of Tails or anyone 
 else who can help... so this cool dude goes it alone to defend the planet Mobius from the evil clutches 
 of Dr Robotnik (who is known nowadays as Dr Eggman) ... but with the evil Metal Sonic lurking around, 
 with a whole host of wierd and wonderful robotic enemies, its going to be one long amazing adventure 
 before Sonic can rescue Amy...
  
  Another instant classic released by Sega, itsone of those retro games you cannot put down... similaly 
 designed to its previous two releases (namely Sonic 1 and 2) Sonic still has that cool as a cucumber 
 approach and appearance, with all the awe-inspiring background graphics.... only this time there 
 is a tremendous sound track to accompany each stage/act (the first ever Sonic game to host the 
 loveable guitar, bass, keyboard etc mixture) as well as a large variety of acts for each of the 
 seven levels, as you warp back and forth in time.... Again, similarly to Sonic R, I have often 
 found myself listening to the soundtracks of the game on my CD player, even though the majority 
 of them last for about 2-3 minutes, my personal favourites are those for the zones Palmtree Panic, 
 Quartz Quadrant, Stardust Speedway and Metallic Madness.... although the theme tune (the longest 
 track, about 5 minutes should we say?) is not really my cup of tea, when compared to those in Sonic 
 R... but hey, you get used to it... but I wouldnt reccomend listening to it everyday!!!!
  
  The way the levels are laid out is quite good too... you start off with relatively easy, sight-seeing 
 kind of bliss, but when you begin to realise there are contraptions and enemies galore, you understand 
 just how serious Dr Robotnik was in trying to take over Mobius in this chapter of Sonics' life....
 
  
  This is a really good game... although the graphics of Sonic, Amy, Metal Sonic and Robotnik are 
 not as polished as the enemies, you do not really focus on this when playing the game... it is so 
 awe-inspiring... oh and did I tell you about the unlocable you can get??? I still ahvent found those, 
 but, as the manul says, you have to meet ceratin objectives to unlock the tracks, movies, etc. 
 Oh, and of course, there is the Chaos Emerald bonus stage that any Sonic game would be incomplete 
 without!!!! GO GET IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugexe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game i grew up with all my life on my computer and am actually looking at the cd 
 right now! Well just like all sonic games the gameplay is very good except for when you have to 
 try to platform and then it gets a bit challenging. The graphics are pretty good considering it's 
 time. The music is absolutely wonderful. I could listen to it for a long time. This is one of those 
 games that really doesn't disappoint you and doesn't get boring. I would suggest this game to anybody 
 wanting to know if sonic is any good or to anybody for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I loved the idea of time travel and the music is superb. I gave this a 9.6 out of 10. It would've 
 gotten a 10 had it been a little easier to find the machines Robotnik uses to transform animals 
 in the past and if the special stages would've been easier. Most of the time the machines will 
 be towards the beginning of the level while the Past signs could be towards the end. In the special 
 stages, one has to run after and hit flying saucers. The problem is that you really can't tell 
 if you're going to hit one when you jump due to the way the game shows depth perception. I, more 
 often than not, seem to jump right through the flying saucers even when I appear to be right up 
 on them.
  
  Also, it can be insanely hard to pick up enough speed to warp since there are tons of spots where 
 you have to stop to wait for an obstacle to move out of the way or there are spikes on the ground.
 
  
  Overall the game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex2608
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  One of the best sonic games ever which is way underrated by Gamespot.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is so fun for these reasons. First in this game, its the introduction of the most 
 peoples favourite character: Metal Sonic and also Amy! Second, its the only sonic game that has 
 another spin dash (press up and jump) and the regular one (but you have to wait until its charge 
 to release) . Third, there is time warp (present, past, bad future, good future) which makes the 
 act different. The Badnicks are also affected by time warp. The special stage are awesome and are 
 in 3D (they are quite hard because you have a limited time to destroy UFOs. Fourth, the bosses, 
 are fun especially the one with Metal Sonic. Fifth, there is moving trampolines, pinball things 
 and moving conveyors. The only thing is there only 1 single bottomless pit in this game (but its 
 easy to fall there!) And sixth, there is time attack mode if you like to do Speed Runs
  
  Graphics: The graphics are so colourful. In each different time periods, the graphics change and 
 they are related to the environment (example: past, you'll have mostly trees in background, but 
 in the bad future you'll have a polluted environment and more.) The 3D graphics in the special 
 stage are nice for the time it was made.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is really good. Like the graphics, each time period has a unique music which is related 
 to the time period. Some sounds effects are slightly changed (like the jump sound) . You can even 
 make a CD with the soundtrack.
  
  Value:
  
  Today this game is really cheap. Also each time you play it might be different because sometimes 
 youll decide to play mixed time periods, play only bad future or play only past.
  
  Overall:
  
  Its really a good game for Sonic fans out there. Maybe the best of all! Nice soundtrack, 
 nice graphics, and an amazing gameplay.
  
  NOTES: To play this game with Windows XP, download the patch for XP by this link:
  
  http://www. sonic-cult. org/dispart. php? catid=1&amp; gameid=5&amp; subid=1&amp; artid=6 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  You might have heard about Sonic CD years ago on your Sega CD, or maybe you brought the PC port 
 of the game. Unfortuantly, many Sonic fans hadn't heard of this game until it was released on the 
 Sonic Gems Collection for the Gamecube and PS2. Many fans had said Sonic CD was one of the more 
 interesting Sonic titles in the series, and they couldn't have been more right. It's simply one 
 of the best Sonic titles out there.
  
  Sonic CD follows the usual 2D Sonic gameplay, with Dr Robotnik as the main bad guy and Sonic stopping 
 him. However, Sonic's friend Amy gets kidnapped by Metal Sonic, and Sonic must save here from him 
 and foil Robotnik's evil plans once again.
  How does he do this? When Sonic hits a time post and reaches a certain speed, he can go back to 
 the past and stop Robotnik's robots from appearing in the future. However, sometimes Sonic will 
 go into the future, and discover a horrible world ruled by Robotnik, or it could be a peaceful 
 world. It all depends on what Sonic does in the past. It sounds a bit complicated, but to be honest 
 the idea is pulled off amazingly well on Sonic CD.
  
  All of the old Sonic moves are here, such as the Spin Dash and the jumping. All of the standard 
 type of levels are here, such as a Green Hill type level, an underwater level, a Robotnik base 
 level, a speedy level, and a bumper-themed level. All these levels are very interesting, and there's 
 seven in total. Most of these levels are quite long, and do have some challenge in them, especially 
 the bosses. The special stages are set in a 3D type level, which involves you having to destroy 
 UFOs in a certain time. There are plenty of hazards, and it gets rather difficult. When you complete 
 a special stage, you get a time stone instead of a chaos emerald. These time stones determine what 
 ending you'll get at the end of the game.
  
  There's also a save feature on Sonic CD as well. This is very useful because it keeps track of 
 your progress in the game, and once you complete the game you can go back to any level you want. 
 There's also a time attack mode and a sound test, plus a debug mode which is very fun and useful 
 to use (I won't tell you how you unlock it though) .
  
  Now for the biggest highlights of Sonic CD. The music is absolutely amazing in this game! It has 
 the best Sonic soundtrack ever and all of the tunes in this game are great! From the Sonic Boom 
 to the Stardust Speedway tune, there's no music here which you won't like. All the classic Sonic 
 sounds are here as well. For once, the sound steals the show in a Sonic game!.
  The graphics are stunning as well, especially for a Sonic game. The amount of detail that's used 
 in the zone backgrounds is amazing, plus all of the highly detailed enemies in the game. Sonic 
 looks a bit basic but the rest of the game is highly sharp in graphics. You'll need at least a 
 mid-ranged PC to play this game at a very smooth framerate.
  
  Unfortuantly, Sonic CD doesn't seem to work on Windows XP, but wait! There's a patch that exists 
 on the internet which fixes this problem out (well, not really, it makes Windows XP think it's 
 a Windows 95 operating system to run the game) . However, I can't seem to be able to run the game 
 in fullscreen and it keeps crashing whenever I try it. It might be just a problem I have though.
 
  
  So overall, Sonic CD is one of the best Sonic games ever made. However, it's not easy to get hold 
 off on the PC anymore, so your best bet is to buy Sonic Gems Collection to play it. Hell, get Sonic 
 Gems Collection just for this game, because that's all you'll need it for! That Gamespot review 
 is a joke, because this is one of the most underrated games in Sonic's history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade9834
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything a sonic fan could want + it goes to show you they were able to make a 
 good sonic game without adding super sonic + you cant go wrong with the dash. ok need to use space 
 -_- .
  .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar1654
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is very old school. I don't think that you have to be a hardcore sonic fan to enjoy this 
 game, I think anybody can. You don't need to worry about the graphics since it's 2-D, but there 
 are some interesting details in the backgrounds. I remember playing this game when I was a bit 
 younger, and enjoyed it alot. It's good enough to leave some memories. The gameplay is exciting 
 in its own way, and the boss fights are very fun. I really enjoyed Dr. Robotnic being the main 
 villain and I would say that this is where sonic got alot of it's roots from. The music gets very 
 repetitive and annoying, but thats not a problem because nobody in the game talks, and you can 
 just simply turn the volume off. This game will leave you with some memorable experiences. It can 
 be hard, and can be easy, depending on how good you are at sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btstlouis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I ever played, and I have played hundreds of games and this one 
 is still on top. The only small complaint I have is the sound. At times it can sound sketchy. I 
 love the switching between past and present; it adds variety to all the levels. The boss fights 
 are fun and creative. The thing that this Sonic game has that no other one has are the two ways 
 to dash; you can do the figure eight or the ball one. One of my favorite levels is the race with 
 the metal sonic, but i dont really like Wacky Workbench. Overall this game delivers, big time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  This game ain't as good as the other 2D Sonic games This game is originally for the Sega CD then 
 I found out this game was ported to PC. Even though I rarely play games on my PC I went to order 
 this on EBay then I got it a days later then got around to playing it and I was dissapoint!
  
  In this game instead of saving animals you actually save flowers. And it's cool how can travel 
 from the past into the future. Other than that this game ain't that good. It's just lacking something. 
 Maybe it's the level designs' cheapness. It is really annoying how cheap this and some places take 
 pure luck to beat. For the music part the music is pretty weird too.
  
  Oh and why can't you use Tails or Amy is this game? I mean Amy is right their shown in this game 
 and you could use Tail in the one before this (Sonic 2) but why not here?
  
  Their certainly is better Sonic games out their. If you want great 2D Sonic expirience I recommend 
 Sonic and Knuckles or Sonic Rush. But if you want a 2D Sonic game your PC I guess this would have 
 to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwazyman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I don't do alot of reviews for Sonic games and old-school games, but, I thought it was time to 
 take a break and munch on some good ol' video games. I saw Mario 3, Pac-Man, Mario 64 (there was 
 one left, by the way.) But then, I saw it at the end of the table...
  
  SONIC CD.
  
  There was piles and piles of 'em! and I got one...
  
  Next thing I knew, I was playing it like 
 a mad man! I loved time traveling, the music, the gameplay...
  
  And as the gods now say... (This oath is carved in a statue of sonic (not really) )
  
  *~~ MAY 
 ONE who plays much of the godly game be blessed with the power of Sonic speed. You're one step 
 closer to being Sonic... ~~*
  
  May those words live on in all Sonic Fans... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatersonik2009
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I really thought this Sonic game was a very interesting one indeed. First off, that whole thing 
 with "time traveling" was kind of weird I will agree. However, the music, graphics, and game play 
 were all good, not great, but good. What I really like about this game is the special stages. Unlike 
 Sonic The Hedgehog for Sega Genesis with Sonic falling down in a rotating puzzle or Sonic The Hedgehog 
 2 for Sega Genesis where the special stages consisted of running in a half-pipe for rings, in this 
 game, you have to run and jump on UFO's. Kind of weird, but I thought it was interesting and fun. 
 All in all this is a very fun and different Sonic experience and is worth checking out. I also 
 have to recommend the Sega CD version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardockkun
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Basically it comes down to this, if you don't have a Sega CD and think you can settle for less 
 in playing Sonic CD and thinking you can settle less, you're damn wrong and you're an idiot (just 
 like me) . Basically unless you have a Genesis like joystick and can enjoy Sonic on a computer screen 
 with crappy resolution, then go for it, what do i know, i'm just a doctor after all...
  
  Hell just get any of the Sonic collections for PS2, Gamecube, or whatever else. Since you can do 
 alot better... ALOT BETTER. Besides that though, it definetly is one of the very best Sonic games 
 ever released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flex_ible2000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  [NOTE: Please forgive any badly-constructed paragraphs or sections that run together. For some 
 odd reason, GameSpot's review editor won't let me fix these things, so bear with me.]
  
  Intro:
  
  Sonic CD is a very cool game, not to mention my first Sonic game ever! That being 
 said, let's move onto the acutal review...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is classic Sonic gameplay with a twist. You can now travel forwards and backwards 
 through time by hitting signs around the stages. Once you hit a sign, if you keep a high speed 
 going for a certain amount of time, you can warp to the past or the future, depending on what kind 
 of sign you touched. This adds a nice dimension to the game. You can also use a super-speed thing 
 if you hold up on the controller and charge with the jump button. Its pretty much like the spin-dash, 
 but instead of rolling into a ball, Sonic moves his feet really fast and rockets off in the direction 
 hes facing. It looks pretty cool. The main problem with Sonic CD is that I found it to be quite 
 a bit too easy and short.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are better than average for a classic Sonic game. The intro/ending cartoon is really 
 cool, and the bonus stages are actually pretty nice 3D. Nothing amazing, just basic Sonic stuff. 
 But hey, that is amazing!
  Sound/Music:
  
  The sound effects are more or less basic sounds from the Sonic Universe. The main difference is 
 that the jumping sound is different. Why they changed it, I dont know. The music, on the other 
 hand, has taken a different approach than most classic Sonic games. It has more rock, techno, and 
 vocals. Its a kind of interesting twist, and the theme song, Sonic Boom, is pretty good. The fact 
 that each zones past, present, and future all have different tunes is a nice touch.
  
  Value:
  
  This game is too short. Luckily, it has a Time Attack mode. I havent been able to 
 collect all of the Time Stones yet, its quite difficult, so that adds some replay on. Oh, a couple 
 of bad things about Time Attack the bonus stages dont appear in the stages and neither do the 
 past/future signs. Thats really too bad, because the time travel thing is really fun.
  
  Tilt:
  
  It's a very unique and fun Sonic game, and one that deserves more attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMECAMILLER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  GAMECAMILLER fast review- Sonic CD (pc)
  (these types of reviews are lighting fast and just hit only the main points)
  
  overall: 8.5
 
  
  Concept 10/10: 
  When the ongoing battle between Doctor Robotnik and Sonic over the elusive and valuable Chaos Emeralds, 
 comes to the your pc, an adventure unlike any other begins! Guide Sonic in a new quest through 
 a mysterious world as he must learn to master time itself (with the time stones and signs) to stop 
 Robotnik and rescue Amy (your newest friend) from the clutches of the evil doctor and his newest 
 henchman Metal Sonic; a mechanical replication of Sonic, with unbelievable speed and power!
  This game is a port of the 1993 game, Sonic CD for the Sega CD system.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  CD 
 quality music....... just one problem......... lots of the tunes are very catchy.... while lots are 
 not. Some music is really good, but some just is horrible. But, almost all is forgettable.
  
  controls- 10/10 
  Easy to use on the keyboard or controller. Controls are easy to learn. 
 And this game is actually playable with a keyboard. But since this was originally made for control 
 pad use, USE a control pad. It makes the game feel right.
  
  Difficulty: Easy to Moderate overall (if you have played sonic 2d games before, you will find this 
 game to be very easy to beat but itll take you a long while to master all the secrets) .
  
  graphics- 8/10 
  Nice for the Sega CD 2d style. The sprites are colorful, and the sprite animation 
 for the game is perfect.
  
  Replayability- 9/10
  Moderate, good set of unlockables and challenges; It takes a while to unlock the secrets since 
 every course has lots and lots of ways to finish it (even more so with the time jumps.) Time trials 
 are always one thing that makes a game (like Sonics games) replayable. And, if you can get certain 
 overall times, you get some secrets... But, then we have the fact that you can do 21 stages, and 
 14 of which you can do in the past, present, bad future, and good future, making in all, 61 places 
 you can go to! Then, trying to get all the time stones, makes this a very replayable game.
  
  Entertainment 7/10
  It's nice but not the best sonic game ever. Through it's longer then 
 most 2D sonic games, its still easier, and with the soundtrack and (the seemingly dark style) , 
 it feels different like the other sonic games; So much so it might turn you off if youre a sonic 
 fan.
  PC (try to find the demo to play first, go to sega. com/usa to get it )
  $10 or less 
  
  
  NOTE THAT THIS GAME WILL NOT WORK WITH 
 WINDOWS XP WITHOUT THE PATCH I FOUND!!!!!!!
  
  It's at sonic-cult. org (but if you can't find it there try searching on the web or asking me lolbut 
 there is a patch out there.)
  
  and it will only work on XP with that patch. plus it must be 256 colors (just right click the program 
 and set it to do that )
  
  Note if your a: young one" do not go to Sonic-Cultits for older users. 
 
  System Requirements
  
  Your computer must meet the following system requirements to run this game.
  The game may not 
 run, or you may experience decreased performance on computers that do not fulfill these requirements.
 
  
  *Windows95
  *Pentium 75MHz or superior CPU
  *16 Megabytes of free memory
  *Minimum of 20 megabytes free Hard Disk space
  
  Recommended system configuration
  *Pentium 
 133MHz or superior CPU
  
  --------------------
  
  Notes:
  
  1. DirectX is required in order to play Sonic & Knuckles 
  Collection. DirectX is installed automatically 
 when the 
  setup program is run. If for any reason DirectX has not 
  been installed, please install it with dxsetup. exe located 
  in the Directx directory of the 
 CD.
  
  2. Some problems may occur when you play the game with 
  windows-size on true-color mode. In this case, play the 
  game with full-screen (F4) .
  
  3. 
 When you take off or change a joystick during game, 
  quit the game and reconfigure joystick properties.
  
  4. Full-screen may cause break of game 
 graphics on some 
  machines. In this case, try to check "Options..."-"Check 
  this box if you experience graphical problems" in game 
  select scene. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
