-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Riders
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/sonicriders/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent sense of speed.
 plenty of unlockables.
 riding the turbulence is pretty cool.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Track designs are cheap and frustrating.
 story mode is a complete waste of time.
 annoying audio.
 having to make pit stops kills the pacing.
 without an analog gamepad, this game borders on unplayable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 4.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 202 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Racing
Date:     Nov 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic Riders can occasionally be quite entertaining, but too many of those entertaining moments 
 are overridden by bouts of frustration and weak mechanics. 

  Like most popular platformer franchises, the Sonic series has dabbled in the racing genre in the 
 past with games like Sonic R for the Saturn. Despite the fact that Sonic's already-speedy nature 
 might seem like a perfect fit for a racing game of some sort, the results of these attempts have 
 been disappointing thus far. Sonic Riders is the latest attempt to get Sonic back on the race track, 
 though this one eschews the typical kart- and foot-racing brands of racing usually found in a racer 
 starring popular platformer heroes. Instead, Riders gives Sonic and pals their very own  Back to 
 the Future II -style hoverboards, which they can use to dart and dash around wacky tracks of varying 
 levels of difficulty. Unfortunately, Sonic Riders isn't much better than any of Sega's previous 
 attempts to make Sonic a racing hero, simply because it can't quite keep its diverse and chaotic 
 racing mechanics together in one cohesive package. There are times when you'll find yourself enjoying 
 how blazingly fast the game can go and other times when you'll be frustrated beyond belief by the 
 very same thing. And that's all within a single race.  

           Something about the term extreme gear is offensive on so many levels.     

  The premise 
 behind Sonic Riders is going to be utterly impenetrable to anyone but the most ardent Sonic fans. 
 Along with his pals Knuckles and Tails, Sonic is, once again, on the hunt for chaos emeralds. Suddenly, 
 the team witnesses the theft of an emerald by some very edgy, cute-looking thieves riding hoverboards 
 (or, "extreme gear," as they're known in the game) . Not long after that, Dr. Eggman shows up and 
 starts rambling about wanting to hold an extreme-gear racing tournament for some reason or another. 
 It turns out that the thieves are part of a crew of legendary thieves known as the Babylon Rogues, 
 and there's a whole thing about trying to rediscover the long-hidden island of Babylon, which harbors 
 some kind of treasure... or something like that. It's a completely incoherent storyline, not to 
 mention one that rehashes a lot of stuff that has been done 20 times better in just about every 
 other Sonic game every made. Evil plots are hatched, Sonic and Knuckles get into it with the bad 
 guys, Tails says a few overly precocious things, and so on and so forth. Then again, this is a 
 racing game, so the plot is really incidental to the whole package. Still, this game probably would 
 have been much better off going the minimalist story route, like the Mario Kart games.  

  The racing in Sonic Riders is kind of an odd mishmash of F-Zero GX-style futuristic racing and 
 something like SSX. When you get going during a race, the pace can be extremely quick -- as it should 
 be in a racing game starring Sonic -- but pure speed isn't enough to win. There are a number of secondary 
 mechanics and meters you'll have to concern yourself with to succeed regularly. First and foremost, 
 you'll find yourself monitoring your air meter, which depletes every time you hit the boost button. 
 Incidentally, that's going to be a lot of the time. To keep up, you're going to find yourself hitting 
 that boost an awful lot, especially in the early goings, when you're still trying to figure out 
 the layouts of the tracks and all the shortcuts. That's bad, because once you're out of air, your 
 character jumps off his or her board and starts running until you can find a pit to stop in for 
 a moment to recharge. Running into objects on the track also kills your air. While that makes some 
 measure of sense, the whole pit-stop aspect of the game sucks a lot of the fun out of the racing. 
 The whole point of the game is that you're going along at increasingly blinding speeds, trying 
 to ride as much momentum as possible; it doesn't make much sense that you suddenly have to stop 
 and recharge because you accidentally hit a wall after boosting a bunch. Not to mention that the 
 pits themselves aren't even all that out of the way on the tracks, so you may find yourself running 
 into them accidentally every now and then.  

  Fortunately, some of the other concepts in the gameplay pan out a bit better. One of the cooler 
 things Sonic Riders has to offer is the turbulence-riding mechanic. Essentially, as other racers 
 zoom along the tracks, they give off streams of turbulence that you can ride into and get a big 
 speed boost out of. Turbulence sort of takes the game out of your hands, though, because you could 
 easily ride it out without ever touching a button. But if you did that, you'd miss out on the opportunity 
 to pull off some tricks. Yes, there's a rudimentary trick system in Sonic Riders. Whether you're 
 riding turbulence or taking big jumps, all you need to do is spin the left analog stick (or, if 
 you're unlucky enough not to have a dual analog gamepad to go along with the PC version of the 
 game, hold down one of the directional arrow keys) and you'll pull off a few neat flips and spins. 
 It's nothing deep, but pulling off tricks is a necessary enjoyment, because doing them and landing 
 correctly afterward nets you sizable air boosts. There are also some unique shortcuts that various 
 characters can take depending on what class they fall under. Power racers, for instance, can simply 
 bowl through certain obstacles on the track without losing a bit of speed, whereas speed racers 
 can grind various rails scattered throughout a course. As nice an idea as the class system is, 
 it doesn't make much difference to the gameplay. You can pick just about any racer in the game 
 and play pretty much the same way without much consequence.  

  That's mainly because the track designs lend themselves to the same level of frustration, no matter 
 which character you're playing as. While all the tracks are built with the sorts of launch ramps, 
 loop-de-loops, and other craziness you'd expect, they're not nearly as much fun to race around 
 as you might hope. For one thing, the game relies a little too heavily on taking corners perfectly. 
 These tracks are littered with the sorts of blind jumps and turns that cause you to go flying off 
 the course and have to reset yourself, and you'll often lose the race as a result. You can't always 
 correct this by practicing, either. Sometimes you'll be taking a corner perfectly, only to run 
 into a wall of turbulence that you can't bust into to ride because you're not traveling fast enough, 
 which in turn bumps you off the edge of the course. The tracks can be pleasing to look at, and 
 there are more than enough shortcuts, jumps, and other fun things to race around, but the tracks 
 are simply too short, too loose, and too frustrating to keep up with what the fast-paced racing 
 requires.  

  The controls also leave something to be desired. It makes sense that trying to control an ultrafast 
 hoverboard would be a little loose, but the controls are unwieldy in a lot of spots. When you're 
 in a position to grind a rail, you have to press the jump button to get up, and then press it again 
 to grind, which seems unnecessary. When you want to round a tight corner, you need to hold down 
 one of the trigger buttons to sort of slow down and lean into the turn. What the game fails to 
 mention is that if you hold down the button for a half-second too long, you'll overshoot the turn 
 and go crashing into the opposing wall. It's irritating, to say the least. Additionally, if you're 
 playing this game on the PC, get a dual analog gamepad or don't even bother playing it. Trying 
 to control this game with arrow keys instead of analog sticks is like trying to steer a car with 
 your teeth -- not ideal, and rather harrowing at that.  

  If nothing else, Sonic Riders fares better as a multiplayer game than as a single-player one. The 
 artificially intelligent racers tend to run very predictable races, so getting into the multiplayer 
 arena does away with that problem, though the fact that the PC version supports only two total 
 players negates some of that appeal. There are also quite a few modes to choose from apart from 
 normal races and the story mode. There's a mission mode, in which you're tasked to perform specific 
 tricks to beat the Babylon Rogues team; a survival mode that includes both standard battle and 
 race variants; and a tag mode, in which two teams of two racers, each of which share a single air 
 tank, race through a selected track. None of these modes are any better than the standard races, 
 but at least there is a good bit of variety available. On top of all that, the game lets you acquire 
 a lot of unlockables, including new extreme gear, as well as plenty of hidden characters, some 
 of which are certain to get longtime Sega fans giddy with glee.  

          Sonic Riders is far from the worst company mascot character racer you'll ever play, but 
 that doesn't say an awful lot for it.     

  Sonic Riders isn't a bad-looking game by any means. Save for a few sporadic bursts of frame rate 
 slowdown, the game moves at an excellent clip, providing exactly the sort of speed you'd expect. 
 The levels and characters are bright and colorful, though when you slow down, some of the track 
 areas look kind of drab and muddy. A copious number of CG cutscenes are interspersed throughout 
 the story mode, and while the scenes themselves are reasonably clean looking, they're not anything 
 special, either. The PC version of the game looks about on par with the Xbox version released earlier 
 in the year. The game runs at a maximum resolution of only 1024x768, and even with all the various 
 antialiasing and texture settings cranked up, it looks like a slightly muddy console port. Less 
 impressive is the game's audio. The voice acting is about as hammy as in any other Sonic game, 
 but the incessant chatter of the female race announcer tends to grate as you're speeding along. 
 The music and sound effects are mostly generic, and nothing about them stands out.  

  Sonic Riders is arguably the best Sonic-themed racer out there, but it does little to distinguish 
 itself amid an already overcrowded platformer-turned-racer market. The use of the extreme gear 
 in lieu of the usual cartoon racer vehicles is a nice twist, and there is a bounty of content for 
 you to get through, but the racing itself isn't strong enough to keep the game afloat for long. 
 Ultimately, Riders is a racer that provides some decent fan service to the Sega loyal, but not 
 much else. And if you are one of those devout Sega loyalists, track down Sonic Riders on just about 
 any other platform than the PC, because this is hardly the ideal way to play the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Sonic Riders seems to be a great game, but in fact it is just another racing game in which you 
 will have to speed up and beat your opponents.
  
  First of all, the graphics engine is very imressive at times, but it becomes annoying very often. 
 The game offers a high-speed experience, which will confuse the beginners, though. Nevertheless, 
 Sonic Riders is still a funny game to play, in which you see for another time Dr. Eggman trying 
 to catch up with Sonic, this time sending a racing team called "The Babylon Rogues" who seem to 
 be the fastest on earth riding their extreme gears. It is, in fact, a good script, especially when 
 the secret of BAbylon is revealed, and there is a good gameplay, too. But for the rest, I cannot 
 guarantee that the rest of the features are that good.
  
  To sum up, I think that the game is not good-balanced. And the balance between the gameplay and 
 the graphics is very important.
  
  And before i forget it: the videos and music were very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _IronManDude_
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  Sonic Riders is a game in which you control Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, and other characters, ride 
 on air boards, and race your opponents. Sonic Riders will put yourself in Sonic's shoes, as he 
 searches for one of the elusive Chaos Emeralds. While this idea seems used, it is a staple of the 
 Sonic series. Sonic, Tails and Knuckles are searching around for the jewel, it gets stolen. This 
 idea starts a string of races which take place on air boards. The races can be fun, but get very 
 annoying when you hit a wall and get stopped until you are eighth, or when you are just slightly 
 ahead of your opponent, and you run out of energy, and (s) he beats you. Arghh! Yes, arghh. Aside 
 from the single-player, multi-player will keep you entertained for a while, but not that long. 
 The soundtrack is OK, I would prefer Disturbed, Metallica and Dream Theater, but techno is OK. 
 Overall, I give the game a 7.9, closest to 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giga_957
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders is a fun game when you play it the first time. The game has interesting graphics and 
 a good sound. But the gameplay is not very good. The game features lots of unlockables, it has at 
 least 50 Extreme Gears, and seventeen characters. If you want to unlock all characters you will have 
 to finish the story mode which is not worth wasting your time. The interesting
  thing is that you get to play the story mode with six characters. The game is allso fun when you 
 are playing with a friend. The controls are difficult when you are playing with a friend. I would 
 just like if Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity will
  come out for pc.
  
  Sonic Riders features few game mods, and fourteen race tracks. PS2 version of Sonic Riders is a million 
 times better then the pc version. The GameCube version sucks. I would rather play Super Mario. I learnd 
 to play Sonic Riders very good and i finished the Metal City race track in 2.09.57 minutes if someone 
 broke that record write a review and tell it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Woooohooooo what an amazing game!!!! It just breaks the norm of running on foot (i. e. Sonic R) 
 and introduces trciks styling with power ups and methods of thwarting your rivals!!!!!
  
  A whole host of rfershing features... including well animated graphigcs, seasoned gameplay, wonderful 
 storylline (story mode) , a whole host of characters (Babylon Rogues, Knuckles, Sonic, Tails, and 
 some unxepcted ones such as Nights and Ulala) and a mind blowing soundtarck for each race track!!!
 
  
  There are loadsa borads to choose from... but wait there... its not just boards you use... as you 
 complete the story modes you will come acrossother means of transporting your trusty chums across 
 various plains.... each with their own fun facts, such as gringin rails, smashing through barriers 
 and using short cuts......
  
  There are a couple of good cutscenes too, including two hlighly rendered ones.... you can also unlock 
 various features such as bew characters, mission modes and more.... you earn rings whihc you can 
 trade for tems such a new boards etc...
  
  This is one fantastic game, and the difficulty is not so bad... as long as you know what you are 
 doing, which charcter you are using, and how the track is laid out.... there is one slight problem 
 if you have a slow processor for the DVD drive, as gameplay is sometimes slow depending on whihc 
 character you are playing... but if you tweak about the settings in the options menu, all sahll 
 be fine in a jiffy..... and ace game!!!! Now you just have to wait for SR 2 to come out!!!!! And 
 for the PS3 as well, wow!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeretul_fighter
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  I bought Sonic Riders for the PC, because I thought it'd be a great game. The screenshots looked 
 pretty cool so I gave it a short. After all, as a Sonic fan, I give most games from the series 
 a try. I played it for an hour or so. While the game was slightly worse than expectations, I still 
 liked the game. It's very challenging for a racing game and there are lots of elements to it. But 
 it's too hard to the point where it can be really frustrating.
  
  The game's plot is different from most Sonic games and from what you might expect. Sonic, Tails, 
 and Knuckles search for a Chaos Emerald and realize a trio of thieves named Babylon Rouges took 
 them. They use special machines called Extreme Gear, and their speed are just as great as Sonic's 
 running speed. While Sonic out-races two of them using a gear that fell, the last one, named Jet 
 the Hawk AKA the leader, beats him in a race. He then mocks Sonic about the fact that he is the 
 fastest thing alive. The next day, they see Dr. Eggman proposing an Extreme Gear tournament. While 
 Sonic Heroes refuse to compete, they find out that the Babylon Rouges are taking part, which changes 
 Sonic's mind and the three enters.
  
  The gameplay of this game is... well, it's great. But not awesome. It's challenging and can go 
 to the point where it can be really frustrating. The characters have three different types; Speed, 
 Flight, and Power. Each has it's own technique and can make their own shortcuts with their abilities. 
 The tracks can be frustrating as well, having many mechanics that get in the way and number of 
 pits to make you start over. If either hit by an attack from a rivalling racer or fall down to 
 a pit, you lose all the rings you collected, your Extreme Gear slows down, and lose it's power. 
 Also the Extreme Gear's air goes down FAST. You're forced to use them up a lot. It adds a nice 
 amount of challenge at times, but it can also be frustrating on certain occassions.
  
  The graphics of the game is similar to Sonic Heroes and Shadow the Hedgehog. It's nothing much 
 special. But the CGI cutscenes have improved from the two games, so there's an improvement.
  
  The sound on this game is also similar to every Sonic game you played. But the big WHOOSHING 
 sound is pretty cool to, as you run at an exceedingly fast speed. The voice acting can use some 
 work though. I really wonder why Sega decided to use Sonic X voice actors instead of the original 
 cast for the game, such as Ryan Drummund to voice act Sonic.
  
  The replay value, however, I would say is not as good. Because it's so hard, you don't wanna go 
 through all the pressure and try playing through the whole game again. But it's nice to play some 
 tracks that you raced in previously before, especailly when racing against friends.
  
  Overall, Sonic Riders is a good game, but if there is Sonic Riders 2 then that could improve some 
 problems in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I'll start saing that I dislike sonic X cartoon. I took this game only because my sister made me 
 do it. And so I liked it a lot and I played it a lot 3 weeks ago. No I'm just playing it for fun... but 
 it worths. And in multiplayer you can play it day and night: D
  
  It has a super gameplay I would say. You can choose one of the 3 types of characters wich are speed, 
 fly and power. And each of it has a bonus in each map. You can take different advantages that require 
 the atribute you choosed. You also have the possibility to buy better gears. You will unlock new 
 maps missions characters. You may receive decorations and so on. I say again that it has an apreciable 
 gameplay.
  
  About graphics, well the graphics are average for a racing game. Although it is a recent game... it 
 should have a better graphics. I can't say I am dissapointed about the graphics, but it could have 
 been better.
  
  Sound; I'll start that each character has a word to say, the maps have each it's own music except 
 the upgraded maps that are later on... And yeah there are different sounds when you do other stuffs. 
 Hmm... I say it has a decent sound.
  
  Well about it's value I am not sure. As I said you can play this game anytime in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoFalconHavok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders is a racing game. Yeah, the racing genre is the most underrated (yet still sucky) 
 genre of all time. And wouldn't you know it, a sonic racer actually outdoes them all.
  
  Story: 6/10
  
  Sonic stories. The great suckage of anything. But for a racing game, what can 
 one expect but mediocrity ayway? Sonic and the gang are back and this time in a true test of speed 
 ......... on boards. Jet and his gang of thieves challenge sonic and the gang to a race for chaos 
 emeralds. However sonic can't do it on a board right? And robotnik is behind this scheme as well 
 (oh yeah... MAJOR plot twist here) . The story has more comical moments than ever (thank god)
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Best i've seen in racing games yet. Starting off a racing, you are already 
 active, having to run up to he plate at start. Good interaction there. Then its all you. Finally 
 a racing game where you dont have to hold A all the time. You can relax... well not really. On the 
 road you have air to watch out for. thats the new gig in this game, your health is basically air. 
 Everything yo udo depends and helps your air. Tricks, stations, smashing, etc. Boosting takes air 
 (duh) , sliding takes air, causing twisters take air. everything basically. You can attack players 
 by boosting behind them (which is actually pretty good, so you wont have to depend on cruddy weapons 
 (Im looking at you mario kart) You also have a slick ability to ride turbulence (you know, the 
 thing on airplanes that makes them shake? NO) Just imagine the guy in front of you has had a huge 
 burrito and is flying ahead of you with his renegade reek of wet ass and you'll see what I mean. 
 Jumping on this fumigated trail allows you to catch up with them and possibly pass them. The stages 
 also feature type zones. Returning from the depths of hell is the heroes system. You have speed, 
 fly, and power types. Speed characters can grind on rails (press A twice) Fly can go through loops 
 (from SA1 tails stages) and power can (you guessed it) bash through obsticales. Oddly when you 
 learn the mechanics and stage routes, you will pwn waay to easly and think wow this game is easy 
 Well there are those rare moments so yeah. And besides, they have vehicules which tottaly eliminate 
 the purpose of having different character types so bleh.
  
  Sound: 3/10
  
  Dissappointing, I was expecting the game to have some real kickass tracks similar to the main theme. 
 I was wrong... the music blows. Sound effects (combined with the always incredibly retarded 4kids 
 actors) make your ears bleed angry letters of why sonic team makes you bare through the horror.
 
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  You will get a swift kick in the ass out of this game. It has actual GOOD multiplayer modes (battle 
 mode FTW!!) actually GOOD unlockables, and its a racing game that takes actual skill (at first 
 at least)
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  This is one racing game that owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orion1024
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been playing the demo for about a week now and really like this game! I'm not sure exactly 
 why it's getting such low scores from the different sources, but I think it certainly deserves 
 better (or maybe at least the PC version, as that's the only Sonic Riders I've played - I don't 
 own a console at all) . I love all types of racing games and the ones like Sonic Riders, TrackMania 
 Sunrise, and Wipeout combine power-ups, weapons, or stunts that add a whole new dimension to the 
 racing experience. Sonic Riders is quite a bit of fun in this area - that is, trying to pull-off 
 ever more complex aerial maneuvers to keep your air reserve full and to keep your momentum going. 
 That's the essence of this game, and I think it works quite well. The sense of speed is very well 
 done, especially the blurring effect (I wish the motion blur effect in TM Sunrise worked this well... that 
 is, without the drop in performance on my 6800 GT) . The control in Sonic Riders works just fine 
 with my Logitech Dual gamepad... it's nice not having to use a wheel for a racing game! Overall, 
 I think Sonic Riders is quite a bit of fun and worth picking up if you like this type of game... especially 
 for $20. Give the demo a try and decide for yourself! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
