-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic 3D Blast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sonic3dblast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.6, 6.9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Sep 30, 1997
ESRB: Kids to Adult

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
PC owners will find it an inherently underwhelming experience. 

 When Sonic the Hedgehog rocketed onto the Sega Genesis back in 1991, sales of the fledgling game 
 platform shot through the ceiling. By creating a cute and identifiable mascot and coupling him 
 with a solid platform game, the bucks began to roll in and sequels galore followed. It's six years 
 later and, judging from Sonic 3D Blast, it doesn't look like our favorite blue rodent is doing 
 as well. The game is a straightforward port from the 32-bit Sega Saturn version - which, in turn, 
 was a straightforward port from the 16-bit Sega Genesis version.  

 Following the standard Sonic storyline, Sonic 3D Blast involves Dr. Robotnik, that generic and unsavory 
 mad scientist, kidnapping a mysterious species of Flicky birds and transforming them into evil 
 robots. Sonic, our spiky-haired azure friend, won't stand for this, so he sets off for the mysterious 
 Flicky Island to save his cuddly feathered pals, and steal back the Chaos Emeralds, the source 
 of Robotnik's power.  

 Though the title, Sonic 3D Blast, may suggest a Super Mario 64-esque romp through a three-dimensional 
 environment, the game actually consists of running and jumping through flat 2D surroundings from 
 an isometric view. Through each of the seven worlds, Sonic has to destroy enemy robots, collect 
 the Flicky birds hidden inside, and transport them to a floating ring, which leads to the next 
 board. TV monitors can be jumped on to obtain special shields to protect you and the Flickies from 
 harm, and stepping on rotating pads transforms Sonic into an indestructible spinning top. And, 
 just like the rest of the Sonic games, maintaining a supply of gold rings is the key to survival 
 - as long as you have one ring, you can't be killed.  

 Though the gameplay is tried-and-true, and the control feels satisfactory, the overall experience 
 is pretty mundane - and occasionally frustrating, since the skewed perspective requires some guesswork 
 when dealing with moving platforms and floating enemies. In fact, the only instance where Sonic 
 3D Blast becomes halfway impressive is during the bonus rounds, which are fast-paced, ring-collecting 
 runs through a 3D half-pipe.  

 However, the most disappointing thing about Sonic 3D Blast is its performance. On the test system 
 (a P200) , there was a distinct amount of choppiness to the scrolling, even though this type of 
 game shouldn't make even a 486 break a sweat (remember how smooth Jazz Jackrabbit was?) . A lot 
 of it may be due to the game running in hi-color, but there's no excuse for a Sonic game to be 
 this sluggish. Other disappointments include a limited save-game system that only lets you pick 
 up where you last left off, and a few hang-ups when playing with the keyboard.  

 Though Sonic 3D Blast was designed to be the Sega Genesis's last hurrah, PC owners will find it 
 an inherently underwhelming experience. We can only hope that our little blue buddy's next PC cameo 
 will carry a little more merit.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The good: Has a save feature, less long loading times than the Saturn, music still is great
  The bad: Graphical achiecvements are lower, the game contains all of the flaws the previous versions 
 had
  
  Game-play: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 6/10
  Tilt: 6/10
  Average Score: 7.2/10
  
  
  In my opinion I liked both the Saturn and Genesis versions of 
 Sonic 3D Blast. I like this version too, but not by much. The game is a port of the Saturn version. 
 In this game, the fat man has taken over Flicky Island, and Sonic must save the Flickies from destruction. 
 You need to collect 5 flickies at a time and put them through demensional rings through an isometric 
 area. If you bring 50 rings to Tails or Knuckles, you go to the special stage to get a chaos emerald. 
 Getting all Chaos emeralds gives you power to go to the final boss.
  
  The game is extremely fun, but it gets a little repetitive. Plus, the controls suck a lot. For 
 example, one zone in the final zone has you climbing moving platforms. However, there are a few 
 glitches that make you avoid getting to the top, making it extremely frustrating. Plus, the platforms 
 are extremely slippery.
  
  Graphically, the game worsens much, but it's still beautiful and colorful. The music is still sweet 
 too, but the audio is a little annoying as well. While the PC version of Sonic 3D Blast isn't superb, 
 it has a save feature and fewer loadings, making it good to buy. Although its graphics suffer compared 
 to previous versions, this makes a good rent and easy to reccomend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  After the thrid and best sonic i knew they will wll fail the forth. After a really good begining 
 a superb continue and a perfect trilogy becaming there comes the amazing.... Crap. This game is 
 crap. It's ugly, it's stupid it's uncontrollabe it's misrable it's ... it's bad! Really bad, man! 
 It was a total disappointing and a total letdown, so if you don't want to dissapoint, don't try 
 it.
  
  Graphics: Bad. 3/10
  
  Sounds: Not so bad. 7/10
  
  Controls: Uncontrollable. 2/10
  
  Gameplay: Slow and stupid. 1/10
  
  The good: Sonic
 
  
  The bad: In his worst game
  
  FINAL SCORE: 3.0 BAD (and just becouse i was regular) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  It is like wise understandable that SEGA wanted to move Sonic into 3D, but it should have been 
 done in a way not to influence the core game play it self.
  
  Story: Dr Robotnik caused trouble for the small animals. The small animals have scattered through 
 out the Island and its up to Sonic to bring them back home safely.
  
  Game design: Well first of all, although the game plays as a 3D game its isnt exactly 3D, its 
 really sprites that were perfectly animated to make the game look more 3D. That is not to say the 
 graphics are bad, in fact the graphics look good and how SEGA pulled this off is impressive.
  
  Game play: This is where everything goes down. You wont be speeding around levels and performing 
 loops like you usually do in Sonic games. Your goal is to collect every last animal and bring them 
 back into this ring, which will bring you to another section of the area and collect more animals, 
 in the end of each area there is a showdown with Robotnik. If it was made like this as a side effect 
 of the games graphical improvement or was an attempt to bring Sonic to a different game category 
 it failed all together, since the game play will become repetitive very early and as you advance 
 the animals will become even more harder to find and you will take a while to finish a single area. 
 There are no high speed action game play what so ever, in fact Sonic will be half walking half 
 running the entire time. Sound: There are some good soundtrack but not really memorable ones. The 
 sound effects are classic so not much comment here.
  
  Sonic 3D blast gets old rather quickly and it hardly qualifies as either a 3D game or Sonic game. 
 Apart from some repetitive enemies the environments are pretty empty and Sonic wont really interact 
 with anyone. The experience is very mediocre and I personally didnt find the game all that interesting. 
 I would say this game is a failed experiment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilija_True_Game
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Well I like this game cause it's well sonic but it just didn't work out. Sonic doesn't save little 
 birds, does he? Thats not a Sonic game, one I'm not used to. I'm happy to say its one of sonics 
 first 3D games but it's practically completely bad. The gameplay is bad, with the boring fights 
 and not many moves, the texture looks bad or repetitive. The adventure or mission is not well done 
 and don't expect a challenge what so ever.
  So let me explain what you need to do. You must find certain monsters in you're area and kill them. 
 You get a bird or flickey as they call it, I think. You need to collect a few and send them to 
 this big ring you jump on. You gotta jump on the ring and if you had enough birds you get to go 
 to the next level. This game is a waste of time, unless you're a hardcore sonic fan. No story, 
 at all, just running around jumping and killing bad guys for birds. Its not smart.
  
  I'd recommend playing this game if you friend has it. Just go to his house and play but dont buy 
 it. I'm happy my cousins got this and lend it to me a few years back.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Honestly. the 3D mode is so hard. Controlling it feels like jumping in football. Honestly.
  
  The soundtrack has gone for babies to supersonic quiet. No, thats good - that means you can 
 relax back and take a quick play.
  
  The game is almost Birds' eye view. Sonic goes so fast, you can crash straight away. It's like 
 seeing him as a baseball ball and the saying from behind; "Going, Going, Going, Gone" which is 
 stupid, and we should catch up.
  
  Great sound, and another bad-avarage game on my list. Seriously, Sonic. At least this plot isn't 
 about 'saving the world form Robotik'. Almost. Go away Sonic, make your day beautiful. And make 
 sure this isn't a re-realease. NEXT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  The game still looks as good as the Sega Saturn version. The controls are harder to use than a 
 Game Controller. The enviroments look OK, just that they could have looked. better. It is hard 
 sometimes to see certain items since the enviroment blocks the view of some of them. The sense 
 of speed is reduced and Sonic runs slower. 
  
  If only the music Track was in the Saturn version, it would have made that version even better.
 
  
  daf dsalfj askjdfasdlk fasdflkef hsdfahdasf ;aehf; eahd; af dsf; hs fsdkfsdafkj hsjkfsdahfjlshf dsalfhdsal 
 kfd, df d fddsa kdsaf ksadf kdsa ksadf sldf sadf lkjdsafjerof nvdnv8e4 448 ndkl . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 6, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This sonic game is very ambitious, you play sonic on some island trying to get hold of htese little 
 creatures and put them inside a ring which sounds a lot of fun but isnt really all that good.
 
  
  This game could have been amazing if this game played a bit better, if there was more to do and 
 if it wasnt so frustrating. because its an isometric view, its hard to pin-point your jumps on 
 your enemies and carrying those little flickies about isnt all that much fun. 
  
  This game has one mode and its not all that good. this game gets harder and harder. you will reach 
 a point where you just give up on the game and leave it unfinished, this game is a pain. the bosses 
 become invincible. there are traps you cannot avoid and jumping is a pest, this game should be 
 so much better.
  
  Sonic isnt at his best here, this game should be missed, this game is just frustrating and very 
 ambitious. leave this game untouched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bocoe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 10, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  So far this game has come out on 3 different versions. The Mega Drive one, the Sega Saturn one 
 (Which I think is the best) and this one the PC version. If you have never played Sonic 3D Blast 
 then I think that you should. It is a great game. Plus the game is not very hard now to find.
 
  
  (Story) Sonic and co are off to visit the mysterious Flickey Island. Meanwhile, Dr Robotnik has 
 hatched a new plan. his target this time is Flickey Island. He has detected the presence of the 
 Chaos Emeralds on the Island. upon arriving there, Dr Robotnik immediately starts setting up his 
 intruder defences, and begins building the robots he loves so much. But Dr Robotnik needs to find 
 the Flickies to place inside his machines. Suddenly Dr Robotnik sees a bright shining Dimension 
 Ring appear. A flock of Flickies fly out of the ring, perch on a tree branch, pick up some food 
 and then disappear into the Dimension ring. Robotnik now knows the secret of the Flickeys, that 
 they live in another dimesion. Robotnik develops a new device: the Dimension Ring Generator. He 
 then captures Flickies with the Ring he made and then begins to turn them into badniks. Now its 
 up to Sonic to stop the mad Doctors plan and save the Flickies and there Island.
  
  (Graphics) Sonic and the others look really good plus the way Sonic moves is also a nice touch. 
 The backgrounds and land marks all look really detailed and are quite impresive for a old game.
 
  
  (Sound) I really did like the songs on this game they are very easy to listen to and will enjoy 
 listening to them while you play the game.
  
  (How it Plays) It can be a bit hard to be able to control Sonic on the Key board so i recoment 
 you get a control for this but with a control you should be fine. Plus there is nothing wrong with 
 the camera veiw in this game so you can easy see what you are doing.
  
  (Value) Quite a long game to complete with huge levels and getting the Chaos Emeralds will also 
 take some time but it will get a bit easy after a while and you will soon see yourself completing 
 the game.
  
  (Overall) If you have never played this game then i recomend you get it but you can get it just 
 about anywhere now. I would say that the Sega Saturn version is much better but not that many people 
 would have played that one. But you can also get this game well the Mega Drive version on all consoles 
 now because of Sonic Mega Collection. But if you dont have any consoles and your a PC fan then 
 get this game and try it out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
