-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soul Reaver 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/soulreaver2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 630 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 20, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those players familiar with the original Soul Reaver should have a good idea of what to expect from 
 the sequel and its innovative blend of action and puzzle-solving. 

 Raziel, a brooding blue-skinned half-demon, half-vampire armed with a soul-sucking energy blade, 
 is the memorable antihero of Soul Reaver 2 and its predecessor. He was first introduced in 1999's 
 Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver, which itself was a follow-up to the 1996 PlayStation game Blood Omen: 
 Legacy of Kain. All three games in the Legacy of Kain series were originally developed for video 
 game consoles, but all three were subsequently ported to the PC. Like the previous installments 
 in the series, Soul Reaver 2 is a third-person action-adventure that shows its roots as a console 
 game, both for better and for worse. Those players familiar with the original Soul Reaver should 
 have a good idea of what to expect from the sequel and its innovative blend of action and puzzle-solving. 
           As Raziel, you'll explore the world of Nosgoth during various points in time.    

  On the other hand, those who aren't already acquainted with the series will have some catching 
 up to do. Soul Reaver 2 assumes that you're familiar with the events of the previous game. If you 
 aren't, then you might wonder what exactly is going on when Soul Reaver 2 begins -- incidentally, 
 at more or less exactly the point that the original Soul Reaver concluded. There's some exposition 
 in the game's manual, but not a whole lot in the game itself.   

  Gameplay is basically similar to that of the first Soul Reaver. Raziel will travel across a number 
 of vast-looking environments in search of answers to his many questions about his origins and about 
 his enemies, but the game is actually almost completely linear. One of two key innovations behind 
 both Soul Reaver and its sequel is that Raziel is immortal. When his physical body is destroyed, 
 he shifts to a ghostly spiritual plane, where he can revive himself back to corporeal form. The 
 geography of the spiritual plane is a twisted version of the material plane, so sometimes you'll 
 have to switch between planes to reach areas otherwise inaccessible. Raziel has several other unique 
 abilities. In the spiritual plane, he can phase through gates; in the material plane, he can climb 
 walls and swim underwater indefinitely; and he can use his tattered wings to glide across chasms. 
 To replenish his strength, Raziel swallows the souls of his slain enemies.           Here, Raziel 
 confronts Kain in one of many impressive cutscenes.    

  In the first Soul Reaver, Raziel had to earn most of his special abilities over the course of the 
 game. Here, he starts with all of them, and he even gains some new ones later. He also starts with 
 the soul reaver itself, a wraithlike symbiotic sword extending from Raziel's arm. In the first 
 game, the reaver could be used only if Raziel were at full health. During most of the sequel, he 
 can summon the blade at will. It's a powerful weapon, but the souls of foes killed by the reaver 
 are automatically ingested by the blade, preventing Raziel from using them to sustain himself. 
 Combat is frequent in Soul Reaver 2 and is relatively easy to control -- there's an auto-face key 
 that keeps Raziel focused on a single foe at a time. He can then use quick and strong attacks, 
 blocks, and dodging moves to defeat his opponents. Some of the later opponents can be tough, but 
 none of them are particularly smart or interesting to fight. Overall, combat is rather simpler 
 than in the previous game, partly because the reaver is powerful, but also because you can kill 
 your foes outright, either with the reaver or just bare-handed. In the first game, you needed to 
 dispose of your vampiric foes using traditional antivampire techniques, like fire or impaling. 
   

  The second of Soul Reaver's innovations is also carried over to the sequel. That is, there are 
 absolutely no loading screens to be found anywhere in the game -- the entire game is completely seamless. 
 Though Soul Reaver did this two years ago, it's still an impressive feat. Since you'll travel through 
 a number of diverse locations -- imposing strongholds, fetid swamps, ancient shrines, underground 
 passageways, and more -- being able to move from one area to the next without interruption helps 
 bring the fiction of the game to life. Raziel's own immortality works in just the same way. You're 
 probably very familiar with having to restart levels or load saved games in most other games you've 
 ever played. In Soul Reaver 2, this trial-and-error approach is fully intact -- the challenge is 
 there -- because Raziel can get forced back to the spiritual realm if he's defeated in battle. This 
 novel approach proves that conventions of things such as "lives," "saves," and "continues" need 
 not have to exist in gaming.    

 Along these same lines, you can't save your progress just anywhere in Soul Reaver 2. You can do 
 so only at specific locations, just like in the original PlayStation 2 version. This may prove 
 frustrating for players used to being able to play through their games in small segments. However, 
 the ability to save anywhere and load a saved game at any time would have completely undermined 
 the gameplay of Soul Reaver 2. You might see the lack of a save-anywhere feature as a compromise, 
 but it's worth it for the sake of the game.           Raziel can shift between the spiritual and 
 material planes almost voluntarily.    

  Besides the inability to save your progress at will, you should be aware of a few other issues 
 in Soul Reaver 2. Though it's a relatively short game -- it will probably take you 15 hours or less 
 to finish -- there's a lot of backtracking. Raziel isn't particularly quick on his feet, so having 
 to run back and forth between areas can start to feel a bit tedious. Soul Reaver 2 has no boss 
 battles in it, which is rather unfortunate in light of the original game's memorable clashes between 
 Raziel and his deformed brothers. The good news for those who played the original game is that 
 the sequel has no block puzzles in it either -- the original game relied on at least one too many 
 puzzles that required Raziel to move giant blocks into the proper position. The sequel's puzzles 
 are better but aren't spectacular -- they're mostly a series of very elaborate "key hunts," through 
 which using a particular item in a particular location unlocks the next branch of the puzzle. Eventually, 
 Raziel manages to imbue the reaver with certain elemental forces, and these allow the weapon to 
 be used to bypass particular obstacles as well. Still, although the puzzles initially feel like 
 a part of the environments you'll explore, eventually they start to seem contrived. You'll wonder 
 if they weren't put in place just to delay Raziel for a little while. For what it's worth, the 
 plot of the game eventually supports this hypothesis.   

  As for the plot, while it's easily one of the best aspects of Soul Reaver 2, it features a lot 
 of build-up but little payoff. Seemingly for a long, long time, Raziel doesn't know whom to believe -- he 
 gets mixed messages from different characters all at crossed purposes. The original Soul Reaver 
 had a very abrupt ending that suggested the designers had to wrap the game up in a hurry. Disappointingly, 
 the sequel's ending is similarly abrupt and occurs right about when Raziel starts to figure out 
 what exactly is going on. It's anticlimactic to say the least, and it leaves you hanging for the 
 next game.           Soul Reaver 2 is very enjoyable while it lasts.    

  It's a testament to the overall quality of Soul Reaver 2 that the truncated story and repetitive 
 action are a worthy trade-off for the game's exemplary qualities. Exploring Soul Reaver 2's environments 
 is inherently enjoyable thanks partly to the game's outstanding graphics. The various settings, 
 as well as Raziel himself, all look excellent. Some of the animation for enemy characters looks 
 a bit rough, and a few of the textures are blurry, but otherwise, Soul Reaver 2 looks outstanding. 
 Though the story ends suddenly, rest assured that there's plenty of it over the course of Soul 
 Reaver 2. Numerous, lengthy, superbly animated cutscenes that use the game's 3D engine are interspersed 
 throughout. Raziel, whose voice is provided by the extremely experienced voice actor Michael Bell, 
 is a remarkable character -- he's filled with pride, vengeance, and despair all at once, and his 
 eyes betray all these things even though they're pure white. With his symbiotic blade, Raziel is 
 very reminiscent of Michael Moorcock's popular antihero, Elric, featured in numerous fantasy novels. 
 Raziel's exchanges with the game's other main characters are dramatic and very well done. The game's 
 outstanding script was written by Amy Hennig, who also designed Soul Reaver 2 and its predecessors. 
   

  The unique play mechanics of Soul Reaver 2, as well as its impressive graphics and excellent story, 
 make it easy to recommend to fans of action or adventure games. It's also easy to recommend to 
 pretty much anybody looking for a change of pace from all the other PC games released this year. 
 The fact is that the PC can really use more games like Soul Reaver 2. It's true that Soul Reaver 
 2 has a number of shortcomings -- it's not particularly long, it has no real replay value, and it 
 has a somewhat slow pace. Its story isn't as satisfying as it could have been, thanks to its sudden 
 conclusion. But overall, Soul Reaver 2 is a great game. Its premise and its main character are 
 so unusual that, more than anything, you'll likely feel comfort at the thought that another sequel 
 is in store once you finally finish the game. At any rate, fans of the original Soul Reaver will 
 find the sequel to be a similarly satisfying experience. And if you haven't played the original, 
 then it'd be worth your while to hunt it down and play it as a primer for Soul Reaver 2.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Soul Reaver 2 is the 4 th in the series. The game continue the tale of Raziel in his quest for revenge. The 
 game has an innovative camera, good graphics, sound but it`s a bit weak at combat. The Story beggins 
 when Raziel emerges from the portal in the Sarafan Stronghold, there he meets Moebieus the time 
 streamer who explains what happend during his absence and now he is in the past of his life. After 
 exploring the stronghold he discovers the sword Soul Reaver who give him an disadavantage, now the 
 reaver could devour his soul if he used to much. After this he goes at the pillars and he meets 
 Kain. At the first impresion the game is kind of boring but as the story continues the game is more 
 tensioned and intense. The puzzles are almost the same as in Soul Reaver 1 but more hard. If you 
 like the first Soul Reaver you will like this one too. But this game is not as good as the first 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob31593
Rating: 2
Date: May 20, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  First of all, no one can accuse me of not being a soul reaver fan, the only game in the series 
 i havent played is the original blood omen. This game was a total letdown. While in combat, no 
 matter what you have the control settings as, the only way to move forward is to move your mouse 
 the direction you want to go, the only directional keys that work on your computer during combat 
 are the sidestep buttons, so to fully enjoy this games great story i recommend getting either a 
 game pad or the PS2 version because all this is is a terrible console port. The silly developers 
 couldn't just let you be able to move with the keys you picked. This might not sound like a big 
 problem, oh big deal i just push forward on the mouse to move forward, well it is kind of a problem 
 when you try to move forward and the camera angle ends up making you walk straight into one of 
 the 
  charge attack things your enemies pull off every 2.3269 seconds. While the controls are managable 
 in 1v1 combat, while your fighting a group all i can say is good luck, your going to take alot 
 of hits that could of been avoided, and if you knock one of them down and want to switch your aim 
 to one right next to you, you'll have to untarget the one you knocked down, wait for raziel to 
 untensen, and then target the other one wich by the time you've done all of that you would have 
 taken about 3-5 hits and the one you knocked down would be up by now, if only there were an easier 
 way, like some kind of TARGET SWITCH BUTTON. If you plan on swimming any time soon the conrols 
 also present a problem of you swerving up and down like a fish with down syndrome.
  
  
  just get the ps2 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all I got to admit that the story of this game same as the whole series is absolutely 
 amazing. I wont tell it to you because you spoil the whole thing.
  As for the game, the graphics are great and the controls are simple and work very good. The fighting 
 style is very innovative and the ability to shift realms is stunning. The weapons are kind of like 
 all the same. You mainly have spear-type weapons and sword-typed ones. They don't shatter like 
 the ones in Blood Omen 2 and they are well ... fun. You can also throw them into opponents as well 
 as projectiles from your symbiotic weapon. You can climb walls and plane on your broken wings. 
 It's a fun game full of puzzles (hard puzzles, i remember playing for hours just to solve a puzzle) 
 and GREAT voice acting. It's worth playing it and the hardcore fans of the series must play it 
 at once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmsim
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Simply enthralling! This game was the first of the saga that I played and it made me want to play 
 the other ones.
  
  The storyline, in spite of begin a little advanced (because of the first part of Soul Reaver) , 
 is awesome and it catch your attention completely from the first moment.
  
  The game is very short because of the launch date of the first game can not be delayed and it compel 
 EIDOS to split the original project in two parts.
  
  I may add that some of the puzzles gave me some problems (not much) but it was rewarded with the 
 gripping story, specially the fact that Raziel was the responsible of his own murder and the murder 
 of his Saraphan brothers. Particularly, I like the fragment of the story when Raziel investigate 
 and clarify about Janos Audron and the origin of the vampires.
  
  I think this game contribute more in the story of Legacy of Kain than something else. I recommend 
 this game for all those players that like vampires, dark games and to think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  This sequel is way too short and can be finished within a short amount of time. The game starts 
 where the previous one ended: The time chamber. Here Raziel confronts Kain, who then escapes using 
 the time machine. While following Kain, Raziel meets Moebius the time streamer and is directed 
 to the Pillars of Nosgoth where Kain should be. Sent back in time Raziel will learn about the history 
 of Nosgoth and eventually about the real purpose of the SoulReaver.
  
  Raziel will gain some new abilities finding elementals throughout the game, the limited use of 
 his SoulReaver as before has been altered, he can now use it at all time right from the beginning 
 of the game.
  
  Do notice that the SoulReaver will claim the soul of a foe when killed with the blade. So use other 
 'methods' to take out an enemy to be able to keep your health up. Switching between realms is also 
 the same again and many times the only way to proceed or to solve puzzles. Which evidently aren't 
 very hard to do by the way.
  
  Sometimes the camera position is not all to well when you need to jump up to something. The in 
 between movies look incredible and the overall graphics are really good also. Again a great game 
 with an interesting storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldi3r1stClass
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Many remember Soul Reaver very fondly. I personally think it was one of the best games ever. First 
 time i finished it i didnt even know about the additional vampiric powers that could be found all 
 over the bloody place. You could become properly diabolically powerfull. The save system was original 
 and there was a steep learning curve. The boss fights were orignal and incredibly satisfying.
 
  
  Alas the second could not even begin to keep up. As a game its pretty good. The fighting is interesting 
 but the only thing on the par with the original is the puzzle solving. To tell you the truth the 
 one thing that drives this game is the story. The unbelievable voice acting and story are still 
 among the very best out there. The first left you with questions and this one answered a few, twisted 
 all your expectations, flipped you on your ass and left you wondering what's going to happen!?
 
  
  Otherwise its fun to play but disappointing considering its predecessor had all the angles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sew015
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Soul Reaver 1 was good on Dreamcast. Soul Reaver 2 is great but there are no vampires to kill. 
 In this game you are still Raziel the soul eating pissed off angel of death hunting down Kain your 
 sire. You go around Nosgoth in different time periods studying its history and hunting Kain. You 
 come across some problems thought hunters are everywhere and try to kill you on sight. But the 
 are all human. In the future Nosgoth demons rule the land and demon hunter kill them (some times) 
 these guys are a pain to kill they can follow you to the Spectral realm and block everything you 
 throw at them. The demon hunters are a lot like the vamp hunter but are stronger. You meet all 
 kinds of ancient vampires in the games like Janos Aldron and Vorador but that's it! Which is somewhat 
 dissapointing.
  
  Not for vampire game fans. You will be dissapointed!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Soul Reaver 2 is a follow-up to the game Soul Reaver: The Legacy of Kain. This game packs an incredibly 
 well-scripted storyline with lot's of puzzles, and outstanding graphics to deliver an intriguing 
 third-person RPG that is a joy to play.
  Some back-story is necessary for those who have not played it before
  The land of Nosgoth was 
 protected by an oligarchy of sorcerers, know as the Circle of Nine. Dark forces infiltrated the 
 circle and Ariel, the Balance Guardian, was murdered. Kain, the son of a nobleman, was selected 
 to be Ariel's replacement. But he was ignorant of his destiny, and when wandering the lands, was 
 assailed and killed by brigands. However, Kain did not die - completely. He was resurrected by, 
 and made a deal with Mortanius. It was a dark deal, and Kain discovered he had been returned to 
 the world as a Vampire. It was during his journey of self-discovery that he found the Soul Reaver 
 - an ancient soul-devouring blade. He also found a time-streaming device created by Moebius, the 
 Guardian of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiderman18
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 19, 2003 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, when I played Soul Reaver 1, that was a good game that I could get into. I beat that one 
 & it said to be continued, so I knew there was going to be a part 2. I heard Soul Reaver 2 was 
 coming out & I'm a SR fan, so I decided to check out some video clips & the commercial for this 
 game, it looked as though it was gonna be good. I played it & I was actually disappointed, this 
 isn't the game I was actually looking for. The cutscenes were way too long & the gameplay just 
 wasn't that great, you fought humans mostly, which is pointless. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
