-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soulbringer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/soulbringer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  4, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Infogrames
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jul 10, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soulbringer's lackluster graphics and poor interface compromise what's otherwise a fairly standard 
 action/role-playing game with an interesting combat system. 

 Gremlin Interactive's Soulbringer is a 3D action/role-playing game that has a number of good qualities, 
 but at least as many problems. Certain aspects of Soulbringer, like its motion-captured combat 
 sequences, are interesting and even enjoyable, but other aspects, like its mediocre graphics and 
 clumsy interface, detract significantly from the game.   

  Soulbringer takes place in the besieged fantasy world of Rathenna, a place in which evil villains 
 oppress the good folk of the land. The only one who can put an end to the increasingly frequent 
 attacks is your character, a hapless and penniless everyman. But you happen to be the descendant 
 of a legendary hero, and according to an ancient prophecy, you'll not only defeat the villains, 
 but also kill lots of monsters, find lots of gold, get better equipment and magic spells, and uncover 
 a darker, more sinister plot behind the villains' attacks. It may sound trite, and that's because 
 it is, though it does have a few exciting moments.   

  Unfortunately, neither Soulbringer's graphics nor its sound do much more to recommend the game 
 any more than its uninspired story does. It's true that the game is fully 3D, and that nearly all 
 its character animation is motion captured; however, all the game's characters are crudely modeled 
 with constantly clipping polygons that are in turn adorned with bland textures. Most of these characters 
 sound like ordinary, modern-day British people from off the street, but the voice acting is usually 
 appropriate, if at times a bit overdone. Otherwise, the game is mostly silent; what little background 
 music there is, is fairly good.   

  Many of the game's environments are also quite plain; they're at once monotonous and easy to get 
 lost in since the game's interface is so flawed. For instance, unlike nearly every other computer 
 role-playing game that's been released this year, Soulbringer has no real in-game map function 
 of any kind. In addition, your field of view is severely limited at all times and on all sides 
 by a black fog that masks everything within a short distance of your character. As such, you'll 
 find it's frustratingly common to lose your way in one of Soulbringer's many larger areas: That 
 helpful landmark that you committed to memory might have been just outside your line of sight, 
 so you'll end up wasting time running about a uniformly monotonous field, cavern, or castle, trying 
 to find your destination without the aid of a decent map.   

  And unfortunately, Soulbringer's largely ineffective camera does little to remedy the situation. 
 Though the game uses a simple point-and-click mouse interface to move your character and execute 
 most commands, you must also use the keypad to adjust the camera's view. The game uses an isometric 
 perspective by default, but its camera is capable of only rotating in 180-degree increments or 
 freely rotating some 90 degrees around your character before it automatically changes to a thoroughly 
 unhelpful overhead view, which limits your field of vision even further. The camera also tends 
 to automatically switch to this overhead perspective whenever you approach a large wall, hill, 
 or other solid object, which often brings your character to a complete halt, even if he's on the 
 run from dangerous enemies. That's because whenever you command him to move and he doesn't have 
 a clear, uninterrupted path, he'll stop dead in his tracks. Since switching to the overhead view 
 limits your field of vision, the path along which your character was running often gets changed, 
 and he'll come to a screeching halt. As such, a simple run across one of Soulbringer's areas is 
 often full of jarring pauses, and fighting some of the game's tougher enemies (which often require 
 hit-and-run tactics to defeat) can be maddening.   

  Not only does your character take an undue amount of time to come to a stop, but he'll also pick 
 up, use, and equip items equally slowly, thanks to Soulbringer's motion-captured character animation. 
 However, motion capture is also Soulbringer's best feature - specifically, in its carefully choreographed 
 melee battles. At the beginning of the game, you'll have only a simple knife, and you'll know only 
 a few ways to use it in combat. However, as your character advances character levels, you can assign 
 skill points to his "combat" ability; an ability that lets your character use a great number of 
 advanced maneuvers with each of the clubs, maces, swords, and spears that he'll eventually acquire. 
 Watching your character perform spinning attacks and swift, well-animated lunges is certainly exciting, 
 especially when he's fighting a skilled opponent that parries, dodges, and ripostes.   

  Combat in Soulbringer isn't all flash; you can actually customize the way you fight by creating 
 preset "combo" attacks. You must choose your weapons wisely, since certain enemies are vulnerable 
 to some attacks but resistant to others (bony skeletons are impervious to slashing weapons but 
 are felled easily by bludgeoning weapons, for instance) . In addition, you must choose your attacks 
 wisely, since Soulbringer's 3D terrain actually plays a role in combat: For instance, high attacks 
 will often miss opponents who are standing beneath you. Your character will also acquire a number 
 of different spells from six different schools of magic. If you rely heavily on spells from one 
 particular school, those spells will become stronger while your spells from other schools become 
 accordingly weaker. It's a fairly interesting system that doesn't factor as heavily into the game 
 as it might have.   

  It's unfortunate that Soulbringer's lackluster graphics and poor interface compromise what's otherwise 
 a fairly standard action/role-playing game with an interesting combat system. It's even more unfortunate 
 that it was released in the United States around the time that so many other excellent computer 
 role-playing games were - which makes Soulbringer especially difficult to recommend.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  It looks pretty much like Darkstone and Revenant mix: has a linear gameplay, in-combat targeting 
 system, combination of hitting enemies, tons of magic for a disposal, huge maps to explore with 
 various secret places and treasures kept in them, many creepy enemies with different resistances 
 to encounter, loads of puzzles to solve and much more. Let me tell you what i liked and what annoyed 
 me in the game, i'll start from the brighter side of it: The main thing for me is - storyline, 
 it was fascinating, i loved every bit of it - creepy crawlers following me, bleeding cut-off heads 
 talking with the necromancy involved, mysterious forbidden/forgotten places to explore - simply 
 BREATHTAKING. Music touched me deep as well, as i entered different parts of the realm (swamps, 
 magical islands, caves, crypts, cities, villages, ruins etc.) , the perception changed accordingly 
 to the tunes; sfx is fairly good too. Combat system is entertaining, hack and slash them freaks 
 with the various moves that depend on the use and experience of use of the current weapon. Some 
 original and cool magics to learn, few of them is must use in order to finish the quest. Right, 
 now a portion of annoying things to mention here: Difficult with exploring - huge areas, lots of 
 roads, not enough maps and etc.; BUT there are special stones that can be activated by touch and 
 make a portal to travel instantly from one area to another stone. Combat: Sometimes enemies freeze 
 and no matter how many times you press any button - nothing happens. There are even times when 
 a foe starts to run away from you until he reaches nearest wall or corner that can be miles away. 
 Inventory and weight system: it's a good thing to have a clothing bag to store more things, but 
 when an apple weights 1 and kitchen knife 5 (plus you cannot store them in one slot to save space 
 and to keep your inventory tidy) , i'm starting to have doubts that i need to pick up them knives 
 at all to sell and earn some gold for nice armor - shame 'bout wasted money. If you want to repair 
 the things that you're currently wearing (one by one) , you must remove them first and place in 
 your bag. There are some strange thing happening with the offensive magic as well, even though 
 poison bolt shouldn't do a lot of damage instantly, just in a time period, it seems to kill almost 
 everyone it touches straight away, even the most difficult enemies; when a firebolt with a moderate 
 damage properties does not even leave a scratch on many opponents. Now comes the funniest part: 
 i liked the game and i would love to finish it, but there is one ingame cut-scene that never ends, 
 i mean it stucks and no matter how long i wait for it to finish, it just stays in it's frame (couldn't 
 find patches for it though) . My suggestion is that you should play it, it is not a bad piece of 
 originality there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as this game is over 6 years old, I'll try my hardest not to penalize it for terrible graphics, 
 awful voice overs, a boring battle system, and menus that are so slow you can feel your life being 
 sucked away each and every time you have to click on them.
  
  Ill start with the graphics. They werent good 6 years ago, they are horrid now. Textures are 
 either of the lowest quality Ive seen in a game or are just plain bland. When my friends and 
 I used to make maps up on Mario Paint for the SNES, our textures looked a lot like these. Character 
 models look and move stiff really I could go on and on about how bad they are but Ill just let 
 the numeral score speak for itself.
  
  The music is decent when there is music, which is rarely. Sound effects are more miss than hit, 
 for example, the same sound effect is used whether youre eating bread, apple or fish. The voices 
 are punch the monitor bad. Why some of these people would attempt such awful accents that just 
 sound bad is beyond me. Dont get me wrong, there are a few voices that were done spot on, but 
 the ones that were bad were REALLY bad.
  
  The story made sense as a whole but just had bad plot progression. All I remember being told is 
 that there is this bad guy named Skorn and he has 6 followers. I remember killing a bunch of mini-bosses 
 and bosses and not being able to distinguish who the 6 were all the time. Throw in a large amount 
 of side quests and side tracks and the game just lost me somewhere.
  
  Gameplay did a few things right but far many more wrong. The loading times between areas was excruciating 
 and there was a 5 second delay in menu options that just pile up and slow everything down. The 
 way magic spells were acquired and effected the balance of your character was a nice little touch, 
 but I was never big on magic use so these things didnt effect the outcome too much. Combat was 
 a mixed bag. Depending on what weapon you were wielding and how good your combat stat was, youd 
 have a few various moves at your disposal. Also where you stood effect combat, if you were on the 
 high ground, low swings were in order and vice versa. 6 years ago Im sure this was revolutionary 
 and its something that you barely see even today in RPGs.
  
  Overall the game did a few things I enjoyed or just have to give a nod to, but there were a lot 
 of things that just made this game a chore. Its a game I got for free and I had to beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocknrolldude13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Soulbringer was overall a pretty good game. It has one of the most involving and epic scenarios 
 for a rpg adventure. From the innovative and unique magic system to the customizable and realistic 
 combat system the fighting is great! Now the graphics are laggy on some computers and doesnt have 
 the best graphics but onceyou get into the game play you dont even notice. The 3d world isamazing 
 for a game like this. The two disc game will leave you wanting for more and the more powerful you 
 grow the better the game is. There is no online play (big mistake) but sill fun. Conclusion: I suggest 
 buying this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
