-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Hack
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spacehack/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pretty nice 3D graphics engine.
 Long game for a budget price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Highly repetitive combat isn't particularly satisfying.
 Awkwardly paced and balanced gameplay makes progressing feel tedious.
 Sparse audio doesn't help the bland story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 184 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Meridian4
Developer: Rebelmind
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 18, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Space Hack mimics the hack-and-slash formula common to all action RPGs, but its budget price and 
 sheer length don't make up for its dull pace and bland combat. 

  In Space Hack, you must single-handedly rid a huge colony ship of an alien infestation, one mutant 
 bug at a time. The game unashamedly cribs from Diablo, and we're talking the 1996 original more 
 so than the 2000 sequel to Blizzard's popular action/role-playing hybrid. So, much like the name 
 implies, Space Hack is a fairly simple game about killing lots and lots of aliens, finding better 
 stuff, leveling up, and navigating lots of big, sparsely detailed levels. It's got a decent enough 
 presentation, and it's a really long game despite the budget price, but bad pacing and a lack of 
 variety drag the whole thing down.  

          In Space Hack, what you do is kill a whole bunch of alien bugs and things with melee weapons 
 or guns. For some reason you can use bows, too.     

  You probably figured the title Space Hack was in direct reference to the action in the game, but 
 it turns out that Hack is also the game's main character. A name like "Hack" doesn't necessarily 
 inspire much confidence, but in this case, Hack is supposedly the most capable and versatile human 
 fighter remaining on the doomed colony ship you'll need to fight through. He's part of a small 
 band of surviving humans who've holed up in a little base, and without much rhyme or reason, he'll 
 be sent off to battle the alien hordes all alone using whatever weapons he can get his hands on. 
 The game's story is presented with poorly translated onscreen text, so it really doesn't do much 
 to establish what you're supposed to be doing or why you should care. Of course, the premise of 
 fighting back droves of aliens is a good enough motivating factor on its own.  

  The game plays just like single-player Diablo as far as its controls and mechanics are concerned, 
 with the only real difference being the fully 3D graphics and the ability to rotate your perspective 
 using the mousewheel (useful for when walls or other large objects obstruct the isometric viewpoint) . 
 That means every few steps you take out in the wilderness, you'll be set upon by nasty aliens who'll 
 either rush you or stand back and fire. By weaving from side to side, you can easily avoid ranged 
 attacks, but since you need to stand still to attack, ranged assailants can quickly bombard you 
 and take you out if you don't target them first. You move and attack by left-clicking on the mouse 
 a lot, and if you're running low on health, you hit the H key to use a health shot to instantly 
 recover. Since you can only carry a limited number of these shots, you're inevitably forced to 
 scrounge for more or find a way to teleport back to base so you can buy some -- and also repair your 
 shoddy gear, sell the stuff you've picked up, and maybe buy some new stuff. That's more or less 
 what you do in Space Hack for countless hours until you've made it through the dozen-odd biospheres 
 composing the ship.  

          Leveling up doesn't happen often, and it's hard to find good equipment to help you get 
 the job done faster.     

  Unfortunately, Space Hack doesn't achieve the same fine balance as the games it emulates. What 
 makes for an addictive action RPG are the sensations that you're constantly becoming stronger, 
 constantly finding better and better equipment, constantly encountering new types of foes, and 
 constantly exploring new types of places. Space Hack does a pretty good job keeping the level variety 
 going since each of the ship's biospheres has distinct-looking areas. However, you'll feel like 
 you're killing the same few bugs over and over for hours on end, the process of gaining experience 
 and leveling up is slow, and you'll constantly be taunted by random equipment that's way out of 
 your league. When you gain a level, you get a few points to distribute between Hack's core abilities, 
 which include strength (tied to melee combat) and knowledge (tied to ranged weapons and some special 
 abilities) . You can also find biochips, equivalent to magic rings and necklaces and such, which 
 can boost your ability scores or resistances. But even so, it can take what seems like forever 
 to work your way up to a decently upgraded weapon. There's really not enough variety to the weapons 
 or combat anyway, especially since you can't effectively concentrate on both melee and ranged weapons. 
 Both seem viable, but unless you pick one route or the other, you might not be powerful enough 
 to survive the game's tough, nonstop fighting.  

  Most enemies are a cinch to kill, even in groups, but every now and then you'll run into a bigger, 
 possibly glowing critter that will hurt you very badly with every hit. Since there are a finite 
 number of enemies (albeit a lot) in each region, and since leveling is slow, you can't just keep 
 fighting to the point at which these tougher bad guys become easy to take down. So instead, the 
 tactic in Space Hack forcibly becomes taking careful steps into the unknown, drawing out enemies 
 in the smallest possible groups. Provided you keep going back to base for more health shots, you 
 can conceivably kill pretty much anything in due time -- but when the process becomes painstaking, 
 it stops being fun. Space Hack occasionally throws some side quests and other basic twists at you, 
 but it's not enough to alter the basic, and rather sluggish, flow of how you progress through the 
 game.  

          If you desperately need more Diablo, Space Hack's derivative stylings might scratch that 
 itch.     

  The fully 3D graphics are modest by today's standards but work well enough for the game. Alien 
 corpses litter the landscape once you're done hacking your foes to bits, and some decent lighting 
 effects for things like energy weapons and rundown terminals help give Space Hack some atmosphere. 
 The game also runs quite well -- even when you're faced with lots of enemies at once, and even on 
 fairly old systems. As for the audio, Space Hack has some understated ambient music that's easily 
 ignored since the soundscape is dominated by the twittering and splatting of aliens and Hack's 
 one same groan, which you'll hear over and over as you inevitably take damage. The game really 
 doesn't sound like much.  

  Space Hack has all the basics you'd expect from a science fiction-themed Diablo clone, and the 
 budget price helps make it more enticing on the whole. But despite the sheer length of this action 
 RPG, which could theoretically keep you occupied for hours and hours, the highly repetitive content 
 and the fairly punishing gameplay just aren't particularly gratifying. That makes Space Hack just 
 as easy to put down as it is to pick up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Capaman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The good news is that means its easy to pick up and learn, theres lots of and lots of gameplay 
  and itll help sate that hack and slash need that so many of us crave. (Im an unabashed lover 
 of ye olde hack and slashers) .
  
  The bad news is that this has more in common with the original Diablo than its big brother, soul-capturing 
 sequel. Now its not all bad here. After all, the original Diablo was still a fine experience (once 
 you had a tome of town portal at least) However, some of the interface and design decisions strike 
 me as a little clunky in Space Hack. Hot keys not closing windows, just about zero cfg options
 
  
  One of the things I enjoyed most about Space hack were the true 3D graphics  which give it a distinctive 
 look. Of course this means that sometimes 3D objects on the playing field obscure your view, but 
 thats usually par for the course in any game that implements 3D at this point. This is a fun game 
  but in short bursts. After the original gee-whiz wears off (maybe 5 hours in) , the game does 
 become just a derivative Diablo wannabe. The environments and the enemies to tend to repeat themselves 
  sometimes just in different colours. The maps are huge, and sometimes its difficult to find 
 your way to that last group of enemies youve missed.
  
  Just a quick timeout here to point out Im a completist  I need to clear a level before moving 
 on  however this game is curing me of that compulsion. Ive had this game for 4 months now and 
 Im still only about half way through. I pick it up every weekend for a couple hours and play through 
 a level or two while the other computer plays some podcasts in the background Its a nice switch-off-the-brain 
 experience. I think this title has appeal to the Diablo fans out there. Its not perfect, but for 
 fans of this genre I think it will find a home. Youll play forever (if my experience is any indication) 
 before completing it so the value for the money is great. I just dont think it lends itself to 
 marathon sessions the way Diablo and Diablo 2 did. Good effort by (arguably ) an Indie game maker 
  and Id be inclined to look at their next effort in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 25, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I just completed this game on normal with the patch installed.. I have to say the game is crash 
 prone... at least from my stint of playing it. It is a great game for 20 bucks (when I bought it) 
 might be less now.. And it does have a great deal of play time, though lack of any multiplayer 
 ability holds it back for future play the single player is pretty decent.. Most of the levels are 
 kinda "okay that is not very inventive" kinda like "okay lets make a map that is just a spiral.. 
 etc.. Not too "innovative" for me.. Diablo 2ers will not how uninspired the map builds are.. the 
 first few maps seemed to have the most effort.. but the later half was as iff the designers just 
 gave up in making a truely "unique" map. The ending was okay.. nothing very "spectacular" but it 
 did kinda step back.. I didn't expect that it was all the result of what had happened.. True there 
 are some grammatical errors here and there.. but for the most part it reads pretty well. The gameplay 
 was good, pretty easy to pick up and even noting weapon buying and other things are pretty easy.. 
 unlike the meriad of options in weapons like in Sacred or Diablo. There are no uniques, rares, 
 sets etc... but basic "magical" items.. Cell drops (gold) are pretty decent although I recommend 
 saving at least 120K for the end mission.. to go and repair all your equipment after fighting in 
 stints. I didn't buy one health pack until the last two maps.. if that gives you an indication.. 
 The reviewer must suck or just ran through the game.. which explains why he was having a rough 
 ride. All in all its pretty "arcadish" in its gameplay.. GFX were okay.. nothing new or "exciting" 
 but pretty colorful environments. Sound was okay.. nothing to write home about.. but it did an 
 okay job.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, I like Diablo and games like that, but this is, how do I put it, pretty much boring. NPC's 
 and everything is almost the same as Diablo, but that's all. I played it for half an hour and guess 
 what ? Boring !!! You just go forward and shoot everything. No skills, some poor control over characters 
 attributes. Ah, and story ? Wow, i mean, it could be worse. I'm surprissed someone had guts to 
 publish this. I mean, looking at these days games, you should run away from this one, and take 
 something like Dungeon Siege, first or second part, doesn't matter. Playing this will take away 
 your time and fun. If you don't believe in this one, go rent it first, play a few levels (if you 
 can call them that) and you'll see what's going on. 
  
  Ok, i'll cut this short: Avoid this game at all cost, for God's sake !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  space hack is a new type of diablo with sci fi. we all know tat once u get into gameplay. its still 
 ok in my mind. there are future guns and funny junky aliens and robotic freaks tat wans to beat 
 u. so lets say ur a 1 man guy with guns/axe to kick some serious time. the maps are almost like of 
 diablo ii's but it gets repetitive in some moment. this game shud come out with a multiplayer. preferably 
 to increase the value, i mean as in arena pitting, fight between 2 players with fragging fun or support 
 more than 4. juz my comment on increasing space hack's popularity. ok back to the gameplay again, its 
 still good with the 3d engine. only if they make it deeper, lets say sharper guns/good missions/detailed 
 customisable characters, different jobs. tat will make better. i suggest medics, gunners, soldiers alike. but 
 now its juz like this. kind of a good worthwile game if ur a newcomer to hack n slash. let ur friends 
 or small ages to play is good, but its still good when bored quite lol. anyhow enjoy it while it 
 last =\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goolbox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game by no mean breaks any molds. In fact it uses some very old try and true ones to come 
 up with a semi-solid diablo style game. Since many of us are not part of the MMO revolution, there 
 are a lot of us out there struggling to find a simple single-player RPG. Space Hack is by no means 
 going to rack up the awards, but it was definitely worth the 19.99.
  As Hack you need to clean out a giant ship comprised of numerous sectors. Using futuristic pistols, 
 rifles, swords, axes, spears, and a myriad of armor, you can kick the snot out of all the inhabitants 
 of each sector. It's very repetitive and I found myself more interested in visiting the shops for 
 better gear than wanting to navigate the monster filled biospheres. All communications come in 
 the form of text instead of voice over too. A little annoying since there really isn't much dialogue 
 to begin with. 
  The game does fill the time though and I must admit I enjoyed it. Space Hack is bound to fall in 
 obscurity in the next few months I fear.
  Goolbox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  In overall, Space Hack is a fine game, but it could've been much better if the developers worked 
 a little more in this one. First of all, this is not a 'Diablo clone' like some players say; the 
 game just uses the same engine, but that's it.
  
  The best in Space Hack is the gameplay: the old good Hack 'n Slash RPG originally created by Blizzard 
 in Diablo. Another good thing is the innovative sci-fi theme in such genre. This is not like Fallout 
 that uses turn-based combat, it's a pure RPG Action, and I've never seen a futuristic RPG Action 
 before.
  
  The worse things are: no customizable character, which makes the game a little boring along the 
 time (you have only Hack as the hero) . No multiplayer, even on internet. So, it's not that ambitious... 
 the developers were creative in this game, but they didn't explore all aspects that the sci-fi 
 theme involves.
  
  My final word is: it's a worth of playing title, but don't expect the same quality as in Sacred 
 or Diablo II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boctober
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of the hack and slash action/RPG games like Diablo 2. Trying this 
 game out, it has those characteristics, but it is still missing something. Dont be misled, this 
 game is fun and challenging. It is a great game to play at any given time if you are one to play 
 certain games at random. I just felt it was missing some elements that Diablo 2 and other hack 
 and slash games offer. Overall for the price, this is a great buy and a fun game to pass the time 
 regardless. The graphics are good, the music is the best part of the game and the controls are 
 easy to learn and maneuver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krul32
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The good: surprisingly stable for a first released game (only two crashes to desktop) , more reasonable 
 system requirements mean people with lower end systems can play it, low hard drive space requirements, 
 simple game play that is easy to pick up
  
  The bad: repetitive, uninspired game play, flaky camera movement, limited character development, 
 unfocused and hard to follow plotline
  
  This game, at bottom, feels like somebody took Diablo 2 and heavily hacked and modded it into a 
 mediocre sci-fi game. Thus the appropriateness of its title.
  
  While the basic concept is good, it is lead astray by absolutely HORRID implementation. Character 
 development using stats only is rather weak, in that you don't really get to customize your character 
 with special abilities or powers that would make you identify more with them and tailor it more 
 to your personal playing style.
  
  Further, the plot has more holes in it than the proverbial Swiss cheese. The quests and character 
 dialogue not only have no audio, but provide little illumination to the basic story, and the quest 
 rewards are often useless because they have stat requirements so high that you will NEVER be able 
 to use them, forcing you to sell them for energy instead. A better way of handing this would be 
 to tailor quest rewards to your CURRENT stats, or at least within a few points of them.
  
  Actual combat is somewhat more interesting and varied, in that you have different weapons types 
 to choose from, with some being more effective than others on certain enemies, which is a good 
 touch. Other than that, though, it's a fairly standard click fest we've seen more than enough before, 
 and done better. The space bar pause function for healing, using items, and switching weapons is 
 extremely useful though.
  
  All and all, while I wanted to like this game, I just couldn't bring myself to do so. There's such 
 a thing as oversimplifying a game, and this is a crying example of it. For those looking for a 
 fairly mindless sci-fi shoot em up game to while the hours away, you could do worse. Anybody else, 
 though, will soon find themselves wondering, WHY, in Heaven's name, they actually put down the 
 money for this turkey. It's all been done before, and far better, by other developers. Hopefully, 
 this game studio's next offering will take this to heart, and offer up something worth people's 
 time and dime.
  
  'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebpatton
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I was actually looking forward to an Action-RPG set in space, but this was ruined because the only 
 time you see that its in space is in the intro, the rest of the game is played through diffrent 
 Domes on a colony ship that have different Habitats. I think one dome was like a Volcanic Habitat... 
 Like whos bright idea was it to put a FREAKIN volcano on a space ship ya that makes sense. 
  
  The one Upside is that it is a fairly well made for what it is. SO if youi want to play a fairly 
 average Diablo clone heres a game that will prob keep ya busy for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildarya
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Its like Dungeon Siege but very easy to play and I think it a little boring. also you need a lot 
 of money (cells) at first to buy a good weapon and the biggest problem for me is the way you see 
 the world and you must rotate it with mouse will and it will be difficult when you are attacking.
 
  also the people you use to buy and sell things are very hard to find and they are the same. but 
 its not bad to play once for fun but its not like Dungeon Siege that game really addict you and 
 its amazing :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
