-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Siege
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/spacesiege/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Branching story paths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Uninspired art design.
 No real loot system.
 Cybernetic upgrades feel insignificant.
 Clich story elements.
 Repetitive gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 1,037 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 12, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Saving the human race shouldn't be so tedious. 

  The idea was a good one: Take an established action RPG dungeon-crawler formula, infuse it with 
 a multilayered story, and set it in space. Include multiple player paths that raise important philosophical 
 questions -- specifically, How much is your humanity worth? Unfortunately, the decision to focus 
 on story in Space Siege came at the expense of an engaging combat system, interesting environments, 
 and a rewarding upgrade system. The worst part? It didn't have to.  

           There's no such thing as too human in Space Siege.      

  Space Siege is the spiritual 
 successor to the Dungeon Siege series from designer Chris Taylor and Gas Powered Games. The game 
 opens with a chilling cutscene as hundreds of alien warships descend upon Earth with just one goal: 
 extermination. As our home world explodes, a lone colony ship called the Armstrong manages to slip 
 through the enemy armada, but it's not alone. An alien pod attaches itself to the hull, and insect-like 
 creatures called the Kerak pour into a cargo bay, hoping to destroy what remains of the human race. 
 You jump right in as combat engineer Seth Walker, armed with only a machine gun, and begin blasting 
 away at the Kerak menace. Watching Earth explode is powerful, and a great premise with which to 
 begin a sci-fi adventure, but it's all downhill from there.  

  As you explore the bowels of the Armstrong, eliminating Kerak and restoring the ship's systems, 
 you periodically come across cybernetic parts. In this future, these implants are used to drastically 
 improve human abilities. Those without the ability to walk can install cybernetic legs, while those 
 stricken with paralysis can implant a cybernetic spine. But aboard the Armstrong, these upgrades 
 can be used instead to transform Seth into a cybernetic killing machine. The cost, however, is 
 your humanity, as indicated by a handy humanity meter that appears every time you visit the cybernetic 
 implant kiosk. The cybernetic eye, for example, costs you 10 percent of your humanity. When you 
 install an implant, Seth will scream in pain, an obvious attempt to make you realize that you're 
 losing a part of yourself with each upgrade. There are several problems with this system. Gameplay 
 is not made significantly easier with an upgrade, and 10 bonus attack points -- whatever that represents -- for 
 installing a cybernetic eye isn't a convincing argument to go through with the procedure. Finally, 
 the few allies you have on the Armstrong barely register a response to your freakish new appearance 
 after you install a cybernetic brain (plus 10 chance of critical strike!) . Gina, the communications 
 officer, will beg you not to install any implants; Dr. Desoto, the cybernetics specialist, will 
 tell you that the fate of humanity depends on you installing these implants, and that's about it. 
 Installing these parts feels inconsequential, exactly the opposite of what Gas Powered Games had 
 hoped to accomplish. As expected, there is a special ending for those who choose to finish the 
 game with 100 percent humanity intact, but rest assured each of the three endings is a disappointment. 

  But hey, none of this would be too much of a concern if Space Siege featured an explosive combat 
 system with over-the-top futuristic power attacks, a deep crafting system, tons of customizable 
 parts and valuable loot, and a non-linear mission system. None of this is the case. You left click 
 to move Seth to a location, and right click on an enemy to fire. A major control issue is that 
 Seth is forced to stop moving when he wants to fire, even though enemies can move while firing. 
 No fair. This wouldn't have been an issue if you had WASD keyboard control or support for a game 
 controller, but as it stands, control is imprecise and outdated. A bright spot is the addition 
 of the Hodgson's Robotic Unit, known as HR-V. He's a loyal robot companion made up of 25 parts 
 of scrap metal and is upgradeable with flamethrowers and laser blasters. There are some rudimentary 
 squad commands if you want to send HR-V as bait while you attack from afar or if you want to attempt 
 a flanking maneuver and catch the enemy in your crossfire, a very useful tactic. Should HR-V be 
 destroyed, you can use 25 more spare parts at a Hodgson's robotic assembly station, hundreds of 
 which are scattered about the ship, and make a new HR-V.  

  Spare parts are found after you destroy an enemy or in toolboxes throughout the Armstrong, and 
 act as currency as you choose to level up Seth's weapons, armor, abilities, and HR-V. None of the 
 upgrades are particularly appealing, however. A four-percent increase of landing a critical hit 
 would have been more interesting had you installed new parts or made some kind of intricate modification 
 to your weapon. But no, you simply continue to buy new upgrades, and not even the blast from a 
 souped-up rocket launcher appears any more impressive than that of the level-one rocket launcher. 
 Weapons in general are a major disappointment. You'll visit the armory of the Armstrong, with nary 
 a high-tech WMD to be found. Instead, you find new variants of machine guns, assault rifles, and 
 frag cannons at regular intervals throughout the game. The newest weapon is almost always the strongest, 
 and there's no reason to go back to your old weapon. It's a complete surprise and disappointment 
 that even the upgrade system was made linear, and there's little choice in where to apply your 
 spare parts.  

  Leveling up is also linear and shallow. Instead of accumulating experience points, you level up 
 at predetermined points in the game and are rewarded with two skill points. These are spread between 
 combat and engineering trees, but to call them "trees" would be misleading. No, these are upgrade 
 "branches." Many of the options are only available with cybernetic upgrades, and most of the engineering 
 skills such as bomb drones and gun turrets will go unused, yet you are forced to spend points on 
 them in order to progress down the branch.  

  For a colony ship meant to house thousands of people on the way to a new world, the Armstrong is 
 a drab and boring place. Each new area that you encounter looks strikingly like the one before 
 it, some combination of gray and metal. Occasionally you'll come across the ship's basketball court 
 or what looks to be a lounge, but the dull color palette leaves a lot to be desired. For some reason, 
 every room and hallway is packed with explosive barrels and canisters, which are fun to blow up 
 but make little sense on a bridge leading to the ship's transit train. Not even the musical score 
 will manage to pull you in, as it is mostly muted, something present in the background that you'll 
 rarely hear or notice.  

  OK, so the gameplay, graphics, and sound are forgettable, but at least there's that story to keep 
 you interested, right? Well, not really. Though the opening premise manages to grab you, the eventual 
 plot "twists" are ripped straight out of about 20 other science-fiction movies and games, so predictable 
 that they border on cliche. There is one major decision you'll face late in the game and, although 
 the game still plays out exactly the same except for the dialogue, Space Siege does give you the 
 opportunity to answer the question it's been asking during entire campaign: How will you choose 
 to save humanity? It's a good touch, but when the final credits roll, no matter what your percentage 
 of humanity is, you'll still be left wondering, "Is this it?"  

           The Armstrong is not very inviting with drab environments and uninspired character models 
 and killer aliens.      

  The multiplayer portion of Space Siege takes place on the Tachibana, the other lone colony ship 
 that you will discover in the single-player game. A total of four players team together to cleanse 
 each area of the ship of invading Kerak. It plays as more of a challenge mode than a cohesive story 
 campaign. From the outset, you have access to every cybernetic upgrade, main weapon, and enough 
 skill points to fill up either the combat or engineering branch, eliminating the level-up process. 
 But if you eliminate the story and the RPG elements, all you have left is combat, and as you've 
 already read, that's simply not good enough to hold your attention for long.  

  It's a shame Space Siege went in the direction it did. Gas Powered Games should be given credit 
 for trying to infuse a genre typically defined by hacking and slashing with important moral decisions 
 and branching gameplay paths, but ultimately failed in the final execution. It was a good idea, 
 but it takes more than a good idea to make a good game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (78 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Space Siege is an Action/Role-playing/Sci-fi epic revolving around you, Seth Walker and your task 
 of saving the last colony ship of humanity from destruction at the hands of the kerak invaders. 
 With the help from friends (?) you finds along the way it up to seth to save mankind from extinction.
 
  
  Now, i heard a lot of people complain about the upgrade system but i dont see anything wrong with 
 it. Buy more armor, you take less damage. Buy health upgrades, your max health increases. seems 
 simple to me, and effective.
  
  I baught this game for $5 used and amazon and think i ripped off the seller.
  
  The one thing 
 i do see being an issue with the game is the progression. It goes on and one and all the while 
 being void of gamer achievements that would add a good encintive.
  
  But all in all its a good game with some undeserved bad hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmadshariat
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:10 am PT
Review:  i cant believe this one. its not comparable with dungeon siege completely. you are a hero ... alone... 
 in space ... and a world to save. but instead there are foolish missions and a worse path. even you 
 can guess about the upgrades you will find. no one will help you in your missions. fighting style 
 is awful. the story is worse. and a man with his daughter make it more foolish. even in all of your 
 path there arent new thing and you cannot develop your skills like other games. you always have 
 to run and attack ... to win the game alone or with the help of a useless robot. i played it only 
 to see what is going to happen or where is the change that will come but i almost finished it without 
 seeing the change.
  i really advise you not playing it. this was a bad experience for me. i was waiting for a different 
 game but this frustrated me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelvaris
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  The first words out of my mouth were... "Awesome". The opening cut scene is cinematic, fast passed 
 and beautifully rendered. The game just get's better from there. The game play is the best kind, 
 simple to understand, complicated to master and fun. The basic game play is the same game play 
 that made games like "Crusader: No Regret" and "Shadowgrounds" such fan favorites. Your alone, 
 you have lots of very big guns, and you have to save the ship. 
  
  Blast your way through a multitude of cleverly designed but straight forward levels. The game is 
 objective based rather than level based, so as you move around you have things you have to accomplish. 
 No going to the end of the level to kill the boss here. 
  
  The AI, like all AI's is just that. The enemies see you, they attack. Basic stuff there no great 
 shakes. Your AI for your companion, a robot names Harvey, is pretty good too. 
  
  The other characters in the game are voiced with different levels of expertise and are a colorful 
 addition to the otherwise fast paced, fun game. 
  
  The bottom line is that Space Siege is an addition to a very small genre, and it is a fantastic 
 addition at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The concept of "Space Siege" is interesting: sacrifice your humanity for the power to defend human-kind, 
 or keep it?
  
  The execution? ... not so interesting.
  
  You take the role of Seth Walker (Last Remaining Defender of Humanity) as he travels through an 
 escaping colony ship (The Last Hope of Humanity) infested with Generic Evil Aliens.
  
  The opening scene of the game (played behind the game's menu) shows the Earth being destroyed by 
 the Evil Aliens, and ends up being the impressive part of the game.
  
  As you move along the rails the game forces you to travel, you get upgrade parts (usable at the 
 save points to upgrade armor, weapons, and your robot buddy, or to make med kits) and, at set points 
 in the game, new weapons and skills. Each new weapon is more powerful than the next, so upgrading 
 your current weapon ends up being a waste of time.
  
  Every once in a while, you are "awarded" skill points. I say "awarded" because it doesn't feel 
 like a reward for ANYTHING other than making it to Point A.
  
  Early in the game, you are joined by HR-V, a robot guard dog. Rather than give you the expanded 
 control over it found in GPG's "Dungeon Siege" games, your commands are stupid simple variations 
 of "Sic 'em!", "Heel!", "Heal!" and "Go that way!"
  
  For some reason, the developers chose to implement the Ageia PhysX engine. The only real use for 
 it I see is to ensure the boxes randomly stacked around the ship behave properly when shot at.
 
  
  Sound effects are recycled from better games. Graphics look grainy and bland. Nothing about the 
 game justifies the absurdly-high system requirements.
  
  The controls add a layer of unnecessary difficulty that rapidly turns into frustration after the 
 billionth time you are killed because you turned the camera into a wall instead of moved away from 
 laser fire... or dodged into POINT-BLANK RANGE of the alien shooting at you... or lost your target 
 when it moved out from under the absurdly huge cursor... or even lost all targets under said cursor.
 
  
  Perhaps the most heinous crime "Space Siege" commits, however, is promising a "game-changing choice" 
 of keeping your humanity or upgrading with cybernetics... then making it a "non-choice." The "upgrades" 
 are minor at best, and their influence is minimal. Even the character (Generic Mad Scientist) 
 who encourages you to upgrade makes it almost unpalatable.
  
  In fact, ALL the NPCs in the game come across as duller versions of cliches recycled from bad sci-fi 
 movies: the Whiny Damsel in Distress, the Wounded Comrade-in-Arms, the Gruff-yet-Likable Sergeant... 
 etc.
  
  The only thing saving this from becoming a Frisbee at this point is the perverse fun I'm having 
 guessing which broken design decision gets me killed next.
  
  Do yourself a HUGE favor: unless you like pain, avoid "Space Siege" at all costs. It's not even 
 worth bargain-bin prices.
  
  (All  used with permission of the Department of Overused Cliches.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbagumpo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:26 am PT
Review:  Space Siege
  
  To start off, I am a fan of the 3D, top down, scrolling action RGP ala ICEWIND DALE, DIABLO, BALDURS 
 GATE, NEVERWINDER NIGHTS, DUNGEON SIEGE, and so on. I would say Space Siege ranks right up there 
 with that lot, although doesn't any of them in any way with the exception of Concept, as the space 
 setting offers some things we have not seen before in this style of game in the way of weapons 
 and enemies.
  
  Overall I give it an 8.5. It is a solid well made great looking 3D top down action RPG that is 
 as fun as your imagination and affinity for this type of game. If they use this updated graphics 
 engine for a Dungeon Siege 3 look out, because the graphics are the best thing going and as good 
 as anything I have seen in this style of game.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics are flawless and look terrific. The spaceship could have been more detailed and varied, 
 but the weapons and environments are first rate.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  The voice acting is a mixed back but overall very serviceable, not a strong point but we've heard 
 much worse. The music is very good and the in-game effects are spot on/
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  I like the simplified controls and use of the mouse as the primary interface. The button controls 
 for power ups and what are essentially "spells" works fine. The loot and inventory system is stripped 
 down, you don't miss it too much but you also don't get to spend time on one of the more involving 
 elements of this style of game, that of sorting through inventory to figure out what to wear/use 
 and what to sell. What this takes away is more of a sense of progression as you would normally 
 be getting better and better gear.
  
  Story: 7
  
  The story is standard and effective, nothing special but well served and it is moved along through 
 okay voiceovers as you find data pads.
  
  RPG : 7
  
  It has RPG elements which keep it just interesting enough, but again you don't really level instead 
 you are awarded points you can distribute to skills as the story advances.
  
  Action: 10
  
  I very much enjoy the action elements of the game and never got tired of them. Between the 
 graphics and the actual battles, these are the two strong elements and clearly where a lot of development 
 time was spent.
  
  Slant: 9
  
  The game is getting a bad rap for some reason so my slant here is high. There is a difference between 
 a poorly made game and a game that some people may not be taking to. Have no doubt, this game is 
 very well made and is solid. If you like this style of game you will like this. If you are new 
 to it, I would not recommend starting here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alodude
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is so boring, it isn't worth writing 100 words about. Yet I have to come up with a way 
 to write 100 words in order to submit my review. I'm hoping that I can save you from wasting your 
 money and time with this game. 
  
  It's super lame, boring, unoriginal, and uninspired. The graphics are bad, the plot is predictable, 
 and the whole concept of choosing to be human or cyborg is completely inconsequential when related 
 to gameplay. 
  
  Well that's it.... have I reached 100 words yet? No, lol... not yet. So... I wouldn't play this game 
 again, that's for sure. I bought it new for $40 and sold is used for under $10. Oh well.
  
  Are our standards for video games just too high? Maybe Chris Taylor wasn't trying to make a great 
 game. Maybe he was just board and had nothing better to do? We expect to be wowed and entertained, 
 but maybe we expect too much. 
  
  If we do expect too much, then the price of this game should be lower. I think it'd be fair to 
 say that this game should be sold for under $20, retail. Yes that would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  If there was a god, Chris Taylor and GPG, both would've been hit by an asteroid after so many shameful 
 rip-offs of much better games. I know that they like to 'fuse' different genres into one game and 
 yeah, it sounds fun.. the problem is, the execution sucks mango balls.
  
  After the lameness of Dungeon Siege, that I was actually having more fun with, I decided to give 
 this Space version a try. This game is the 'dumber' version. Someone needs to tell GPG that having 
 WASD for movement and mouse for rotating camera is a blessing, the reason why third person games 
 suck on consoles. The control system is the same as in DS2 (except you can roll around like a rabbit 
 wearing 50 ton implants) . Use your mouse to move, shoot, roll, jack off at random bots..
  
  As for game models/characters, you have seen then already in thousand other games or movies. Same 
 goes for story, and upgrades, and weapons, and dialogues.. There is absolutely nothing new here 
 (the RV is fun though, the only part that kept me playing was to upgrade it) . HINT: Don't bother 
 upgrading all new weapons (since new is usually the powerful one) . Just upgrade the minigun and 
 you will be killing everything like mad. Also, upgrade your grenades for taking out groups of enemies 
 who usually are just running backwards, away from you, so that means the grenades pretty much take 
 mose of them out since MOST of them are running backwards towards a wall or a corner. Idiots.
 
  
  Graphics: Game doesn't look bad, but runs like a crippled horse with no head.. err.. I mean, the 
 performance on a machine that can run games like Mass Effect or Doom 3 (even old, still looks better 
 than this) at highest quality is crap. You will have to turn down specular quality (not that it's 
 actually making any difference) and shadows just to get a playable FPS in fight scenes (since there 
 are 10-20 enemies + particle effects everywhere + crappy physx use that makes no sense) .
  
  HINT 2: Go play Shadowgrounds instead. That's the game Space Siege tries to copy and fails big 
 time. Even looks crappy compared to Shadowgrounds.
  
  HINT 3: DON'T BUY THIS GAME. DON'T PLAY THIS GAME. DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT IT.. AARGHH!
  
  Anyways, 
 yes, it sucks that much. 2/10 (2 for RV) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerxitig
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Nice explosions.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  No story
  To short
  To easy (can be finished in a few hours without cheats)
  An robot, the game may be a little interesting 
 without it. The most of the time, is lost in game. Stuck behind boxes, even those can be push. 
 
  Locations... are the same from beginning to the end. Nothing new. Become boring.
  Everything is on sight. No need to search for it. It is on map, u got it.
  
  
  
  The Odd
 
  
  If u are between the robot and an alien, the robot can kill u. If the robot is between u and an 
 alien, u can kill him. How odd is this?
  Or if u hold down the right button to use auto fire, first thing the mouse select is the robot 
 and u kill him without intention.
  Why this game needs two different ending? I just played the version where i kill pilot and stop 
 after that. The game is to boring to start playing the second ending. If there is really one.
 
  
  
  The strange
  
  Why this game is an RPG? Looks like an FPS from another point of view. A very bad point of view.
 
  And the piece of resistance. Is no glasses between the ship and the space. I push plants out of 
 the windows in cold space. But, interesting part, i have oxygen in that room, and i do not suffocate. 
 Or suck out in space. But i will die in a room full of toxins.
  
  
  The idea
  
  Make this game a FPS and resold it. Maybe this way will be better. And delete the robot, or make 
 him more active. Or more like an companion... or not that was the idea?
  
  
  
  
  (!) these are my own opinions and thoughts about the game after one play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgraae
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  I played the demo the get the "feel" of the game before buying the title. The demo opens with a 
 niceley rendered trailer-type cg animated spacebattle - awesome. The demo itself opens up with 
 some guy - you - shooting aliens standing on some stairs. You guess that you are in fact in the 
 middle of some kind of battle. And proceed fighting aliens through grey corridors mysteriously 
 filled with pressure cannisters and explosives.
  
  I thought that the demo was merely a sample from somewhere in the middle of the game - I was wrong.
 
  
  I bought this game because I enjoyed the coop game in Dungeon Siege - The coop game here is not 
 the main story line, but a series of loosely fitted linear missions. (You do them because the list 
 says so - now stop asking questions!)
  The Battle-system is rediculouly simple, bordering on the impractical. Character of main-plot-guy 
 is uninteresting.
  
  To "save" this title, Gas Powered Games should make the explosions bigger. More of the invironment 
 should be destructible. The game should support a controller.
  The game should be ported to xbox.
  
  Recommendation: Try the Demo. If the game really appeals 
 to you, remember that the multiplayer coop part is different from the main game. (no story)
  If you really need that dungeon siege fix, and you've played Dungeon Siege 2 allready. I recommend 
 that you play Dungeon Siege 2 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a better game than many of the negative reviews give it credit for being. The human 
 vs cybernetic debate is interesting, and the gameplay is OK but could have used more variety in 
 types of enemies and combat.
  
  The campaign is linear, but I do not mind that. It just gives a good way of playing that is focused 
 and gives you definite objectives that are fairly easy to accomplish. 
  
  It does not break any new ground in the way of graphics or story or gameplay, but I still found 
 it fun in the kind of simple way that an action movie is fun without requiring any great thought 
 or emotional imput.
  
  The main criticisms that I have is that there could have been a greater variety of enemies and 
 it would have been nice to have had item drops instead of just upgrade parts to use is leveling 
 up.
  
  Overall, I would recommend the game, but would not pay full price for it, --- wait till the price 
 comes down. I should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game is a bit like Diablo 1 - it's all about killing nicely and upgrading. There is some fun 
 with your HRV robot - sending him into action and following later with heavy guns can lighten up 
 many faces. However except from the last fight it can get boring and predictible and if you're 
 pretty used to this kind of games you will finish it in two days. Could be tempting to replay it 
 but the only real choice is - do I want to be good or bad (you make this choice some time late 
 in a game and it does not matter what you've done so far) and the second choice is whether to stuff 
 yourself with implants or stay human. So what you get is four possible game endings, but no real 
 gameplay difference.
  I personally borrowed this game and gave it back after three days. My advice for you is to wait 
 a bit and get it later (at a discount price) or borrow it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BriMercer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm so glad I didn't listen to the bad reviews or I would have missed out on a lot of fun. It brought 
 pleasant memories of Crusader No Remorse and Crusader No Regret (though I'll date myself to say 
 so) . I enjoyed the graphics, the music, and the gameplay. I'd recommend it.
  
  I'm so glad I didn't listen to the bad reviews or I would have missed out on a lot of fun. It brought 
 pleasant memories of Crusader No Remorse and Crusader No Regret (though I'll date myself to say 
 so) . I enjoyed the graphics, the music, and the gameplay. I'd recommend it.
  
  I'm so glad I didn't listen to the bad reviews or I would have missed out on a lot of fun. It brought 
 pleasant memories of Crusader No Remorse and Crusader No Regret (though I'll date myself to say 
 so) . I enjoyed the graphics, the music, and the gameplay. I'd recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolethesenshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Space Siege is a game that really underrated. I'm not into RPG's too much, but it's very addictive 
 that I couldn't stop playing. Nice atmosphere, simple but addictive story and nice graphics make 
 it worth playing. Only problems are that controls and commands like throwing a bomb, using a healing 
 pack is hard to use, and takes time to get used to. Also, the cyber body parts are not very useful. 
 The same thing goes for all upgrades in the game too. Plus, there could be definitely a better 
 and more detailed system for upgrading. Space Siege is a short game. It shouldn't take 10 hours 
 to finish, maybe less. But it's fair enough, makes you satisfied with the story. Other than that, 
 it's one of the best games that came out these days. And believe me, Diablo and Space Siege has 
 nothing in common, expect they're both RPGs. If someone says the opposite, it means they never 
 played Diablo, or Space Siege. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShrapDog
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  If you think you're buying "Dungeon Siege in Space:"
  THINK AGAIN. 
  What you are actually getting is a half baked, underdeveloped, 8hr long demo. Rooms all look the 
 same, enemies all look the same. All they did was rotate walls 90 degrees or scatter the barrels 
 around in a different way. Basically GPG decided to bank on their success with the Dungeon-Siege 
 games to take everyone who bought this game for fools. Basically the game plays like this- Shoot, 
 advance, shoot, save.
  Rinse repeat. 
  So GPG made a diablo-like game but forgot the loot.
  Yes, I said the loot: You know, the driving 
 force behind these types of games. Now you get 'parts' and thats it, no special parts, no socketed 
 parts, no blue, green or purple parts, just pieces of metal that is supposed to keep you, your 
 weapons and your robot going.
  The game is garbage, spare yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Space Siege is simple. You take the controls of Diablo (just point, click and everything dies) 
 and click your way through the game. Jet this simplicity made Diablo a classic. It didn't work 
 that way on Space Siege though.
  
  The story starts promising. You're on a spaceship, without any help and there's a lot of bad guys 
 and you have to kill them all (heard that one before haven't we) . There's a lot that can be done 
 with this simple formula, but they don't in Space Siege. 
  During the game you have to travel through certain parts of this really big space ship. In each 
 area you have to kill stuff and acquire a certain object or save a certain person. But that's just 
 it. They keep repeating the same "hey, now go save this guy, and wait, we've found some more people 
 over there" routine, to the point that it gets boring. And every time you think you've slain the 
 bad guy, some other idiot 'turn to the Dark side' and start making a mess of things.
  
  Now there are certain positive sides to the game. The graphics look OK. Not the best you've ever 
 seen, but OK. The sound's not bad either, though they loop the same background ambient music over 
 and over. Now there's a lot of guns, abilities and upgrades to collect, so that'll probably keep 
 you motivated to continue (the railgun from the Schwarzenegger movie ERASER is in it!) . Unfortunately 
 that's it. 
  
  I completed the game in 4 days, playing about 10 to 15 hours max. My character died 5 times, including 
 the boss battles. This game is just to keep you indoors during a rainy day, but it's definitely 
 NOT WORTH the 50 EURO's they charge you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_kn1ght10k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I really dont know why it has only 5, this game should be around 8-9 at least. I give it 9.5, the 
 0.5 minus is because it ended so quickly : ( The graphics are nice enough, the sounds are nice too, 
 the gameplay is very good and the interface is simple, just the way its supposed to be. You have 
 a choice, either you become a cyborg using various implants thus gaining many abilities, or remain 
 human, which allows you access to 2 very cool skills. Awesome weaponry, just the right difficulty, 
 an innovative RPG system, cool moves and many special attacks which combined the right way makes 
 you almost invincible. I used most of the time the MagBlade (melee) which is very cool and the Chaingun 
 :P my 2 favorite weapons. Tons of fun, this game is simply one of the best RPGs i ever played. 
 Hope there will be a Space Siege 2, a little longer would be fine :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jplawrie
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 6, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The Basics of it are good, but they left some key components out that would have made it a great 
 game. Few games these days make good RPG's and fewer still mix RPS with Sci-Fi really well. This 
 game does neither. Still its a decent game and the element of they cybernetic enhancements and 
 the ability to customize and upgrade are good elements to the game. Its a decent game and I'd say 
 if its on sale pick it up you might enjoy it. The graphics leave something to be desired, the combat 
 controls are kinda crappy, and some of the abilities are useless. On the plus side, the story line 
 is okay and haveing HR-V with you can be very helpful in a pinch. More dialog and more in depth 
 story lines as well as side quests might give the game more depth and some of the plot twists were 
 visible from a few light years away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonti82
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The idea is simple but interesting. You take a popular action RPG style game like Dungeon Siege, 
 set the clock forward to 22nd century and see what happens. 
  
  When you begin playing Space Siege, looking at the graphics, sound and the gameplay might disappoint 
 you a bit. The only aspect that might interest you is the story. Although if you are a Science 
 Fiction fan, you will probably guess what is going to happen and stay one step ahead of the story, 
 when the so called plot twists start showing up. 
  
  For its mediocre graphics, sound and gameplay the game is still fun to play. But if we were to 
 simplify it, its mostly about going around killing bunch of similar looking aliens, cybernetic 
 guys and robotics. Don't get me wrong, it's still fun. 
  
  The game controls might confuse you at the beginning, especially if you are used to the standard 
 WSAD movement keys, which are used for useless camera movements here. They are useless because 
 you can do all the camera movement you want with your mouse scroll button. And no, so far there 
 isn't any option to remap the controls.
  
  Another good idea that failed is the leveling and the skill trees. There isn't any experience points. 
 Instead, you just get a level every now and then with 2 points to spend on either combat or engineering 
 trees. 
  
  The story... Right, the story makes you think that your choice will matter and change the outcome. 
 At the beginning, when you find your first cybernetic pieces, you wonder how it is going to affect 
 the story later on, but as you go on you just stop caring and install everything as the outcome 
 doesn't seem to change. 
  
  To conclude, Space Siege is a good idea that somehow failed at its implementation. Although it 
 is still fun to play and the idea was great, the poor environment and gameplay pulls this game 
 down to stay as a mediocre game. 
  
  Sonti
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyclass50
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure what this game did to get such a verbal arse raping, but I'm willing to make 
 a few guesses;
  
  1) Cybernetics are hardly worth bothering with, since you probably wont even notice the perks.
 
  
  2) You don't have a party of people helping you out. It's just you and your robot sidekick.
  
 
  3) Some of the dialog and plot is a bit clichd.
  
  4) And probably most importantly; Alot of the Dungeon Siege fans will have will have gotten their 
 expectations up far too high
  
  Number 4) is the real killer here, most of the review ratings that are less than 5 have been from 
 juvenile gamers that miss the feelings they got when they first played Dungeon Siege. And the fact 
 that this game doesn't satisfy their nostalgia, makes it a complete failure?
  
  Sorry, but no ... grow up!
  
  Take Dungeon Siege for example;
  
  - Where is the character 
 development? They speak to you when they join your party and if you disband, but never in-between, 
 which is just pants.
  
  - Remember how repetitive it was? Why are you complaining Space Siege is too repetitive, when it 
 less so than Dungeon Siege.
  
  - You used to get tons of crap, so much so, I lost interest I keeping track of it all, since I 
 was bound to pick up something better every few seconds.
  
  BTW, I also quite liked Dungeon Siege, I'm just saying this because every game has its faults, 
 you can't please everyone, and a TRUE gamer would never go off into one and neglect every other 
 aspect that makes up a game, just because it wasn't what they expected.
  
  
  Here's an unbiased summary of Space Siege for you;
  
  Graphics: good for an RPG, although character 
 models could be a bit better I think.
  
  Story is alright, but clichd (no more so than say FarCry) .
  
  Gameplay a little awkward to 
 begin with, but you get used to it.
  
  There are plenty of ways to improve your character (skills, armour stats, weapon stats, and of 
 course cybernetics) .
  
  Alternate endings for a bit more replay value.
  
  Cost me 17.99, which is a bargain.
  
  And it's generally good fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazam_lp
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I don't need to repeat what other people have said but I am pretty sure that everyone will agree 
 with me on the fact that this game is a total waste of money, time and resources. I loved the DS 
 and DS2 series. They were my first RPG games. I played them and finished them multiple times. I 
 was anxiously waiting for Space Siege to come out until I tried it and I was completely disappointed. 
 This game is completely pointless. Nothing in the game makes you want to continue playing it. Same 
 attack moves, same bs and random explosions in this Sci-Fi arena where you don't know what the 
 heck is going on. Controls and Camera Dynamics are horrid, cinematic and such shouldn't even be 
 there to how bad they are. And dummy pre-rendered animations are so stupid you just end up laughing 
 at yourself. 
  
  If you're willing to pay for this game, might as well set yourself an account on WoW and waste 
 your time doing something a little more productive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay, okay, I know Termie isn't exactly a cyborg. He's more of an android since he didn't start 
 out human.
  
  But that doesn't matter. Termie is a humanoid shaped soldier intended to have capabilities that 
 a human has, and more, thanks to augmentations, designs and uber-robot buffs. Having cybernetic 
 arms and legs means being able to go through concrete like they are mere wallpaper, but Seth Walker 
 just gets an underwhelming "+10% to attack/movement speed". And that after he practically screams 
 his throat off when his legs and arms got sawn off.
  
  These whimsical upgrades that attempt to tie into the theme of the game is a poorly implemented 
 design decision. And come on, Seth can't run while firing at the same time? Despite having cybernetic 
 arms and legs that should be able to handle the recoil and stuff? And he can fire at long ranges 
 while enemies have to get closer to kick his ass. All these just seems to show that Seth can do 
 what the aliens cannot, and vice versa.
  
  Where's the inventory system in Dungeon Siege? The garbage eating pet? The full eight-people party? 
 Calling this game a spiritual successor to Dungeon Siege is a (bad) joke.
  
  And where's all the effort and development resources? The game functions well, yet seems so under-designed. 
 Maybe Gas-Powered Games should have put this game on the back-burner while they worked on Demigods.
 
  
  In any case, the damage has been done. This game will be a stain on Gas-Powered Games' portfolio. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaPenguinAta
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This was a serious let down for me.
  
  Gas Powered games has historically put out some quality games. Unfortunately, Space Siege just 
 doesn't cut it.
  
  The best way to describe it is that the developers seemed lazy. All of the shortcuts that make 
 dungeon scrolling games easy and enjoyable have been left out of Space Siege, either because the 
 developers didn't think that games were smart enough to realize the difference, or they just didn't 
 care.
  
  The controls are terrible. You need to point and click to do everything from run to shoot. A dodge 
 feature that is somehow supposed to make up for the terrible control design is a joke. The dodge 
 is a roll in a random direction that is supposed to make you evade enemy fire. What the designers 
 were too lazy to see is that most of the time you end up rolling RIGHT INTO the enemy! Did they 
 even bother testing this game before they released it?
  
  The environment that the game the exhibits is really confusing. The space ship is dark and dreary, 
 which might not be a bad thing. However the aliens are cartoonish and your character never seems 
 to really take the situation as seriously as the environment makes it out to be.
  
  Lastly, the game doesn't run smoothly at all. Even with all of the video settings turned down, 
 I was still lagging along. Mind you I have a dual core AMD processor, 2GB or RAM and a 256MB PCI 
 NVidia graphics card. Not the top of the line system, but it runs WoW and Warhammer 40K without 
 issue.
  
  This game's development seems shoddy all around. Nobody took the time to really compare Space Siege 
 to other games on a similar platform. Instead of a well polished, fun, sci-fi crawler the game 
 is clunky, frustrating, and ultimately what seems like a lame Dungeon Siege mod.
  
  Poor showing overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is getting it in the shorts from most critics and reviewers, and I can understand why 
 they're disappointed. If you go into it expecting an original story and deep RPG elements, you'll 
 be sorely disappointed. I played the demo and liked it, so I took the plunge. I thought the combat 
 was fun and I really didn't mind not having an inventory. The lack of WASD controls makes you wonder 
 what the developers were smoking, but once you get used to moving with the mouse and using the 
 E key to dodge, it's not bad. I have ADD and even I didn't get bored of the environments. Granted, 
 there are silly design issues like the gazillion explosive barrels and crates lining the hallways, 
 but I kinda enjoyed blowing everything up. This game would have been much better received if it 
 had carried a lower price tag. $30 would've been about right. For $50 I agree the experience was 
 lacking. Try to find it on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Absolutely, bar none, the worst game I have ever played. I remember the days - not too long ago 
 - when I waited for Dungeon Siege II (DS II) to come out. My anticipation was visceral, and I longed 
 to waltz through a seamless world. DS II was a let down, to say the least, and for some reason 
 I had hope that Chris Taylor could pull together in Space Siege (SS) all the elements I thought 
 were missing in DS II.
  
  I was wrong. The tedious, monotonous, un-inspired dungeon crawl in space, lacked everything I needed 
 to even keep my eyelids open. Gamespot's score was generous, but their review was dead on. Read 
 their review, because I simply don't want to waste anymore time thinking about this game.
  
  On another note, it is surprising that Microsoft didn't publish this game. The background to 
 that decision, I have not heard, but the affect it had on the final product was profound. Take 
 a look at the opening to DS II, and contrast it with the intro to SS - if you were tricked into 
 buying it. It was quite apparent from the beginning of SS that no one in the development studio, 
 or publishing house, cared about SS the way they had cared for DS II.
  
  Demigod is Gas Powered's last chance with me. Last.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, i only bought this game because of two factors: i love action rpgs, and i had to 
 have a game to tide me over until stalker and spore release.
  
  Initially, the game made a good impression with a powerful opening cinematic, and i was also impressed 
 by its clean, stylized yet low-requirement graphics. The story, some riff about saving humanity, 
 also seemed a relatively compelling reason for kicking some alien posterior. I also liked the fact 
 that the game kicked off combat almost immediately, throwing you into the thick of battle between 
 various alien foes and the last defenders of humanity.
  
  However, as gamespot also pointed out, it would go downhill from there. I too found the control 
 scheme to be merely servicable, but this in an age where games control intelligently, it was somewhat 
 lacking. Sound-wise, Space Siege is also as unremarkable as they go, with a muted soundtrack and 
 voice-acting that was either overwrought or terribly disinterested. Some attempt was made to weave 
 in subplots, like what happened to Clara and her father (via the datapads) but none of it really 
 adds to the atmosphere.
  
  In my playthrough, i strove for a 100% humanity rating, so i cannot attest to the efficacy, if 
 any, of the cybernetic parts, but i am sure that they would have little impact on the game other 
 than the alternate endings. Furthermore, weapon upgrades did not seem to have any effect, and neither 
 did upgrading HRV. your perpetual companion throughout the game, seem to do much for his combat 
 efficacy nor his rather limited usefulness. When the game ended some 12-14 hours after i loaded 
 it in, I had still felt no attachment to any of the characters in the game, only with the rather 
 vague feeling one gets upon going through some mediocre experience.
  
  So, in conclusion, if you are also waiting for some of the other titles to come in september, then 
 by all means Space Siege is quite an adequate fix. But don't expect too much satisfaction from 
 what is basically a budget title in disguise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Space Siege
  
  I waited for this one and had high hopes, then the demo came and changed all that. When the game 
 then came out, nothing had changed, and the game as unpoliced, and seam broken from time to time.
 
  
  - Gameplay
  You play the main character, that has to take care of and alien invation, the game is played in 
 a isomatric view and is a SIFIC action "hack n slash" with space guns. you walk around from room 
 to room trying to find out what happend and why the aliens where allowed to take over. Killing 
 aliens, then more aliens and then again some more aliens, i know this is what the "hack n slash" 
 genre is all about, and it has worked so many times before, but for some reason it does not work 
 here, maybe because they are so ugly made, or maybe they AI is so poor. Physics are implanted in 
 the game to make it more interesting and they work out fine. The enviorment, could have used some 
 more work, it is dull and you get tired of looking at it fast, they way characters move around 
 both you and the AI, is allso quite poor, they stumple and walk into things, turn badly, and looks 
 clumsy.
  
  - Graphics
  Some things look good and others does not. Space Siege is a mix for this and it is not working 
 for me at all, colours are dull and it looks like everything should have had some more hours of 
 work.
  
  - Sounds
  Dull sounds, and the way the weapons sounds when they fire is realy bad, and makes me what to turn 
 it down. 
  
  - Overall, Score and ending words
  Very disappointing, very. It should have been great but it is not. sadly. 5-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khh121388
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Plot: Aliens have invaded and destroyed Earth. They're on your ship now. Go kill them. That simple.
 
  
  Gameplay: You basically point and click to move/shoot at enemies, which can be annoying at times. 
 As you defeat enemies parts drop on the ground which act as the currency in the game. (Press z 
 to grab all parts on screen) You can then upgrade your defenses and your current gun, although 
 upgrading your gun isn't a great idea early on when you'll be constantly picking up new ones. You 
 also get a companion robot, HR-V called "Harvey", who can help you. 
  
  Your action bar at the bottom is filled with moves that do extra ranged damage to enemies, use 
 your sword ability, throw grenades, etc. You also have 2 "spec" lines called Combat and Engineering. 
 Combat increases your damage with guns and self abilities while engineering increases HR-V's damage 
 as well as grenades and bots. Every time you complete a certain mission, you get 2 talent points 
 to allocate. 
  
  After awhile, you'll come across biotic human parts, which you can implant into yourself. They 
 provide buffs, but if your humanity is less than 90% you won't be able to use a certain talent 
 in each tree. In my opinion, I just implanted everything especially since the buffs are really 
 nice. (2 sec. extra immunity with the biotic spine)
  
  One downside is that you don't really get to make many choices in the game. So you're just Seth 
 Walker going about the ship defeating the missions. And about that. You're only on the ship for 
 the whole duration. The scenery of the ship is good, but it's the same atmosphere. 
  
  Graphics: Good. Nothing super special, but it's basically impressive.
  
  It didn't take that 
 long for me to beat this game. Just a few days of pretty dedicated play although you could do it 
 again playing as the other talent spec. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatcatbp
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, I will say that I did enjoy my trip through Space Siege. The storyline was semi-interesting, 
 and I enjoyed making the choice of becoming a mechanized killing machine, or a guy with a gun who 
 hides behind his robot. That being said, Space Siege could have been so much more that it leaves 
 you with severe buyers remorse.
  
  The graphics are decent, while not spectacular. The explosions are satisfying and the Kerak look 
 sinister enough, it's when you fight humanoid models that you see that most of Space Siege's graphics 
 are from around 2004-2005.
  
  The voice acting is decent, and the actors don't seem to be phoning it in, like in a lot of PC 
 games (Read: C&C3. The sound effects are the requisite booms and bangs, nothing to write home about, 
 and the musical score is about the same.
  
  The game play, where the game should really shine, is where it fails the most. For the first half 
 of the game, I played it as a 3rd Person Shooter, and held down my right mouse button until things 
 died. By the end of your trip though the game, all your weapons seem the same, and you are left 
 wanting something to make it seem like you have accomplished something. When I got bored with holding 
 my mouse over my enemies, I made a new save and tried the Cybernetic melee route I had heard about. 
 Again, this gets old quickly, as you are now right in front of the enemy holding down your right 
 mouse button, with an occasional use of the very first skill you get in the game. Your robot sidekick 
 is more of a distraction than anything else. If you are lucky the AI will ignore you and attack 
 him while you kill them in 1 to 2 seconds. 
  
  Multi-player is a bit better than single player, but again it the same old, same old. Add that 
 to the fact that you are not finding and upgrading your equipment like traditional action rpgs 
 and it seems sort of pointless to put in more time than it takes to beat the campaign.
  
  
  While the story had promise, I just found myself not caring towards the end. If I had to decide 
 to save the human race, and these people were the survivors, maybe I would just phone it in, and 
 watch some TV instead. Overall, I cannot recommend Space Siege. At 50 dollars, you should expect 
 more than 10 hours of holding down your right mouse button. Perhaps with more time they will release 
 some patches or additional campaign scenarios to play to make it worth while. Otherwise, wait until 
 it's 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sampson69
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, I like to categorize things so here goes:
  
  technical- graphics are not bad, not good. At least it's stable and runs ok. The physics are cool, 
 with pressurized canisters that sound like fireworks, crates, explosives and other things flying 
 around.
  
  Sound- Awful. Guns, or sounds at all for that matter, don't have any oomph whatsoever, and sound 
 like they shouldn't have that sound period (a mini-gun sounds like some sort of laser gun or something) . 
 Of course there is no catchy music either.
  
  Story- Meh, not bad but again not to good. A few plot twists here and there, but nothing special. 
 They dont build up any kind of severity, of how severe it is to change your body into a cyborg, 
 probably one of the biggest disappointments. Also one of the worst endings.
  
  Gameplay- The upgrade system is kinda neat, but there is just not enough customization available 
 (No inventory!!!) . They call this game an action game, but there is hardly ever enough enemies 
 to be so. There is alot of bactracking, even more if you missed your linear objective.
  
  
  Overall: Please stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenoww
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege? No. Space Siege a space rpg shooter.
  
  Space Siege has an rpg Diablo, Dungeon Siege like style but has some major changes, You actually 
 play trough the game walking one path doing the storyline. It all goes by very fast do some simple 
 quests here and there you only work on the main quest there are no side quests or anything like 
 that. that is also one of the - points of the game..
  
  The loot from the enemies in this game the enemy's drop screws (Or what they are?) which you can 
 use to upgrade your weapons or your stats or even Replace some of your Human part's with Mechanical 
 parts. but after you done that and Maxed it all and obtained all the weapons by going trough the 
 story mode your about done with the game.
  
  You can also do a multiplayer mode but it is not that promising you start in a sort of lobby with 
 your teammate also you start off with all the items and all skill points to spent so the only goal 
 actually is to upgrade your stats you cant gain newer items all the challenges stay the same they 
 only get a bit more easy so its not really worth it.
  
  The points that could have been better..
  
  - Real Loot like finding items you can show off 
 to your friends or even share with them. for example you find a rare gun those kind of things make 
 you keep playing the game..
  
  - No freedom
  There is no world to do something in you always walk 1 path and that's it.. ive tried multiplayer 
 and there is like a save point every corner and there are always same stacks of monsters so no 
 random dungeons or anything like that.
  
  - Gets Boring fast
  Most of this is because of the things i wrote above..
  there is just nothing in this game that 
 makes it addicting.. there is nothing to work forward to..
  
  Thanks for reading my review if you did please don't mind my spelling i usually don't write reviews. 
 i read them most of the time :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atirage_ns
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so the story is a cliche: aliens attacked us, killed almost everyone in the colony, now attacking 
 mother Earth. We are in control of a soldier who will fight the damn aliens with his ally robot.
 
  
  If you liked Doom3, Alien vs predator and similar alien and spaceship fighting games, you will 
 LOVE this one (if you like RPG's)
  
  I really got hooked on to this game, I knew what am I getting, but it kept me surprise on and on. 
 The one thing I dont like very much is the common upgrades or skills. It's all in some numbers 
 and percenteges and you cant really feel the improvements in the game. They should add more various 
 skills and "spells". HR-V upgrades and skills are also very much alike.
  I'm not playing much as an engineer, but as much I saw the bots, mines and traps I got during this 
 time aint helping much. They are simply weak, and I use several combos to destroy the enemies while 
 they barely damage them.
  But it IS fun. The game is really fun and intresting, with some simple missions, that arent hard 
 to accomplish.
  
  The graphics is really good, nicely done. Nice lighting effects. Nothing spectacular, not directX10 
 but it IS good. Same goes for the sound.
  
  I didnt like, how you cant remap the keyboard shortcuts, or to use the onscreen shortcuts with 
 a mouse. Also a transparent map during the game and shooting would be also nice.
  
  All in all, it's always fun to shoot aliens. Or to blow up. Or to shock. Or to stun. Or to slice'n'dice 
 'em ;D
  
  ps. I also got surprised with the megablade and the skills with it. A sword in a space shooter 
 RPG is a really intresting thing to use :)
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Desperation will lead a man to do strange and ill advised things. Eating your deceased and frozen 
 friends after surviving a plane crash in the mountains comes to mind, and while no actual cannibalism 
 occurs in Space Siege it is not that bad of a comparison. I had a strong desire to click on things 
 until they died while collecting their leavings to pimp out my character; watching to many Diablo 
 III videos will do that. In spite of a lackluster demo I ran out and bought Space Siege and got 
 only part of what I asked for. There is a lot of clicking on generic looking aliens which I would 
 describe as adequate and no more, but no depth behind it, and none of the obsessive loot gathering 
 that made the previous Siege games suitable Diablo clones.
  
  Space Siege occupies an unfortunate middle ground between much superior games. On the action RPG 
 side there are dozens of titles, most notably Dungeon Siege 2 and the exceptional and apparently 
 rampantly pirated Titan Quest. On the just plain old action side sits Shadowgrounds and Shadowgrounds 
 Survivor, two excellent low budget isometric shooters that are both very good ways to kill a weekend. 
 Space Siege does its best to balance the two sub-genres, RPG-like character customization without 
 all that pesky looking at stats three menus deep into a cumbersome UI. The tragedy here is that 
 it is this tightrope act that keeps the game from being any more then clichd and average. One 
 step toward Diablo-ness would add in actual equipment instead of identical upgrade parts that are 
 little more then currency to buy stat bonuses and abilities, thus removing all the excitement of 
 stumbling upon a new weapon. Falling off towards full on action would at the very least allow moving 
 while shooting, adding strategy to combat that as it sits is a simple contest of firepower. Space 
 Siege is either an extremely stream lined action RPG or an average top down shooter with control 
 issues; neither of which is very appealing.
  
  There are some attempts at character customization that work marginally well. The player is given 
 the option throughout to install cybernetic parts at the expense of his humanity. I saw no reason 
 to cling to my fragile flesh, went all out cyber and suffered no penalties for it; the choice has 
 a very positive effect on the combat and no noticeable negative impact on the story, but at least 
 there was the option to be a prude for no good reason. The same is true for special abilities: 
 ability points are handed out after story events, not as a part of a leveling system. There are 
 quite a few choices to be made along two different ability trees and the best powers cannot be 
 reached without planning ahead. The loot/currency system does not fair as well and actually ends 
 up interfering; there was more then enough loot available to completely power up both my character 
 and my robot sidekick, over compensating for any mistakes I made choosing powers. I took a very 
 balanced approach, which I realized half way through was not the best idea, but it didn't matter. 
 By the end I was a cybernetic killing machine with a mute robot bad ass lackey, suffering no real 
 bonuses or hindrances from past decisions.
  
  Space Siege fails because it cannibalizes better games in a half hearted way. If it had chosen 
 a single genre to rip off it would have faired better. The game isn't terrible, there are just 
 easily obtainable, much better alternatives. As much as I hate boiling game choice down to simple 
 economics, here is the formula: Space Siege is currently $50. For that price you could get Titan 
 Quest Gold, Shadowgrounds Survivor and a six pack of Guinness. I'm no financial genius, but 40 
 plus hours of better game play on top of several pints of stout sounds much better then the 8 hours 
 of so-so genre straddling minus the benefits of alcohol I just endured.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothzane
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  t is a very basic diablo combined with Halo.
  
  The game drops you off right in the middle of a battle with little warning and no instruction.
 
  If you are not familair with diablo style games you will most likely wind up dead your first go.
 
  Camera and other controls are done properly... although I switched around some of the keyboard 
 and mouse settings.... left click was move to destination and right click was attack... that had 
 to be switched.
  
  The loot system is abit different in which enemies and the destructible terrain will only yield 
 "parts" and not items... each part has a specific numerical value... and in order to upgrade the 
 few weapons that you do find... it takes a certain number of "parts" for certain upgrades. Besides 
 these parts only health kits and grenades can be picked up. And speaking of pick up... clicking 
 the Z key will drag every close item towards you quickly... so not having to collect parts by clicking 
 each one... this is both great and bad... it makes it easy to collect the parts... but some get stuck 
 in the terrain and become uncollectable.
  
  Combat is fairly done.... alot of walking backwards and firing... or holding ground with gunfire 
 until you switch over to hand to hand. There is an evasive roll using the E key... which I hardly 
 have used... it is easier just to side step and fire then to roll out of the way... unless an alien 
 lobs a grenade at you... then it is roll time.. unless you see it fast enough to step out of the 
 way.
  
  There is a great deal of explosive barrels & tanks to use to your advantage... some go spinning 
 around like a rocket though and can harm you. Enemies come in small groups that I have seen so 
 far... I try to give each such group a welcoming hand grenade as a heartfelt token before raining 
 down hot lead.
  
  The skill tree is my largest complaint... it simply is completely bland and lackluster.
  Cybernetic 
 implants are needed to open up some new skills.. these implants have a cost of your humanity... if 
 you lose too much of it other skills can not be used and vise versa.
  An intresting concept.... it just looks very shortchanged.
  
  Few basic skills are given... nothing 
 you havent seen 100x before.
  Nothing even remotely innovative.
  
  Save game stations frequent each level... they also replenish your health and energy.
  At each 
 station is a workbench which you can use your parts to upgrade some of your weapons and personal 
 statics such as armor and health... when you upgrade your armor... your characters image does change 
 to represent the improvement.
  
  There is also your companion... a handy robot you find with machine guns for arms.
  At each save 
 station you can upgrade its statistics as well.
  You can give commands to the robot to go to a point, attack a target or return and finally repair 
 itself.... using this robot as a meat shield will save your backside.
  The robot will get destroyed fairly often if you are not careful with it.
  Luckily manufacture 
 stations are frequent around the maps where you can repair it.
  
  The story is very good... but I felt like I was playing Halo from a different perspective.
  Voice 
 acting is also well done.
  
  All in all I am enjoying the game... I just wish there were more weapons and armors.. and something 
 that even closely resembled a decent skill tree.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipershefu
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  When I first opened the game and I saw the cinematic and the menus I said: "wow this must be a 
 great game" and I think that made me even more disappointed when i started to play. Okay, so here 
 are the good things about this game: Nice graphics, creative story and... well that's all.
  And now the bad things about the game: everything else!!!!! especially the gameplay! It took me 
 a hour to just understand the controls. Also i don`t like the skill bar and the health bar, they 
 are confusing. You would need a long... tutorial before starting the game but the developers did 
 not even bother to add a short one.
  My advice: play Mass Effect (great game 10/10) or something else because this game is not worth 
 it.
  P. S. Did i say the story was creative? Well it is... its just that, from a point, I stopped understanding 
 it. It began to be confusing integrating perfect between the other elements of the game :D . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucASPrime
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Not something a Dungeon Siege fun would have expected.1 hero class with no possible customisation 
 but for the forced implementation of cyber parts which is compulsory till the end of the game... The 
 robot cannot be controlled in the fight no matter how hard you try...1 blade,1 armour till the 
 end of the game. I hoped for more comboes when I saw SEGA part of the project... and definitely for 
 more than 1 hero as I saw used 2 in the Dungeon Siege Series. A doctor, a mechanic, a robot and Jake 
 with cyber parts would have been great. The gun and armour upgrades didn't change the look of the 
 character but for the cyber parts. There were a lot of things U couldn't use till the end of the 
 game or simply irrelevant. You cannot even customise controls!!! And the story has nothing new in 
 it, I felt like playing an TPS game not an RPG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poodlejumper
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Space Siege is not a "horrible" game as so many here want to call it. A good deal of gamers are 
 a little too quick to point out mediocrity as failure. It's not. It's just mediocrity. That means 
 it's not a very bad game. It's not a particularly good game either. That's where most folks are 
 feeling it.
  
  It's not even as good as its "predecessor" or "spiritual predecessor" as every game and its spin 
 off wants to be called these days. It should have at least been on par with itit wasn't. 
  
  My gripes with it are as follows: 
  
  1. Not an RPG. I understand a lot of games want to 
 be called "RPG". This game has been repeatedly called "RPG" but it is not.
  
  True it has multiple endings based on your "humanity" (as you can use cybernetics to boost skills 
 but at a "cost") but other than this there are no major choices to be made other than which skill 
 to improve. Social interactions are simplified clicks. It is not an RPG. Not at all. Shame on everyone 
 who calls it one. Then again the same folks think Final Fantasy I to infinity are RPGs as well...
 
  
  2. Inventory??? Jebus, Dungeon Siege did NOT need dumbing down. Sometimes inventory is fun. Sometimes 
 it become a nasty repetitive collection drag of gathering items you can't use/sell like that nasty 
 piece of over hype called "Hellgate". Getting rid of the idea of inventory could be seen as both 
 revolutionary and like dumbing it down so Mrs. Sheerer's kindergarten class can pick it right up. 
 There is a healthy balance. This isn't it.
  
  3. Linear as linear can be. Therefore not an RPG once again but also it had a system that allowed 
 for non-linearity. If that needs to be explained anymore then shoot me.
  
  4. Your only NPC is a personalityless Robot??? HAR-V is great. He blows up the enemy really well 
 and gets blown up in turn but adds little to story/atmosphere. Jeeze! Couldn't they have a few 
 more NPCS? A little banter perhaps?
  
  5. All those graphics but not dead bodies. A minor quibble but when you toast an enemy he sort 
 of melts away and leaves behind the parts you use to "upgrade". I was rather hoping that the bodies 
 would remain. In a few battles the post battle carnage would be a nice addition. I thought I saw 
 an ad showing nothing but bodies around youoh well that was an ad after all.
  
  6. It could have used some further back camera angles allowing you a further range. I'm not talking 
 about sniping from miles away just blasting away at the enemy swarming down a corridor from a range 
 father than the distance from the back of my house to the front... and I own a very small house.
 
  
  The positives are as follows in my little opinion:
  
  1. The action is nice though. Fast and furious. Great until you it gets a little repetitive... and 
 it does but not SEVERELY. 
  
  2. The graphics are interesting. There are explosions galore (mostly due to the sheer amount of 
 explosives simply lying around the ship... this mentioned jokingly in game several times) and the 
 weaponry blasting is great. Of course, the camera angles could be much better as we're talking 
 ranged combat. 99% of the time the enemy is just off camera and blasting away at you while you 
 get to press the e key and do the electric slide while you run to them.
  
  3. I like some of the atmosphere and there are a few plot lines that are interesting and there 
 is some decent character development. If anything there are a few "cookie cutter" characters AKA 
 the darling communications officer/pseudo romantic interest that of course is in her mid 20s, a 
 little sassy, and cute to boot. Just for once I'd like to see the main character partner up with 
 a chain smoking 50 year old battleaxe who lives with her cats and hates you with a blind and raging 
 passions...
  
  That being said. It's a disappointment... but not incredibly so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharonXeno
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Space Siege is hack-and-slash game, and provides good fun while you hack, slash and blow away your 
 enemies in about 10 different ways. Unfortunately, that's about it.
  
  You earn "skill points" which you can invest for marginal bonuses, but you will probably not notice 
 them in any significant way. You can upgrade the statistics of your weapon to be faster, more damaging, 
 whatever. The same principle goes for your armor and your robotic buddy.
  
  The graphics are nice, but with few exceptions, the level designs have a "samey" feeling to them. 
 Missions varieties are "go there", "click that" and "kill that" - with about as much love and care 
 given in the presentation. Optional objectives are "pick that up" and the objects in quests usually 
 lie right in your path so you would literally trip over them if you don't watch your step.
  
  There might have been lots of potential, both to the setting and the story, but unfortunately 
 this was not realized.
  
  In the end Space Siege is just another generic hack-and-slay game with about zero replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinlord06
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying that this is my first video game review, because I honestly feel 
 so passionate about how far south the quality has gone from what was once unquestioned talent at 
 Gas Powered Games it compels me to write something in the hopes that GPG is reading and will take 
 a good hard look at the quality of material they put out if they have any hope of staying respected 
 & to keep a loyal fanbase. 
  On a scale of 1 to 10 how would I rate Space Siege? I give it a ranking of total suck. I suppose 
 I should get in line with those who thought this would be something exciting coming from the creators 
 of Dungeon Siege, I now find myself joining those who wish to hell that Gamestop could take returns 
 on PC games. I am an avid Dungeon Siege fan and when I heard GPG was coming out with a Sci-fi equivalent 
 spiritual successor, I was ecstatic. I was a fan of all the Dungeon Siege games including expansions, 
 and hearing that the same creative mind behind that wonder was making this game, I had extremely 
 high hopes and got the game the day it came out. I paid my full price for a new PC title and have 
 been bitterly, bitterly disappointed. Here's why. 
  Engaging characters and development? Marginal to non-existent. Loot? Just one kind, so much for 
 a diverse inventory. Weapons? Less than a dozen and are pretty bland. Armor and outfits? If cybernetics 
 qualify as armor they are unchangeable once you select it, not upgradeable, and there's only one 
 of each kind in the whole game & the game even tells you where to get it. Convincing storyline? 
 You lost me after the first 30 minutes. Character classes and multiclasses? None. Side quests and 
 exploration? None, just one long gray stretch of hallway. Dialog? Linear, no involvement. Puzzles 
 and brain ticklers? None. Difficulty level? Just one and it's way too easy. Replayability? None.
 
  Even Dungeon Siege 1, for all the linear play, did have a much longer campaign, a huge world to 
 explore, hundreds of items weapons & armor, engaging quests & side quests, and much more colorful 
 characters that I actually cared about & could believe in. This tried and true formula worked even 
 better in Dungeon Siege II. While I can respect the decision to not want to make managing a party 
 too tedious as it could be in Dungeon Siege but, come on! Space Siege & GPG totally tossed away 
 a tried and true formula that worked very well for not only all their Dungeon Siege games, but 
 others such as Diablo, Warcraft, Fallout, and just about any other RPG in gaming history. Master 
 of Orion 3 did the very same thing and many fans were livid at the reckless changes. Just because 
 the word 'Siege' in the title doesn't make a good game, GPG. I thought RPG's were supposed to let 
 me choose how to play? The game practically plays itself. Gas Powered Games, from me to you, you 
 need to seriously take a deep look at yourselves. Make this fan & the many others who feel like 
 me believe in you again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Worm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping Space Siege would be a futuristic Dungeon Siege with long game play, many fine details, 
 and a (more) decent story line. But the game fails to achieve anything. There wasn't a lot of action 
 and the enemies ended up being real simple and easy to beat. The lack of weapons was a let down 
 and the fact that you can't level in a traditional RPG way (earn experience as you fight and level 
 with more enemies you defeat) . A lot could have been done with the graphics and detail, but they 
 definitely left a lot to be desired. Also, the boss battles were quite lame. To be honest, the 
 game reminded me of a mod made by non-professional fans as opposed to game developers, especially 
 Gas Powered Games.
  
  If you find this game for cheap, i. e. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  In this RPG you play the role of Seth, an experienced soldier who must stop extinction of human 
 race. The game starts in a space ship ( also ends there ) which is probably the only shuttle that 
 was able to escape earth before the alien race, Kerak destroyed the planet. You must get rid of 
 your enemies and find a new home. Through out the game you will be assisted by other survivors. 
 A negative part of the story is that the game is goes on in the same space ship. Though each mission 
 takes place in different regions of it. As a result the environments in each levels are far too 
 similar. I must say the story is short too.
  
  There is not much variety in enemies - Kerak (crab like aliens) , Cyborgs (humans who were brainwashed 
 and converted into cybernetics) , Robots (taken over by a rogue AI) .
  
  Through out the game you will find various weapons and upgrades both for yourself and your fellow 
 Robot called HR-V. You also get skill points for completing missions which you can use to unlock 
 new powers. Also you get cybernetic upgrade parts for you body and installing them is optional. 
 The game has three ending (just the ending dialogs are different) based on your actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Space Siege I had mixed reactions. Long ago I was a large fan of the Baulders 
 Gate series and had a short run in with the Dungeon Siege series as well. Of course I also spent 
 a many hours with Diablo 2 and still do from time to time, so when Gas Powered Games announced 
 Space Siege not too long ago my interest was peaked. I love RPGs and this point and click style 
 combat game is right up my old school alley. So a grabbed it on release and played it into the 
 dirt so I could bring you all the most complete review I could, so here we go.
  
  Controls - Well being a point and click PC game the controls are pretty good, awkward camera angles 
 though from time to time do become a hindrance when trying to move along hallways with many doorways. 
 To add to this problem is intense combat, while usually the games is rather balanced or even along 
 easy in certain areas later in the game you will get to points where you need to retreat, so you 
 can re-arm, heal and so forth. The camera though doesn't want to cooperate at these points, if 
 you try to click down (this would be back since it's a top down game) you'll usually walk about 
 a half step and stop or do nothing at all. With how fast you take damage you have a split second 
 to retreat or you dead, the only efficient way to run away is to rotate the entire camera and click 
 to run. It may not sound like a pain but pretty much until you get the hang of the games flow this 
 will lead to dying with frustration, only once you get the hang of it and can spot a losing battle 
 before it's too late will you know to begin turning the camera and running before it's too late. 
 Over all though past that slight issue of not be able to retreat when you need too as easily as 
 one would like, the controls are as responsive as they should be for a point and click style game.
 
  
  Graphics - As many people stated back before this game does have dated graphics, for me this is 
 a blessing though. Why? Well the computer industry keeps whining about no one buying their games 
 and they don't know why, I can tell you why. I can't afford a $5600 computer to play Crysis; I 
 CAN afford a $400 Xbox 360 though to play Gears of War. Space Siege though with it's 'dated' graphics 
 runs great even at high setting on my year old computer, this for me was a relief because the game 
 doesn't look bad, just not cutting edge. The final word on this is that the graphics aren't anything 
 special and do get played down even further by the highly repetitious textures and levels but still 
 aren't bad.
  
  Game play - The game is exactly what you'd expect, point and click RPG. It's nothing new, but definitely 
 not painful. If you're a fan of the old Dungeon Siege games or Diablo 2 then this could be right 
 up your alley. My biggest complaint is the boring and dull levels, the save rooms or Medical bays 
 as they call them is actually one room. Through out the game you'll find these green save rooms, 
 within is a health and energy regenerator and a work bench. With the bench you can upgrade yourself, 
 HR-V and your weapon as well as make health kits, grenades, turrets and little combat bots. The 
 Regenerator automatically and instantly fills your life bar, your energy bar and HR-V's health. 
 To make the game slightly easier and less lonely about 1/5th of the way into the game you'll be 
 given your robotic companion, HR-V or Harv as Seth calls him. This little guy is just a security 
 bot that you can upgrade to your liking. His weapon assortment is machine gun, flame thrower and 
 a beam rifle, each has its specific strengths and weaknesses and should all be tested to fit YOUR 
 playing style. I found for myself the machine guns did quite well for everything except bosses. 
 As well HR-V can be upgraded the same way you can, in terms of his armor, health, resistances and 
 damage output all can be upgraded. Upgraded in this game replaces the old style of leveling up, 
 which is kind of nice because you choose how you grow. The issue though is that the same medium 
 you use for upgrading your body and HR-V's is also the same thing you use to upgrade your weapons 
 and to build health kits or anything else at the work bench, if you play to conserve your resources 
 it's fine but if you constantly need to make health kits or grenades it can become taxing. Most 
 of your abilities could be explained as rather useless, through play I found that your Strike ability 
 especially once upgraded is rather useful, past that grenades and the bomb bots you can make are 
 also rather good. As you go further into the game you'll need to perfect a balancing act out between 
 you and HR-V, the reason being that HR-V can take damage and be repaired for a low cost of your 
 energy, energy replenishes as you fight so it costs nothing, of course though you don't want to 
 let HR-V get destroyed because bringing him back costs a small amount of materials AND he can only 
 be rebuilt at certain Manufactories. You'll have to learn how to let him take the main enemy agro 
 while making sure he doesn't die, the best tactic I found was to attack and if things turned sour 
 to retreat and repair HR-V, sadly you do not regenerate health so your only options for Seth are 
 med kits which are less than common or Save rooms which replenish health unlimited times but can 
 be quite a walk. Unlike past games like Diablo 2 and Dungeon Siege though you have a very very 
 small assortment of weapons unlike typical RPGs today, around seven weapons for yourself and three 
 for HRV. To add to this while the game is suppose to have this entire Cyborg thing going on, in 
 which you can exchange your human body for more powerful Cyborg pieces you only get one Cyborg 
 piece per body part. Meaning there is only ONE type of leg, arm, chest, brain, spine and eye replacement. 
 You can't mix and match from a list of eye pieces, there is only one in the entire game. So using 
 them is an if you want thing, also the game is suppose to have separate endings from what I understand. 
 I went through the game with only ONE Cyborg implant maintaining above a 94% humanity rating and 
 still got a Cyborg ending from what I could tell. So if you decide to use ONE Cyborg piece feel 
 free to go hog wild and take them all because using one gives you the same outcome as one.
  
  Story - The story feels really "been here before" every twist and turn in the story felt to 
 me, expected. Alien kills man, man runs and kills alien, computer made by man designed to protect 
 man, computer goes crazy and begins killing everyone, man kills everyone. Of course this is twisted 
 by a decision you must make later in the game, SO depending on what you choose the progression 
 of story could be different for you. Due to the choice I made though I got this highly predictable 
 sequence of events. If you're looking for some awe inspiring story or some kind of mind bending 
 tale, you won't find it here. 
  
  Overall - The game was good, but the ending is probably the most disappointing since the ending 
 to the movie The Mist. Not that bad but the entire ending for the path I chose took literally about 
 30 seconds to watch, short lived and with not much closure on anything but the immediate situation. 
 Still the game does offer a good length, taking a few days to beat at probably 6 hours a day. The 
 abilities you get are by your choice, getting 2 skill points per completed quest. I HIGHLY recommend 
 reading the skill tree, certain skills (and weapons) can only be used if you have enough Cyborg 
 implants. Likewise though certain skills like Discipline require you to have a very high humanity 
 rating, which skills you prefer means which implants (if any) you can have. Overall like I said 
 I beat the game with ONE implant, with them all it could have been rather easy. Of the weapons 
 I got I could use all but two. To save you the trial and error don't put ANY materials into the 
 Sonic Rifle OR the Rocket launcher. Both are very weak, slow fire and just a hassle. Your best 
 bet is the Sub machine guns, to the assault rifle to the Kerak pistols to the Frag Rifle. You get 
 some sort of plasma rifle or something which is also just as good as the frag, the two Cyborg weapons 
 I didn't get a chance to use, but just to start they have very high stats. Past that the game is 
 good, overall though for 50 bucks, just wait for it to hit your discount rack. This is a solid 
 20 dollar game; I would be willing to pay for it on the 360 at $50. This is the kind of game the 
 console has been lacking, at $20 for the console I would without question get this on console but 
 sadly that doesn't seem to be an option. So, if you can get the demo try it out. It's worth a shot, 
 but if your only option is $50 or not at all. You should probably consider not at all, it's not 
 a horrible loss but could easily be perceived as a disappointment by some. Its old school style, 
 limited weapon and cybernetic implant selection, out dated graphics and repetitive level designs 
 could definitely leave some wanting more. If you're starving for some good old school point and 
 click RPG style action though, this is exactly what you want.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Space siege is a simple gun and advance formula type game. If you are a hardcore action/rpg fan, 
 then you should stay away from it. the funniest thing about this game is that you cannot run and 
 shoot at the same time, instead you have to stand your ground and fire at your dumb foes, who are 
 charged up with simple attacks, in addition, you can only evade there attacks by rolling towards 
 them, instead of side ways or jump. total play time is near 9-11 hours (depends on your proficiency) , 
 and yes you can upgrade you self with CRITICAL cybernetics to full extent, even adding up a brain, 
 and you can still get away as a Human, instead of cyborg. Loot is virtually extinct, instead you 
 get parts, which you trade up for upgrades (literally available on every next corner) . Only two 
 type of skill trees available to play with and some NPC's thrown in for dialogs. If you like to 
 just shoot everything randomly, then get this game.
  No replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus526
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  First, I have finish playing this game within 3 sittings, and I have to say it is short and nothing 
 but a disappointment.
  
  How could it claim to be an RPG game when so many RPG elements are missing? The elements that are 
 present in the game are shallow and underdeveloped.
  
  The inventory is NONEXISTENCE. I spent the first hour of the game trying to figure out where is 
 the inventory screen just to find out that there isn't any. In my opinion, inventory is a MUST 
 for an RPG title.
  
  When it comes to character development, it is rather linear. Your character don't level up but 
 obtain 2 skill points after finishing certain objective of the game. there are only 2 skills trees 
 and if you only pick one tree you can almost master all of the skills of that tree by the end of 
 the game.
  
  The added cybernetic parts is a failed attempt at trying to make the players feel like they have 
 option over character growth, but even if you decide to install all of the parts or not at all. 
 I'm quite certain that it wouldn't even matter.
  
  monsters NEVER drop equipment. but rather "upgrade part" that you use to upgrade different parts 
 of your character, like damage, resistance, armor, or weapons. Actually upgrade parts are the only 
 things they seem to drop.
  
  You also have a robot companion call the HR-V, but changing the robot weapon is a hassle since 
 you have to access the workbench (That is uses to upgrade your character and weapons) to do so.
 
  
  Voice acting and music are both horrible. when you play the game; music is almost oblivious. You 
 wouldn't even notice that there is a background music when you play.
  
  The final line is that it's an action game that try to be an RPG game. And then fail miserably 
 at both genre. If you are a hardcore RPG fan like me you'll be completely and utterly disappointed. 
 Do yourself a favor and go play something else more worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  So, Space Siege is out. I really was hopping an exciting and amazed graphics RPG just like Mass 
 Effect. Of course, you never should expect one game like other because all the developers should 
 be encourage to create something really new and that's where Space Siege limits itself. Once you 
 are at contact with the game, you think immediately in X-men Legends mixed with Hell Gate: London, 
 or games like that. The movement and the game-play are very difficult to get use to. That's because 
 you use the mouse for almost every movement, and a little problem: if you touch the side of the 
 screen, the camera rotates, if you press "A" or "D", the camera rotates, so know that, in the beginning, 
 the camera will rotate a lot! 
  
  But there are good things in Space Siege that makes it a nice game. First, the playability is a 
 precious mechanism of fun. Just point and shoot the bastard aliens. You can't customize your character 
 at first, but, like the RPGs, there are several skill-trees that you can evolve the way you like. 
 You can turn your self in a robot-being that has new skill-trees along the game, you have special 
 power like bio-mechanicals and electric arms, a sword made by laser, but everything is from other 
 games: the telekinetic abilities are from Mass Effect, the laser-sword is equal of the Halo 3 weapon, 
 and the skill-trees are almost like the Titan Quest's trees. 
  
  Overall, Space Siege doesn't bring anything new. It mixes some ideas from really nice games and 
 makes a fun game that will entertain you for several hours. But don't expect nothing more than 
 that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Gameplay
  4. Story
  5. Multiplayer
  
  
  1. Technical Issues - One annoying bug of a notice although it doesn't happen too often. Sometimes 
 during a loading between levels you get a crash and have to wait e few minutes to "gather exception 
 data". The camera is kinda crappy.
  
  2. Graphics - Decent. Almost everything can be blown out. Nothing compared to Mass Effect for example. 
 
  
  3. Gameplay - The game is a lot more action then RPG. Most of the time you will just be clicking 
 over the enemy and waiting for him to die. There is a few skills but most of them are completely 
 useless. The only 2 you need are the Cybernetic Spine and Shield. This combo makes you invulnerable 
 for 8 seconds with a cooldown of 10. The enemies can't do much damage for 2 seconds. The upbraiding 
 and advancement system is interesting. You have like 10 different weapons which you can use (Of 
 course half of them are not worth it) . After a while the game gets monotonous - go over there kill 
 some enemies on the way, take this, return to base then go over there kill some enemies with a 
 new names and few more hp, and blow this. Return back to base. And so on and so on. They really 
 should have put more enemies in the game. As i said the only thing which changes in the enemy is 
 their name and hp. The skin remains the same as the tactics for fighting. Although... there is 
 only one tactic - shoot the enemy until he dies. The game is very easy and i've only managed to 
 die a few times mostly because i didn't want to use a healthpack. The save places are often and 
 the game drops enough upgrade parts for you to upgrade all your stats and a few good weapons.
 
  
  4. Story - The proclaimed "Save the whole humanity" thing is nothing more then a hype. You are 
 on a space ship attacked by some evil aliens (obviously by no reason or maybe will will understand 
 why in the expansion as some of the datapads you found hints) . Most of the quest you will do are 
 go over this region and do something to those 3 things which will open/close/blow something else. 
 The characters you encounter and you have on your base just refuse to speak outside of their scripted 
 dialogs telling you something like - "Don't you have aliens to shoot" or "Don't bother me now". 
 The overhyped "Humanity level" doesn't affect the game at all (at least i haven't noticed) . You 
 may be 100% cyborg or 100% human and still take both story paths. Not that there is any difference 
 apart from 1 cutscene and a few different dialogs.
  
  5. Multiplayer - I haven't played it. Some other review said it was fun for about an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Nice story... but still to short.... the game and the story to.. what happened tot the kerrak? only 
 one ship?... how about the pilot?... why is he bad?.... u can get dazed in the story... But.. it has 
 it's goods... not boring... nice maps... graphics.... and lots of action... lots of upgrades... cybernetic 
 implants... in one word it's worth playing... if u don't have anything else to play.. and it could 
 keep u busy about 20 h.
  For the gamers that await Fallout 3... Argonauts... and many more rpg's that are to come... I recommend 
 it... it's very relaxing... but u will be a little disappointed. With a little more work.. this could 
 have been a lot interesting, still I appreciate their effort for trying to make something new.
 
  Yet.. upgrading all the armours... mine and Hr-v , the cybernetic implants .... and the cybernetic 
 weapons really made this game a joyful one... it's not a must have or a must play.. it's a fun to 
 play, relaxing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrmunger
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I used to think of Gas Powered games as the software equivalent of movie guru George Lucas. Gas 
 Powered Games produced games that were ambitious, exciting, creative, and worth the money. For 
 all of you who don't understand the frustration of fans of DS1 and DS2  let me put it to you this 
 way - are you old enough to have considered yourself a fan of the original Star Wars trilogy only 
 to have been disappointed or even heartbroken by the introduction of Star Wars: The Phantom Menace? 
 Have you ever been a Green Bay Packers fan only to watch Brett Favre don a New York Jets jersey? 
 The point I'm trying to make is that just as you don't ever expect to be disappointed by "Star 
 Wars," you don't expect to be let down by Gas Powered Games - you just don't see it coming. Make 
 no mistake that fans did expect Space Siege to somehow and in some way resemble Dungeon Siege.
 
  
  Dungeon Siege had a way of rewarding you for exploring the world around you with magical loot, 
 side quests, and interesting characters eagerly awaiting to join your party. First, it's much more 
 exciting to find a magical sword that either your melee person can use now or maybe in some level 
 in the not-so-distant future. And hey, if I don't like the sword or if I don't have a melee character 
 in my party  then I can sell the equipment for some cold hard cash - or should I hope for tools, 
 I guess. Dungeon Siege is more of a role-playing game than Space Siege because you could actually 
 "choose" to accept a side quest or continue down the "main road." After playing the game for 3 
 hours, I can honestly say that I don't care about Seth Walker or his robot side-kick, for that 
 matter. And finally, believe it or not GPG, I like managing an entire party like in DS2. That way 
 I can more readily enjoy a role-playing adventure by customizing each member of my party to serve 
 a specific purpose. Why can't I have a "bravado-melee-space cowboy ," a "gun-slinging space pirate", 
 an "evil or McCoy-like" ship doctor for healing purposes, or a droid with some personality whose 
 primary purpose is "pack-mule" in nature but can be upgraded with special abilities that aid the 
 entire party? That way when I find that magical weapon for completing some quest or finding a rare 
 treasure, I might actually have a character that can use it. This is the formula that was used 
 successfully for Dungeon Siege I and II, I'm just not sure why they decided to "fix" something 
 that wasn't broken. 
  
  For all the Dungeon Siege fans out there, I feel your pain! But don't remain silent! Please let 
 your feelings be known by posting your reviews, voting with your money, or even simply "approving" 
 of this review. As for me I will use much greater discretion before I purchase another title by 
 Gas Powered Games. GPG - fool me once shame on you  fool me twice then shame on me!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer0eman
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very 
 shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your 
 $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is 
 very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save 
 your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks 
 and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow 
 save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks 
 and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow 
 save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks 
 and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow 
 save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. sucks and is very shallow save your $$$. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Welp, the graphics are great, the environment is full of destructible things, alot of neat effects, 
 cant fault the game for flash thats for sure.
  
  And at first you might think WOW great game i dont know why people are only givin it mediocre scores, 
 but a few hours into it and you will soon realise it just lacks a few things that make a hack n 
 slash fun to play. Most notable, NO ITEMS, NO GEAR, that is after all pretty much the main driving 
 theme in hack n slash isnt it? Get new fancy armor, etc. 
  
  Now you do get a wide variety of guns but..... thats it, u open tons of chests destroy tons of enemies 
 and instead of droping items they drop "upgrade material" and thats all that is ever dropped in 
 the game, and with this material you then upgrade your gun/armor it leaves alot to be desired is 
 not very fun to go around collecting debris ;/
  
  The cyborg upgrades are nothing spectacular and when you do get them it doesnt feel like they did 
 much at all, all that happens is you appearance changes a bit. A let down.
  
  Your lil robot buddy gets in the way, and hes always wandering close to grenades and bombs and 
 dying.
  
  These are the same people that made dungeon siege 2 and man that game was awesome, my advice, go 
 play that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aethelgrin
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I admit I hadn't researched the game properly, I watched some developer interview a 
 month or 2 ago and that's about it. I thought the game looked nice from what I saw. 
  
  Basically, I made the same mistake as many others, thinking it would be something akin to Dungeon 
 Siege in space, as the title would have you believe. Surely they have some similarities, but when 
 it comes down to it it's a totally different game, and I mean that in a bad way.
  
  Now, while I've heard the argument that it's not supposed to be deep because that's the way it 
 was meant to be, that doesn't rectify the plethora of other issues Space Siege has. I don't mean 
 that it's a buggy game, I don't think I actually ran into a single bug while playing. There's just 
 so many features and whatnot that seem to be missing. (Yes, I know they were never meant to be 
 there in the first place, but the game feels very shallow and empty.)
  
  For example, I spent the first 10 minutes trying to figure out where the inventory screen was only 
 to find out that there wasn't any. Instead you have the "Workbench" which in theory sounds nice 
 but when it comes down to it is just plain disappointing.
  
  While streamlining is a novel concept and all I really think they overdid it to the extreme in 
 this case. To me streamlining doesn't mean that you remove as many features as you can and simplify 
 the ones you leave behind, I thought it meant that you improve all of the features and make them 
 easier to use.
  
  That's definitely something Space Siege has going for it though, the difficulty-level. Basically 
 there is none. The game has action, sure, but over time it just feels so mindless and stupid. I 
 don't think they could have made the AI any more straight-forward than it is.
  
  As for the role-playing part, well... there are next to no actual decisions you have to make and 
 when you try to engage other survivors in conversation they basically tell you to shut up and go 
 kill stuff, even your old friend doesn't seem to want anything to do with you. That's nice, you'd 
 think being in the same boat would bring them together and form some kind of bonds, but no, all 
 the characters feel very lifeless and dull.
  
  In closing, not only did I expect more from Space Siege but I'm also very disappointed in Gas Powered 
 Games, a company I used to think was quite quality-centered. Now I'm not so sure. I'm also saddened 
 by thinking of everything Space Siege could have been but failed to be, so much wasted potential. 
 I read in another review of the game that all it had to do was "be Diablo in space. Literally.", 
 and that is actually very accurate. It didn't have to be much, but for God's sake don't be *this*. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DukeBriggs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Alright, so first of all, I'm just going to say that I haven't quite finished the game just yet. 
 While I am pretty far in it, I feel like I have to share my opinion considering many of the reviews 
 are either "love it" or "hate it". My opinion of the game is very mixed.
  
  There are a lot of people who think that this game is a step backward from Dungeon Siege 1 and 
 2. Have any of you people played those games recently? If you have, then you'd know that this game 
 isn't exactly a step backward. It isn't a step forward, either. It's practically the same damn 
 game. With that said, there are some things that are better, and some that are worse. This is a 
 lot more arcade style action-rpg. This reminds me a lot of the older dungeons and dragon side-scrollers 
 that I used to waste way too much money on in the arcade (yes, I said arcade, back when they were 
 popular) . You just kind of pick up and play where you left off whenever your bored enough to play 
 such a game. It's mindless, and uninspired, but so were DS 1 and 2, were they not? 
  
  Some of the improvements would have to be, for one, the graphics, though they are definitely sub-par 
 in comparison to games even released 2-3 years ago (example: Oblivion) . The sound effects are pretty 
 impressive, though highly repetitive. The character customization is actually very extensive if 
 you really dwell on it, though it only seems a step back from DS 1 and 2 because of the lack of 
 an extensive skill tree. the cybernetics, in my opinion, make up for that by adding character depth.
 
  
  The stand-stills from DS 1 and 2 to Space Siege would have to be the majority of the game. It's 
 very linear. The voice acting is still horrendous, but so bad that it's kind of funny. The replayability 
 is mediocre at best (maybe if you're bored enough a few months down the line, but why would you 
 want to with so many seemingly great games before years end?) . The game is quite addictive once 
 you actually get into it (or maybe it's only because you've already put so much time into it, why 
 not just finish it?) .
  
  The setbacks would have to be what has already been stated by many of the other reviews out there. 
 The skill-tree, the music is just plain and boring, the multiplayer doesn't seem to be worth it 
 at all. It's also very arcade style, but not what we've all come to know and love about multi-player 
 RPG games, and that's teamwork, challenge, all while playing storyline. 
  
  So, there are some mixed opinions about this one, and I'd have to say my opinion alone might not 
 be good enough to convince you to buy it for full price. But why not wait until you find it in 
 the bargain bin at Walmart? Give it a few months. It'll be there. It'll be a great 20 dollars spent, 
 and a few hours wasted. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  I like action RPGs, and despite the rather poor reviews I wanted to give this game a chance. I 
 tried the demo, and thought it actually looked kind of cool, although it was too short to know 
 for sure.
  
  Well, now I know for sure... 
  
  The game has potential. The graphics is not half bad, some of the physics effects when shooting 
 barrels and pressured containers are quite fun to watch. And it seems like there's plenty of skills 
 and character development to do here.
  
  BUT, what takes all the fun out of it is the horrible, horrible control system! You have to constantly 
 manually adjust the camera to make sure you get the right angle. No matter how you try though, 
 it never seem to be quite right. It's very frustrating.
  
  And the way you move your character is horribly cumbersome. It's virtually impossible to have your 
 character react fast, but that's exactly what you have to do to avoid getting killed. The game 
 plays like an FPS, but with controls like an RTS game. Imagine playing Halo, but seen from above 
 in a weird angle that never let you see the danger, and having to click on the ground for your 
 character to dodge bullets.
  
  Annoying, frustrating and very unsatisfying! This game is made to be played like an FPS, but I 
 guess it would suck too much in that genre, so they decided to pull out the camera and call it 
 an action RPG instead.
  
  I could not play this for long, it actually gave me a headache, and a desire to throw the mouse 
 into the wall in frustration.
  
  The game also feels unfinished, it lacks polish everywhere. For example when you walk over some 
 kind of radios scattered around to hear the next piece of the story of what happened to your crew, 
 the story restarts every time you touch the damn thing. And people start talking to you at the 
 wrong moment, for example right before a heavy firefight, so its impossible to hear what they are 
 saying. Animations looks jerky, and the level design is repetitive and uninspiring.
  
  I now understand why the demo is so short, if you see two minutes more of it you would be sick 
 and tired of it.
  
  This game is cheap, and for a reason. The horrible control and camera system makes the game close 
 to broken, and definitively not something you want to touch for a good time.
  
  Do yourself a favor, stay away from this one. If you are too curious, download the demo which is 
 the extract of all that is interesting about the game. After finishing it in 10 minutes you have 
 gotten all the joy there is to be had from this pile of digital humus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  To be honest I really expected more from this game. It is plain fun-otherwise-been there, done 
 that.
  Nice physcs effects and explosions, nice lighting and shadows, but other than that the graphics 
 is not really impressive. The music is okay-the sounds are repetative but they are ok too I guess. 
 :-)
  The gameplay itself is kind of repetative. The controls are kind of wierd and you need to get used 
 to it to be suffitient. The system requirments are low so pretty much everybody will be able to 
 enjoy it. I have Geforce GTS 320MB and it runs really smooth on 1280x1024 with full effects and 
 details.
  Overall good game-but I personally expected more.
  I will probably play it once and uninstall it after that. It is one time player for sure (for me 
 at least) .
  If you would like to kill some free time it is nice entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  It's not the most optimistic vision of the future we've ever heard, but the back-story to Space 
 Siege runs something like this - in the far future, humanity ends up getting its backside soundly 
 kicked by the insect-like leg of a superior alien race. So soundly kicked, in fact, that at the 
 start of them game they destroy the Earth, and manage to attach a pod full of teeming masses of 
 over-evolved-cockroach baddies to the vast ship on which you're escaping, the Armstrong.
  
  Mankind's only hope, the ship's AI determines, is to undergo upgrading with cybernetic parts and 
 components, making them into a match for the aliens in battle. Unwilling to permit the upgrading 
 of the entire race, you volunteer to become a cyborg and fight off the alien menace. If you could 
 imagine some dramatic music hitting a crescendo right about now, that would be lovely.
  
  What kind of game are you envisioning, based on that story? A balls-out, brains-disengaged first 
 person shooter, perhaps, designed by a team whose entire gaming philosophy is fuelled by marathon 
 Halo sessions and crates of Jolt Cola?
  
  Wrong. In fact, it's the back story to the new action RPG game from Gas Powered Games, best known 
 for its previous ARPG title, Dungeon Siege. Fresh from developing real-time strategy love-fest 
 Supreme Commander, Gas Powered and its charismatic boss, Chris Taylor, are dragging the Siege series 
 into a science fiction setting - and taking the opportunity to rewrite the rule-book in the process.
 
  
  The move to a science fiction environment - complete with shiny energy weapons, cyborg upgrades 
 and the huge, mechanical environments of the Armstrong - is perhaps the most blatant change to 
 the standard ARPG formula in Space Siege. After Dungeon Siege 2, Taylor says, the team was "full 
 up on fantasy"; which is not to say that they don't like the genre, or appreciate its popularity, 
 but simply that they wanted to do something different this time.
  
  Space Siege, then, is less like Lord of the Rings and more like Aliens - indeed, the whole feel 
 of the game is that of an action movie. Lead character Seth Walker is a quintessential action hero, 
 a warrior who sets out to save humanity from an alien menace... And unlike Dungeon Siege's characters, 
 Walker will be doing all his saviour stuff alone.
  
  This, to some extent, is an even bigger departure than the move to a science fiction environment. 
 Space Siege is a single-character action RPG, a complete reversal of Gas Powered's multi-character 
 approach to Dungeon Siege - which, at the time, was considered to be one of the most unusual and 
 innovative aspects of the series.
  
  Having experimented with multiple characters, Gas Powered has now come full circle. Seth Walker 
 is your sole avatar in the game - and unlike Dungeon Siege's somewhat dull, blank slate type characters, 
 he's got a personality, a history and a voice of his own. Dungeon Siege, Taylor explains, worked 
 on the principle that players would "imprint" their own personality on a blank slate - a concept 
 that works better on a whiteboard in a developer's office than it does in a real game, he now believes. 
 
  
  As you - or rather, Walker - explore the Armstrong, you'll get the opportunity to upgrade yourself 
 using cybernetic parts you pick up along the way. The effects are obvious; the more you upgrade, 
 the less human your character looks, as he gradually transforms into an arse-kicking robot death-monger. 
 As character progression goes, it's a hell of a lot more blatant than a +2 modifier on your dexterity.
 
  
  This, however, is one of the basic conflicts of the game; Walker himself is unhappy with the idea 
 of losing his humanity as a result of the cybernetic implants, and this extends rather further 
 than some wishy-washy dialogue where he agonises over whether to install the latest cool gun on 
 the menu. Throughout the game, you maintain a "humanity score" - a meter of how much of your body 
 is still good old-fashion homo sapiens. Tool yourself up totally, and the game will be pretty easy 
 to finish; but try and do it with less cyborg bits and bobs, and you'll uncover a different - and 
 tougher - play experience, not to mention a different game ending.
  
  Other aspects of the action RPG genre fall by the wayside like confetti as Taylor explains Space 
 Siege to us. The game eschews the concept of experience points in favour of the aforementioned 
 cybernetic upgrades; Taylor dismisses the experience system as "old school".
  
  In fact, he dismisses a lot of things as being old school; the original design, he says, called 
 for many different types of parts to be pieced together to make cybernetic upgrades. This, too, 
 was "old school", and the team decided that people don't want that level of detail to stand between 
 them and the fun combat sections. Instead, the game now sports one generic resource, "parts".
 
  
  Game Over screens, too, are "old school". Instead, the game will sport regular health stations 
 scattered throughout the levels, and when you die, you respawn at the last station you visited. 
 Sound familiar? Taylor makes no bones about the similarity with Bioshock's Vita Chambers - a lot 
 of Gas Powered's decisions, he says, were confirmed by Bioshock's popularity.
  
  Space Siege looks great, with all the bells and whistles you'd expect from a high-budget modern 
 game - but it's hard to escape the fact that there's something innately weird about listening to 
 the man who made Supreme Commander lay into the old school, hardcore conventions of videogames. 
 
  
  Indeed, there's a feeling that Taylor has had something of a Road to Damascus experience - and 
 Space Siege is the result. He's open and honest about his belief that the hardcore market for games 
 is diminishing, and believes that what consumers want now is a fun "interactive entertainment" 
 experience, rather than a traditional "videogame".
  
  It should no longer be an exercise in seeing how far into a game you can get before giving up in 
 frustration, he argues; you should get to the end of the game, and enjoy the satisfaction and the 
 closure of the ending. Developers, he says bluntly, have always underestimated the value to the 
 consumer of actually finishing games.
  
  Part of Taylor's new approach, then, is putting more action into the action RPG. Players in Space 
 Siege can mix and match tactics from traditional RPGs and tactics more familiar to players of action 
 games - grenades bounce using real physics, which also applies to objects in the world, and enemies 
 can be knocked off ledges and walkways with well-aimed attacks. Systems like clever enemy AI, fully 
 3D environments (which are huge vertically as well as horizontally) and realistic physics are being 
 imported en masse from the FPS genre into Space Siege.
  
  Another part, though, is to do with storytelling - and if there's a single dramatic U-turn in Taylor's 
 conversion, this is it. Whereas with Dungeon Siege, he was happy to let a dull, hackneyed storyline 
 underlie the action, believing that it was unimportant compared to the game mechanics, Space Siege 
 places huge importance on the story.
  
  "The writing has to be great, the voice acting has to be great," he says with passion. He wants 
 players to care about the back-story, about the motivations of the characters. The result could 
 be spectacular; here, after all, is a man celebrated for his finely tuned game design, so we can't 
 imagine Space Siege's combat being overlooked or unloved as a result of his newfound joy in storytelling. 
 The idea that both aspects will be equally great is very compelling.
  
  Returning briefly to the gritty details, Space Siege will boast a single-player campaign running 
 for 15 to 20 hours, with multiplayer modes also included in the mix. Taylor expects that there'll 
 be significant replayability in there, because of the humanity score; most players will finish 
 it once by upgrading their character as much as possible, and many will go back to try and do it 
 without losing Walker's humanity in the process.
  
  So if you are a Dungeon Siege 1,2 fan, then you should get this game since it's the next episode 
 in the thrilogy.
  
  With that said i give this game a 6.5/10 (six and a half out of ten) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  I play this game after I finished the Mass Effect [ME] , originally I think its similar to ME, but 
 that's totally wrong.
  
  Space Siege is nearly a pure action game with standard Monster invasion background, player has 
 to fight, to collect parts (for weapons/armor/equipments upgrade) , no complicated quest to solve, 
 very little NPC, not much interaction.
  
  The interior layout of the spaceship is not complicated but the MAP is not clearly shown the direction, 
 no level difference, no good indication but only mission target..... time is always wasted in finding 
 ways and locating target (Map shows you are standing at the target position, but the target may 
 be at high/underground level where you cannot reach it)
  
  Controlling system is POOR, where the mouse is not sensitive enough and cannot move with keyboard. 
 
  
  The HR-V Robot (player's only partner) is so stupid where it would never find COVER and it always 
 helped me to clear the mine, luckily there are so many Machines to repair the HR-V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Searching for a new home for humanity, the colony ship Rebecca Lee arrived on a planet that was 
 the perfect world for sustaining human life. The phrase "It's too good to be true" pops in the 
 mind because an alien race called the Kerak, arrived on the same planet and annihilated humans 
 on the planet. After that the Kerak destroyed many colony ships. Their next target  Planet Earth! 
 The humans didn't stand a chance against the Kerak. All humans dead. However one evacuation ship 
 called the Armstrong managed to escape carrying with it the last remnants of the human race. You 
 take the role of an elite soldier called Seth Walker and your only objective is survival.
  This first thing I do after the opening cinematic is to check out the graphics settings. Unlike 
 Devil May Cry 4 the game is smart enough to apply ideal settings according to your rig. In general 
 the graphics great with one big minus, NO Anti-Aliasing. Hellooooo what were they thinking? Anyways 
 the environments are pretty good considering that you are in a space ship. There are unique places 
 like: platforms out of the ship, a greenery in the ship, cool bridges and many more. The floors 
 are just awesome. 
  Speaking of awesomeness, the game has incredible physics. And with awesome physics what else is 
 awesome? Explosions! Actually the game forces you to pay attention to the surroundings. You can 
 make devastating comboes by using the fuel barrels, fuel tanks and etc. Actually I was blowing 
 up everything possible and by doing so I influenced the conversation with my crew members. Jake 
 said:
  -Stop blowing up everything, we might need it!"
  Which reminds me of the voice acting. I find it more than great. Each voice suits the person and 
 they are never annoying.
  The gameplay is good. The camera is great. You can rotate it, you can zoom in and out one time. 
 I like that the HUD. It is transparent and it looks cool but why in the world isn't there a mini-map? 
 The map is good and it's easy to find where you have to go, but I have clicked M like 100 times 
 in 11 hours. They could have put the mini-map in the upper right corner. There is plenty of room 
 there. At least they could have used the transparent map from Dungeon Siege 2. Take some notes 
 Gas Powered Games. 
  Not many but some walls and other things become transparent then they get in your way. I don't 
 know why some players don't like the DODGE move. Actually it's smooth and helpful. You can dodge 
 only by pressing the dodge button ofc and the direction is controlled by mouse pointer. You just 
 need to point , no clicking with the mouse buttons, and you will dodge many plasma shots, grenades, 
 ect. Dodging is very important for your survival. If you don't use it like hell, you will die and 
 die. The controls are not that good and you can't change them. For example in Guild Wars you can 
 change all buttons, hell you can even change the HUD the way you like it. In Kane's Wrath you can 
 even remove assigned buttons and leave them like that. All new games no matter what genre the game 
 is, should give the player the freedom to do with the controls whatever the hell he wants. In Space 
 Siege you should always use the E button for dodge and 1,2 and 3 for the most helpful skills. Fortunately 
 I am left-handed and I can use 4,5,6,7 and 8 with ease, 9 and 0 from time to time. If you could 
 change the controls, more people would have enjoyed this game. 
  Other thing that benefits from the "just pointing", are the grenades. It's the same. You can throw 
 grenades from a great distance. By the way you have incredible range with most of the weapons. 
 If you somebody you can shoot him. Which gives you the upper-hand against melee only enemies.
 
  The grenades are your best friend. You can pull out some sweet comboes with the different grenades 
 like gravity-impact or gravity-stun grenades. In the game you have no currency, actually you have 
 in the form of parts. You collect parts from dead creatures, when you blow up cases, some of them 
 you need to open. With the part you can upgrade your weapons (attack speed, critical chance and 
 critical damage) armor, your robot armor, damage and of course my favourite part, buying grenades. 
 You can also buy turrets, flame traps and health packs. The health packs are pretty cheap though. 
 There are cool skills like the Fan Shot, Deadly Strike, Shard Storm and Speed Boost. But you can't 
 use them all. You need cybernetic implants to use some of them and the robot has skills too. You 
 can upgrade and buy stuff in the SAVE ROOM, where games is saved after you restore your health 
 and mana. It's fun kicking-ass but the battles tend to get repetitive after 6 hours. There are 
 three bosses in the game and the first one you can fight after the 5th hour (not sure) . The boss 
 fights are ok but when you kill a boss, the cut-scene is pretty good and it's fun to watch it 
 again and again and again
  "The choice" is very important in the game. Choosing whether not to or to install cybernetic implants 
 is crucial to the story. Some crewman encourages you to install them because they will help you 
 defeat the Kerak on the ship but Gina is concerned about what will become of you if you choose 
 to install them. Depending on what you choose the game has two "good" endings and at some point 
 in the game you will have to choose whether to join or destroy PILOT. I forgot to make multiple 
 saves and I am not sure but the game has to have 3 different endings and maybe more.
  The music in the game is good but not there aren't many tracks.
  As a whole the game is not bad 
 but it's not great either. In my opinion it's not a waste of time. I will probably play it one 
 more time to see what happens when you join the bad guys. 
  But the whole RPG in a space ship doesn't sound good to me. So Gas Powered Games, add anti-aliasing 
 to the options in future games and customizable controls. By the way I'm still waiting for Dungeon 
 Siege 3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shafk
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, I've never seen a more buggy product released by GPG. I my 
 opinion it needed at least another month before releasing. What's with the forced DirectX install 
 of an earlier DirectX release. A good install routine should verify the system components before 
 installing DirectX.
  
  It routinely crashed 40 minutes into play. Running NVidia 8800GTS (640 MB) Video Card, 2 GB Memory, 
 AMD X2 4400 CPU and Windows Vista Ultimate.
  
  I like the concept of the game, although I'm not used to RPG with no Inventory management. It makes 
 it more of an Action RPG. I've played for approximately 2.5 hours and it has crashed 3 times.
 
  
  My recommendation is to wait for the First Patch before Buying. In it's current state there likely 
 to be a lot of frustrated playesr with system problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaghostgr
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game only because i wanted to fill the gap that lies until the release of spore and 
 fallout and thought space siege would be more than adequate for that role.
  Well to say that i was wrong is too litle.
  I spend 6 hours daily playing on single player only 
 so trust me when i say this game will look very similar from its immitations of other only by name 
 called rpgs since its totally action focused with a very limited choice of editing yur skills and 
 character but trust me yu wont be thinking a lot for yur choice and yu certainly wont be compensated 
 for the hours yu wasted to perform them.
  Monotonous environments as i believe all of yu experienced gamers have guessed and enemies that 
 immitate halos covenant and of course cyborgs from meffect will make yu take a glass and pour quite 
 some not SETH but JOHNNIE so that yu can withstand the thought of buying the game although the 
 negativitity that surrounds it.
  For the RPG lovers there is no loot thats worth the right clicking for it and definitely the fixed 
 camera angle will give u a rage only a lvl 80 barbarian who just killed baal and found 2 potions 
 for loot would have.
  Just trust me on this one and dont make the mistake.
  I know that those of yu who are experienced gamers who have melted their chairs from RPGing ought 
 to have realized the low quality of this game from previewing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I don't understand the low scores for this game. I just played through it and thought, 
 although it has it's flaws, it was fun. Not amazing, but entertaining enough for my pea brain to 
 be pleasantly distracted. :) However, if you were expecting another "Mass Effect" or "Dungeon Siege 
 in Space" you'll be disappointed. 
  
  There are a number of reasons I liked this game. But, the main reason was that it reminded me of 
 an old DOS game named Crusader: No Remorse. I know, I know, Old-timers ... it's not as good as 
 or innovative as Crusader was in it's day, but it is similar enough to remind me of it. 
  
  As far as people in other reviews griping about there being "No Store!!" to sell loot, etc., that 
 would've actually cheapened the story. Think about it: You are stuck on a single ship, with everyone 
 pulling together to fight for humanity's very survival (to the point the main character is losing 
 his humanity by installing implants to get a tactical edge) , and someone is supposed to be running 
 a "store" trying to make profits? :) Maybe there could've been a better way to implement the loot 
 system (if you didn't like this one) , but come on guys ... ;)
  
  As a broad example, I used to get ticked off when I went to the movies as there was always some 
 idiot talking or putting their feet on the seats next to me or whatever. But guess what? I quit 
 letting that stuff bother me and now I enjoy the shows a lot more (than stewing over everything, 
 allowing it to distract me) . That's how this game needs to be looked at, I think. Just play it, 
 let it entertain you in a little, forget the minor flaws, and you'll have a lot more fun with it. 
 :) 
  
  Most importantly, download the demo. The game IS pretty much the demo, just in different missions. 
 If you like the demo, you'll probably like the game. BUT, this isn't Diablo, Mass Effect, Oblivion, 
 etc., so don't expect it. It is more ... "Old School" .... ~shrugs~ 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EverteMax
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Futuristic science fiction is one of the best ingredient for making games. Last year's Mass Effect 
 displayed it. How about the Star Wars series that has mesmerized fans over the world for 4 decades? 
 With such background, this game has the potential but, really falls short on lots of aspect in 
 reality.
  
  Game play wise, if you have played before dungeon siege and its sequel, you should be familiar 
 with the style of combat in this game. For an action RPG, it certainly feels good. However, it 
 isn't the style that is bad, but it suffers because of the next reason.
  
  Character development is total thrash. With only 2 class routes for you choose, and less than 20 
 skills in each class, I would have to say that the combat gets boring because most of the time 
 you are just using the same skills over and over again.
  
  Story wise, good background but at certain points it just gives too much away and you can roughly 
 guess what's coming up. Also, it's way too linear, there's no side-quests, and you are always moving 
 from one point to the other. You see the story unfold but if you want from point A to B, spend 
 time with a novel. It helps with your language too.
  
  The only good thing I can bring up about this game is the graphics and probably the sound effects. 
 You can really see the improvements it have over the dungeon siege series. 
  
  This game does have its fun moments, but after you have finished it (and you will finish it fast...) , 
 you will just throw it aside. Might as well get it from your friend who has already done that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Its truelly amazing that a game can call itself an RPG with as little character progression (and 
 no levels) as this game does. I'm not one whos into the whole grinding thing but at the end of 
 the game it would be nice to tell the difference between the character you just spent 15+ hours 
 on and one who you just made.
  
  Combat is horrible, the skills you can use are far too limited and arent really that effective. 
 Weapons are a real joke, most feel the same, even the cannons feel somewhat like an assault rifle.
 
  
  The whole Humanity vs Cyborg thing doesnt really feel like you are making a life altering choice 
 for your character. There really dont seam to be any negatives about going full cyborg, than again 
 there really isnt that much positive in doing it either. Sure your stats somewhat depend on it 
 but neither choice makes the game any easier or harder.
  
  The graphics are aged and yet still find a way to lag a system. All in all I feel generous giving 
 this game a 3.0 score. Play DS2 or even the original Dungeon Siege if you really want that type 
 of game, leave this one on the shelf for some other shmuck to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  There is alot of review on space siege already so I want to keep mine to the point. 
  
  Most people mistake the rpg element to have a leveling system and a very heavy plot backing the 
 game up. Unfortunately, this isn't true. Role Playing Game means you play as a character or more 
 and develop them through the story but means of levels, skills, equipment, and story etc. The plot 
 is not epic but it shouldn't be classific as bad, there are little to no twist in the plot. The 
 plot unfolds as you follow a very linear routine from point a to point b and you got your game. 
 
  
  The graphic looks outdated, the engine that is used might be a little old. Putting everying on 
 max doesn't make the game look like a 2008 game.
  
  The single player has no replay value, it is a one time blast through and thats it, so far I played 
 it once and I think I can stand to play it twice. 
  
  Multiplayer wise is a let down, extremely little things to do fo the multiplayer section you might 
 just hope on and go for a few round of killing. Then it is quit time.
  
  Renting seems better for the single player, if you want to own this you can wait a few week and 
 the price will go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eltanan23
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  this is not Dungeon Siege in space. That's the reason why this game probably won't get as high 
 a score as it deserves. In fact, the word 'Siege' really doesn't belong in the title. Granted, 
 it has similarities to Dungeon Siege, a few controls in common, and the point-click-and-hold gameplay 
 is familiar. But really, it's just not what it was expected to be, which was supposed to be something 
 akin to 'Diablo in Space'.
  
  What it IS, though, is a very decent game in its own right. the combat isn't nearly as much of 
 a clickfest as most action RPG's. There's clicking, sure, but it's a lot more streamlined. Also, 
 there's no random inventory loot. No item sets, no socketable weapons, none of that. But there 
 is cybernetics, a variety of weapons (only 2 of which can be 'equipped' at once) , a handy dandy 
 robot helper/guard, and more upgradable stats than you can shake a stick at. Pretty much everything 
 is upgradable, from each weapon's individual critical hit chance to your own character stats (the 
 closest thing to 'ability scores') to your robot helper. No shortage of things to spend upgrade 
 points on. No shortage of upgrade points, either. They're everywhere. Especially if you stop to 
 blow every explosive item up like I do.
  
  It's also worth noting that the storyline, unlike the Dungeon Siege games, is both coherent and 
 fast-paced, and actually... well, interesting.
  
  Okay, the negatives. Multiplayer mode isn't exactly everything it could be. Replayability probably 
 won't be very high either, unless you play through the game installing every cyber enhancement 
 you can and then go back and play it again without them. I probably won't.
  
  Also, the game is a bit on the easy side. Unless you turn up the difficult, then it's frustrating. 
 You can only carry 4 health packs maximum, you see, and while you can restock at any aid station 
 (for a price) , sometimes you're a long way from one and things go wrong. The game doesn't penalize 
 you too harshly for dying, but it does set you back. Repeatedly.
  
  All in all, I find this game to be generally entertaining, and will play the single-player campaign 
 through to the end. It's a decent game, just not what I (and probably others) were hoping it would 
 be...
  
  ... which would have been, well, Dungeon Siege in space.
  
  Oh well, gotta do something to kill time until Diablo 3 is out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro_reaper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Space Siege's story, the universe it creates is very immersive; the artwork, soundtrack, acting, 
 character interactions and development... all are great and although somewhat short it will offer 
 a satisfying experience. But being short it's not so bad because the game has multiple endings, 
 good replay value.
  
  The game puts you in the skin of Seth Walker, one man army (+ robot sidekick) who's duty is to 
 ensure that humanity isn't wiped out by an homicidal alien race, the Kerak. To increase the odds 
 of success he will have access to equipment upgrades and the help of a robot companion.
  
  The game was lots of fun, there are some decisions to make about implants, weapons, gadgets, what 
 to upgrade first, where to invest skill points and at some point what side to take. Unfortunately 
 the game has some bugs, nothing major and nothing a patch or two won't fix, hopefully. Cooperative 
 multiplayer is available via LAN and online.
  So far i unlocked 2 endings and they were awesome, will try and see if there are others.
  
 
  On a more techical note:
  *the graphics are good, with nice lighting effects, explosions, lasers and whatnot, the characters 
 are detailed and consist of many polygons
  *interactive environment, you can blow up/destroy a lot of things (a lot of fun)
  *good physics, 
 the explosion of a barrel realistically affects the surrounding objects; pressure canisters leak, 
 get airborne, have a chaotic trajectory and finally explode, hopefully not in your face :) ) ; aliens 
 corpses drift into space
  *more emphasis on action than RPG, Seth can dodge incoming attacks
  
  If you like Action-RPGs 
 and want to see something new, something else than demons, skeletons, fantasy creatures like in 
 Diablo, Dungeon Siege etc., pick this one up, you won't be disapointed!
  
  PS: GJ to Chris Taylor and GPG, I hope there is an expansion and/or sequel in the making! :)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: browneyedboy82
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Only a few words to say about this - where's the rest of this game?
  Just when I thought it was going to start get worse and funnier, it ended.
  
  All through the 
 game it's been fun, but also too easy. I would've wanted the aliens to be harder to kill. And I 
 found the bosses as well to be too easy. The very last boss was the easiest of them all!
  Throughout the game I died maybe three times and that's to me a small number for such a game.
 
  
  The graphics are very nice and it's fun to play in the space. The way they integrated the storyline 
 while playing is very good too!
  
  I've played their other game, Dungeon Siege 2 and that's a very good and nice game. I guess I thought 
 this would be even better. But, they failed me.
  
  If you want to have fun - play this.
  If you want something very good and a very good story - DON'T play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  In simple words and to the point
  
  PROS
  - Good graphics for the genre
  - Solid sound system
  - Some nice choices as upgrades
  -------------------------------
  ------------------------------
 
  CONS
  - Boring and not so interesting story
  - Enemy AI is simple and stupid
  - Not so exciting quests
  - Very linear
  - Pretty poor gameplay for a RPG
  - Very low replay 
 value
  
  CONCLUSION
  Its ok for some hours but you are not going to remember it when you finished with it... The game 
 is mindless action most of the time and its quite repeative i might say... It's nothing special 
 for the genre (except from the graphics) .
  I have seen Action (RPG) games like this many times with way more interesting story and gameplay
 
  
  MY SCORES
  Graphics 8.0
  Sound 7.5
  Gameplay 6.0
  
  Overall score 7.0
  
  NOTE
  Do not caught victims of the hype from some fanboys that they say that this game is a amazing 
 RPG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulosouza
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  I'll keep my review small and objective (nobody likes reading walls of text) .
  
  I was really excited about Space Siege being a fan of the previous Gas Powered's Dungeon Siege 
 games.
  
  First of all, Space Siege has almost nothing to do with the previous Dungeon Siege games, it's 
 much more inclined towards action than role-playing, and that's a very good thing in my opinion.
 
  
  The comparison with Diablo is inevitable (mostly because DII set the bar for action-roleplaying) , 
 and let me tell you: this game looks like Diablo in 3d, you are allowed (and have) to use your 
 abilities all the time, in most battles; and the interaction with the environment remembers me 
 of what they are planning to do with Diablo 3.
  
  IGN's review complained about the dodge ability, which makes you "roll towards your enemies" - 
 well, I'm not sure if we're playing the same game, I can perfectly aim the direction of my dodging 
 with the mouse to execute side/back dodges.
  
  The leveling up system kinda limits you, but is a design choice. And a good one, if you ask me. 
 Although you don't get to choose which skills you'll have and which weapons you want to unlock, 
 it's better this way since you actually use most skills and weapons in a given point of the game 
 (much like a first person shooter) .
  
  Pros:
  - non-stop action
  - healing system is pretty balanced
  - creative and synergistic abilities
  - amazing graphics 
 and lightning!
  - 3d interactive environment (and extremely stable)
  - very good sound effects
  - cybernetic implants (and talents) add a nice twist
  
  Cons:
 
  - battles tend to get repetitive (although usage of different skills and weapons counter-balance 
 this)
  - NO BOSS BATTLES (aside from a couple of elite enemies, I've battled no bosses so far - 12 hours 
 into the game)   an outrage for any RPG/FPS/Action game nowadays!
  - Limited character control (although it's not a con for me I have to put it here)
  - short game? 
   I haven't finished it yet but it does seem like I'm pretty close to the end with about 12 hours 
 of play-time.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sounds: 8.5/10
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 (almost NO bugs, great pathfinding, etc.)
  Replayability: 6/10 (you will play 
 it about two times)
  
  Overall Rate:
  8.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindhe
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to say that I completely and truly love action rpgs. From the early days 
 of ultimata & secret of mana I've been all about these kinds of games. When diablo came, I was 
 about to **** my pants.
  
  Eventually, diablo & diablo II lost their touch and I was started wishing for diablo III. But then, 
 out of the blue, came dungeon siege!
  
  Not really as good as diablo but still an addictive and, for the time being, good looking action 
 rpg. A few years later diablo III had not yet even been heard of but there again was a new dungeon 
 siege, this time more intense game play and a rather ok storyline.
  
  As soon as I heard about Space siege I got that exciting tingling in my body and my fingers ached 
 for another action rpg.
  
  So finally it was released. And I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. installed it. warmed up 
 a thermos of coffee & closed my window blinds.
  
  Eagerly I started playing it having my hopes up through the roof. Thirty minutes later I let out 
 one word. wtf!?
  
  rpg? RPG? How dare they call this a rpg. Its as much rpg as that ****ty star wars game that came 
 along with attack of the clones. There are no levelups, no looting items and only two ways to tech. 
 (leaving you with replay value 0,00) .
  
  And man is it linear. I've played the single player campaign now for about six hours straight and 
 while I have to admit it hasn't bored me completely, I will say that the quests and story line 
 have got very little to contribute to this game.
  
  Overall I guess its a decent action arpg (almost-rpg) .
  
  But what is the thing that we all 
 love and treasure about the diabloseries? The multiplayer!
  
  Starting a character in multplayer in Space siege you got no customization what so ever and you 
 don't even get to play the singeplayer campaign coop. you start att lvl "20" with all the equipment 
 you can get (though not upgraded weapons) and 40 skillpoints to spend.
  
  Why even have multiplayer if theres even less to play coop in than in singeplayer?
  
  How come 
 a dungeon siege turned out so differently then the other games? Well, maybe we should blame/ask 
 SEGA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xerx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is compeletly linear. Very little real RPG element. This is more dumbed down trash. Not 
 worth the hard drive space. Maybe 20 hours of boredoom. No reply value despite being 'RPG'.
  
  A lot of games recently like this have good graphics, but no brains. The story is linear, plot 
 linear, barely any RPG. Just hyped up trash to make money. This is made for little kids maybe above 
 5 years old.
  
  It looks like Dungeon Siege in space, there is no inventory or cool loot. Upgrades and health pack 
 on pre-determined drop points. Linear. Have fun. Please Taylor, make a real game?
  
  Glad I did not waste my money on it. A friend let me 'try it out'. Sorry. No return on software, 
 so buyer beware before spending money. Try out the demo.
  
  Well, to make up 800 words for this review, which is more than the game's plot line, I add this 
 worthless paragraph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldzik89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  In times when we are bombarded with next-gens, developers stand on their heads to make their game 
 unique. I dont have anything against good old hack'n'slash's. We're all waiting for Diablo III 
 aren't we. The problem with Space Siege is that it does not have some of the qualities that a today's 
 player could demand from top shelf productions.
  
  The Game tells a story about the human race in the midst of the XXII century, in which we have 
 reached the stars and found out - what a suprise - that the creatures hidden in space arent very 
 friendly. The Kerak Race, because that is how the ''aliens'' are called, invaded earth and killed 
 almost all of the human population. Only the last ship - Armstrong - is running away from the Kerak 
 race, aboard with the last humans. The attackers sent troops on the human ship and the last hope 
 of our race is a military engineer - Seth Walker, which you will be playing with. Our Target? To 
 help the survivors escape. To help us with that mission we will have a robot companion called HR-V. 
 The story is very shallow and seems to have been used so many times before. The characters are 
 dull and the action turns are very predictible. The game is straight like a line, you have no freedom 
 in what you are doing at all. Example? In other productions you got a couple of quests at once 
 sometimes and you can choose in what order you will do them. However, in Space Siege you always 
 have only one mission to handle at once, when you complete it you get a next one. Something like 
 secondary missions practicly does not exist here (there not enough npcs to give them to you anyways) . 
 From time to time you get an information that theres a new weapon or cybernetic in the area. You 
 gain acces to other parts of the ship in time - only then when it is neccesery to continue the 
 game.
  
  During the game we unblock more abilities which are divided into three groups - Combat, Engineer 
 and the Robot (HR-V) . We use them by assigned keys, seth and the robot got seprate space to assign 
 those. The abilities are such like - granade throwing, killing hit and other skills like that. 
 We can also find two skill-trees, one is related to combat, the other to engineering. A seprate 
 element of growing your character is upgrading your gear. While playing we collect parts, which 
 we use to upgrade Seth's and HR-V's armors and weapons. We can use them only on specially designated 
 engineer tables. Thanks to those upgrades we gain some immunities or more fire power. You can also 
 build first aid kits, granades and other stuff that comes in handy in the battle. If our robot 
 dies we can buy a new ''copy'' in a special machine. The new robot will have all of the old HR-V's 
 stats.
  
  Some major growth on our hero can be made by founding on our way seven cybernetic organs - eye, 
 legs etc. If we do not mind loosing our humanity in time we can change our hero into a one hudret 
 percent cyborg, which benefits alot in battle. It makes the character more efficient, lets us hold 
 special weapons and unlocks new skills. When the game was beeing made the GPG studio claimed that 
 it will be a very hard choice whether to stay human, or sacrifice youreself and your humanity. 
 Turns out its very simple. It comes down to finding an implant, when you do, one of your companions 
 strongly suggests to use it, the other says not to do modify your body. Besides the game is quite 
 easy that you do not really feel the need to pack yourself with cybernetics that much, only some 
 of the basic. Alot of noise about nothing.
  
  One of the cool things in good hack'n'slashes is finding loads of good stuff and gear which we 
 can buy, sell, compare and admire. Unfortunately Space Siege isnt really good on that part either. 
 In the time of the entire game we find like ten weapons + some weapons for HR-V. We wear the same 
 armor all the time, although its looks change while we upgrade it later on. The enemies drop only 
 the parts I mentioned earlier. You can forget about gloves +4 and all that.
  
  The fights look exacly the same like in all of these types of games - you just need to right-click 
 the enemy to attack. Seth can use some very deadly and effective weapons and skills. Using the 
 latter is restricted by energy and the fact that there is a few seconds cooldown after each skill. 
 There is also HR-V that is controled by the computer, who bravely supports our hero. You can give 
 him some basic commands. If we die we respawn on our last checkpoint without any consequenses so 
 there is no stress here.
  
  In terms of realization Space Siege presents itself average. Locations are monotone and boring. 
 The game looks ok but it is not the level you can expect from a todays production with aspirations. 
 The physics do not look so cool either - objects seem too light.
  
  If I had to classify Space Siege in few words I'd say its a budget production from a good house. 
 A creation of people that know how to do games but sometimes seem too lazy. Shallow story, not 
 much cliamte, avrege graphics and monotone in general. Space Siege world is simply uninteresting 
 and the gameplay does not offer anything that would convince to pull an all-nighter - no bigger 
 emotions. I have completed the game in about 8 hours but I could just happily throw it in a corner 
 after one hour without feeling I lost anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treadstone71
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Space Siege is the next Action RPG from Chris Taylor. The Game loosely follows in the footsteps 
 of his previous Dungeon Siege outings with the obvious exception that this one is in Space, as 
 opposed to say... a Dungeon.
  
  When I first heard about Space Siege, I was totally jazzed. Both Dungeon Siege games were pretty 
 fun and my girlfriend and I had a blast playing MP coop through both games. We both lean more towards 
 the Sci-Fi side of the house (bummer for us since most games are fantasy) , so yes, Space Siege 
 really got my blood pumping. That is, until details about the major game design decisions began 
 to leak out.
  
  I bought it anyway, mostly due to the aforementioned Sci-Fi bent, but a worthy Dungeon Siege game 
 it is not! It has no inventory system. You cannot collect "loot". There are essentially only two 
 types of drops in the game: health packs and upgrade materials. The health packs are self explanatory. 
 Think of the upgrade drops as "money" that you can use to purchase upgrades for yourself, your 
 weapons, armour, or Robot companion. You'll find no "Electric Tesseract Rifle Mark IV" or "Hyper 
 Reflective Laser Mesh Armour" here. Which is a shame, because that is by far the best part about 
 playing action RPGs. You do find weapons and armor as you go, but they are set piece items. The 
 only way to make them better is through upgrading using the tech drops.
  
  The graphics are decent and they provide a good Sci-Fi atmosphere. Throughout the game the voice 
 acting crosses the line between ok and bad. The sounds are pretty good but I just wonder what the 
 deal is with the cheesy firework sounds when you shoot oxygen canisters? Character development 
 is minimalist for an Action RPG. There are only two development trees (combat and engineering) . 
 I found myself continuously emphasizing the combat skills 'cause I like blowing stuff up but some 
 of the engineering skills help with that too (better grenades, etc) . Much has been made of the 
 vaunted "To 'Borg or Not To 'Borg, That is the question" but I don't see it. In the context of 
 the game the story did not offer any real compelling reason to go one way or the other. Some may 
 disagree, but in my opinion, this decision is overrated and does not a gaming crux make. At no 
 point did I feel even remotely tempted to upgrade to cybernetic implants.
  
  Which brings us to Multi-player. The main reason I buy these games is to play them with my girlfriend. 
 She will not play this game with me for one simple reason. You can not play a female character. 
 You can't even customize the look of your given male character. You have no input whatsoever into 
 their creation. And then you start off with most available skills and upgrade options. Where's 
 the fun in that? Multi-player is a very generic and somewhat tacked on afterthought. What genius 
 decided not to include the single player campaign as a playable multi-player coop mode and not 
 allow you to customize the look of your character? Between this and the lack of inventory/loot, 
 the game takes a major hit for me. 
  
  This game has drawn a lot of comparisons to Shadowgrounds (a $10 Steam Downloadable game) and those 
 comparisons are not inaccurate. If you liked Shadowgrounds, you will probably really enjoy Space 
 Siege. The two games are similar in style and game play (and simplicity and lack of RPG elements) . 
 More to the point, if you want to know if you'll like Space Siege, you can always just drop $10 
 on Shadowgrounds... If you like it and want more of the same, splurge another $20 on the Shadowgrounds 
 sequel. Maybe by then, Space Siege will be in the bargain bin and you'll only have to spend $20 
 on it too... :-P
  
  Despite all this, I am enjoying Space Siege - if only as a minor 10 hour diversion that I'll never 
 play again. I just wish they'd made a real Action RPG instead of this dummed down piece of fluff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoGalaxy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Hello to all. To be honest I was kind of interested about this game, as I did played also the demo. 
 The fun thing is that in the demo you could have remaped the keys, in the released game you can't 
 :) . The camera is awafull, the controls are monkey like, and the story is even worse. If there 
 is any story whatsoever. Yes, we know. We are good and the aliens are bad, been there done that. 
 The truth is that the game is interested in the upgrade part, the bot (helping bot) and the cybernetic 
 parts also. But... that is all. I did played some time, but... there is something missing. The 
 bot... is most of the time useless, the weapons... are not that Sci Fi, and the worse part are 
 the controls and the camera. I hope for a patch that should add the WASD control of the char and 
 the free camera, and if there can be something done with the bot AI.
  
  The maps are all static, the mobs are stupid at most, but... they do punch a lot so dieing will 
 be all around. I would have loved also an inventory so you can carry more HP or grenades but for 
 the grenade part we have talents.
  
  If we will ever get a patch, and that patch will bring a nice control remap and a free camera, 
 the game would be come far more interesting to play with. 
  
  My 1st impression of the game was nice, the game was interesting, but after 3-4 hours... I started 
 to get bored. Lots of aliens, 1000000 of rooms and... that is all there is about the game.
  
  Play some to see if you like it but from my part, I would wait for the patch :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pseudoart
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Disappointing, to say the least. Mind you, I played Dungeon Siege, and I'm not comparing the two. 
 But underneath the decent cut-scenes and (in places) decent graphics, it just gets really old, 
 really soon. 
  
  For an "action rpg", it certainly skips past the "rpg" part. Of course, RPG does not necessarily 
 mean character levels, skills and loot, but when the story is weak, and the characters is severely 
 lacking in personality, well, at least there could be some decent loot. No, all items found are 
 found at specific points in the campaign, and skill points are given at set points as well. As 
 a result, you get one of the most linear "action rpg"'s ever. 
  
  Furthermore, in the 15-16 hours I've played it so far, I still haven't gotten used to a control 
 scheme that makes no sense. Action could've and would've been way more intense if AWSD were used 
 for movement, instead for controlling the camera as it is now. As a result, your character feels 
 sluggish and forget about moving and shooting at the same time.
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer, but don't think I will - I cannot imagine the above glaring mistakes 
 to be better in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rap0stle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Pros: vibrant levels, the combat system comes of quite well.. the controls of mech bot are simple 
 but effective strategically.. and i am having some fun getting to grips with how to use the mech. 
 I am early into the game and have a good interest into how the humanity vs cybernetics angle is 
 going to play out. 
  
  
  
  
  Cons: Unforgivable lack of mini map!! You have to constantly bring up the map and dismiss it to 
 figure out where you are. 
  
  Camera is extremely limiting, the game feels cropped off at all times, you cant get the full sweep 
 of any area so you have to inch yourself into every corner to see if anything is worth checking 
 out. 
  
  Can only switch between two weapons at a time... you have to go into the weapons menu for more options.. and 
 add a different weapon to one of the two slots, which breaks and stifles the flow of the combat, 
 especialy when your surrounded.. which happens a lot. 
  
  This is an utterly linear game.... no quests or quest system to speak of, just objectives and secondary 
 objectives that you are naturally going to check off on the linear way. 
  
  I was hoping for some of that Dungeon Siege and Dungeon Siege 2 inter level questing with the yummy 
 pay offs. 
  
  Not gonna happen here.... the RPG element of this game is very very misrepresented... like no quest 
 system, and also no loot.. your access to weapons comes as you find them.. so the linear trail is 
 going to lead you to them.
  
  You only pick up parts from the environment and fallen enemies, which you use to purchase your 
 upgrades. You can only skill up between levels... and it is only this tech tree, skill tree and 
 abilities hot key game design that lends itself to the rpg. 
  
  So, that leaves us with the action game.. and from an action game point of view, that poor camera 
 and weapons inventory/access are choking what could have been a good pixel blast. 
  
  Mixed feelings, but I am honestly enjoying it for what it is, ... and recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed4477
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The survival of the human race lies entirely in your hands in Space Siege.
  This action role-playing game from Chris Taylor, the creator of the
  award-winning Dungeon Siege 
 games, moves you out from the dungeons and into
  space.
  
  You are Seth Walker, a crew member on the Armstrong, the only colony ship to
  survive a massive 
 alien attack upon Earth. As the aliens descend upon the
  Armstrong, Walker must fend off the extraterrestrial threat using his wits
  and weapons. To help 
 his cause, he can choose to augment his body with a
  variety of cybernetic upgrades available throughout the Armstrong - but with
  each mechanical 
 improvement, he becomes more machine than man. In this
  spectacular sci-fi adventure, will you risk your own humanity to save the
  human race?
  
 
  With multiple gameplay paths, it's easy to get lost in the immersive
  futuristic sci-fi environment. Each decision you make will affect both the
  gameplay and the 
 story, creating surprise twists and turns and great
  replay-ability. You can improve Seth's fighting abilities with a vast array
  of cybernetic, armor, 
 and weapon upgrades.
  
  You're not completely alone in this fight -- your constant robot companion,
  HR-V, will help 
 you in your battles with the alien enemy. And like you, HR-V
  can also be upgraded to deal massive damage and help you out in a variety of
  other ways. Up 
 to four players can take part in the epic Space Siege
  battles, allowing for a variety of cooperative approaches to combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  A few years ago I was quite taken back playing Dungeon Siege. It was one of those quirky Diablo-type 
 games that allowed you to use multiple characters. This game is nowhere near Dungeon Siege.
  
  You can take it as either good or bad. Instead of a party you control one man and after a few 
 minutes playing, you encounter a robot aide. Aside from that, your party make up is you and your 
 robot.
  
  There's no level-up system, but rather some off-shoot D&D point system. By tweaking your body with 
 machine grafts you become stronger, yet certain abilities will be closed off from you as you edge 
 toward cybernetics. I don't think theres no TRUE way to play the game, but at the same time I miss 
 the level-up system.
  
  Space Siege is not an action RPG nor is it an RPG in any sense of the term. I think the developers 
 tried to cross both lines and by doing so alienated the old Dungeon Siege fanbas and will have 
 weirded out any newcommers....
  
  I would not reccomend this game if you are looking for an RPG. I also would not reccomend this 
 game if your looking for action or adventure. Get this game if you have totally nothing else to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordank23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this... I've only been playing the game for about 3/4 hours now. The 
 issues are clear... a just "OK" user interface, and from what I've read and experienced the game 
 only takes place on one locale the space ship. 
  
  SS is also plagued by the no lips movement during dialogue that DS was plagued with, as well as 
 simplistic design and mondane repetitive point/click.
  
  HOWEVER!!!!!!
  
  MAN am I having fun!! So far the games story is fun! I'm enjoying it, it's plot certainly doesn't 
 seem that deep, but the chars are fun, the radio talk is fun, you never really feel alone on a 
 ship shooting stuff, you feel like you have a reason and while the plot is paper thing (aliens 
 attacking earth and your ship) there are little mysterys to solve and data pads that are played 
 that add depth to the story.
  
  Now I read about leveling... yes there is no leveling in the DS way or pure RPG way, this game is 
 mostly action based, but you can upgrade your weapons and armor with material parts you pick up 
 along the way and when you complete missions your given skill and attribute points. I could see 
 the game being really boring if you just went the combat route, but if you go engineer, you get 
 a little robot called an hpv-5 I believe, and robot bomb guys and all sorts of shield upgrades 
 and well it's just fun! 
  
  There certainly isn't the loot feel that DS and other diablo like games high, but this game has 
 a lot of different styles you can play. Straight up shooter, or bomb expert or a combo of things. 
 
  
  THe graphics are great, there not MASS EFFECT graphics but come on, this is a point and click action/rpg....
 
  
  The lighting and physics are top notch and the reason I even wrote this review is when something 
 is made with a standard of quality that this was, it annoys me it could get a 55/65. 
  
  Is this title going to have you talking for years to come... most likely no.. but It's almost 2 am.. I 
 have work tomorrow and I wanna keep playing... and that must stand for something..
  
  My opinion and advice.. if you like action/RPG sci-fi stuff and you like a fun but not overly complex 
 plot.. if you like to upgrade your avatar then get and play it, it's fun.
  
  Also the demo was a pretty bland representation of the game. THe demo was the opening to the game 
 but it gets much better when you start collecting people to join "THE CAUSE".
  
  thanks:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Chris Taylor, the famous designer of many games like Total Annihilation, Dungeon Siege, and recently 
 Supreme Commander tries to design an original RPG, it works, but the flaws within the game are 
 quite maddening in there own respect that it might chase away the average gamer.
  
  Story goes is that man has gone out to the farthest lengths of the universe to colonize the universe, 
 to see what treats god had in store for them, but yes, Aliens started to attack Human Colonies, 
 Humans retreated, the Aliens followed, its an interesting premise, but the plotline follows the 
 whole, "aliens attack earth" plot, which, I am not saying its bad, just gets a bit repetitive, 
 the story can be a bit interesting, but the characters don't.... develop well persay, you get to 
 know them, but it all feels very forced, and the voice acting doesn't help since it to feels... 
 well lets just say it just skirts the boundaries between mediocre and terrible...
  
  Gameplay wise, its like diablo, except with guns, you point and click to attack an enemy, and like 
 every RPG, you can get better guns and what not, this is an interesting setup, but point and click 
 shooting is very disjointed, and can be very maddening, especially against tougher enemies, clicking 
 an enemy to death with your standard machine gun could just as well strain you hand, but again, 
 you get better weapons along your journey.
  
  The camera is pretty bad, considering that its pretty much one consistent view, you do have the 
 ability to look around, but its very limited, and can't be put to much tactical usage, it would 
 have been nice to look around the whole ship, its maddening sometimes, mainly cause its kinda hard 
 when you are trying to take cover.
  
  Level design isn't very intuitive, mainly cause its point A to point B, you sometimes get to paths, 
 but they don't change up anything, just a couple objectives here and there, but they end up in 
 the same place, basically you get to look at something different down each path.
  
  You do get allies along your journey, they are competent, and sometimes will take cover, but like 
 every other Sidekick, you better keep a close eye on them so they don't die on you, so in other 
 words, you friendly AI will do there job, just not with the same efficiency as you of course. The 
 Enemy AI is a bit of a different story... They aren't stupid, but they aren't smart either, sometimes 
 they will just stand there, usuall waiting for you to unload into them, but then again, the game 
 would be a bit frustrating if they ran every where at the speed of light, you do have the ability 
 to free aim, but thats usually only useful against exploding barrels.
  
  Perhaps the most interesting sidekey, is HR-V, a combat robot, which I consider a very versatile 
 combat robot, being able to outfit with different upgrades, and weapons, but has no personality, 
 so no use trying to get to know him kids.
  
  The 2 tech trees you get in the game is Combat, and Mechanical, the way you advance is up to you, 
 the pace of which you advance is up to the script, you get experience points at the end of each 
 chapter, so unlike Mass Effect, where reaching level 30 for example in a couple hours could be 
 done, you can't reach the max level in a couple hours, which kinda detracts from the experience.
 
  
  Loot from the old dungeon siege isn't present, the only "loot" you get is in upgrade points, or 
 cybernetic ups, unlike in Dungeon Siege where you could get a stronger weapon from an enemy you 
 killed, you get things like the rocket launcher at a scripted moment in the campaign, detracting 
 again from the experience.
  
  An interesting addition in the gameplay is the Humanity levels, in the course of your journeys, 
 you encounter Cybernetic upgrades, to help you combat the alien menace, but at the expense of your 
 own humanity, mainly, limiting your upgrade tree if you do such cybernetic upgrades, the only reason 
 to stay human is the bonus you get at the end, so choose, easier ways to fight the Aliens, or a 
 bonus at the end?
  
  The Graphics are good, but not great, the animation is smooth, the particles, the effects, the 
 blood, you really do get a sense of mayhem from the experiece, and feels good, all and all, it 
 comes to a relatively low requirement, you don't exactly need a powerhouse to run this game, which 
 is good for those who have not recently upgraded there pcs.
  
  The atmosphere is excellent, the feeling of a space ship never felt so alive, the music does help 
 to immerse you, but the endless array of corridors, crate filled rooms make it impossible to find 
 your way around, you have been warned. The idea of keycards to unlock doors kinda fall under the 
 catagory of red, blue, green, much like Doom, which also detract from the experiece.
  
  The sound is... decent, again the voice acting is very spotty, but the explosions, the weapon effects, 
 although nothing special, this game is not exactly the sound power house to test your dolby digital 
 surround sound system.
  
  The only multiplayer is Coop, not a bad addition, but doesn't exactly work persay, cause it kinda 
 looks like a marvel ultimate alliance coop scenario, and it can sometimes be easy to loose ones 
 team mate.
  
  It looked like a promising experiece, if they took a little more time to develop the game, by getting 
 rid of the Camera angle and turned it into a third person game, it would have been a better, and 
 perhaps develop the RPG elements a bit more, it would have been alot better, but this experience 
 its pretty decent, but don't expect to get any long lasting value out of it...
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
