-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Interceptor: Project Freedom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/projectearth2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, but effective arcade gameplay that keeps you entertained.
 Surprisingly attractive graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only about five hours worth of play, and no multiplayer or anything to bring you back when you're done.
 Banal voice acting and soundtrack.
 Not much variety in terms of missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Merscom LLC
Developer: City Interactive
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 9, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A plucky little space shooter with more heart than technical prowess like Space Interceptor can 
 prove to be a breath of fresh air. 

  From the same publisher/developer combo who brought you last month's aggressively lousy shooter 
 Terrorist Takedown comes Space Interceptor: Project Freedom, a budget-priced space combat sim. 
 Don't worry, though, because apart from being unfortunately associated with that lousy terrorist 
 fighting game, and having one of the worst titles (and subtitles) of any game this year, Space 
 Interceptor is actually pretty good. Space Interceptor conjures up a lot of pleasant memories of 
 PC space sims past, such as Wing Commander or even 2003's Freelancer. Sadly, it's not nearly up 
 to the level of quality of those games, but in a genre as close to utter desolation as the space 
 combat sim, even a plucky little space shooter with more heart than technical prowess like Space 
 Interceptor can prove to be a breath of fresh air.  

          Desperate for some space combat action for your PC? Then get an Andrew Jackson ready, because 
 Space Interceptor has arrived!     

  What exactly is Space Interceptor all about? Mostly, it's about simplistic, easy-to-play space 
 combat with a very loose plot structure that's incidental at best. You are, of course, an anonymous 
 ace pilot in a squad of space fighters. The side you represent, Project Freedom, is constantly 
 under duress by rival corporations and other assorted bad people who fly their own big spaceships 
 and maintain bases and what have you across the universe. What does that mean to you, the player? 
 Well, this  is  a space combat game, so, if you follow the proper lines of logic, it means you'll 
 be blowing said spaceships and bases into assorted forms of space dust with the help of your trusty 
 ship and squadmates.  

  Well, actually, you'll mostly just be doing it with your ship, since Space Interceptor falls into 
 the trap a lot of space sims tend to fall into, and that is that the ships that fly under your 
 banner are largely useless, save for the one or two times one of their random shots just happens 
 to accidentally hit an enemy. But, it doesn't matter, because most times you'll be able to take 
 care of business on your own. Your ship features a few different weapons, including a basic blaster, 
 which is good for busting up smallish enemy fighters. You'll also have a secondary weapon, from 
 which you'll have a variety to choose, including basic air-to-air missiles and big-time plasma 
 bursts. Most times you will find yourself up against enemy squads, but periodically you will have 
 to take on some big, honking battleships or some ground weaponry, such as stationary blasters and 
 rocket launchers, and even some goofy looking mechs. Though the game does charge you with some 
 fairly specific tasks, like protecting allied ships during rescue missions, those objectives often 
 come second to simply flying around and blowing the hell out of everything that comes near your 
 crosshairs, and for that purpose, the game serves pretty well.  

  This is mostly because the controls in the game are rarely ever problematic. Most all of the default 
 control falls onto the mouse, with the two main mouse buttons set to fire your weapons, and the 
 mouse itself in control of your ship's movement axis. The mousewheel also lets you accelerate by 
 rolling it back and forth, though even turning the acceleration all the way down won't stop you, 
 as your ship is always in forward motion. You can't actually stop or reverse thrust, but despite 
 that limitation, you'll rarely find yourself having much trouble controlling where you want your 
 ship to go. It's very much an arcade-type method of control, but considering that the action itself 
 seems largely arcade-inspired, it works just fine and makes for some fun space-shooting action. 

  With that said, there are some quirks in the gameplay. For starters, there's no good indication 
 of when you're hitting an enemy ship with anything but the most explosive of weapons. The only 
 way to see is by squinting at the tiny energy meters for the ship in your crosshairs, and that 
 can get annoying quickly. Another issue involves combat against the bigger ships -- or, more specifically, 
 the lack thereof. Though rare, when you do find yourself trying to take down a capital ship, all 
 you're really doing is trying to blow up a series of blocked sections (as each individual section 
 has its own energy meter) , only a couple of which have the capability of firing back at you. Once 
 you destroy the areas that have guns, you'll just be flying back and forth, shooting each blocked 
 section until a big, charred husk is left behind. It would have been nice if the combat against 
 these ships felt a little more epic.  

  It's a good thing that Space Interceptor is budget priced, because there really isn't much to this 
 package at all. Sure, the gameplay's fun, but the whole campaign only lasts about five hours at 
 the default difficulty level, and there's little reason to ever go back and play it again once 
 you're done. There's no multiplayer, no unlockable extras... nothing at all. In fact, the only thing 
 the game has besides its 21 single-player missions is a very simple ship upgrade system that actually 
 involves no effort on your part. All you have to do is set a switch before each mission, which 
 will indicate that you want to upgrade your attacks, defense, or speed, and then once you've beaten 
 your latest mission, voila... magic upgrade! If there were just something more to the game -- anything 
 at all, really -- it would have benefited greatly. It's a shame that there's no multiplayer of any 
 sort either, because the ship combat is legitimately fun, and it would've been fun to compete against 
 other players.  

  Visually, Space Interceptor isn't the most impressive game you'll ever see, but it's actually kind 
 of impressive for being the budget title that it is. It borrows from just about every form of rudimentary 
 sci-fi out there, but just because it isn't creative doesn't mean it doesn't look good. The ship 
 models are all nicely put together, and the spatial environments definitely capture the feeling 
 of what you'd think it would feel like to fly around in space, with plenty of planets, asteroids, 
 and other such phenomena orbiting about. Of course, it isn't all fine and dandy when it comes to 
 the game's graphics; for instance, many of the weapon effects actually look pretty weak overall. 
 Also, the game's frame rate is fairly erratic at very specific points. Whenever something blows 
 up onscreen, so does the frame rate.  

          Space Interceptor isn't the prettiest, deepest, or best-playing space combat game you'll 
 ever find, but for 20 bucks, you could do about a billion times worse.     

  The game's audio has more in common with the frame rate than it does with any of the game's other 
 presentational components. Even though the sound effects run the gamut from effective to vastly 
 underwhelming, you'll find that most of the trouble comes from the voice acting and soundtrack. 
 Voice work comes in the form of radio communication from your assorted comrades and other ships. 
 The acting is merely subpar, but it's the writing that is absolutely terrible, and it actually 
 seems badly translated from some other language. Though most of the actors tend to stay away from 
 literal readings of the lousy dialogue, every once in a while, they'll trip up and actually say 
 something like "Nice shoot!" It's funny once, but considering how annoyingly repetitive the dialogue 
 is, that humor quickly dries up. The actual soundtrack is made up of a scant couple of only marginally 
 different techno tracks that sound roughly like somebody listened to the soundtrack from  The Matrix 
  a couple of times and then tried to concoct something vaguely similar. Lousy and repetitive are, 
 again, both terms that sum up these musical scores quite effectively.  

  What it ultimately comes down to with Space Interceptor is how much you really want to play a good 
 space combat sim. Are you willing to drop $20 on five hours of unspectacular but fun space shooting 
 with the understanding that once those five hours are up, you'll probably never pick it up again? 
 If that's the case, then Space Interceptor is certainly not a bad way to go. And hey, you could 
 always take advantage of publisher Merscom's "fun guarantee" that's plainly displayed on the back 
 of the box. If you don't love it (or, in this case, if you're done with it) , they'll replace it 
 with another one of its games! Then again, the company's only other game on the market right now 
 is Terrorist Takedownso, maybe not.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rayven998
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, I like BIG games. You know, the kind of games that can easily rob you of a personal 
 life. I also love science fiction games. I play stuff like Galactic Civiliztions 2, X2, X3, Dark 
 Star 1, and the greatest of em all (well for me anyway) , Starshatter The Gathering Storm. Hell, 
 just creating mods for Starshatter will keep me busy for quite some time to come. But, as I said 
 above, sometimes you just want to go out and blast stuff. No research, no commerse, no strategy. 
 Just straight up runnin and gunnin. Space Interceptor fits this bill quite nicely. Now; some people 
 have to have cutting edge graphics, a Grammy winning sound track and Oscar calliber voice acting 
 before they will give a game a good rating. For me, it all boils down to this: is the game fun 
 to play. Space Interceptor is definately great fun. I won't go into the nuts and bolts of the game, 
 that's what the "official review" is for. Sure the game is somewhat short; but it don't cost much 
 either. I'm playing it on a gaming service that shall remain nameless (lets just say its nice to 
 have the game "on Tap" whenever I want to play it) . Let me bottom line it by saying this: if you're 
 looking for a good "old school" style arcade space shooter and you don't want to spend much coin, 
 definately give Space Interceptor a look. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised at how fun this 
 game really is. I know I was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has no Joystick support witch is disappointing. I like the fact that the graphics are 
 in 4D but the graphics are distorted, I'm buzzing around shooting down fighters and everything 
 is flickering left and right now that's distracting. Space Invaders is nothing new, this is at 
 least the 500th game of it's kind but there is some better, some worse, this is one of the worse 
 ones. Besides the distorted graphics and no storyline, plain and simple sci-fi space shooter this 
 game is perfect. Now I haven't played a game that had more clumsier controls than Space Invaders. 
 There is like 1000 games that are called "Space Invaders", back in the 70's and 80's they used 
 to name the sci-fi arcade games Space Invaders all the time, my point is that Space Invaders is 
 to Old-school. Space Invaders is still a good game set aside all that but if I were you I'd save 
 the time and money for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you just want to sit down at your computer and blow things up. Its the drive that made 
 us hardcore gamers in the first place, and its amazing the limits we push ourselves towards to 
 get to that perfect level of game-destruction-nirvana: we play games that take up massive amounts 
 of storage space, games that make us lust over more memory and graphics card upgrades, games that 
 crash and crap out on us at the moment we get into it, and games that require us to learn a new 
 language or way to break our hands over the controls we have to learn. This is not that kind of 
 game. Yes, it is a budget title and has all the trappings of such, but for all it does wrong, it 
 gets the basics right and makes for a nice bit of gaming when you are not looking to get involved 
 in a gaming relationship.
  
  For starters, you will notice that it is a small game. A single disk installs it on your machine, 
 and then it plays without the disk from there out. The controls are simple and the gameplay is 
 even more so, but it does give you a nice streamlined game experience that allows you to boot up 
 and play in small doses with little hassle and decent fun.
  
  Story-There is not much of a story to speak of. Something about warring factions in space. It matters 
 little. The game is broken into missions. You pilot your ship around blowing up enemy ships and 
 land bases, and occasionally escort something. If you skip the small mission briefing, you will 
 miss nothing.
  
  Graphics-While nothing here will blow you away, everything looks quite good for a budget title. 
 Plenty of lighting and particle effects abound. Explosions are satisfying enough, and while the 
 weapons don't amaze, nothing ruins the experience from a graphical standpoint. There is not much 
 sense of speed in your vehicle, and the boost you later get does not help this much. In space, 
 the game looks pretty good, with planets and asteroids a plenty. The draw in distance sometimes 
 get in the way, with an asteroid popping up right in front of you from time to time, but overall 
 its fine. The planets you skim along in the air to ground based missions are kind of sparse with 
 little detail on the land, but even then, not enough to make it ugly. The vehicles, ships, and 
 buildings are all nicely designed with a decent amount of detail. This won't tax your machine, 
 but it doesn't hurt your eyes either.
  
  Sound-Sound effects are sub-par in many respects. The weapons sound underpowered and the hum of 
 your ship is the only constant. There is not much in the way of music. Your teammates shout at 
 you during a mission, and mission objective updates are relayed through campy voice acting, which 
 I can't help but suspect is not originally an english speaking team. They say things like Nice 
 Shoot! when you hit an enemy. In fact, they say something almost every time you down an enemy ship, 
 and with approximately three phrases, gets annoying real fast.
  
  Gameplay-Once again, it is very simple. The mouse controls almost every function of your vehicle. 
 This is a good thing for a casual game, in that you can pick it up and play it with one hand 99% 
 of the time. The ship is fairly responsive, and the enemy's will swarm you to give you a challenge. 
 They don't behave well, but there are enough of them to make them a threat. The missions tend to 
 get repetitive quickly with a shoot this, then that, protect this... . Nothing we don't see in 
 more expensive titles though. It just makes me recommend it in small doses.
  
  Overall, I can't help but recommend this game to anyone who wants to get a little fun for almost 
 no money (I paid $5 on Half. com for a new copy) . It runs on almost any modern computer, and looks 
 and plays well enough to pick up, even if you put it down soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  If you want to get away from a while from Morrowind or other rpg , this is a good choice . Fast 
 paced dogfights in outer space , aliens , dirty corporations and , most of all , old plain shooting 
 . After 10 min you get the feeling about it - enhance your fighter and start hunting the enemy 
 . The gameplay , graphics , etc. are designed to support this feeling and the story is pretty nice 
 for this type of games , having a nice boss battle in the end . 
  Your fighter is clumsy at the beginning and he reacts somehow slow when using a mouse , but speed 
 is the key . If you choose to enhance this no enemy will be capable to target you and speed is 
 esential to break up the enemy overhelming wings . Enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  no joystick support. who ever heard of flying a ship with a mouse. glad i only spent $10 on this. 
 got this game the other day and installed it. first thing off the bat i found out no joystick support. 
 so i played the game anyway. propblem #1, serious lag because of the default video settings..... game 
 froze. so i had to do some tweaking just to get it to play. finally i got the game to play. tried 
 flying with a mouse, it takes some serious getting used to........ it pissed me off. i made it through 
 the training mission in about 3 to 4 minuets and the A. I. tells me that im a good pilot and i should 
 proceed to the first mission. by this time im in such a bad mood that i turn the game off and head 
 straight to the games web site. it took me a while to find out that they dont have a patch to fix 
 the joystick problem. so i read all of the complaints about them not having joystick support and 
 find that im not the only one who is pissed off that they bought this game that has the stuff to 
 be a very good space sim but without joystick support this game is lacking. if you dont mind flying 
 without a joystick the price is right for this game, but if your like me and you need joystick 
 support to have some fun stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Space Interceptor: Project Freedom manages to resuscitate a nearly dead genre: the space sim. The 
 action takes place in a dystopian future where mega-corporations run Earth and the colonies scattered 
 through the solar system. You work for a corp with the unlikely name of Project Freedom. But really 
 all this is, for the most part, irrelevant.
  
  Almost 20 missions await. For all but one, you will be flying a small fighter craft engaging other 
 fighters, larger vessels, and a variety of ground targets. Most are attack and destroy with a few 
 escort or protect missions thrown in for variety. Your fighter is armed with energy cannons and 
 a variety of secondary weapons. Unlike the X-Wing series, your craft can carry a lot of secondary 
 weapons so you will rarely run out. Controls are responsive and simple, using mouse and WASD-based 
 keyboard. Numerical keys are linked to secondary weapons.
  
  Visually, SIPF is hardly state of the art, but certainly up to the job. Details are not the forte 
 of this game. Enemies and backgrounds look good, but not great and lack all the detail found in 
 many games. Occasionally enemies are lost in the background and better visual cues to tracking 
 enemies would have been nice. Animations of enemies are a bit choppy at times (mostly groundbound 
 items like radars) , but the overall framerates are smooth and very high. I recommend without reservations.
 
  
  The soundtrack is generally bouncy, techno-inspired, but never intrusive. The voice-acting and 
 dialogue is second-rate at times, and in-game comments of allied pilots are very limited in variety.
 
  
  All that said, a plot twist mid-game shakes things up as does a mission requiring you to crew an 
 AA gun. The missions are lots of fun with plenty to destroy. Your ship improves as time goes by, 
 so while the number and lethality of foes steadily rises, the difficulty almost seems to decline 
 a bit.
  
  This game is plenty of fun for those of us who loved X-Wing/Tie Fighter, Descent, and similar series. 
 The price is rock-bottom (I paid under 10 dollars) and might attract even non-space sim fans to 
 try something different. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
