-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Colony
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spacecolony/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.8, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 325 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 14, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Space Colony is an interesting game but not a truly compelling one. 

  FireFly Studios' Space Colony is a strategy game with two basic levels of management. On one level 
 you have to manage a futuristic base, while on the other you have to manage the relationships between 
 the crew members who inhabit the base. It clearly draws inspiration from Maxis' popular life-simulator 
 The Sims (just take a look at the box cover) , as well as from management games like RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon, SimGolf, and FireFly's own Stronghold series. Though it has no multiplayer, the game does 
 offer a great deal of content in the form of a comprehensive single-player campaign, a series of 
 skirmish missions, and an open-ended sandbox mode. Plus, there's a map editor you can use to create 
 your own levels. While Space Colony offers a great deal of breadth, and a surprising amount of 
 depth, it never really capitalizes on either of these strengths to become an incredibly compelling 
 or incredibly enjoyable game.  

          Even though the idea of farming space chickens sounds wacky, it's actually not all that 
 interesting in Space Colony.     

  Space Colony's premise involves a ragtag band of misfits in the employ of a futuristic corporation 
 intent on squeezing profits out of interplanetary operations like mining, farming, and even tourism. 
 As such, in the single-player and skirmish maps, you're given a series of goals (like acquiring 
 a certain amount of money, harvesting a certain number of space chickens, building a certain number 
 of fixtures or structures, and so on) that you must complete to finish your current mission and 
 move on to the next one. To do this, you have to build appropriate structures, such as a mining 
 apparatus to scrounge silicon or iron from deposits on the planet's surface. You must then assign 
 different crew members to operate these structures, assuming they're properly trained. Your crew 
 members all have a finite measure of contentedness that, like in The Sims, depends on various personal 
 needs. These needs include food, personal hygiene, entertainment, and social interaction. Also 
 like in The Sims, some characters get along well, while others have such different personalities 
 that they become enemies.  

  Accomplishing your goals in Space Colony is generally pretty straightforward. If you need to collect 
 a certain type of resource, you build an extractor. You then assign a properly trained colonist 
 to operate it and sit back and watch the work get done. If your colonists aren't properly trained, 
 you can build a library or virtual training center to train them. Then you can sit back and watch 
 them receive their training. If your colonists are unhappy because they're hungry, injured, or 
 bored, you simply assign them to a corresponding structure in your base that fulfills that particular 
 need. For instance, you can send them to a restaurant, a medical center, and a disco dance floor 
 to cure the above-mentioned "ills." Then you can sit back and watch them refill their depleted 
 needs. If your base is attacked by hostile aliens, you build defensive structures, like force field 
 generators and laser towers, then you can sit back and watch your defenses zap the aliens until 
 you're no longer under attack. The pacing for most of Space Colony's actions is pretty similar. 
 You assign everyone to do what they're supposed to do, correct any problems that arise, and then 
 sit back and watch the credits or resources roll in until another problem arises.  

  This is perhaps why Space Colony is an interesting game but not a truly compelling one. Though 
 you have lots of different objectives to accomplish -- from maintaining the power and oxygen levels 
 in your base, to harvesting resources, to buying and selling resources in the marketplace, to defending 
 your base from alien attacks -- you can usually complete them all in the same methodical fashion. 
 Once you do complete your objectives, you move on to the next mission -- which is usually solved 
 in a similar, straightforward manner. The game offers three difficulty settings, so it can sometimes 
 be challenging. This is especially true of the game's later missions and on "hard" planets in galaxy 
 mode, where you play individual missions with a specific group of colonists and goals. The interface, 
 which is adorned with large, brightly colored buttons, lets you access various building and maintenance 
 options quickly and easily. Your colonists often give you clear verbal cues to help you diagnose 
 any problems, and they also let you know whether or not the problems they discover pertain to your 
 base and/or your staff.  

  However, unlike the games that inspired it, Space Colony doesn't have outrageous and completely 
 unexpected character interactions. Your colonists either like each other or they don't; and if 
 they don't like each other, you must either have them talk their differences out, or they'll eventually 
 fight. If they're not interacting with one another, they're usually doing only one of two other 
 things: fulfilling a depleted need of some kind or working away. Unlike the games that inspired 
 it, Space Colony doesn't have a constant stream of new, varied rewards and options that you unlock 
 as you play. Instead, you have a certain number of structures and colonists available to you in 
 each mission and a certain goal that must be accomplished by using them. After accomplishing your 
 goal, the cycle repeats with your next mission.  

          Your colonists have different backgrounds and different voices, but they're not all that 
 interesting -- or memorable.     

  At least Space Colony looks and sounds decent, though its production values probably could've been 
 higher. For instance, your base is locked into a single, isometric view: Unlike most modern management 
 games, Space Colony doesn't let you zoom or rotate what you're looking at, so you may sometimes 
 have trouble seeing specific characters if they're obscured behind an object. The game does use 
 colorful 2D graphics for its bases, aliens, and colonists (along with rendered animations for some 
 of its cutscenes) , though they're not especially detailed, nor are your colonists very well animated. 
 You might hope that a game that uses somewhat-dated graphics would attempt to "go long" on personality. 
 Space Colony tries to do this, but it doesn't really succeed. The game's voice acting is decent, 
 and its many different characters are all over-the-top (but largely inoffensive) stereotypes. They 
 include a dumb country hick, a spaced-out hippie, and a brainless blonde. However, while most of 
 the characters are goofy and have some dialogue that's intended to be funny, none of them have 
 quite enough voice samples, so they tend to become repetitive over time. At least the game has 
 an appropriate techno soundtrack that fits well with the theme.  

  Between its campaign, single-mission galaxy mode, sandbox mode, and map editor, Space Colony offers 
 enough single-player content to keep anybody busy. And it offers colorful 2D graphics and lots 
 of different characters with completely different voice samples, though these characters don't 
 have much in the way of detailed touches, distinctive animations, or memorable things to say. Space 
 Colony does attempt to introduce innovation to management games with a personal relationship system, 
 similar to the one found in The Sims, but it's not as complex or engaging. Despite all its content, 
 Space Colony doesn't seem to offer enough interesting and/or satisfying options to keep you playing 
 and enjoying the game for long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lyndy62
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about a sense of humor. The AI is at times hilarious. If you like quirky or unusual 
 games then this one is for you! You start off with a few ragtag lackys. You must assign them jobs. 
 If you need a job done that no one is qualified for then you can train them. This cost time and 
 money. There is a surprising number of gadgets available for use in the game... Everything from 
 an open bar to drink away your sorrows to auto-trained laser guns to keep the alien pest problem 
 under control. Having only played the first three scenerios ( The Demo ) I checked the internet 
 and found a copy for sale at Amazon. com for only $5.00 !!!
  Of course I ordered it and i am currently awaiting its arrival. If you can find a copy of this 
 game go ahead and get it. It will keep you amused for many hours. Not only are there numerous scenerios 
 but also a freeplay mode that allows you to explore and play until your hearts content!
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larsypoop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Space Colony is often a frowned upon and under-credited game. From the creators of Stronghold, 
 Space Colony (I won't call it SC as that is common terminology for Star Craft and Splinter Cell, 
 I shall instead refer to it as 'Spolony') is all about colonizing strange and diverse planets, 
 while still managing a mob who call themselves workers.
  
  Most planets offer their own set of natural challenges, ranging from land-hogging space weed, meteor 
 showers, mutant bees and sometimes frustratingly dangerous space monsters. You generally render 
 the previous useless through straight forward means, consisting of fire, lasers and stuff that 
 blows up.
  
  After the world outside of your comfortable base is taken care of, you have to manage the inside. 
 There are 20 unique characters in Spolony, with their own skills and needs. Some, such as the Texan, 
 Tami, are lazy, overfed and as un-space worthy as a dodo (which, for the record, are extinct, which 
 further proves my point) , yet they still manage to just hold everything together. 
  Each character comes from a different part of the world, bringing a little of their own culture 
 to space. It is quite interesting to watch these characters as they all have dozens of unique dialogue 
 lines with accent and all, and interact with each other using anything from threats and insults, 
 to cheerful compliments.
  To be kept happy, which in turn affects their working hours and mood, these colonists must eat, 
 bathe, socialize and have a regular turn in the virtual boxing ring. Thankfully it doesnt take 
 8 hours of sleeping time and days of boring discussion to satisfy these animated geometric shapes, 
 nor do they spend 2 minutes trying to walk around each other, which is all a big step up from the 
 Sims, as now they can actually get some work done.
  
  To keep your base running smoothly, you require a number of things. Firstly is a power supply. 
 Power fuels anything that our household electricity fuels, with the addition of laser guns and 
 virtual reality chairs. Next you need oxygen, otherwise your colonists cant breath, capiche? Then 
 there are the beds and the showers and the highly controversial plants. How am I to pay for all 
 this? I hear you ask. Well, I have the answer. Labour. Yes, thats right, labour. Putting your 
 colonists to work to produce goods which can later be sold to produce a positive income for future 
 survival, just like hear on Earth (plus the addition that in the game you generally earn a steady 
 income just for having a base) . As most colonists are specialized in different fields, it is better 
 to do a bit of research before you start assigning them to tasks. Stig, is better at mining then 
 at cleaning, so best to put him behind the silicon extractor.
  A word from the wise; it isnt wise to trade away all your resources, as some are required for 
 the running of the base.
  
  Then theres the story mode, which is interesting enough to follow. Your main character is Venus, 
 a hardworking woman with all the clich characteristics of a protagonist. You follow commands from 
 Blackwater Industries, a company striving to use as little business ethics as possible, oh, and 
 to own every part of space.
  I sometimes wonder why I loved this game so much, and so many others threw it on the trash heap. 
 This brings my recent lame theory into the fray. If you expect something to be outstanding, or 
 even good, and it delivers to your expectations, it is 40% less enjoyable than if you had no expectations 
 Yes, thats it, but it works out most of the time too. I never heard of this game until the day 
 I saw it in EB with a 50% discount, so I decided to give it a try, with low expectations.
  Then when I started playing it and explored the different game modes, I was immediately hooked. 
 No question.
  This game isnt for people who like aiming and shooting, as all the weapons are AI controlled, 
 and it definitely isnt for NASA geeks, as theyd probably be offended by the amount of ignorance 
 to actual space procedures present in this game.
  
  Though many wont enjoy this game as much as me, I believe it will be a fun experience for most 
 of you, and I recommend you at least try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  I'm obsessed with Startopia... The game is great! But I'm not reviewing that game now... 
  
  Space Colony is fun at first. Being able to set up your own colony, running industries, trading 
 cargo and driving your colonists mad. But there is a lot missing. 
  
  Overall I found the gameplay fun and easy to get used to. There are plenty of missions to play 
 and a large sandbox. 
  
  What I most liked about the gameplay was the use of industries. Similar to Stronghold, (both developed 
 by Firefly Studios) you are able to gather raw resources and then develop them further into specialized 
 goods that you could sell at a higher price. 
  
  For example: by use of the Silicon Extractor colonists mine and store raw silicon. If built, the 
 electronics fabricator will produce computers from the silicon. Then trained colonists could use 
 these components other industries such as android development. Or these components could be sold 
 for a profit.
  
  Combat also plays a roll in this game. Though annoying at times, the combat system in Space Colony 
 is a little exciting, but nothing like the stronghold series. 
  
  Unfortunately what this game prides itself upon most, I dislike the most... The colonists. They 
 are too needy at time and can't manage to hold a good relationship with anyone. At times it's impossible 
 to get any work done since you must tend to every minute need of your colonists.
  
  Additionally the graphis and sounds are old, blunt and annoying. 
  
  Taking the good with the 
 bad this game is entertaining and could leave you saying I want more...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  First thing -- Space Colony does NOT deserve a 6.7. It is much better then a 6.7! 
  
  What makes this game cool, is that you play on the moon, with different characters who have there 
 own different likes, dislikes and needs. Which is realistic. 
  
  There is so much stuff to do in the game. Unfortunatly, the goals ae just plain boring! They are 
 NOT imperssive!
  
  Aliens occasionly come to attack you, so you'l' have to plant weapons. The bad thing is you can't 
 shoot, and the weapons are usually very glitchy, which makes this game very frustrating.
  
  I would not reccomend buying it, but a few rentals fits the bill perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Hunter
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game I thougt "Hey this looks like the sims in space!" and I was partly right. 
 This game is much more difficult than the sims, there are more needs and more people, and other 
 1000 things you have to look after. Now im just waiting to get home and play it, I simply got addicted 
 to the funny and time consuming gameplay. It's a superb game, if you like The sims and space RTS. 
 My only complain is the map editor, it lacks several things: an options to earthquakes, meteorstorms 
 etc. better and more userfriendly interface for campain editor, like an options for how much mony 
 and ressurces you start with. There is more, but this is all what i can think of right now.
  All in all, its and fun and intertaining game but it have its downsides, I still recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I saw this in the store one day and since I am a big Sims fan I decided to give this one a try. 
 ANd to my surprise it was not too bad. I am not saying this is one of the best games but it certainly 
 is not the worse. Not bad at all. I have had fun with the game and plan on continuing to have fun 
 with it. 
  
  Its a nice change of pace from some of the games I have played. I would definitely recommend this 
 game to anyone who likes the Sims. Its very similar to it although it is in space and does have 
 its differences. You can't create your own person but its still not bad for the cash Its an older 
 game so it really does not cost all that much ANyways wishing everyone well and of course: HAPPY 
 GAMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Space the final frontier not anymore. In Space Colony you will explore and colonize new worlds 
 with the same sense of familiarity of popping in your local coffee shop for a skinny decaf latte. 
 
  Space Colony is best described as a People Sim meets a City Builder. The player manages and nurtures 
 a group of dysfunctional space dwellers colonizing the most unearthly corners of the galaxy. 
 
  
  Make no mistake, none of the 20 colonists youll meet were ever on a NASA shortlist. Ahhh, welcome 
 to life beyond the stars. Its everything the brochure said. So what if half the staff are brawling, 
 the Harvester Robot is chain sawing its way through the oxygen supply and small furry aliens have 
 taken over the disco? This is home! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2004 3:51 am PT
Review:  A fun game, one that aspires to the wacky sense of humour and fun of Startopia, but doesn't quite 
 get there. You might think that the relationship scheme in this game would get in the way of the 
 fun, but it's handled in such a way that it's not completely necessary to cultivate friendships 
 among the crewmates using the Sims-like method of interaction, but it does help having a close-knit 
 crew that can at least stand to look at each other as they walk the halls of the colony. 
  
  What's more important are the varied level missions, scads of items to purchase and place, 
 and general humourous bent of the game. It's a fun, space-based RTS, and in this case that's good 
 enough.
  
  In space, no one can hear you chuckle mildly. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
