-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Empires V
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spaceempiresv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Extremely deep and complex.
 May be the best diplomacy module of any 4X game.
 Designed to be completely open to modders.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A long list of bugs.
 artificial intelligence is weak in several areas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 328 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Malfador
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 16, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Space Empires V is a space strategy game with plenty of depth and complexity, but it's so riddled 
 with bugs and issues that it is ultimately tough to recommend. 

  Space Empires IV is a cult favorite among the space strategy crowd. Users have developed tweaks 
 and mods with a fervor that rivals that of blockbuster megahits such as Oblivion, and the developer 
 has a history of releasing numerous patches to address any issues that fans bring to its attention. 
 That's good news for the newest addition to the series, Space Empires V, which has the basis for 
 a great game -- but it is ultimately bedeviled by a list of bugs as long as your arm.  

          There's almost no limit to the type of ships you can design in Space Empire V.     

 
  The heart of strategic space-based 4X (Explore, Expand, Exploit, Exterminate) games hasn't changed 
 much since the early classics (SSG's Reach for the Stars, Microprose's Master of Orion) : You start 
 on a home planet in a big galaxy and harvest resources that allow you to build ships, which you 
 send out to explore space and discover strange new worlds. You try to develop new technologies 
 faster than other civilizations so that you can conquer their worlds before they conquer yours, 
 and when you rule the universe, you win. Since the "what you do" of these games pretty much stays 
 the same, a new entry like Space Empires V has to differentiate itself on the "how you do it." 
 For example, how do you build a fleet of ships that will dominate space? How do you develop the 
 advanced technologies required to prosper in a hostile galaxy? How do you deal with newly discovered 
 civilizations? Space Empires V differentiates itself from other games in this genre (such as Galactic 
 Civilizations II) with superb depth and complexity. For example, you have almost unlimited flexibility 
 in the type of ships you can design -- you're presented with an assortment of hull types upon which 
 you can place any variety of weapons, cargo pods, people support, sensors, armor, and much more. 
 You can design and build carriers and load them with small, nimble fighters, or you can build unmanned 
 drones. Units such as satellites, invisible mines, and unrelenting guided missiles that will track 
 an enemy throughout the galaxy provide endless offensive and defensive options. As you develop 
 new technologies, more options are made available. The flexibility and complexity in this module 
 is unmatched, but the complexity comes with a price (a common theme in Space Empires V) , as sometimes 
 it may take a lot of work to determine, for example, how to design a carrier with the proper combination 
 of appropriate storage spaces to allow the maximum number of onboard fighters.  

  Diplomacy is another strength of Space Empires V, and is a good point of comparison with other, 
 similar games, like Galactic Civilizations II. In the latter game, communications and negotiations 
 with other empires are relatively limited. You can offer peace treaties, declare war, ask for help 
 against another civilization (such as help defend against or request that they go to war against 
 another society) , trade, offer, and accept gifts, and engage in a few other options. In Space Empires 
 V you can do all of that and much more, and with significantly more depth for each option. For 
 example, when you enter into a treaty with another civilization you can attach almost any condition 
 you can think of to it. A treaty between equals may require both parties to share all intelligence, 
 refitting and resupply capabilities, technology below a designated level, mutual defense, maps 
 of systems and minefields, and such. But if one party feels they have a significant upper hand, 
 they may make demands such as limiting the other civilization's access to their systems, forcing 
 the weaker party to provide more access to information and technology than they will receive in 
 return, or preventing the weaker society from engaging in further research. Other conditions can 
 involve moral restrictions, such as a ban on viral warfare or bombarding planets. Throw in multiple 
 options beyond treaties (such as global alliances with voting rights and more, demands, threats, 
 and the like) , each with a multitude of conditions, and the result is a diplomacy feature that 
 is arguably unsurpassed in any 4X game.  

          Espionage and sabotage are important tools in your schemes to rule the universe.     

 
  But a closer look at Space Empires V reveals how different it is from its competitors. Unlike, 
 for instance, the  diplomacy of Galactic Civilizations II, 
 Space Empires V's diplomacy options are beautifully deep, but ridden with bugs. Some are simply 
 incorrect and confusing text descriptions of the results -- for instance, you offer a tech trade, 
 it is accepted, but the text response shows you exchanging the wrong techs, while in other cases 
 the text correctly reflects your desire but the items exchanged are wrong. Neutral races don't 
 seem to respond to communications at all. And it appears that AI civilizations can make treaties 
 with each other that cripple them, such as two civilizations agreeing they will not do any research 
 or expansion.  

  That trade-off of depth and complexity versus quality of execution is present throughout Space 
 Empires V. The technology tree is huge, but some of the resulting technologies are broken, such 
 as the shard cannon, which is no more powerful at level 50 than it is at level one due to what 
 appears to be an unintentional error in the underlying algorithm. The ability to set up new games 
 with a wide range of conditions and map sizes and customized races is offset by bugs such as occasional 
 crashes on the large maps and racial traits that are opposite of what is intended (naturally happy 
 races are actually naturally depressed and vice versa -- a bug that can produce a lot of confusion 
 as you try to figure out why your planet is rebelling!) . Fleet operational options are impressive, 
 but ordnance appears to randomly disappear from ships within fleets. Special items such as ruins 
 add to the variety and sense of discovery that is essential to the atmosphere of a good space-strategy 
 game -- but the ruins disappear after the first turn. And the list goes on; Space Empires V is extremely 
 deep, and very buggy.  

          The technology tree contains hundreds of items and thousands of levels.     

  Another 
 area that demonstrates this trade-off is multiplayer. Space Empires V offers multiplayer, with 
 options for both simultaneous-move and turn-based play. Galactic Civilizations II offers no multiplayer 
 at all. However, the AI in single-player Galactic Civilizations II may be the best in computer 
 gaming, exhibiting behavior that truly mimics the way that humans play in both intelligence and 
 style, even to the point of making devious moves purely out of spite. While Space Empires V offers 
 multiplayer, its AI is fairly simplistic and, in places, relatively poor. Again, which is more 
 important to you -- multiplayer capability, or outstanding AI?  

  Without a doubt, Space Empires V is an incredibly deep and complex strategy game that offers almost 
 unlimited playing options and styles -- which makes the bug infestation that much more regrettable. 
 While the developer has had a reputation in the past for putting out patches to fix serious issues, 
 its a shame Malfador didnt wait until the game was in a more finished form before releasing it. 
 If your tolerance for bugs is high and youre willing to live with workarounds for some of the 
 more serious issues, you may be happy with Space Empires V in its present form. But if you prefer 
 your games fully baked when you plunk down your money for them, the best advice would be to watch 
 the forums and wait to see if Malfador patches the game into a more stable form.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lhetre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:21 am PT
Review:  This is quite a comprehensive 4x game, everything an empire builder needs is there from very different 
 planets to colonise, to an extremely rich research tree, through the possibility of building an 
 incredible variety of custom starships.
  All the bugs have been swept off by the numerous patches - Malfador is very reactive. The community 
 has developed graphics mods which improve nicely the visual aspect, even if this is not a game 
 about special effects. The AI will not offer much resistance to your domination, as it is unable 
 to create a fleet worth its name, but it can be stubborn if you increase the difficulty, and then 
 there are a lot of mods balancing the game you can choose from.
  The Space Empire series has always had a strong community of dedicated followers.
  
  If you 
 like organising and managing an empire and plenty of customisation, you'll be fulfilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Being a true Moo2 fan, i would say, SEV is a great improvement to the 4X genre. 
  
  SEV carried ship customization and space battles where Moo2 left off, quite successfully. SEV offers 
 fantastic freedom of designing of ships, units (like fighters, ground troops, drones, weapon platforms) 
 star bases so that there is no limit in whatever purpose of designs. The only limit is the technology, 
 and it is fun to advance in technology and rush to ship design and add new components.
  
  Dplomacy is outstanding, there are tons of options in diplomacy featuring each and every 
 option you would demand, has not yet seen in any 4x game.
  
  Space battles are also good but even you have incredibly detailed options like, targeting each 
 weapon of a ship to different target and creating fleets for different orders during battle (boarding, 
 invasion of planets, point blank skirmishers and ramming enemy ships) with too crowded battles 
 it often turns out to a chaos. There is a nice time adjustment feature though so you can slow things 
 as you desire.
  
  The weak features i spotted for SEV is as follows:
  - Technology is too rapidly advances, too many research areas, and tech descriptions/benefits are 
 not explained well.
  - Supplies and ordnances can only be tracked within planet menu. So you have to check each planet 
 for these materials one by one. There is no listing available how much these materials in stock 
 in which planet.
  - Although fleet management has tons of options and is a detailed feature, once ships are in fleet 
 most of options like retrofit is disabled. You have to dismiss the fleet for these commands. (It 
 is bad as you create a couple task forces within fleet with different orders and once you dismiss 
 the fleet all these settings are to be repeated)
  - There is no "Next / previous" buttons in planet menu. You have to close the menu and open it 
 again for the next planet (after searching and finding the planet from the minimap) It is funny 
 as such an easy option is not implemented.
  - Also there are no options possible from the planet / ship properties menu. it is only for viewing 
 components / cargo / orders. it would make life easier if it was possible to execute commands from 
 there.
  - Mouse actions are not user friendly. In fact the whole interface is not user friendly. Menus 
 must be closed from the close button below (there is no right-click cancel option for which most 
 games utilize) Lots of things are under specific menus, And instead of keyboard shortcuts, i would 
 surely prefer buttons in menus. 
  - Repair times are not available to player. You can only see the percentage of the ships repaired 
 each turn.
  - Turn passes are time consuming.
  - Cargo transfers and recover units from space are performed in a difficult menu. Why in earth 
 a simple drag & drop is not available?
  - Weapons are not differentiated from each other clearly, advantages vs drawbacks are not obvious. 
 Why would a player should choose a plasma missile over a gamma-pulse missile???
  - Sound effects are awful
  - Graphics could have been a lot better.
  - Musics are poor
  - 
 Weapons lack of special features. (There is only a ion cannon? which damages ship engines only)
 
  
  - The worst issue is the game weirdly consumes too much CPU and GPU power, despite its simple 3D 
 graphics and static gameplay. It is not a demanding game ( it shouldt be) but FPS values drop down 
 to 10FPS in deep down menus like ship designing screen. A lot of players are complainant about 
 it and despite tons of patches released this issue is not addressed in any of them even its so 
 common. 
  
  Funny that my Nvidia 7400GO performs better than 8600GT pc which make things even more strange.
 
  
  All in all, SEV is a great game , despite its flaws, with its extraordinary Diplomacy, ship design, 
 fleet management and extreme modability. It would surely be much more eye candy if it featured 
 a Galactic Civilizations 2 type interface and colorful menus but again, It is a truly deep strategy 
 game offering lots of features other than stated above, yet any game has offered.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacojre71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  As the summary states, Space Empires V is loaded with just about any options a strategic-space 
 gamer could ever want: ability to design your own ships (stocking them with a variety of components, 
 hull sizes) , units, a large technology tree, diplomacy, experience levels for crew, stellar events 
 and hazards, customizable races and on and on. 
  
  The main problem is that early releases of SE: V had many bugs because of the enormously complex 
 interactions that program would undertake in processing turns. The good news is that most, if not 
 all of the major and minor bugs have been squashed. The only remaining concern is that the Stock 
 AI is not particularly challenging, though there are several freely available (and easily accessible) 
 mods that make significant improvements. Still for veteran SE players a little more work on the 
 AI would be appreciated -- and fortunately is being done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneo2036
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  great update to SE4- i like the Real time aspect.
  
  Basically its identical to the SE4 release. All the techs are there. A bit expanded as eaxh tech 
 has a longer list of advances and high lvl destroyers are larger than low lvl cruisers. That makes 
 having "smaller" class ships advantagous longer.
  
  Only problem i noticed so far and its a big one is that the AI isn't very tough. I have yet seen 
 it put up a serious fight. Yes it took over a few of my planets here and there- mostly when I just 
 took over a planet and forgot to defend it - but it rarely if ever attacks an even lightly defended 
 planet.
  
  A few space skrimages are most I see- which is basically useless for defense if the AI isn't aggressive 
 in taking or taking back planets.
  
  Still - its a bit fun and the AI might be more aggressive if they get larger. I'll give them more 
 resources next time and see if it helps.
  
  I expect there ti me many mods in the future too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  this is an awsome game but only if you have a lot of time on your hands. maps are huge even on 
 small they have about 8-12 or so solar systems each with 5+ planets to conqer. there is hundreds 
 of tecks and upgrades so plan what you want to invest in early. like if you want o be able to destroy 
 whole planets well its going to take a few hours to get that tach and to buils the ship. i love 
 the ability to cusomise the ships ships with all the different parts. only problem is that name 
 then properly becuse they all look the same so you could have 2 dreadnahts and they have totaly 
 diferent parts but the will look EXACTLY the same. due to the dated grafix engon. and the sound 
 FX and interface look and sound worse then starcraft's so love the game but its almost inposible 
 to imagine that this was only realased not even a year ago... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlaser1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Buggy at first. I didn't buy it until patch v 1.25 which was much more functional. On patch v 1.35 
 by now. Very few problems nowadays. This game is like Gal Civ II but much more complex. I notice 
 that the Gal Civ II expansion was playing catch up to SE5 (Gal Civ only recently required civilizations 
 to have the necessary technology to colonize different kinds of planets with different kinds of 
 atmospheres) . For complexity and sheer scale, nothing beats SE5 at the moment.
  
  The only big weakness of SE5 is lack of graphical and sound aesthetics. Gal Civ II is definitely 
 much more beautiful to look at. SE5 can't even achieve the astounding grace and beauty of Homeworld 
 (a game that's several years old!) . Now if only the tactical combat in SE5 is done like in Homeworld, 
 SE5 will be perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried this game, I was a little hesitant. I looked at the reviews here and found that 
 there were very mixed reactions. However, I do think that it's a fairly good game.
  
  In my opinion, what probably makes or breaks the entire game for people is the fact that you have 
 to make all of your ships yourself. This can either be a cool feature that you'll love, or an annoyance 
 that you can't use pre-designed ships. However, if you like to be creative and like to come up 
 with new combos and designs, this is a game that you'll probably enjoy.
  
  There are many levels of research, as well as special ruins that allow access to specialized technologies. 
 Finding the right combinations can be a large part of the game, and the special tech trees allow 
 for a fairly high replay value.
  
  All things considered, there are bugs that make the game less enjoyable than it could be. The patch, 
 however, fixes most of those bugs. If you enjoyed the Civilization series, I would recommend this 
 game, but the patch is definitely something you'll need to look into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for eye candy here you won't get it. This game is all about game play and depth. 
 While the learning curve for the game is a bit stiff at first, you get the feel for the menu's 
 along with the in's and out's of the game relatively fast. The offers incredible depth in game 
 play. Like in any other 4x game the objective is to eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, and eXterminate. 
 Colonizing is easy, you design a colony ship, either manually fill it with colonists, or if you 
 know where you want it to colonize, just click the colonize button and the computer will load up 
 colonists for you and set the ship on its way to colonize the world you selected.
  
  The great thing about this game is that you get to design your own ships. Not the look of the ship 
 but the components that go into it. From bridges to engines, beam weapons to shields its all yours 
 to build.
  
  While the UI leaves a lot to be desired at this point, it is still one of the best features of 
 the game and is getting better with each update and patch.
  
  Intel, politics, and research are all key elements of the game and have a huge selection of option 
 too choose from.
  
  Combat is very good too. The look of combat with the 3d ships and such is very impressive to look 
 at. The 3d system maps are cool too with spinning planets and huge stars.
  
  This is not a game for people who just want to jump in and start a war. It is a game that requires 
 some dedication and attention to detail. It is a game for serious 4x gamers who love a great challenge 
 and are more into game depth than game graphics.
  
  To put it simply SE V is a combination of Chess and Poker. Other games just don't seem to have 
 the depth that SE V has. They seem more like playing tic tac to and checkers with no real challenge 
 to them.
  
  One of the best features of this game is the moddability. If you can read, you can edit this game 
 and mod it until your heart is content. It is a modders dream.
  
  All in all, while the game does have its minor flaws, it is a superb adventure in 4x gaming and 
 one of the best 4x games ever. Having been developed by only one man, Aaron Hall, the game is surprisingly 
 addictive. The on going support for the game has been outstanding. Bugs are being resloved and 
 game play issues addressed. This is one very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Space is not for wimps, and neither is Space Empires V. The game has a lot to it, but the game 
 is pretty complex and the learning curve is steep. You can see the newbs walking out of the airlocks 
 right from the games tutorial, which features an encyclopedia of text to read through and has 
 a propensity for crashing out to the desktop at random. However, if youre a veteran of grand space 
 strategy games who likes to really get his or her hands dirty and is also blessed with plenty of 
 patience, you may find yourself really enjoying the game. Space Empires V gives you control over 
 all aspects of your stellar empire, almost to a fault. Youll discover this right from the beginning 
 when you see that there are no stock races in the game. Before you even play youll need to create 
 your race and that of your adversaries, specifying everything from species and preferred environment 
 to form of government and overall temperament. Once you get through all this and start your game 
 youll find yourself not only without any ships, but without any ship designs as well. Thats the 
 way the game goes from there as well. If youre looking for a quick jump in and play game or 
 one that lends itself to short gameplay sessions, then keep looking because this games not even 
 close to that. If you like to be in it for the long haul, though, youve come to the right place.
 
  Space Empires V features a good ship editor in spite of the fact that all your ships will pretty 
 much look alike. Each ship comes packs with mounting points for systems, weapons, cargo, and more. 
 Youll have to stay within the weight limits for your ships class and meet some basic criteria 
 (e. g. adding life support systems) , but where you go from there is up to you. And as the game progresses 
 so do you options as your scientists and engineers provide you with more and more systems to add 
 to your ship designs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verylongshanks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  A few hours into my first game of Space Empires V, I uninstalled my copy of Galactic Civilizations 
 II from my harddrive and threw it away. There really was no reason to keep it. I wouldn't play 
 it again anyway and Stardock wouldn't support it if I'd given it away to a friend. But this isn't 
 about that game, this is about SEV. And SEV's not for those players light on time or easily distracted. 
 Everything takes time in this turn-based strategy game, nothing is quick, but that cuts two ways. 
 It can be frustrating when you discover that you can't just pick a race to play and stock ships 
 to build, that you must design everything. For me, though, it's sweet that I get to customize my 
 ships to fit my personality. Gameplay-wise, SEV is essentially Starfire on the PC and that is a 
 very good thing. It was also released in a rather buggy state and that's not a good thing, but 
 as of now it's been patched to 1.17 and plays well. Of course the bugs hurt SEV's reviews and that's 
 the price for a rushed delivery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Right from the get-go SE5 bogs you down with an overwhelming number of options and then continually 
 gets worse until you feel like you're lost in menus. Like so many other 4X games that showed promise, 
 SE5 went too far in creating a deep game. You can spend 5-10 minutes designing a ship only to have 
 to redesign it in a couple turns. You can spend forever trying to colonize space only to get confused 
 about where your colonies are, what they're able to do and just what you have at your disposal. 
 And don't expect important information to be right at your fingertips! The most important info 
 is buried one or two menus in. The info at you fingertips initially seems important, but you will 
 quickly realize that it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Was a total impulse buy. I have never played Space Empires but was presently suprised how well 
 executed and how the game just have everything needed in a 4x. I played galactic civilization but 
 that game sometimes feel to simple. I am used to Paradox games so a lot of stratgeic options is 
 needed to keep my attention these days.
  
  Overall a good game that needs patches but I am also used to that from paradox. I rather have a 
 game that get patched to its full potential than a game that is good out of the box but will never 
 get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaoloZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  SE5 has definitely a great potential for multi-player. I think it is the only 4x game which supports 
 a good implementation of parallel turns. With parallel turns you can process the commands from 
 every human player in the game simultaneously, without waiting for the game turn to circle between 
 them like in Round-Robin games (the civilization series most notably) . This greatly improves the 
 pace of play by e-mail multiplayer games.
  
  If you happen to have played Space Empires 4 in multi-player with friends you'll be certain about 
 how addictive this game mode can be.
  Playing over the e-mail is fitting for people lacking fast connections and time to play on-line 
 and it conveys a very funny experience without forcing you to make rushed decisions to overpower 
 the speed-clicking skills of you competitors.
  
  The AI is crap, this game is made to play via e-mail against human players. The single player game 
 mode is just an extension to the tutorial, and it should be considered just an add-on, not the 
 main feature of the game.
  
  The game is too bug-ridden to be playable, even in multi-player.
  You'll have to wait for a patch 
 or two... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceswtihfools
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The problem i have found with gamepot reviews are that they are on a set date (usually the release 
 date or slighty after) . The problem with the gaming industry especially now that games are patchable 
 (which they havent always been) is that games that arent finished on schedule are released anyways.. 
 MMorpgs being the biggest criminals in this department.
  
  The game is unplayable to me in its current state, Ive had it since release (around 3 weeks) and 
 cant invade my 1st planet cause troops are so badly bugged they wont even fire.
  
  However... all of the noticable bugs have been fixed and other minor bugs currently being rectifyed (the 
 community is great and every change that has been implemented for the patch has been told to us 
 on the forum so we know what to continue to complain about ) on the 7th the patch will be released.
 
  
  The game is designed in such a way that its scope (especially with mods) is beyond measure.. the 
 research trees are almost (with modding will be..) endless, there are literally near to an infinite 
 number of ship setups u can make and all battles (space and land) can be played in RTS.
  
  If u liked the 'masters of orion 'series or any space strategy game this will totally and utterly 
 blow you away.. but yeah until the 7th nov this is bugged to **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrohante3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Ok well one day my friend said he wouldnt play any online games till i got this and so i said fine 
 and i went out and bought it at a game store. Well when i asked the guy when it came out he said 
 it was pretty recent and i said ok. well i go and get home and to my suprise it system requirments 
 are insanly low and i said well this cant be a good game if its that low. well u know i get into 
 it and now that ive been playing it for about 2 days i figure out that its really good actually 
 and so i call him up and say ty for making me get this game heres the pros and cons of this game 
 (at least what i think they are) (not that any one reads these)
  
  Pros: A great mix between turn based and RTS, Many different abiliteys, Many different planets, 
 Very good graphics.
  
  Cons: Very hard to lean how to play, Way to many things to look over, Online play is weird because 
 of ship building (takes long time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonGianti
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I've been playing version 4 for 6 years. Many other games have come and gone, but SE remains.
 
  
  There is so much to do in this game, there isn't enough time to do it all.
  
  I wrote a more detailed review, but this crappy site ate it, sorry...
  
  I will warn that as 
 of the latest patch, many bugs remain. There are work arounds and many, many patches coming so 
 its not that big a deal. There is also so much to do in this game, that I'm still playing it every 
 day, even with the features that don't work. Its only going to get better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kolominas
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This newest version of the space empire series is better, though harder than its predecessors. 
 It is a great improvement considering Space Empires IV. The turn based character of the game doesn't 
 slow down the pace to much (as it can in other games) . And once started a game can go on for hours 
 and hours.
  
  The possibilities of customazation are numerous as are the tactics of playing. It can take some 
 tactical ingenuity to complete a game as the AI is not to be underestimated. To my humble opinion 
 this is a great game and I sincerely hope that this isn't the last we have heard from space empires. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningBeard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  SEv is simply put, and amazing feat of playability and depth. One could devote (or waste depending 
 on how you look at it) an entire week of their life with their head in this game. Completely consuming. 
 Some of the best Turn-Based gaming i have had the pleasure of playing. Its hard to turn it off 
 in the wee hours of the morning. Get it now! Its only over shadowing competition in this genre 
 is GalCiv2. The way games like this should be made!
  
  100% the best SE game in the franchise. The increase in systems, the more in depth ships all promote 
 more addictive qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmh1924
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is an improvement over Space Empires 4, There is an almost unlimited expandability in 
 ship improvements. The game is very hard to learn. The available races to play and the ability 
 to customize those races is a real improvement. Game control could be a bit simpler. Graphics quality 
 is ok, wish the developers took better advantage of todays video cards. Sound quality is good, 
 the background music is a bit annoying, but at least you can turn it off. I like the fact that 
 when you enter a new system you must explore that system before you see everything in it. Since 
 I downloaded the patch for this game there has been a tremendous improvement in the gameplay.... I 
 would HIGHLY RECOMMEND this game to anyone!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
