-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Empires: IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spaceempires4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 101 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: Malfador
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 6, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're serious about space strategy, you can't afford to miss it. 

 Space-empire-building is one of the most intriguing premises for a computer game. Alien planets, 
 interstellar conquest, futuristic weapons - many great games have used these and other epic sci-fi 
 elements as a framework, and Space Empires: IV is another excellent addition to this genre. The 
 game has a limited distribution, but it deserves a place alongside the best sci-fi strategy games. 
   

  As the name suggests, Space Empires: IV is actually the fourth iteration in the Space Empires series 
 of games. The previous three were released as shareware, and they gained a cult following. For 
 the latest version, developer Malfador Machinations has teamed up with independent publisher Shrapnel 
 Games. This means that you still won't be able to find Space Empires: IV in stores (you can order 
 it only from the company Web site) , but the game now comes on CD instead of as a download. It also 
 comes with a printed manual.   

  The premise of the game is simple enough, and it sticks close to the genre's fundamentals. Your 
 race must expand through and conquer the galaxy while designing and building new ships, researching 
 advanced technologies, and colonizing planets. Each system has a number of planets of varying sizes, 
 compositions, and atmospheres, and warp points connect systems to each other. All the standard 
 space-game conventions are present: colony ships to settle new planets, different hull sizes, plenty 
 of weapons, as well as some extreme detail, like supply levels for individual ships.   

  The graphics in Space Empires: IV are clean and functional but still plain and unpolished, particularly 
 the individual race portraits. The sounds fare rather worse - they actually wouldn't seem out of 
 place in a space arcade game from 1985. These shortcomings may put off those looking for Civilization 
 II in space, as the aesthetic elements of Space Empires: IV don't even match those in that 4-year-old 
 game. But Space Empires: IV succeeds in spite of this because the developer knows its audience, 
 and it was able to concentrate on the essentials.   

  Actually, the game has almost too much to it. Even a review five times this size would be hard-pressed 
 to adequately explain all the features. Planets can support a multitude of individual structures 
 and ships can take on a wide variety of designs; and there are different resource types (minerals, 
 organics, and radioactive ore) to collect and manage. Planets can become unhappy for a variety 
 of reasons, and they need to be kept satisfied - or problems will occur. You also need to keep 
 track of mines, satellites, fighters and the carriers that house them, and seemingly a million 
 and one other features and options you'll discover when you explore the game.   

  The tactical combat is reminiscent of the popular space-empire game, Master of Orion II, and it's 
 just as complex. There is a "strategic combat" option in which the combat is automatically resolved 
 by the computer without switching to the tactical view, as well as an "auto" function in which 
 the computer takes control of your ships - however, you watch the battle on the tactical screen. 
 The strategic function generates good results in that a fleet that would have won had the battle 
 been played out tactically will also win with strategic resolution, but tactical combat can be 
 important to determine how to counter an opponent's weapons. For example, if he's going heavy on 
 missiles and missile research, you'll need to crank up the point defense systems. These kinds of 
 considerations add healthy doses of strategy to every aspect of the game. There is even a ground 
 combat element, although it isn't played out on a tactical map like space combat is, in which players 
 can design ground combat vehicles with various weapons that are then taken into account in ground 
 battles. The entire game system shows a great deal of detail on every menu screen.   

  In fact, the reason Space Empires: IV is such a good game is that it demonstrates a remarkable 
 understanding for what its core audience is looking for in a computer game. Recent space-empire 
 games such as Reach for the Stars and Imperium Galactica II have been criticized for stripping 
 out detail, rather than providing additional detail and challenge to the conventional formula. 
 However, Space Empires: IV spares nothing: It has depth, tactical combat, and as much micromanagement 
 as you're likely to find in a space-empire game. The only thing that Space Empires: IV lacks is 
 flashy graphics and special effects, but for the audience that demands involved strategy and micromanagement 
 above all else, this is not likely to matter much.    

 Another feature that hard-core strategy game players expect is the ability to customize almost every 
 important aspect of the game. Space Empires: IV lets you do so. The manual clearly describes which 
 text files contain various data, and all of these can be edited, as can the game graphics themselves. 
 As such, you could theoretically create a complete, custom mod based on the Space Empires: IV engine 
 by using your favorite science fiction as the source material.   

  There is plenty of customizability in the game, even without the use of any additional files. Everything 
 from the layout of the galaxy to the conditions required for victory can be adjusted. You can set 
 the characteristics of opposing races and then assign them to the computer player. The number of 
 starting planets, the cost and extent of available technology, and the frequency and severity of 
 special events can all be adjusted. This, along with multiplayer capability, makes Space Empires: 
 IV a game that can be played almost indefinitely without becoming stale.   

  It's important to note that this level of depth does come at a price, which is the extreme level 
 of micromanagement required that can overwhelm the interface and the player alike when an empire 
 gets very large. To mitigate this, the game has a system of "ministers," each of which has a specific 
 duty, such as research or production. Some of these ministers are extremely helpful, like the supply 
 minister who automatically assigns ships low on supplies to make for the nearest resupply point. 
 Others, charged with more-essential tasks like directing research, can be problematic and should 
 probably not be used.   

  One of the real shortcomings in Space Empires: IV is the manual, and this is doubly damaging because 
 of the game's incredible depth. There are two sources of documentation: a 45-page paper manual 
 (also included as an Acrobat file) and an HTML manual on the CD. Unfortunately, the paper manual 
 is more of a "getting started" guide, and it barely scrapes the surface of the game; the HTML manual 
 simply explains what all the windows and buttons do without ever explaining many of the core mechanics 
 behind the game. There isn't even a description of the extensive technology tree. This makes the 
 learning curve steeper than it should be.   

  Several problems crop up in the game mechanics as well. One is the diplomacy model, which seems 
 to generate erratic results in that races are extremely fickle in their relations. You'll notice 
 that races that have offered you a "treaty of partnership," the closest association in the game, 
 will declare war on you two or three turns later. This makes it extremely difficult to manage diplomatic 
 relations and makes alliance-building essentially impossible. For this reason, matches in Space 
 Empires: IV tend to devolve into your having to battle every remaining race in the galaxy.   

 
  As you fight for control, you'll notice that because of the sparse graphics and sound, the alien 
 races in the game don't really come alive in the way they did in other sci-fi empire games such 
 as Master of Orion or Imperium Galactica II. There are plenty of options to customize the races, 
 but the single tech tree and the lack of graphical enhancements make it all seem flat.   

  The game is great in multiplayer mode, when human opponents can square off for control of the galaxy. 
 Unfortunately, there is no provision to play via TCP/IP or LAN - the only options are hotseat or 
 play-by-e-mail. This will drastically limit the size of multiplayer games, as e-mail games tend 
 to fall apart when a file has to be passed to a large number of people in sequence. There is a 
 simultaneous-move mode in which players send their turn to a host who resolves the turn and sends 
 the results back; however, this mode has some problems, one of which is the inability to see tactical 
 combat. With tactical combat disabled (as it has to be, for mechanical reasons) , it's impossible 
 to adjust your strategy to counter opposing weapons because you don't know what he's using.   

 
  Rather than breaking new ground, Space Empires: IV builds on the basic foundation of Master of 
 Orion (and the three previous Space Empires games) and simply adds more detail and options. However, 
 the sum of these additions is a superb strategy game. It's definitely the most sophisticated space-empire 
 game available right now. If you're serious about space strategy, you can't afford to miss it. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Damn God, I bought a new strategy game... *Install* Let's see *seiv. exe in desktop and new game* 
 Cool... *Choose the coolest race* Let me blast some alien a** like Han Solo *Game begins* WTF? 
 Where are the ships and the troopers? 
  
  This is like most of casual gamers be when play Space Empires for the first time (At least me... 
 a hardcore AoE II player first time playing SE)
  
  The true is that this a great game, but you'll need to master it almost completelly it before having 
 a little fun. Even Civilization players will not understand most of the gameplay at first hand. 
 You need to be play micromanagement very well and never forget anything, since a turn, sometimes, 
 can be crucial
  
  The thing that I most enjoyed in SE IV is the Ship/Troop/Fighter design. Instead of clicking a 
 most cool ship icon in the production window... you'll have to create your own ship designs (of 
 course there are pre-made designs, but they suck-a-lot, IMO) You can create a Frigate with several 
 propulsion engines and make it become a scout. Or create a frigate with a lot of weapons of all 
 kinds and make it become a battleship. Make a small ship with a cobalt warhead and make it become 
 a Kamikaze Ram ship Make a transport be an efective only when moving population, or a space fighter 
 bay, or a mine lawyer. But to have Uranium Cannons in level 5, Torpedoes at full power, or an alien 
 sprout, that fires deadly acid across the space, coming out of your ship... Crystallurgy Shields, 
 an biological - kinda of alive - coat surrounding your ship or simply energetic shield, you'll 
 have to reaserch the specified areas. This is the funny in SE, but until you master it, you be 
 like quiting game in the 25th turn. It's a great game you'll enjoy if you the patience to master 
 it. If you like click and destroy drive through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrubim
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a real strategy gamer's dream. Customization to the edge, including names, designs, 
 and ship components. 
  Build you own designs, send your ships to exploration, war, exploitation of asteroids and other 
 planets, build colonies, mess with the stars, nebulaes and black holes, and more.
  With the same technology, 10 players can build an impressive amount of ship types, including war 
 vessels, minelayers, mine sweepers, defensive and spy satellites, strategic warbases, base yards, 
 exploration ships, remote miners and even the cool planet and system destroyers ships, just by 
 manually configuring the ship components. 
  You will have to manage well your resources, and expand as possible, in order to keep up the upcoming 
 technology, in a gigantic tech tree. The several planet types and atmospheres will make you plan 
 well your occupation and planet usage, since there isn't much advantage to occupy a huge planet 
 to put just a few facilities.
  The simplicity of the graphics and sound aren't a problem at all, on the contrary, I like to play 
 this game hearing my favorite songs in WMP.
  It's the supreme strategy game, and if you are a new generation player, and like strategy games, 
 don't be mislead by the static graphics. I say give it a try, you'll probably love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_Star
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Space Empires IV is a very good start for making a game about space exploration and conquest. But 
 in my opinion it didn't go far enough. Going beyond the fact that this is an amateur game with 
 a limited budget (Read: limited graphics) , the game fails to have certain elements like: No native 
 lifeforms on planets, unnecesarely cumbersome diplomacy system, Unbalanced research (there's too 
 many weak technologies and one or two good ones) , traveling through warppoints between systems 
 (like there would really be 2-3 wormholes everywhere) , and other things. In any case, my main point 
 is that down to the details, you can tell this is an amateur game. And that makes it look tacky. 
 
  
  Additionally, the help system or intuitiveness of the interface are both extremely limited, so 
 the learning curve is sharp and will require many restarts before finally winning or mastering 
 a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2003 1:06 am PT
Review:  Buy GOLD it is well worth the money. This game is by far the best 4 X game out and is heavily supported 
 by the publisher and developer not to mention the fans. Excellent mods, ship sets, and much much 
 more. Beats MOO3 hands down. Try the demo and if you like, buy it, and come to the shrapnel Games 
 Intel Forums and join the many masses who have come before you. There are over 20 star trek ship 
 sets, Babylon 5, Star Wars, SG 1, Starblazers, Wing Commander, and many many many more to choose 
 from. If you don't believe me, look at the player reviews for SEIV and compare them to MOO3 and 
 GalCiv. You will see for your self. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
