-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spaceforce: Captains
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spaceforcecaptains/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Shifting turn-based fantasy to the stars is a fantastic concept.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible map design.
 Broken space station and starship-building mechanics.
 Tedious, simplistic combat.
 Bottom-drawer visuals and sound.
 Missing multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Provox Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 12, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This dreary and derivative turn-based strategy game is about as entertaining as working an assembly 
 line. 

  Because so many turn-based strategy games deal with high fantasy, it's initially refreshing to 
 get to play with the aliens and starships of Spaceforce: Captains. Unfortunately, the sci-fi setting 
 is all that this low-budget DreaMatrix Games effort has going for it. Although this space-opera 
 wannabe aspires to take traditional turn-based fantasy to the final frontier, it pulls the genre 
 down to earth, courtesy of sloppy design and third-world production values.  

  The background is taken from 2006's space sim Spaceforce: Rogue Universe, which in this turn-based 
 form resembles the  Star Trek -styled setting of strategic epics going all the way back to Star 
 Control. There are three solo campaigns depicting a stereotypical galactic war told from the points 
 of view of the three main Spaceforce races: the human EMD, the orclike Ord, and the vaguely reptilian 
 Alreani. But it's not as if the setting is developed enough for these factions to make much of 
 a difference to the game itself. DreaMatrix seems more concerned with moving Heroes of Might and 
 Magic to space than with creating a unique identity. Gameplay is a straight-up rip-off of the Heroes 
 formula, with the stereotypical studly knights, pointy-eared elves, and gallant steeds. These are 
 in turn swapped out for studly star-faring rogues, bug-eyed aliens, and warp-driving spaceships. 

            Line them up and then shoot them down.      

  Most of your time is spent on an isometric 3D star map (on a 2D plane) where you direct fleets 
 as you would parties of adventurers in fantasy-oriented turn-based games. Instead of picking hero 
 knights and mages to lead parties, you hire human and alien captains. These captains represent 
 classes, such as explorer, pirate, scientist, and doctor. And, instead of exploring a medieval 
 land to plunder caches of goodies guarded by monsters, you explore star systems to plunder goodies 
 guarded by ET spaceships. Space stations are developed instead of cities, with you constructing 
 fighter bays, gun turrets, and research labs rather than fantasy barracks, ballistae, and mage 
 schools. Sci-fi techs replace magic weapons and spells, with lasers, cloaking devices, or teleporters 
 doing the same jobs as old-fashioned +1 swords or lightning bolts. Such futuristic resources as 
 credits and nano-bots also stand in for gold pieces and mana.  

  If copying such an old formula were pulled off successfully, Spaceforce: Captains would be an interesting 
 take on a traditionally fantasy-centric genre. But just about everything here is broken. Level 
 design is an absolute mess. Maps are dark and convoluted, and feature mazes wouldn't look out of 
 place in Pac-Man. Alien ships are positioned at junctions leading to the best goodies, so you're 
 presented with a strictly A-to-B path through each level. Space rubble, asteroids, and other objects 
 blend in so perfectly with the star-system backdrops that it's hard to tell if you can move in 
 certain directions or not. The minimap is of no help here, either, because it is so black and devoid 
 of features to be all but totally useless.  

  Empire management is even more annoying. Enemy fleets are so huge that you have to spend a great 
 deal of time building your space station and creating huge fleets. This isn't particularly difficult 
 because your floating HQs make big money automatically with a couple of basic upgrades, and ship-building 
 resources can generally be readily found just floating around in space. But, man, is the empire-building 
 process ever tedious. You start levels off making a space station from scratch, which involves 
 doing nothing but hammering on the end-turn button for five or 10 minutes to accumulate enough 
 credits for construction jobs. Then you repeat this same mindless process to earn the cash required 
 to crank out the hundreds upon hundreds of ships needed to defeat the massive enemy fleets lurking 
 in the mazes of the maps. Sheer numbers are key, so forget about tactics. It's more like you're 
 working on an assembly line than playing a game.  

  Actual combat is just as dreary. All the shooting takes place on chessboard-style maps where you 
 move ships around by turns and simply blast away. There isn't any strategy here, though, because 
 the ships all rely on basic beam weapons and missiles. Tactics are about as evolved as infantry 
 combat in the 18th century -- meaning that you just line everybody up and start shooting until one 
 side or the other goes boom. Yet the game doesn't even get this romper-room stuff right. There 
 isn't any graphical representation of firing ranges, so you're left guessing how far you can shoot. 
 Chessboard squares are often unresponsive to move orders, making every maneuver a frustrating multiclick 
 affair where you repeatedly zoom in and out looking for the magic spot where the game will recognize 
 your command.  

            Cash on demand makes it awfully easy to build the space station of your dreams. Awfully 
 boring, too.      

  The no-frills presentation also casts its shadow on the oppressive mood. There are just a handful 
 of ship classes for each of the main races and some of the alien species you encounter. All of 
 these vessels are hideous too, with jagged lines and few details. Research options liven matters 
 up a little bit with some interesting weapons and gadgets. Still, as with the station and ship 
 building, all you have to do is click "end turn" repeatedly to automatically earn the big bucks 
 needed to buy all the tech on offer. Audio is excruciating because of lame order acknowledgements 
 that don't make any sense ("law and order" is a favorite) and the shred-happy canned-rock soundtrack. 
 And multiplayer might as well not even be present because there are never any servers available 
 that are actually hosting the game.  

  Spaceforce: Captains belongs in the brig, not on your hard drive. A sci-fi take on Heroes of Might 
 and Magic is a great idea, but you're better off sticking with warriors and elves until somebody 
 greatly refines this concept.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: muppetts1000
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was given this to test and now out it is as expected total and utter rubbish. Bug ridden, half 
 finshed, half hearted attempt to get some money from gamers. Avoid at all costs!!!!
  
  Graphics and sound are late 90's and the controls and console have to be seen to be believed. someone 
 got high before making this!
  
  gameplay is very simple and there is no challenge. There are simply too many good options you can 
 buy to ever need this.
  
  Bugs include random CTD and even one BSOD which ended the whole testing process as I got this off 
 my system as fast as possible.
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g933299
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Spaceforce Captains (SFC) . Goofy title, weird graphics, fun gameplay.
  
  If the fantasy strategy game series Heroes of Might and Magic ever had a sci-fi counterpart, it'd 
 be SFC. If you took HOM&M 5 and replaced all of the graphics with spaceships and spells with technologies, 
 SFC is what you get. 
  
  You have 6 races with 10 unit types (5 basic units, each upgradeable to another unit) , with your 
 typical humans and weird ensemble of aliens. And then you have 'technologies' (which is basically 
 spells) . Each technology in SFC probably have its Heroes counterpart, since they are so similiar. 
 Teleport, damage spells, buff spells, they're all here.
  
  The gameplay is rather solid, since it's lifted straight from the Heroes series. You move your 
 Captains around the map, fight space-creeps, plunder space-loot and capture space-buildings just 
 like in Heroes. The interface however, leaves a lot to be desired. It's clunky, and unless you've 
 played Heroes before, you'll be quite lost. (I accidentally closed the bar that displayed my captains, 
 and found no way to bring it back, so I had finish the mission without it) .
  
  Combat takes place in a square grid (ala HOM&M 5) and you move space-ships around instead of elves 
 and ogres and cast technologies/spells and duke it out. The battle screen was quite confusing at 
 first, as it was hard to tell which unit was up and how far it could move, since the option for 
 that was off by default. The battle effects are quite cool however, and the laser and missile effects 
 are spot on. Ships explode fantastically, but it's a shame that all ships share the same explosion. 
 Would have been better if the biological ships burst out slime or something, not explode in a electrical 
 shockwave.
  
  The game comes with a weak tutorial, and a campaign that's slightly uncomprehendable, due to the 
 poor translation of the game. Granted, there are no grammatical errors, but the language used is 
 rather weird. It tries to inject some space-themed flavour, but instead makes the whole outcome 
 a bit goofy.
  
  Voice acting is present, and is delivered well, despite the weirdness of the in-game text. Cutscenes 
 are lame, and looked like they belong in a game from 5 years ago. Sound effects are nothing to 
 shout about, but how many different sounds can lasers make? I'm just grateful they don't suck. 
 The background music is notably good though, and while it won't match up to the likes of Mass Effect, 
 it won't make your ears bleed.
  
  There is still much to say about SFC, but unfortunately only about half of it would be positive. 
 It's either a hit or miss, but it's worth a shot. Hopefully a patch will be released soon to address 
 the GUI issues.
  
  Originality: 5
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 8
  
  Average: 6.5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
