-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/spacerangers2dominators/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive, fast-paced space-exploration, trading, and combat game.
 Did we also mention that you can make pizzas, govern planets, figure out how to waste time in prison, battle robots, take intelligence tests, and do other off-the-wall tasks?.
 Dynamic universe and randomly generated galaxies mean incredible amounts of replayability.
 Colorful graphics that run well on older systems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Slightly steep learning curve.
 Text-heavy portions of the game can be tough to figure out thanks to weird translation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 857 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Cinemaware
Developer: Elemental Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 27, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has its flaws, but Space Rangers 2 remains a crazy, inspired, over-the-top, and addictive blend 
 of gameplay. 

  On first inspection, Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators looks like a typical space-exploration, 
 combat, and trading game, only a lot more colorful. Your job is to zip around the galaxy in your 
 vessel, buying and selling goods on the open market, battling pirates, and transporting McGuffins 
 from one planet to another. But it doesn't take too long to realize that this fun and engaging 
 game from Cinemaware Marquee and developer Elemental Games is far more than that. It's when you're 
 thrown into prison and have to serve out your time in a  Choose Your Own Adventure  sort of way 
 ("Do I work out in the gym today and bulk up for the inevitable prison brawl?") , or after you encounter 
 the bizarre intelligence tests and pizza-making challenges, that you realize you're in a madly 
 inspired cornucopia of a game. Not everything works in Space Rangers 2, but it's so varied and 
 random that you find yourself having fun regardless of it.  

          Space Rangers 2 is a wild amalgamation of gameplay.     

  As its title suggests, this 
 is the sequel to 2002's Space Rangers, though American consumers never had a chance to play it, 
 because it wasn't released in North America. (Not to worry, though, because the US version of Space 
 Rangers 2 packages the original game.) Space Rangers fans know that this is a gem of a series -- it 
 feels sort of like a space-age version of Sid Meier's Pirates!, only one created by madmen with 
 far too much time on their hands.  

  Your job as a space ranger is to serve as an interstellar cop, tasked with stamping out piracy 
 and battling the dominators, which are powerful robots out to conquer the galaxy. However, you 
 also need to make a living on the side, and you can do so by carrying out missions for various 
 planetary governments, or by buying and trading various goods and resources as a merchant, or by 
 becoming a pirate yourself and extorting protection money out of civilian vessels. You can then 
 use your money to purchase a dizzying assortment of upgrades and vessels, which allow you to tackle 
 some of the more difficult missions later on in the game.  

  The galaxy of Space Rangers 2 is a dynamic one, as hundreds of ships travel between the dozens 
 of planetary systems conducting trade, warfare, and more. More importantly, everything you do affects 
 your reputation with the various factions in the game, and so doing a favor for one side might 
 mean hacking off another, which may result in finding a bunch of battleships on your tail or having 
 to bribe your way back into a planet's good graces. Combat in the game is surprisingly deep, but 
 also fast-paced. Space Rangers 2 is a turn-based game, but it feels like real time. That's because 
 it uses a simultaneous resolution phase, which means that everyone plots out moves for the turn, 
 and then all the moves are resolved simultaneously.  

          There are many text-based games built into Space Rangers 2, such as trying to figure out 
 what to do in prison.     

  Everything described to this point would be enough for most games, and indeed, you can wring hours 
 of enjoyment out of Space Rangers 2 if all you did was this. There are endless amounts of replayability 
 as well, since the game randomly generates a galaxy each time you start a new game, meaning that 
 no two games will play the same way. But if you want to do more, you can do so, thanks to the optional 
 gameplay modes. For instance, you may be asked to represent a planetary government in a foncer 
 race (think podraces from  Star Wars ) ; however, instead of a racing game, you're presented with 
 a Zork-like text adventure where you have to choose your moves at crucial points in the race. Or 
 you may get thrown in prison, where you'll have to figure out how to pass the time each day. Or 
 you'll be asked to turn a floundering alien ski resort into a profitable one by managing it effectively. 
 Many of these side missions are presented in an old-school, text adventure sort of way, and they're 
 made both charming and frustrating thanks to the strange English translation, which may or may 
 not be on purpose -- it's hard to tell.  

  Then there's the real-time strategy mode in the game, which is, once again, completely optional. 
 For instance, you may be asked to wipe out an enemy base on the ground, and if you accept the mission, 
 you'll get dropped down to a 3D real-time strategy battlefield, where your job is to design and 
 build robotic war machines and crush the other side. This isn't designed to be a full-scale real-time 
 strategy game, though, as most of the strategy is in designing the robots, after which it's all 
 about outproducing and wiping out the enemy. While the mode is colorful, there's simply not a lot 
 of depth here, and the slow pace of the battles detract from the game's otherwise addictive pace. 
 Still, this mode is there if you're looking for a change of pace or some variety.  

          The real-time land battles aren't too deep, but they do drag out the game, nonetheless. 
     

  Space Rangers 2 is by no means a cutting-edge game in terms of graphics, but don't make the mistake 
 of equating low-end graphics with "ugly." This is a colorful, offbeat game, and the highly abstracted 
 visuals are perfect for the subject matter and allow for an incredibly fast pace. It also means 
 that the game runs well on a wide variety of systems, even older ones. Meanwhile, the audio consists 
 of techno pleasing tunes, though the other sound effects are fairly rudimentary.  

  There's so much to do and see in Space Rangers 2 that you might find it overwhelming, but the opposite 
 is true. Aside from a slightly sharp learning curve (it'll take you a little while to get the gist 
 of the game) , you'll find yourself caught up in an incredibly vibrant and dynamic universe, looking 
 to do just one more thing before you call it a night, whether it's delivering the Peleng's top-secret 
 pizza recipe to Mars before you run out of time or liberating yet another system from those insidious 
 dominator robots.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this space game plus its expansion Reboot for just 30 euros and I'm really glad I spent 
 those money: SR 2 is truly a gem.
  Its strength relay on the complete freedom you experience: you can be a space cop, a trader, a 
 mercenary or a pirate....... you can even go to jail!
  Unlike other similar games, SR2 really creates a breathing and living universe all around you: 
 while you play you'll see lots of police patrols, traders, fights happening and the main conflict 
 between the Federation and the evil Dominators unfolds and evolve in front of your eyes.
  Graphics are good and the well-made mix between space opera, rts land conquer game and text quests 
 make this game really fantastic.
  The universe map is randomly generated each time you play so the replaybility is endless.
  Sadly, 
 the russian team who developed SR2 is dead but anyway this game is a truly innovative and unforgettable 
 testament to their great work.
  2 thumbs up !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr666evil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews for Space rangers and I knew I had to play this game. I did'nt expect to play 
 it for too long. The game is very unassuming and its got this distinct quality about it. Its quirky 
 , its intelligent and most importantly its a lot of fun and before you say 'Klissan' , you are 
 hooked. 
  The best part of the game is that it does'nt restrict you in any way, you never have to save and 
 restart again unless you die (or you have a obsessive compulsive disorder for clean records) . Heck 
 , even going to jail is fun. 
  
  The developers have put in a lot of thought in making this game. Their first priority was getting 
 the game right, stuff like space battles , equipment , lag free graphics, arcade, text based games 
 , role playing... etc. Though the RTS elements seems tacked on. And once they had a working game, 
 they sprinkled the in game universe with a lot of quirkiness (Space Pizza any one???) . The funny 
 part is, despite all its screwball humor, space rangers takes itself very seriously. 
  
  In a nutshell , If you ever wondered what its like to play a game which incorporates different 
 Gaming genres in one package then Space Rangers is the definitive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Space Rangers 2 from a friend I thought "Wasn't that the stupid kids show 
 from 15 years ago?" but alas it is not and I am glad I realized that the TV show was Power Rangers 
 before I wrote this game off as a knockoff.
  
  The real thing that drawed me in to finally get the game though was when I read it described as 
 a combination of Sid Meier's Pirates! and Freelancer. With all the games that I have played it 
 is very tough to come up with a more accurate protrayal. 
  
  While the meat of the game lies in space combat there is much roleplaying to be had for those intrested. 
 Instead of being a do-gooder police ranger, be a ruthless backstabbing pirate. Tired of fighting? 
 Become a merchant. It's really up to you. 
  
  With 8 races (5 of them playable, and 3 always hostile) and 5 classes for each playable race, your 
 the replay value is very high. Add in the fact that with each new game a new Universe is generated 
 and you should be playing this game for Months if not years to come. 
  
  Space Combat is handled on a turn by turn basis but will sometimes go into auto pilot if things 
 are looking good for your ship. If things start looking bad you can end a turn manually and run 
 for repairs or whatever. Its a rather ingenious system that I would like to see implemented in 
 more games. 
  
  Land combat is more traditional with you producing robots in real time and generating resources 
 by capturing key positions. Its not what I would call deep and I have not spent much time playing 
 it. It feels somewhat thrown in to say they added it.
  
  Graphics fit in rather well for the type of game it is. My only real complaint is that the game 
 isnt as moddable as I would have expected. Thats not detracting from what IS there though so I 
 didn't penalize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinguist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is what they say it is. This game provides hours of challenging play and lots of different 
 ways to play, from simple 2-D, turn-based space combat, to first person shooter planetary missions 
 which can alternatively be played as RTS games. This game also provides multiple game styles and 
 lots of customization options between ship design, race selection and career selection. This also 
 means that the player has a good degree of flexibility in game style because one does not have 
 to play in all formats to win but can pick and choose and still be successful. This game is not 
 for the meek of mind. Beyond the challenge of multiple game styles there are the puzzles and menu-selection 
 missions which provide an intellectual work-out that we are no longer used to in video games. You 
 can go to prison, win a presidential election, become a universal rock star, or design the universe's 
 tastiest pizza. The randomization of the universe after each successful completion allows a person 
 to dive back in and try a different strategy in a wholly different universe. 
  Another strength of this game is that a player can dive in and play for as little as five minutes 
 or for hours, because one can have a quick satisfying mission or space battle, or the player can 
 delve in and try to complete multiple missions while improving the ship. With anywhere save options, 
 you never feel pressure to meet some sort of checkpoint before you can quit, thus making it easy 
 to go back if you screw-up which happens quite often in this game.
  Of course let's be fully honest, as fun as this game is, part of the challenge is deciphering the 
 atrocious translation from Russian which is a whole other level of challenge that the game designers 
 no doubt did not intend to provide to us. This provides a certain amount of comic relief though 
 which can lighten the mood after the 10th consecutive failure to win the "Galactic Checkers" tournament.
 
  Space Rangers 2 is one of those hidden pearls of a game that provides hours of entertainment, 
 far in excess of its price. It might not look too flashy, but this is a gamer's game not a graphic 
 designer's and for that gamers who want to challenge their skills at multiple levels and do a little 
 "Brain Age"-type work will find this game to their liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - Amusing offbeat humor
  - A lot of things to do, and I do mean a lot
  - Unique and excellent gameplay system
  - Very addictive
  - Immersive
  - Text based missions 
 are very entertaining
  - Light hardware requirements while still looking good
  - Highly replayable
  - Transcends its stated genre
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Graphics may not 
 satisfy some
  - May cause severe addiction
  - Slight (but negligible) translation issues
  
  Play it if:
  
  - You like truly open ended gameplay
  - You like playing games without 
 rest
  - You like playing multiple genres in one game
  - You have a great sense of humor
  - You like MMORPG style of gameplay
  - You like making your own character builds
  
  Don't 
 play it if:
  
  - You are expecting Starcraft
  - You don't have a lot of free time
  - You don't get the jokes
  - You like being told what to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I have played it over and over for about year now. If they made a 3 I would 
 get it immediately. There is so much they could add to it but at the same time there is more than 
 enough to keep anyone continually interested. Very simple learning curve like an hour you got it 
 down but not easy to conquer. Is very challenging game but in a way that you always want to get 
 back to it. The text missions are immersive which I wouldn't have believed if I had not played 
 them. The Graphics are basic needs overhaul for 3 if they make one but I don't mind them. Mechanics 
 are good no real problems and have never ran into a bug yet. Get this game immediately if you like 
 this genre of gaming. i just hope they make another because this game is really in a zone of it's 
 own. Greeeaaaaat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroidSmuggler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  With Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators Elemental Games has boldly tried to take the space 
 exploration genre in a brave new direction . What you get here is a blend of turn-based strategy, 
 robot building, real time strategy, text based adventures, arcade mini-games, open-ended gameplay 
 and plenty of space exploration. That's a lot to pack into a single game. Did they pull it off? 
 After spending several days with this game my best conclusion is they really gave it a great shot 
 - but ultimately missed the mark.
  
  It actually worked in the way they used 3D graphics in a 2D perspective for space travel since 
 a fully 3D game probably couldn't have supported the other gameplay elements. I liked the mode 
 that let you go down to a planet and build custom robots, which you'd then use to attack other 
 planetside bases via RTS mode. Even the graphics and music were fairly impressive, lending to a 
 satisfying audio-visual presentation. But the game falls short in its attempt to draw you into 
 the story and in establishing a sense of environment. For instance, you know there are different 
 factions vying for power and position, but the overall feel of encounters is more random than it 
 probably should be. And sometimes you don't quite understand why certain ships or planets are so 
 hostile toward you. I'm sure this was intended to make the game feel more dynamic and alive but 
 it's also a bit disorienting.
  
  I think part of the problem in general is that the developers weren't native English speakers. 
 You get the sense that something was lost in translation even though the writing tries very hard 
 to be engaging. This further takes you away from what could otherwise have been a more dynamic 
 universe. Space combat (one of the main game elements) could have been more enjoyable, although 
 they deserve points for trying to keep it simple. Admittedly, I'm a fan of games like Freespace 
 and Freelancer so going from that to a 2D turn-based environment was sort of difficult.
  
  Space Rangers 2 will be one of the more memorable games I've played simply due to it's sheer creativity 
 and high degree of ambition. I'm sure few developers would dare try to pull something like this 
 off as you can clearly see from this title it's not something which can easily be done. If you're 
 the kind of gamer who appreciates space-based exploration games, but wants more variety than is 
 traditionally offered, this is definitely a title worth checking out. But I have to caution you 
 there's a fairly high learning curve. If you go into this expecting to play every feature right 
 off the bat you're in for a disappointment. Instead, plan on spending some time getting familiar 
 with your surroundings, upgrading your ship and doing a little exploring before expecting to see 
 everything this game has to offer. For those patient enough to really get into it Space Rangers 
 might be a game experience you won't find anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have always wanted to like space-strategy games. And tried quite a few of them! But every time, 
 from Imperium Galactica to Master of Orion series, or more recently Sword of the Stars, I inevitably 
 ended bored, frustrated and with the feeling of doing some tedious chore. A real shame, because 
 the idea and scope of this kind of games are so appealing!
  
  But... Hurray! Space Rangers 2 and its incredibly smooth, logical, imaginative, rich and intelligent 
 gameplay finally made my (little) dream come true. This game takes the chores out of the concept 
 of space-strategy games, and even let you decide what kind of gameplay orientation your experience 
 will take (commercial, action, simplified real-time strategy...) .
  Impressive, funny, and easy to play. Probably too easy for the dedicated strategy player, though.
 
  
  Now, is Space Ranger a RPG game? No. It is not. But it adds to a technical genre some elements 
 of RPG which open this kind of strategy game to a new audience... And thanks so much for that! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macintosh122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most fun games I have ever played, and I have played many. It is similar 
 to other free-form space sims in that you have a ship you are try to upgrade, you can trade, hunt 
 pirates, fight bad guys, do missions, and various quests, and much more.
  
  Dominiators, or machine aliens are invading the known universe and it is your ultimate goal to 
 help the races stop them. The game is semi-turn-based in that real-time is broken into segments 
 where you decide what to do. 
  
  There are many aspects of gameplay to this game. For example, to make money, you can go on these 
 text-based quests on different planets where you are given a story and a list of choices to make. 
 You must solve the quest by making the right choices and are rewarded upon its completion.
  
  You can also hunt pirates which are quite intelligent in their decision making and will often 
 land on planets to repair when they are about to be blown away. You can trade goods with planets 
 posting the right prices but you are also competing with other traders since prices will change 
 during trades.
  
  There are black holes where if you fall in you play an arcade style shoot-em up game and are rewarded 
 if you survive.
  
  The universe is vast and dynamic with, of course, many races with their own feelings towards you. 
 Dominators will raid systems and take over planets. The alliance ships will call for help in defending 
 these planets and will organize to free planets that have been conquered. All the while you are 
 free to join in if you feel the call of duty.
  
  One of the most fun games I have ever played. This is a game where the gameplay is done right. 
 The only downside of course is the 2D graphics which I suspect give the developers more freedom 
 and room to focus on gameplay. The switch over to 3D 14 years ago has severely choked the creativity 
 of gameplay in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollobrains
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well what to say about this game have played it and found it quite good.
  
  Not to much in the way of bugs, seems polished and the patches are up to date and the only downside 
 here is the russian version has 2.0 and the english translation is stuck at 1.4 version number.
 
  
  I lost hours on this, some of the sub quests are interesting,
  
  They could have had more systems, planetary colonization and perhaps more trade goods. It is a 
 bit restricted on everything but ships and weapons. Still an all round good attempt and hopefully 
 space rangers 3 will be a better effort if it ever comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  If you've missed turn based, open ended, multigenred goof-off-athons.. LOOK NO FURTHER! Being straight 
 out of the old skool myself and having a firm belief that game play and strategy are the long forgotten 
 jewels of gaming, this game fills a hole in my soul that I haven't hoped of completing since my 
 marriage went south... Seriously though, it's like they combined Redneck Rampage ala TI-89, Dune 
 II, Escape Velocity with a shiny and fairly well polished graphic user interface. 
  
  General game play is turn based, but there are a couple of text based episodes, as well as realtime 
 strategy based game play. All-in-all this is some pretty fun stuff. Be warned though, THIS IS NOT 
 FOR THE HALO GENERATION GAMER! If you need a twitch experience this is not it. The whole game moves 
 at a very methodical pace. I didn't think that it was quite as slow as X3, but it is turn based. 
 Don't expect something else..
  
  The game focuses on explorartion and ship development as well as pilot progression. Experience 
 is rewarded for completing quests which goes into making your pilot a better fighter, trader leader 
 and so on. On top of that, the parts of fallen foes allows you to upgrade your ship in unique ways. 
 The strategy involved in managing the dog fights is really pretty fun
  and takes quite a bit of planning, especially on the harder difficulties. There are a few rough 
 edges in this game, namely the translation from its native Russian as well as a few crashes to 
 desktop. These rank on the level of minor anoyances, especially because the game autosaves each 
 time you land.
  
  Graphics are dated, (a. k. a. max resolution 1024x724) but the art is good, which helps develope 
 the environment and enriches the game play. This game is a happy updating of a genre I thought 
 long dead. Does it incorporate DX10 shader effects or HDR? Absolutely not, but it has just as much 
 fun as any of the big DX10 releases if not more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrunfast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Turn based games are somewhat of a dying breed lately. Unless you can tag a huge name to your game, 
 there's a pretty good chance if you want any success at releasing a turn based game, you should 
 probably go the indie route with a reduced production cost. However despite all that, there are 
 still some good turn based games out there if you look hard enough.
  
  Space Rangers 2 is one of those games. Space Rangers 2 puts the player in command of a ship in 
 a rich and lively galaxy thats under assault by a malefic robotic race called Dominators. However 
 the player isn't forced to fight against the dominators all the time, there's plenty of other things 
 to do in the galaxy. There are five other races in the galaxy, and of course they don't always 
 get along or see eye to eye. There are also numerous starting professions to choose from. However 
 all these generally do is change what kind of money and equipment you have to start with, rather 
 than giving you any sort of special abilities or ways to go about the game.
  
  The game is sort of open ended in the style of Wing Commander: Privateer, or the more recent Freelancer. 
 You're free to do what you choose, taking on any number of side missions, to trading, to becoming 
 a pirate and raiding other trade vessels and selling the spoils at pirate bases. The main plot 
 of the Dominator invasion is always there, and you can investigate it as you please, and aid in 
 the war against them. Depending on the difficulty settings, the Dominators might be swallowing 
 up star systems at an alarming rate, or they might just be a slight nuisance, generally held at 
 bay by the AI forces.
  
  The kind of missions has a decent amount of variety. You'll have your classic courier style missions 
 where you take a package from point A to point B, as well as defense and hunt and kill. There are 
 also a set of RTS styled missions where you're transported to the surface. From here you design 
 and command a group of robots to take over the map, and wipe out the dominator forces. There are 
 also a series of text based missions which have you taking on a number of zany and strange tasks. 
 You'll do everything from run for president on a tiny alien world, become a pizza making king, 
 to driving a truck on a lawless island. These missions are a throwback to a very old style of gaming 
 and are easily one of the high points of this game, if you enjoy this style of play.
  
  The RTS missions look good, but suffer from shallow balancing and gameplay. This is somewhat forgiveable 
 considering that the game's focus is elsewhere, and tries to include a wealth of other things to 
 do. The number of options you can build with your robots is somewhat limited, and there's a very 
 limited amount of actual tactics you can employ. It pretty much boils down to building the most 
 powerful robot with the best guns, and keeping a few repair guys along and taking over more resources 
 to build more similar robots. There's no sophisticated options found in many other modern RPGs. 
 These missions can serve to break up the monotony, but once you've done a few, they tend to get 
 old pretty fast. Thankfully however, the game will include an option you can pick when a mission 
 of this type is offered to prevent the RTS style missions from ever being offered again. It's like 
 the designers realized that these kinds of missions might not be for everyone.
  
  The text based adventures are a royal blast, if you can stomach that style of play. For these missions 
 there won't even be any animated graphics. There will be a portrait to the side, and a big block 
 of text explaining your surroundings and objectives. You'll be given a selection of actions at 
 the bottom, and your status in the mission to the side. The real reason these missions are a blast 
 are that the quality of the writing in this game is top notch. The dialog and explanations do a 
 great job of detailing the world you're on, as well as maintaining a good level of wit and humor, 
 keeping things fairly light hearted no matter what you're doing. Some of these missions can be 
 very tough and lengthy though, so prepare yourself. Failing however is often fairly painless, as 
 you're usually offered to instantly retry the mission at no real loss. It's a nice feature given 
 that some of these might take quite awhile to accomplish.
  
  The main game of flying your ship is decently done too. You'll gain money to buy bigger and better 
 ships, and bigger and better equipment for all your ships. Combat is fairly simplistic and takes 
 a simultaneous turn approach. You and everyone else all take your turn at the same side, firing 
 all weapons that are in range in one go. It's not terribly in depth, and there's nothing like formations 
 or firing arcs to worry about. It's simply the power of your weapons and defenses, against your 
 opponents. However at the start of the game you're generally hardly equipped to take on even the 
 weakest opponents. It'll probably be a little ways into the game before you're able to actually 
 put up a fight against anything, let alone the Dominators. Trading is fairly quick and easy, with 
 a fairly restricted set of commodities. You're given a number of good tools to find lucrative routes, 
 as well as more daring routes if you try to smuggle in illegal goods. The 'search' function found 
 on stations and planets is kind of interesting, allowing you to search anything from commodities, 
 to the location of certain ships you may need to kill. The races you encounter in the game are 
 colorful, and often are based on exaggerated ideals. The Maloqs for example are the classic big 
 dumb warrior race. They love all things related to combat and honor, but don't care much for anything 
 relating to business or diplomacy. The Pelengs are the 'criminal' race, hating all things relating 
 to law, but loving anything piracy related. In addition to visiting their planets, there are space 
 stations that you can dock at to receive a number of special benefits. The medical stations can 
 give you enhancement injections, or cure your diseases, while at a science station you can donate 
 dominator parts for research, and upgrade components on your ship. All of these options help add 
 a good amount of depth to an otherwise simplistic game.
  
  The graphics are all beautifully drawn 2-d sprites. The backdrops to the planets are all gorgeous 
 as well, however none of them are animated which is a mild strike against them. There's nothing 
 cutting edge about the graphics in this game at all, so it should run fine on even the most modest 
 of PCs. The weapon effects are also crisply done, but nothing fantastic to write home about. The 
 sound is crisp and well done, but there isn't a huge amount of variety to be found. The ambient 
 sounds of the various planets is nice, but you'll generally hear all there is to hear after playing 
 for a little while. The same can be said for the music. There isn't a huge variety to the mellow 
 electronic tunes, but whats there is good and is done well, and fits the theme of the game nicely.
 
  
  One final thing before I close. The game does use Starforce for copy protection. There is a great 
 deal of bad things written about this system. I never had any problems with it, but fair warning 
 that this game does include it.
  
  In closing, this game is not for everyone. The turn-based nature, and the inclusion of solely text 
 based adventures might turn a lot of people off. But if you're hankering for some of this old style 
 gameplay, Space Rangers 2 offers a beautifully crafted world with which to play in, and despite 
 being very text heavy, offers some truly great writing to be seen in a game. Some of the individual 
 components might feel a bit shallow, especially the RTS games, but when added together as a whole, 
 it makes for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvinnitsky
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  This game seems to crash very often for me, to the point where it becomes unplayable. Could be 
 my PC though.
  
  I really like the 2D graphics, art, etc.
  
  The music and sounds are very lacking.
  
  The space combat is very boring, I can't believe 
 they didn't improve it since Space Rangers 1, actually about 90% of the gameplay is the same as 
 Space Rangers 1 with very little improvements. Some changes are not even properly explained, like 
 the 2 new classes you can choose from. They didn't even add any new races.
  
  also the RPG elements feel weak and lacking and oversimplified
  
  I think I both love and hate 
 this game, the concept, graphics settings, missions are great, but it could have been much better 
 and combat which is a big part of the game should have been made more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2 is an excellent and quirky game that all space strategy game fans should pick up 
 -- especially at the low price it is. This game really reminds me of how games were made back in 
 the day; lots of text and not a whole lot of direction as to where to go and what to do. This, 
 however, is far from being a bad thing. You're free to go around and do whatever you want and I 
 never felt like I was just wasting time since the game does a good job of reacting to your actions 
 and making the galaxy actually feel pretty alive and dynamic, even if it is a little cartoony.
 
  
  In the game there are robots called Dominators who are, yep you guessed it, hell-bent on dominating 
 the galaxy. As a Space Ranger, you have a free license to go anywhere and do whatever it takes 
 to stop the Dominators. Sorta like a B. A. T. agent but much more fun. The game has an astounding 
 amount of content that always left me looking for more things to do. You have the basic game, which 
 consists of a top-down perspective for flying your ship in a pausable real-time fashion as you 
 go from planet to planet and for dogfights. Also, there is an arcade mode where you use the keyboard 
 to battle it out with enemy ships inside blackholes. On top of that, there is a land-based robot 
 battle game where you have factories that crank out robots you can customize and even take control 
 of to smash all the other robots. To me, though, the most engrossing elements are the text-based 
 government missions you receive from time to time.
  
  These text missions are extremely creative and entertaining and practically worth the price of 
 admission themselves. They range from doing a commando mission to capture a mercenary leader, winning 
 an intergalactic battle of the bands, an election to become planetary president, being transmogriphied 
 into an alien critter and becoming Chief of the critter tribe so someone can get a sex change operation, 
 serving your time in prison, and many more. These are really top notch and add a tremendous level 
 of immersion.
  
  Graphically, Space Rangers 2 is very crisp and colorful even if it is a touch on the simple side. 
 I really like the look, but some people may be turned off by it. The music and sound effects are 
 great, some of the best I've heard. The difficulty is a little tough on medium, but it is fully 
 adjustable. For the money, you cannot find a better space adventure game. It has tremendous replayability 
 (a huge plus for me) , is extremely hilarious with a wonderfully dry sense of humor, and is just 
 all around enjoyable. I highly recommend it to strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaytrix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When you meet your character, you are greeted with pages of narrative, more than in both Diablo 
 games combined. Its clumsily written, light hearted and voluminous. In many ways, its a microcosm 
 of the whole game. Entering your underpowered ship for the first time, you are overwhelmed with 
 the choices ahead of you. That is, until you are killed by a pirate.
  
  Like Elite, and many other similar games, it starts out difficult, and gets easier over time. That, 
 combined with the myriad activities available for young spacefarers, can equal a lot of frustration 
 up front.
  
  Eventually you will collect enough minerals or survey enough planets, to upgrade your ship. This 
 is where it starts to get really interesting. Upgrade wisely or you will be ill equipped for the 
 game you want to play. In the early stages, your ship can't be a jack of all trades, there's not 
 enough room on your hull. You have to specialize for the task you want to perform. Want to do courier 
 missions, get a big engine. Enjoy being a pirate, better bring the guns. You spend most of your 
 time flying around turn-based space, so pick a ship you like,
  
  There is much to do in the game, especially if you like text adventures. Each one is different, 
 and re-playable, due to random parameters around the goal. However, in the end, they are just text 
 adventures and after a few of them, you will probably want a break from the eye strain. Outside 
 of the ASCII adventures, you have another common mission type that is a separate minigame. Thats 
 the ground combat missions. You can play both as an unbalanced RTS game, or as an unbalanced mech-combat 
 game by hopping into the controls of one of you troops. There appears at first to be a lot of complexity 
 as you can configure each vehicle with different weapons, equipment, chassis and the like. Unfortunately, 
 missiles are so overpowered that you will never build anything but quad missile bots and rain fiery 
 death on enemies before they get in range. Its really a shame, because outside of that single balance 
 issue, it could have been a really fun diversion.
  
  Space Rangers 2 is a fun little diversion that will suck your life away in the same just one more 
 turn way that Civilization or Diablo does. However, it has its obvious flaws. Its those flaws that 
 help make it unique though. In today's world of copycat FPS and treadmill MMORPGs, Space Rangers 
 2 provides something you can't get anywhere else. You can tell from its lighthearted presentation, 
 its goal is to be fun and in this regard it succeeds. If you buy this game, and put a couple hours 
 into it, I guarantee you will find something you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Your job as a space ranger is to serve as an interstellar cop, tasked with stamping out piracy 
 and battling the dominators, which are powerful robots out to conquer the galaxy. However, you 
 also need to make a living on the side, and you can do so by carrying out missions for various 
 planetary governments, or by buying and trading various goods and resources as a merchant, or by 
 becoming a pirate yourself and extorting protection money out of civilian vessels. You can then 
 use your money to purchase a dizzying assortment of upgrades and vessels, which allow you to tackle 
 some of the more difficult missions later on in the game.
  
  The galaxy of Space Rangers 2 is a dynamic one, as hundreds of ships travel between the dozens 
 of planetary systems conducting trade, warfare, and more. More importantly, everything you do affects 
 your reputation with the various factions in the game, and so doing a favor for one side might 
 mean hacking off another, which may result in finding a bunch of battleships on your tail or having 
 to bribe your way back into a planet's good graces. Combat in the game is surprisingly deep, but 
 also fast-paced. Space Rangers 2 is a turn-based game, but it feels like real time. That's because 
 it uses a simultaneous resolution phase, which means that everyone plots out moves for the turn, 
 and then all the moves are resolved simultaneously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2 is a polished sequel , full of life and somehow strange . A nit combination of 
 RTS , RPG , strategy and arcade designed according to the old school , who offer the player a chance 
 to upgrade at will and surf between trade , police enforcement and quests . The new engine play 
 his part , but is easy to become addicted to a game that let you battle Dominator robots vessel 
 , called for example Copyright ! , with one upgraded ship . I liked Space Rangers 1 `cause of his 
 quests and jail activities and now more things to read and interact . A good game , enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romulus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2, with its mixture of plot depth and arcade play, is a surprisingly fun game to 
 play. One of the best overall elements of the game is the feel the gamer gets of excellent immersion 
 in a vivid and dynamic game world. The player's decisions are independent and NOT directed by a 
 linear decision tree like most games. NPC's go about their business and have their own agendas 
 leaving the player free to dictate his or her own future. You pretty much have the choice of playing 
 through peace and negotiation or absolute destruction, and everything in between. There's just 
 enough of the cuteness factor and tongue-in-cheek humor to keep the player smiling.
  
  Overall, a fun game to play.
  
  Rom - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaOStreet
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  First this game overs a lot. If you dont like text adventures, it overs a bit less...
  
  But anyway you can have a lot of fun with this game, thanks to its freestyle gameplay. You can 
 do more or less what you want, of course in a limited range. At some point you probably still want 
 to become friends and get these damn dominators, no matter what path you chose.
  
  The real letdown here is when you get near to the end of the upgrading system. Not only you will 
 equip better and better stuff on your ship, but everyone else too... So maybe you have the nice 
 stuff for some time, but eventually they will have it too, no matter what! So yes you can upgrade 
 again and for some time stay ahead once again, but you and them will get the best stuff possible 
 sooner or later and then it becomes kinda boring. (Happens kinda fast sadly)
  
  But if you like lot of text, space rangers and stuff like that, you probably want to consider this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExpoAppopi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  To keep it short and sweet. The game is worth it.
  
  Space Rangers 2 features: Good model for fun and fast trading in a dynamic market. Becoming wealthy 
 takes time, and there is always stuff to buy. The addition of star bases where you can buy information 
 on lucrative trade routes is a nice touch.
  
  Space combat in a nice looking 2D environment. Hunting down an opponent can be a difficult task, 
 but that's what wing men are for. In the beginning your ship is very weak, and building a warship 
 is a time consuming task. Do not go toe to toe with anyone unless you feel confident that your 
 ship is up to the task, or you want to get your ass handed to you.
  
  Many quests in the game take the form of text based adventures. Mining for resources, retrieving 
 an object from the bottom of the sea or escaping from prison to name a few.
  
  Planetary RTS combat with giant customizable robots. This is not the strong point of this game, 
 and becomes boring very quickly. Luckily these can be skipped.
  
  Thumbs up for a truly fun game Thumbs down for not tying the different elements together as well 
 as they could be. Worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty of combining multiple genres effectively has plagued a number of ambitious titles 
 through the years. Through the ashes of failures, companies are beginning to learn new strategies 
 to synchronize two styles of gameplay seemingly at odds to create amazing new games, such as Cinemaware 
 Marquees Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators. Full of mirth, depth, and addictive pacing, 
 SR lacks only the polish of a higher budget.
  
  Space Rangers 2 takes place in the future, and puts you in the role of an interstellar militiaman 
 tasked with quelling the rising threat from the Dominator robots. Though the exact origin of the 
 mechanical menace is unknown, you can piece together the story through your trials and tribulations. 
 The game is extremely open ended, and has the prototypical trader/pirate/police triangle going 
 for it. You can run trade missions, steal from ships, or hunt the thieves. Each play style is extremely 
 unique, and serves to increase replayability and further engulf the player in the games content 
 to maximize their advantages. The game has a number of features that highlight the effect your 
 influence has on the systems you visit and people you meet. People start reacting based on your 
 reputation, offering you a better mission, or some secret information they would only share with 
 their closest friends. If you decide to recruit help, based on the outcome of the relationship 
 others will want to join your command or refuse employment. The system is well implemented, and 
 has you not only nurturing relationships with people, but looking for new contacts as well.
  
  At first you will only have access to a small number of ships and equipment, but as you complete 
 missions, explore new systems, and gain experience, more ships become available, better equipment 
 enters the market, and so on. This is counter balanced with the increasing occurrence of the Dominators 
 and more dangerous enemies. The pacing is perfect, leaving the game at just the right difficulty 
 to keep you interested without being a walkover or punishment from God. While traveling, the game 
 features a simplified point and click interface. You click on something, and it brings up appropriate 
 options based on the item clicked. For example, clicking on a planet will land, clicking on a ship 
 will start combat, follow, or go to firing range, and so on. Its extremely basic in practice, 
 and can become monotonous, but serves to help new players. Unintentionally it also makes combat 
 a rather hands off affair. After choosing attack strategies (use these weapons, go here) the battle 
 fights itself with little to no input. Its disappointing, but not life threatening. In addition 
 to the standard mode of play, many of the missions you can take as any of the three jobs add both 
 adventure elements as well as a full strategy game, both of which are cunningly developed as to 
 be both simple and entertaining. The adventure portion of the game is a text-based affair, and 
 includes a cornucopia of scenarios from running as a candidate in a planetary election to testing 
 a portable jump jet. These scenarios are well developed and extremely amusing, but they are incredibly 
 text heavy, slowing the pace of play dramatically. In addition, some of them are a trial and error 
 affair, producing some maddeningly obtuse solutions to seemingly simple problems. The strategy 
 missions are by far the most interesting, giving the player the option to create robots from different 
 equipment and body types, but also take control of the robots via third person controls. These 
 missions have you taking resource nodes away from the enemy and building defensive structures to 
 keep them safe, making the experience satisfying if not unique. The AI is problematic, which diminishes 
 the challenge as well as constantly forces you to corral your forces for maximum efficiency, but 
 these are really just small problems compared to the pleasant surprise of having a competent strategy 
 game built into a mission.
  
  The game is splashed with a liberal amount of humor, making the game seem spry without diluting 
 the serious parts of the plot or gameplay. One mission had me transporting An ancient virus that 
 threatened to destroy the earth called Windows, with the destination being an ancient museum of 
 war crimes. Every aspect of the game permeates with small tidbits of humor which help make the 
 gameplay even more memorable.
  
  If the game had come out three years ago, the graphics would have been perfect, but the presentation 
 is conservative by modern standards. There are very few three dimensional models with the exception 
 of the RTS mode, the fighting looks rather bland, and the character graphics are aged. It doesnt 
 look hideous however, and the graphics dont bring down the game by any means, but are more functional 
 than mind blowing.
  
  Music, lasers, engines, and other audio related aspects of the game are good. The music does an 
 adequate job of adjusting to whatever situation you find yourself in, fighting sounds good, and 
 traveling between systems has a satisfying roar of your engines kicking in. It wont win any awards 
 for excellence in this department, but it certainly isnt a slouch.
  
  For buying Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators, you get the first Space Rangers as well, giving 
 the package extreme value. While it could have definitely benefited from a greater budget, the 
 overall quality of SR2 is far above expectations, making this a must buy for anyone looking for 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChickenBoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of those back of the shelfs, that now one ever truly bothers to play. If 
 you bought this game though , don't worry, you will not regret it. To start off this game has a 
 number of races, and classes, allowing for easy customilization. Though it truly shines when you 
 get to the strategic map, you are able to upgrade you ship with numerous upgrades. You can increase 
 the hull, radar, weapons etc.... The game has a great economy system. You can play the whole game 
 doing nothing but going from planet to planet buying goods at low prices and selling them high. 
 Or you can set out to hunt and kill pirates or the dominators (the games evil faction) . Play as 
 a pirate yourself. Another great feature is some of the text based quests scattered around. These 
 quests are some of the hardest, and you will find yourself repeating them over and over again. 
 The robot combat system, needs work as it its too simple andcritical to provide much enjoyment. 
 A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  GOOD:
  
  This game has low system requirements so almost anyone can play it.
  
  There are tons of things to do, from upgrading your ship, buying/selling stuff, real time strategy 
 battles, hyperspace arcade style fights, to text based puzzle quests that sometimes can be really 
 easy or really hard.
  
  The universe is alive, everything is happening all at once. Battles between the dominators and 
 the sentient beings constantly flare up, inflation affects item prices, technology steadily progresses 
 and factions can end up hating or liking you based on the quests you take and the actions you make.
 
  
  Tons of items and each type of item are generated with different characterisitics. For instance 
 a laser gun might do 10-12 damage while another might do 19-20 damage, weight is also randomly 
 generated and your ship has a limited amount of space so item hunting is an ever ongoing quest 
 to find the lightest, highest damage weapon out there.
  
  BAD:
  
  On the RTS planet games, the AI is pretty bad.
  
  There's Starforce protection software on 
 it for those who buy the DVD game which can cause some computers to get "blue screens" of death.
 
  
  For some older computers an installation of 1GB is pretty steep (especially for my 30GB VAIO laptop 
 hard drive.
  
  Sometimes the puzzle games have confusing translations because it was not translated very well 
 from Russian but overall I got through most of the puzzles with only the occasional peep at a online 
 forum walkthrough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinman1321
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  For $30 USD, you not only get Space Rangers 2, but it includes the 1st Space Ranger. 
  
  My biggest disappointment with the game is getting started. It takes some patience and more dedication 
 than other games. 
  
  After trying each race in each job type, I decided to press with the trader since I had a pretty 
 big ship and some cash. I personally wasnt impressed with the ground combat aspect of the game 
 but that can be avoided through the rest of the game. 
  
  So you finally get through the intro training. It wouldnt be so bad but when you get a good thing 
 going like trading so you can buy better weapons, you end up either being cornered by the Dominators 
 or on an all out run. The game states you dont have to deal with the campaign but you really do 
 in most aspects. 
  
  I recommend this game for those who want to get the most out of a game. It supplies you with more 
 then enough to do and is different every game. 
  I mentioned above about creating various characters, each one had a different outcome after training. 
 So the games dynamic campaign seems to be just that than scripted. 
  
  Because the game is turn based, keep up with the clock. Time may be your biggest enemy in this 
 game. 
  
  I wouldnt have paid the full price for the game, but with the first game included its a great deal. 
 
  
  The manual isnt great but it isnt bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtualpoker69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a mixture of genres. You have RPG as well as RTS and text based gameplay. Go into 
 a black hole and it's a arcade space shooter. There is a main storyline but how you play the game 
 is up to you. If RTS or text missions arent your thing you can skip them. The huge living universe 
 that evolves as the game progresses is done very well here. There are hundreds of other ships going 
 about their business that you can interact with. Some give useful advice. Others will aid you in 
 battle. ( Or ask for your help} . All have a IQ over 70. Feel like being a lone wolf? Then mine rocks, and 
 scavage parts left over from previous battles. Or become a trader and buy and sell. Hunt pirates 
 or go fight the REAL bad guys Unlike some games there is no long waits or excessive trudging around. Always 
 something to do or to improve .The replay value is very high since it randomly creates a new universe 
 every time a new game is started. You can fine tune your ship to play the game as you want. The interface 
 is one of the best in the business and makes gameplay a breeze. Having news events pop up as your 
 in flight is a nice touch. Except for the RTS part of the game it's a 2D top down affair that might 
 turn you off if your used to cutting edge 3d graphics. But don't let that discourge you. This is 
 one of the best games out there. For 30 bucks you also get the original Space Rangers tossed into 
 the deal, which is a fine game in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobsistrunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical of such a recent game having a text-based quest system. But this does 
 grow on you. And I notice a startling similarity to World of Warcraft as far as the massive universe 
 combined with random quests, items, and rpg elements. I don't play other mmorpgs so i cannot compare 
 to them. I like how as you grow and become more powerful you can start to make more and more of 
 an impact in the war against the dominators, so as you grow in power you also grow in influence, 
 a good feeling. Nonetheless, the only thing I wish would be better is the absence of graphics in 
 the quests. I dont mind text-based quests at all, but would like to see some kind of video or animation 
 in response to what i decide to do in the quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorgilt
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  
  Very many inflated reviews.
  The game is about unplayable after a certain point unless you use the freely available cheats.
 
  The get attacked by npc's much more powerfull than you and the only alternative is to recall from 
 a save.
  I can only guess the company spent a lot on bribes to get this clunker the very high reviews.
 
  That, and get everyone in their company to give it glowing "player" reviews.
  Graphics are from the early days of the pc, except for the background, which is very good.
  For 
 shareware, this would be ok; to pay for it is overpriced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardc77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game and while it will not dazzle you with its graphics or amaze you with 
 its sound it will keep you playing for hours on end. I just got this game and I have been playing 
 it non-stop. There is so much to do and so much to see. As an example, one of the races needed 
 me to help fix a "DND Player" so I rushed across the galaxy arrived at the planet and all of a 
 sudden I am partaking in a text adventure. The text adventure had me use my analytical skills to 
 fix the player. I finally got it fixed and was wondering what to do next when a news flash came 
 over the wire that the military was invading a Dominator controlled system and needed all available 
 rangers to meet at the nearest Military base. I rushed over to the base and found that a new technology 
 had been developed that allowed the military base to hyperspace jump across the galaxy to invade 
 the Dominators. I was asked to join and was put in deep sleep for the trip. We arrived at our destination 
 and the fighter squadron deployed from the base. Following an intense battle, we were victorious 
 and set free yet another system. I was awarded a medal for my efforts and asked if I could help 
 clear the dominators from one of the planets. Now I have switched to a RTS game and after dispatching 
 the dominators, i received an award (better equipment for my ship) . Then I notice that a nearby 
 system has a black hole so I head over there go through the black hole and start battling other 
 ships in a arcade style game.
  
  This is the universe that you get to play in and the fun just goes on and on. I would definitely 
 tell anyone to give this game a try and you to could be saving the galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDonnovan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I have tried to go through several times and play this game. I love the graphics and the game itself 
 but the gameplay is quite lacking. There are several times during quests that the game will freeze 
 up, there are times in large battle when the NPC just seem to forget what they are doing and wonder 
 all over not even attacking the dominators. The biggest downside to this game is the unexplainable 
 and unpredictable crashes. In a total of 120 hours of gameplay I experience over 40 crashes. The 
 safedisk feature takes way to long to load. This is yet another example of where they try so hard 
 to make a "secure" game that it just ruins the game because it is always checking to make sure 
 the CD is there and that its the right one. The game doesnt really take much in resources and the 
 graphics are great. Dont get me wrong at all if they would fix a few minor and one or two major 
 bugs this would be a great game. Until then though I would have to say dont waste your money til 
 they fix some of the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhalcyon
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2 takes the place of the game you weren't really sure if it was going to be good, 
 but decided to pick it up anyway. While most the time that decision comes back to haunt you (and 
 you now being short a certain sum of money) , Space Rangers 2 is the exception. Space Rangers 2 
 features a stream-lined galaxy that is pitched in a wide-spread conflict with an instigative robot-alien 
 race called the Dominators. The Humans, Pelengs, Maloqs, Gaalians, and Faeyans make up the Coalition 
 to stop these destructive robots.
  
  You are a ranger, which is like a free-lance soldier, who goes about doing whatever he wants. You 
 could help the Coalition, or hit up some transports for cash. You could trade, or just steal it 
 from some schmuck. Every aspect in the game has an opposite side, and a few things in between. 
 You wanna be a drug-runner? Be a drug-runner. Want to be a galactic hero? Go liberate some Dominator-controlled 
 systems.
  
  Here's the break-down of the game:
  
  Gameplay
  SR2 features a turn-based galaxy, which might seem weird to some. How can a game be highly addictive 
 and engaging, while using an almost-dead game mechanic? Simple: make it simultaneous. That's right, 
 you plot your moves and everyone else moves with you. Strange as though that may sound, it is amazingly 
 ingenious in practice.
  
  The aspect allows for you to tactically consider every single move you are going to make. Since 
 turns are aligned with a day and year system, you can have a very accurate approximation of what's 
 going to happen. This system works wonders in combat. Thankfully, the developers let you know the 
 flight path of everyone, should you highlight them. This allows for you to keep your enemies "in 
 the sights." If you're following after that pirate, and he decides to make a sharp turn in order 
 to shake you, you can make the turn before him and cut him off. This allows for you to lessen the 
 handicap of a slower ship engine.
  
  It's a lot of little things like that that just keep you coming back. Making bite-sized tactical 
 decisions and trying to make everything you do as effective as possible is a very appealing proposition. 
 That's not to mention the fact that your ships are upgradeable. Every single habitable planet has 
 an arms shop. Which, needless to say, means you have huge possibilities for upgrades. Along with 
 randomly generated stats for weapons and the like, you can build yourself a killing machine. 
 
  
  Or you can go the peaceful route, buying a transport, maximizing your space usage so you can have 
 more cargo, and then trading to fund your upgrades and adventures. Luckily, the economy is very 
 dynamic in a structured manner. Wait, what? The economy has its ups and downs but doesn't get complicated. 
 For example, a planet has some environmental problems that is killing its people. You capitalize 
 by bringing food and medicine. 
  
  The game helps you in that regard by giving you a heads-up. Every station and planet have "Information 
 Centers", which tell you everything that is going on in the galaxy. It lets you know if such and 
 such happened to planet so and so. It almost sounds like the developers make it easy on you, but 
 you really do need it because the game is constantly moving with you. SR2 doesn't come off like 
 X3: Reunion, which featured a very indifferent world. SR2 has things constantly happening (ranger 
 pirate gets captured, corsairs attacking a system, Dominators defeated at this system etc.) , sometimes 
 for you to take advantage of.
  
  Although this game isn't perfect, unfortunately. It has a rather steep learning curve, and even 
 though it features a training mission, you kind of have to hoof it at first. It can be frustrating 
 too, since you can get blown up very easily. Eventually you learn to save your game just before 
 any kind of daring move. Especially like when you goto black-holes, where you face off against 
 real-time opponents in an arcade sort of deal.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Frankly, these graphics aren't mind-blowing. With the exception of a great interface, and some 
 interesting spokepersons (although the same on every planet belonging to the same race) on planets/stations, 
 they are something you'd see several years ago.
  
  The graphics are akin to Galactic Civilizations 2, but SR2's textures look more dated and muddy. 
 The game will only run in two resolutions, 800 by 600 and 1024 by 768. Which might be a gripe to 
 some owners of expensive monitors. But even if you could go higher, there probably isn't any real 
 visual advantage. SR2 also has a lot of graphical tweaks that honestly don't do much at all. It's 
 understandable that they are there to take less processing power, but if you have a video card 
 that's not more than 4 years old, your GPU will handle the game just fine.
  
  Another thing is that Space Rangers 2 comes packaged with the original Space Rangers. Being a sequel, 
 SR2 isn't much of an upgrade visually. A lot of the same textures are used, with some tweaks added 
 (suns look a lot better) . You can even see some parts of text ported directly over into the sequel 
 if you take the time to compare.
  
  Sound:
  
  I think the music is awesome in this game. It's varied, going from up-beat techno to appregiated 
 guitar playing. But that is the biggest down-fall of the music. You can land on a planet to hear 
 some rave-trance, then take-off to hear sad acoustic guitar. 
  
  The sounds and music don't cycle around too much. And it's just the awkward tense of the music 
 during transitions (space to surface or system to system) , and the repetitive nature of all the 
 sound effects, that cause you to take off your headphones/turn off your speakers after a while. 
 
  
  Value:
  
  The replay of a game like this, is endless if you want it to be. If you can't get enough of the 
 mechanics, you can just keep playing. Since this isn't a scripted game in the modern sense of the 
 word, the way things play out is different all the time. Combined with multiple endings, you have 
 a lot to play around with.
  
  However, after you run through the game once (or have played it for many hours) you've seen all 
 there is to see. Every new game is an open-ended campaign of the same thing everytime. 
  
  However, Space Rangers 2 comes packaged with (as mentioned) Space Rangers. This means once you've 
 been SR2/SR1 you can go play SR1/SR2. But don't get your hopes up, unfortunately. Since they are 
 almost the exact same game.
  
  The graphics don't change much, the story doesn't change much (aside from a different enemy) , and 
 some of your enemies are the same enemy ships from the other game. 
  
  Tilt:
  
  With excellent and thrilling combat, albeit strangely turn-based, rapidly moving economy, dynamic 
 galaxy, and huge scale, Space Rangers 2 will keep you occupied for a very, very long time. But 
 after a while you kind of wish there was more to other aspects, rather than expenditures on frivolous 
 things. Also SR2 is really just incrementally better than the original, which isn't necessarily 
 a bad thing. If it isn't broke, don't fix it, right?
  
  
  Reviewer's Note: There is much more to the game than what I spoke about above. But due to the sheer 
 scale of this game, I simply had to choose what I thought needed to expounded upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggwhilko
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  The game is deep, but still seems to lack something. I could play it for hours on end, and then 
 not think about it for a month. I guess that could be good or bad. There is a multitude of places 
 to explore, and lots and lots to read. I like the reading; the reading is good. Some will hate 
 the reading and trash the game. It's understandable, especially if one was looking for more action 
 and one-on-one asse kickin'. It is in the RPG category, but I don't know if that is exactly fair. 
 It is more strategy than anything, but then again I'm not paid to write reviews so what the hell 
 do I know anyway. I think that if you don't research the game before you buy it, you might end 
 up disappointed. If you are open-minded and want to be suprised, I think you will be, in a good 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkalor
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Great game! Doesnt look that amazing but the gameplay makes up for it. There are really many things 
 to do ingame, that makes it quite unique. Its not just "all the time alien shooting" or doing missions. 
 Its a nice combination of different genres, and that allows you to do what you want - kill those 
 annoying aliens from your ship, battle on the surface of planets and much much more (and some of 
 the missions are quite amusing too) . In general its not a perfect game but its worth trying just 
 for being different from the others. The only thing it would realy need is some decent graphics, 
 the ones it has are nice but certainly not a good choice for a modern game.
  
  Ah yes an one more thing.. I just cant understand people crying about the starforce protection 
 (and probably im not the only one) .. Sure we all know its not good but its not bad either, not 
 like it will blow up your pc or something =) Also quite many games use it so i cant see the point 
 in putting a low score for having copy protection (which IS a quite important thing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: io764
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to warn you: Space rangers 2 is a VERY addictive game -- at least for me! the ability to 
 explore galaxies with no set time limit or enforced missions means you can basically take the time 
 to build up your resources and player character before you go out and whup some butts.
  
  the game is interesting on many levels. apart from the main space strategy / simulation appeal, 
 there are other mini-games embedded within, like RTS planet-based battle; planet based text games, 
 and even arcade games in hyperspace.
  
  granted, while these other 3 features are not developed in-depth (nor as i suspect, were they meant 
 to be) , they add enough variety and "spice" to keep things interesting.
  
  this is by far, one of the best games in the space genre that i've ever played; the only downside 
 is that the retail version is encoded with STARFORCE, which is a royal pain when starting up...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandlynx9
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 19, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  I saw Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators on the front page of gamespot one day and decided 
 to give it a try. 
  
  A game that I hadn't heard or read about until shortly after it was released, simply pulled me 
 in to its unique style of gameplay. The closest style game I've played to Space Rangers 2 is that 
 of Freelancer which is another space adventure game.
  
  Space Rangers 2 provides good gameplay and replayability. The amount and variety of missions in 
 the game p is great. There are text based racing missions, RTS style missions, assassin missions, 
 delivery missions and protection missions all wrapped up into one good package. The diversity of 
 the missions and freedom of the player to choose his or her own path keeps one coming back for 
 more. 
  
  The gameplay is great, and the graphics are solid too. While not cutting edge by any means, the 
 graphics and artwork serve the gameplay well and create an enjoyable atmosphere. The sound in the 
 game is pretty average or above average, nothing really sticks out about the sound honestly. However, 
 some of the music playing while cruising around space does create an ambient feeling in the game. 
 
  
  There are a few minor problems with the game however. Strangely, there are many typos that I've 
 noticed in the game. Its weird to see 1 or 2 typos in a game but I can recall 6-8 occassions where 
 I've noticed typos. This wouldnt be so bad, but the game is heavily text based and I believe it 
 takes away from the game. Also, the game kind of throws you right into the mix of things without 
 giving you much preperation. The "training missions" that a player can choose to go through don't 
 really help a player prepare for the Space Rangers World.. and you can actually get wrecked by 
 that droid if you don't upgrade your weapons quickly (a training droid in the beginning of the 
 game mind you) . Also, some of the missions assigned can feel repetitive, such as simply delivering 
 items from one system to another.
  
  Overall, Space Rangers 2 is an excellent game however with enough replayability to keep any type 
 of gamer coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2: Rise of the Dominators takes such a scattershot approach to game design that the 
 only category it could accurately fit into is cross-genre. By taking equal parts of turn-based 
 tactical combat, space trading, role playing-style advancement, real-time strategy, and significant 
 dose of text-based adventuring, the developers at Elemental Games and 1C have cobbled together 
 a quirky, low profile game which specializes in only one area: being consistently and surprisingly 
 fun.
  
  Boiling away all of the optional elements reveals that at its core, Space Rangers 2 is about earning 
 yourself money in a large randomly-generated universe embroiled in a dynamic war against an aggressive 
 race called the Dominators. These mechanical tyrants have already overthrown several star systems 
 by the start of the game and will dynamically attempt to take many more over the course of your 
 career as a space ranger. In order to try and shore up their dwindling numbers, the interstellar 
 corps of space rangers has recently lowered its recruitment criteria to the point where virtually 
 anyone can show up to be commissioned. Such lax standards mean that theres effectively no ethical 
 code for a space ranger to live by; the only unifying creed among you and your colleagues is that 
 youre all ostensibly out to save the galaxy from the Dominator threat, even if you occasionally 
 want to kill each other to do it.
  
  Your destiny is yours to create, but the choices you make while starting a new game will have a 
 significant impact on how others will initially react to you. Beginning as a human merchant gives 
 you a reasonably spacious hull capacity, good relations with all of the other races, and a cargo 
 of initial goods to trade, but weak defenses and no offensive capability. Creating yourself as 
 a Maloq mercenary, on the other hand, starts you off with a slow, but powerful ship, poor relations 
 with the Faeyan race, and a reputation that gets you offered lots of missions as a hired gun. Some 
 of these starting conditions seem much more difficult than others. For example, being an interstellar 
 pirate may sound like fun until you realize that virtually none of the colonies will offer you 
 any of their missions unless you pay out a hefty bribe for them to overlook your past indiscretions. 
 None of them are impossible, though, and your relationships with the different factions in the 
 game and your classification as a merchant or fighter or brigand will change in accord with your 
 behavior.
  
  The majority of the game plays out on the colorful galaxy map where youll earn your living through 
 interstellar trade, completing missions for local governments, extorting the weak or poorly defended, 
 scavenging Dominator parts for sale and research, releasing survey probes to search for valuables 
 on an uninhabited planet, or any combination thereof. This money can be used for a variety of different 
 things, but the most immediate concern for any character class will be upgrading your ship with 
 superior components to enhance its performance and allow you to take on harder and more lucrative 
 challenges. Hulls, weapons, deflector shields, sensor arrays, engines: every component on your 
 ship plays some role in determining how fast you can travel, how much damage you can inflict per 
 turn, and how far you can jump through hyperspace to reach different star systems. Enhanced performance, 
 however, often comes at the cost of steep maintenance fees and cargo space which could otherwise 
 be used for carrying valuable goods, so theres a lot of strategy in deciding whether a potential 
 upgrade is worth the expense and hull capacity. Action in the main galaxy plays itself out in a 
 continuous turn-based style similar to games like Baldurs Gate, and as the days tick by new and 
 improved ship components will steadily arrive on the market to offer enticing new upgrades throughout 
 your career.
  
  The diversity of game play found in Space Rangers 2 comes from the incredible number of ways there 
 are to earn money in the game. Trade goods at each of the hundreds of planets and space stations 
 in the game are governed by an economy which dynamically changes based on simple supply and demand, 
 local Dominator attacks, and random events like famine or plagues announced over the Interstellar 
 News Network. Of course, goods can always be sold for a profit if theyre acquired for free, and 
 heavily armed players can often coax a poorly defended transport to drop its cargo or pay a protection 
 fee in cold, hard cash to buy itself respite from an attack. Dominator parts are especially lucrative 
 when sold to the eager personnel at one of the scientific bases found throughout the galaxy, so 
 even combat-minded gamers interested in fighting the good fight will find liberating star systems 
 from their invaders a rewarding pastime in more ways than one.
  
  Most planetary governments also have missions to offer interested parties, and this is where some 
 of the most inventive and unexpected elements of Space Rangers 2 starts to come to light. Old stand-bys 
 like the delivery mission or the escort mission are present, but many, many more will have you 
 landing on a planet to manage a failing ski resort, coach an athletic team to win an Olympic-style 
 series of competitions, pass a bizarre alien test of logical deduction, and even be transformed 
 into a mole-like herbivore to demonstrate your skills at burrowing and grazing. Kooky, off-beat, 
 and occasionally confusing due to the games somewhat uneven English translation, these text-based 
 adventures reward a combination of strategic time-management and critical thinking while pushing 
 the boundaries of game play out into areas youll never see coming. Even veteran players will be 
 kept on their toes thanks to the inclusion of several randomized elements that can ensure theres 
 never any rote path to victory. Fortunately, while these missions are also very easy to fail, the 
 developers wisely chose to allow them to be retried without penalty as many times as you like.
 
  
  Government missions can also ask you to engage Dominator forces on the surface of the planet, pitting 
 you against up to three opponents in a real-time strategic battle for control over a map sprinkled 
 with resource-generating mines and robotic factories. Each faction starts off with a stockpile 
 of resources and single factory where they can customize their mech-like army of giant robots by 
 piecing designs from a selection of different weapons, chassis, and movement components. These 
 parts each have different costs associated with them, encouraging players to mix-and-match designs 
 based on which of the games five resources they might have a surplus of. At least thats the idea. 
 In reality, the artificial intelligence on all sides is so non-existent that youll quickly discover 
 the most effective way to win is to take manual control of a robot with as many long range rockets 
 as it can carry and simply bombard enemy emplacements from just outside their firing range. This 
 simple method can be used to annihilate legions of enemy units with minimal losses, and while youll 
 need to patiently wear down your opponents resources by seizing control of every mine on the map, 
 this siege mentality will guarantee victory every single time. After playing through a handful 
 of these protracted battles of attrition, many gamers will elect to use the games built-in option 
 to disable these types of missions entirely.
  
  Yet another type of game play found in Space Rangers 2 is triggered when you direct your ship to 
 enter a black hole. Rather than instant crushing death, black holes turn out to be hyperspace conduits 
 where you must battle your way out of a bizarre spherical arena against a random assortment of 
 Dominator ships. These battles are significantly different from normal space battles in that they 
 play out entirely in real-time and allow you to take direct keyboard control of your ship as you 
 grab power-ups, shoot down barriers that obstruct your path, and try to destroy the enemies hunting 
 you down. The only way out is to be the last surviving ship, but success rewards you with a valuable 
 new artifact or micromodule you can use to customize your ship even further. In an interesting 
 twist, you dont even have to take control of your ship: leaving the keyboard untouched for a few 
 moments will cause a surprisingly adept AI to take control, fighting your enemies and fleeing to 
 seek out a health pack or temporary weapon upgrade when one is available. Your vessels regular 
 weapons play a huge role in this action arena, and unlike the aforementioned real-time strategy 
 component of this game, the fighting is swift and the unique loot gained makes this an attractive 
 activity in the game.
  
  The graphics in Space Rangers 2 are simple but attractive, using a technique reminiscent of the 
 way Donkey Kong Country translated pre-rendered 3D models into a series of articulate 2D animations. 
 Ships on the top-down galaxy map rock gently back and forth as they cruise across a sector of space, 
 randomly venting exhaust out into the vacuum or folding their wings back for a few moments as they 
 travel across a flat map using distant layers of parallax scrolling to create a basic illusion 
 of depth. The galaxy a very busy place, including hundreds of individual traders, fighters, pirates, 
 and space rangers milling from system to system on their own business, mineral-rich asteroids which 
 come hurtling through space for a quick slingshot around the local sun, and a number of different 
 rotating space stations and orbiting planets to visit. Much of the planetary static artwork consists 
 of hand-drawn stills, particularly during the text adventures where an eye-catching portrait or 
 scene helps to illustrate your current activity. The sole exceptions to this 2D presentation are 
 during the black hole action sequences which place 2D ships and weapon effects around a fully three-dimensional 
 sphere populated with other 3D objects, and the real-time strategy portions which take place in 
 full 3D. Any computer capable of running Windows XP should have little trouble handling the simplistic 
 geometry, textures, and explosion effects found in these environments. All in all, Space Rangers 
 2 successfully creates a consistently appealing aesthetic which shows that cutting edge DirectX 
 9 shading techniques arent the only way to make a good looking game.
  
  Space Rangers 2s musical score consists of a few simple synthesized tunes which, despite the frequency 
 with which theyre repeated, never seem to become tiresome or grating to the nerves. Perhaps its 
 because the tracks change as frequently as your activity, youre never listening to the same tune 
 for more than minute or two at a stretch. Sound effects are equally unsophisticated and involve 
 little more than differently pitched laser, engine, or explosion sounds to offer some slight variation 
 between different weapons. There is no voice work in the game itself, and given the quality of 
 the acting found in the games tongue-in-cheek intro movie, thats probably for the best.
  
  Space Rangers 2 is a striking example of a game that excels at nothing, but is good enough 
 at so many different things that its an addictive and thoroughly enjoyable game nonetheless. Its 
 eccentric and unpredictable, combining game play styles from disparate genres with a straightforward 
 interface and long-term goals to produce a surprisingly deep experience. The fact that you can 
 independently adjust the difficulty levels of many different elements of the game allows you to 
 tailor each experience to your own personal tastes, while the randomly generated galaxies grant 
 this title a tremendous level of replayability. Though some gamers may be turned off by its lack 
 of focus, the large majority will discover a fun and innovative title that is well worth the price 
 of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silpherx
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 15, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game not becaues of fancy graphics or awesome innovation. but because its throw-back 
 playstyle reminded me of old games that were fun and addictive. I love the open-ended gameplay 
 and the rpg-like advancement of skills. The miniquests are fun and a challenge. The gameplay is 
 simple but very satisfying. The first time i killed a dominator and pickd up a vertix gun, i felt 
 like i just hit the jackpot. 
  
  however, it does have a few downfalls. i felt like the rts portion of the game is completely unnecessay 
 and a distraction. One of those rts battles can take 1 or 2 hrs to do, and theyre not really fun 
 or original. Also i wish they were more weapon/equipment types and a longer "storyline" that actualy 
 invoves a few characters and plot twists that you can relate to. 
  
  Also, some multiplayer ability like co-op play would be realy great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkymo
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 14, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the retail boxed version. But before I opened it I downloaded and played the demo. 
 I truly enjoyed the game as fun, unique, and entertaining. Not fabulous, but fun. The graphics 
 aren't the best, but the music is refreshingly good. The open ended game play is nice, with quirky 
 events that keep things interesting.
  Then I read in the official forums & found people having problems with the Starforce copy protection 
 and that the retail box version installs it automatically. A great game does not offset the potential 
 problems this copy protection can cause a legitimate user. I will be taking this game back to the 
 store for a refund or store credit. I read rumor that the downloaded purchase of the game might 
 not have Starforce included. However, I refuse to reward a company with my business if they choose 
 to use Starforce. It would be like accepting a company that sells digital imaging software for 
 your digital camera, and the installation includes drivers that shut down your internet connection 
 without your approval if you visit competitor's websites. It is simply NOT okay for software to 
 hamper my system outside of the perimeters of what I paid the software to do, and without disclosure. 
 
  
  I would recommend Star Rangers 2 on it's own merits only if one is willing to take the computer 
 risk Starforce poses. I for one have drawn a line here concerning software that hampers my computer 
 without my authorization, and my money is not crossing this line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttru
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 4, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  The best game I've ever played that I never heard of. I just happened to come across this game 
 and decided to look up the review. I bought it about a week ago and haven't been able to stop playing 
 it yet. If only I didn't have for a living! Very fun game, with plenty of do, explore, and destroy. 
 The free-will aspect of the game really sucked me in. No linear missions, you are free to choose, 
 complete, or blow-off missions at your will. The game has a ton of re-playability. Im pretty sure 
 Ill keep coming back to this one, even after Ive finished it. Resident Evil 4 just got bumped 
 down on my list of priorities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_82
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Pros: 
  Variety in game play
  Replay value
  Quick Pace
  Good/unique game concepts
  
  Cons: 
  Language translations and game play could use tweaking.
  Takes time to learn (high 
 learning curve)
  
  You can fly through space collecting ore, fighting other space ships, or tripping out in black 
 holes. You can stop by a planet and trade, upgrade your ships equipment, get sent to jail, or take 
 one of the extremely varied missions from the planets leader. You can use probes to explore uninhabited 
 planets for valuables or help the scientists find a way to stop the dementors. Or you can stop 
 the dementors with a more direct approach and order an attack on a system and go shoot a few out 
 of the sky. No matter what you choose to do, you will never run out of different things to do in 
 this game. 
  That being said the game does have its rough edges. The text based portions are a great and original 
 concept for such a fast paced game to throw in but teh translation is poor in some place. The text 
 based parts also tend to be long winded and sometimes it throws you out of the rhythm the game 
 develops so well. The learning curve is a bit steep but manageable. Personally I would love to 
 see more interaction with the environment, being able to inhabit a planet, conquer planets, etc. 
 
  
  I anxiously await an improved version of this game. The concepts are a great basis for the perfect 
 turn based game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallonegro1502
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2: Rise of the dominators is a fun game for people who grew up playing text adventures, 
 people who like open ended game play and those that like "mini games". The game itself can at times 
 feel too open ended, but considering that it has great replay potential it has to present a player 
 with a lot of choices. SR2 reminds me of freelancer mixed with Star Control 2 and a hint of a Choose 
 Your Own Adventure book from the early 80s. There are games that do much better at certain components 
 of SR2 (RTS, RPG, Interstellar trade/combat) , but no game I've played brings all those different 
 components together like SR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  First of all, I can't believe this game was reviewed so late - I've palyed it and dumped it at 
 the beggining of the year. Why? because i've been palying lots of the first part. Then I got sick 
 with it (no mather what you do, aliens take over everything. Try battling them - you'll fastly 
 run out of cash. And ship)
  Okay, here's the plot: 3 AIs go rogue (kinda like Shoob in Deathstalker) and kick the ass of military 
 (just like aliens 300 years before) . So, the rangers are send to kick AI ass. Sweet. By the way, 
 the AI ships look just like the alien vessels in the first game, only wit diffrent paint scheme.
 
  We begin with choosing a rase, class (now there are 5-6 of them, insted of original 3) , starting 
 equipment (two things that will be vey good at start, like engine and laser canon) and skills. 
 The we ge tutorial, etc.
  Besides the layout and diffrent windows (hangar bays is displayed newly) , the first thing yoy'll 
 notice is that there is no hyperspace: in the original game while traveling between star systems, 
 we flew through series of hyperspace clots, in which we could do mini battles. now they're gone. 
 Hooray
  Also, there are new stations - financial, medical, etc. that makes a game a bit more fun than its 
 predecesor. Also, you can probe unhabited planets. Chances are that you'll find laser canons, engines, 
 shields and stuff on them (how did it get there is non of our bissnes) . 
  Of course, there are quests. Some are battle or trade oriented, and some lets you engage mini-text 
 games, wich are quait fun, realy. Especialy the one where you have to live through your time in 
 jail. This is got not by doing quests, but by *pissing off* some planet, then landing on it. 
 
  The fans of the original game will adapt here wery soon, while the new ones will learn very fast, 
 believe me.
  So if you longer for a diffrent space experience or dream "Space rangers" at night, this is a must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  I suggest to all the people who like role-playing, turn based games to buy this one. This is one 
 of the funniest game i could play in the last years, it's not a masterpiece but you have to try 
 it. Is very well done, with plenty of things to do, different and lots of mini-games... that are 
 not so "mini" because they are very well done. So in few words BUY it, go and make money in lots 
 different ways, equip your ship, organize expeditions to go free the systems from dominators, free 
 them alone, or do a pirate, or do missions for governors, land battles in RTS, text games, action 
 battles in black holes.. do what the heck you want to do.... because you can :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8sardinr
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2 is not a game for everyone. If your not a fan of the slower text based RPG then 
 you better look elsewhere. 
  
  The game follows the usual space sim storyline, with you fighting the bad guys, while trading and 
 some more trading to make money. The game keeps it original with interesting dialog, and a fairly 
 well involved campaign.
  
  Graphically, don't expect much. The game is built for fans of a good storyline, not fans of a game 
 that does'nt look 10 years old.
  
  Sure I could have gone more in depth about the ships, and the story, and the missions... But when 
 the game is this much of an eye-sore (not to mention a few crash problems with certain cd drives) 
 its not worth my full reviewing effort.
  
  So if your a fan of the classic Text based RPG you will LOVE this game. If you are in the 90% of 
 gamers who are'nt... move along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: discrecio
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Space Rangers 2 is an engaging adventure with rpg features, with an idiosyncratic sense of humour 
 and a nostalgic feeling to it. Once you get used to its peculiarities, the game is one of those 
 little jewels found outside mainstream publishing, and honours its evident roots (be them Star 
 Flight or Infocom's Text Adventures) in a more "modern" envelope (2D, but all boils down to the 
 greatest features of those classics. Be prepared, however, to face some difficult text-driven quest 
 (yes, text-driven, but very fun if you try them, although I found some of them unfinishable) , a 
 little bit of arcadish combat (inside black holes the game becomes a shoot'em-up, but there is 
 an autocombat option for clumsy players like me) and some minor what-the-heck texts. There is also 
 a RTS-type minigame included in the game (full 3D, with unit production and and design and base 
 conquest) and multiple ways to defeat the big bosses (trick them, trap or just blow up them) .
 
  
  Charming, really, although a bit on the hard side the first time you confront that troubled galaxy....
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firosen
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Interesting to say the least... I'm going to keep this review short. Anyways, this game is for 
 any fan of the text-based RPGs of yesteryear. Anyone who can't remember Zork need not apply. Anyone 
 who does remember Zork and enjoyed it, you'll enjoy this. Of course anyone who enjoys the off-beat 
 humour of the infamous "All Your Base" spoof may also enjoy this.
  
  The translation for this game is... breezy. Yes, breezy is a good word to describe it. Not terrible 
 to the point where you can't play the game, but not exactly what FFVII did for the localization 
 of RPGs. At times, the dialogue can be humorous (albeit unintentionally) , while other times it 
 can be confusing (just like with any bad translation) . 
  
  Overall, not a terrible game, but it's still not for everyone. Pick it up if you like space, if 
 you don't mind a lot of text, and if you are on your way to destruction make your time ha ha ha 
 ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have played in terms of fun, addictiveness and immersion in the last year; 
 if not two! While we get Far Cry, followed by Half Life 2, followed by F. E. A. R. which all look 
 brilliant in any way you could think, they still are all variations on a theme. Space Rangers 2 
 owes it's allegiance to the golden years of gaming not the bland one's of today's "clone" market. 
 Games like Sid Meier's Pirates, or Star Control, or even Elite. 
  
  It's open gameplay is so refreshing, as is it's relative simplicity. But simplicity can be deceptive. 
 Because this game has what can only be called an ingenious interface, it let's you handle with 
 ease a deep, engrossing very sophisticated Galaxy teeming with life and stories. 
  
  It has the guts to include various genres as sub-games (like RTS, FPS, text adventures and arcade 
 action) and then has the gamers in mind by making most of them optional! Like Elite, this game 
 can take over your life like no other. With 5 races (1 Human and 4 Alien) , 5 types of career from 
 Merchant to Pirate and different ship hulls, engines, weapons, shields and "special items", and 
 given that, for example a human weapon may not fit in an Alien's ship hull, you have lots of choices 
 to make as you upgrade. Also, ingeniously, all ship items have weight and size attributes, so you 
 have to decide: A level 6 laser gun with a size of 40 and weight of 20, or a level 5 gatling with 
 a size of 30 but a weight of 30? And I haven't even mentioned the damage ratings of the actual 
 guns!
  
  If you only take one chance on a game this year, make it this one. Space Rangers 2 is so great 
 in so many ways that ripples need to travel out from it to other publishers. It needs to sell in 
 high enough numbers that the media wake up to what gamers truly want. Gameplay. I have not seen 
 this game score less than 70% but have also read three reviews talking about SR2 as game of the 
 year! 
  
  Get this game and help make the PC gaming market just that little more sensible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1halfelf
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  When I first played Space Rangers I was blown away! What a great game.
  
  When I saw Space Rangers 2 out I instantly bought it knowing that this would be even better. It 
 may very well be... except that I refuse to play it on my regular PC system. The install routine 
 includes a device driver level utility called "Starforce" which tries to install itself into your 
 system. Thank God I have a firewall that monitors application activity along with all the network 
 activity.
  
  Making a great game that I absolutely love --- very good!
  Installing unknown device drivers to my system that may or may not be the equivalent of the famous 
 "Sony root kit" --- very, very bad... : (
  
  I'm sorry that Cinemaware thinks we're all criminals out to get them. I will not be buying any 
 more of their games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars_ru
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  SR2 isn't usual game, it's unicum. There are a lot of genres: RTS, TBS, Arcade, Adventure, RPG...
 
  First you can choose you rase, player class and space ship. You can do all what you want: start 
 buisness, doing quests, pirating... Gameplay is free. Also sometimes NPC offers you planet battles 
 or planet (text) adventures. All of that is VERY interesting! Main objective of the game you can 
 do 5 different ways. 2D graphics of course is bad point, but it means nothing. Gameplay do so that 
 you forgive about graphics. Especial part of the game is planet battles. It is 3D RTS. Not Warcraft 
 but also interesting.
  The main thing is that SR2 is a "concept-game", unically, fresh ideas, wonderful. It is not like 
 any other. I advise you buy and play it. The game is worth playing.
  
  P. S. I'm from Russia and there, in my country this game is MEGA popular, all gamers like it very 
 much. Sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Now and then I feel a little like experimenting! To risk some money and time and try something 
 different. I keep an eye usually at small software developers who feel free to try something out 
 of the ordinary to attract the gamers. Space Rangers 2 is that kind of game! I don't think that 
 anyone will find something similar to play. X3 is close but not quite. The last game I remember 
 that resembles SC2 is Freelancer. Which means you are a newbie pilot trying to make your mark in 
 perilous times! Trader, Fighter, Mercenary, Pirate, just make your choice. A combination of RPG 
 (you gain experience points and leveling up by completing quests, fighting etc.) , RTS (command 
 robots at planet combats) and action ( guide your spacecraft through dangerous solar systems!!) 
 .Don't expect superb graphics or sounds. The strong point of this game is gameplay!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
