-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spaceforce: Rogue Universe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/spaceforce2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large, open-ended space exploration and combat game.
 Two games in one, with a story mode and a free-form role-playing mode.
 Beautiful visuals capture the wonder of space.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No tutorial, steep introductory and difficulty curves.
 Lacks a real save system.
 Really need a joystick to appreciate the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 502 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: Provox Games
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Jun 5, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spaceforce offers up a beautiful, dynamic universe to explore, though it suffers from a steep learning 
 curve. 

  Space, like hope, springs eternal, which is probably why fans of space sims have suffered for so 
 long. Once a dominant genre, space sims come few and far between now, and the glory days of games 
 such as Wing Commander and TIE Fighter are ancient history. So enter Spaceforce: Rogue Universe 
 from Dreamcatcher and Provox Games, a space sim that blends role-playing with the open-ended type 
 of exploration reminiscent of Elite. It makes for a compelling package, but it suffers from some 
 inexplicable problems.  

          Who said space was bland and empty?     

  There are actually two games in Spaceforce. The first is a story-driven campaign that lets you 
 fly around a galaxy in pursuit of vengeance for your family, while the second is a free-form, open-ended 
 role-playing game that ditches the story completely, lets you create your own character from different 
 races and classes, and lets you fly around the galaxy and pursue the more than 2,000 side quests 
 on your own. That's enough content to keep most space fans busy for a good, long while -- or at least 
 until the next space sim is released in a year or two.  

  Like any good space sim, the heart of Spaceforce is your ship, a fighter that you can exchange 
 and upgrade any number of ways. As usual, you can upgrade your ship by buying and installing more 
 powerful weapons and components, but you can also boost various components of your ship so long 
 as you have cash to pay for the upgrades. You get cash for these upgrades by flying missions, which 
 can be picked up at any space station. Invariably, these missions require you to go out and blast 
 the heck out of someone or something, and their pace, as well as the sheer number of available 
 missions, means that you'll be busy as you zip around space.  

  Thankfully, even though the game is set in a fairly open galaxy full of star systems, it's easy 
 to get around. You can go into mega speed mode by switching the camera to outside of your ship, 
 which lets you shorten travel time as you fly across systems. Meanwhile, a helpful jump system 
 usually lets you warp straight to a space station or a dimensional gate, which lets you travel 
 from system to system. There's a lot to see and explore in each system, as you can discover and 
 interact with different civilizations and explore previously uncharted territory.  

  Surprisingly, it's the little things that Spaceforce really stumbles with. For instance, the lack 
 of a tutorial is frustrating, as you're thrown into the opening mission with no idea how to accomplish 
 your objectives. Scanning the list of controls in the options menu is no help, so you have to rely 
 on trial and error to figure things out. That's indicative of most of the game; there's not a lot 
 of explanation to the various aspects and features at your command. The lack of a coherent save 
 and load system also hurts Spaceforce, as it's easy to lose hours of progress if you're fiddling 
 around with your profile.  

  In addition to the learning curve, Spaceforce features a tough difficulty curve. The default medium 
 difficulty level will likely fluster you, as opponents are downright brutal. Things get more manageable 
 at the easier difficulty level, though the game still isn't quite a pushover. Combat revolves around 
 the usual turn-and-burn dogfighting seen in almost every space game, though in Spaceforce trying 
 to shoot down a bogey can be as tedious as pulling teeth. If you're short of missiles, you'll have 
 to rely on guns, and whittling down an opponent's shields and hull can make for some of the longest 
 dogfights you'll ever likely participate in. Oh, and you'll most definitely want to get a joystick, 
 because even though you can play with a mouse and keyboard, there's so much yawing around that 
 you're basically handicapping yourself with the mouse. Unfortunately, we noted an odd bug with 
 a joystick: The throttle was always stuck to full, regardless of how much calibration we did. We 
 also noted some crash issues at certain points of the game.  

          You'll lose plenty of bogies in that stunning starlight.     

  Spaceforce does earn 
 kudos for some of the prettiest space combat action seen in a while, as the empty void is anything 
 but boring. There's usually a beautiful planet to behold, strange anomalies to encounter, and the 
 hulks of dead space stations to gaze at. Meanwhile, the ship designs range from sleek to appropriately 
 alien and exotic. Perhaps the one thing that the game captures better than any space game before 
 it is lightning, particularly when you're trying to dogfight an opponent who's hiding against the 
 blinding light of a star, making you momentarily lose track of him. It's a tactic used by real-world 
 fighter pilots to this day, and it adds to the challenge and cinematic nature of the combat. If 
 only the sound effects were as impressive. You have only the standard array of whooshing noises 
 and such, along with lame cockpit voice chatter as you listen to bad guys try to trash talk you. 

  If you can get past the steep learning and difficulty curves, there's a pretty deep game to unearth. 
 The combat in Spaceforce is challenging, the stuff to do is interesting, and the pace of the game 
 rarely drags.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Spaceforce: Rogue Universe is one of the better space sims to hit the market in recent years. It 
 doesn't stand up to Darkstar One, but it's still fun to play. The graphics are nice to look at 
 and the sound effects and background music add to the experience. Voice acting is overly melodramatic 
 and amateurish, but it doesn't detract too much from the overall experience. In a nutshell, it's 
 X: Beyond the Frontier with a greater combat focus.
  
  The control scheme needs work. Mouse control is cumbersome, and joystick support is pretty minimal. 
 There's no support for throttle or twist-handle joysticks, though with Logitech's mapping software 
 I was able to get past that. Targeting is flaky: target visible is really the only option that 
 works well, though "target weakest" sometimes helps.
  
  The manual is really more of an extended brochure, giving you an overview of gameplay features 
 but no real idea of how to use them. That would be forgivable if there was a PDF manual on the 
 CD or web site, but there isn't. Analysis of the control scheme gives you some clues as to how 
 things work, but it takes some trial and error to figure things out.
  
  Also, as in most economy driven games, you have to pay for everything - missiles, ship upgrades, 
 etc, so the economy takes some figuring out and can be frustrating until you build up some cash.
 
  
  The mission system is strange. You have to pay to accept a mission, and you can accept on behalf 
 of any civilization, rather than the more normal "civilization X needs help with this...". Also, 
 they don't tell you which civilization you're attacking, so you can end up attacking your friends 
 and wrecking your diplomacy rating without realizing it.
  
  These flaws notwithstanding, the dogfighting is fun, the universe is dynamic and exciting, and 
 the missions rewarding. If you can survive the trial-and-error learning curve, it turns out to 
 be a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjones828
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  At first when I first got this game, I was frustrated like most other people. I don't get sea sick, 
 but looking at the yawing and pitching I started to. I got used to that, patching the game was 
 frustrating in the extreme. I got the game from Steam so you have to go to great lengths to patch 
 it. Without the patch, enemiest just don't die. Ever!
  
  I got the game patched, got used to the controls. Once you get used to the controls, the game is 
 right up there with the other great space sims. Combat is a little frustrating, you get used to 
 the AI's control of the enemy ships. Even Easy Difficulty isn't easy. For the money it's a great 
 game, you will find plenty of things to do, money is easy to make for upgrades and such.
  
  The only thing that isn't great about the game and is greatly lacking, is the flight control for 
 docking at the space stations. You have a autopilot for that function, and I suggest you use it. 
 Even that can be tricky sometimes.
  
  After reading the reviews that people have given this game I would say that some of them are correct 
 in the fact that Yes there is a learning curve for alot of things in this game, but overall if 
 you are willing to learn, and you are given the chance to learn everything by trial and error, 
 you will find this game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eriel75
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game aint bad. the 1st time i played it i wanted to throw it away coz i was so frustrated 
 abt the controls and not getting the enemies.
  
  tip: its alot easier playing in 3rd person, just like the old wing commander days. use alot of 
 rolls and getting the enemies shouldnt be a problem. played it for abt 30 mins yesterday..... i 
 died twice,
  but i got 3 baddies to go down with me. feels good when u see them blow up. i docked but had no 
 money to get new parts. putting this game on hold now as i think this game will require all your 
 attention to really realise its potential.
  
  i tried getting darkstar but it cant seem to run on my vista. says there is a missing .dll file. 
 maybe i'll try again, change the compatability to windows xp service pack 2 and run as admin.
 
  
  i'm currently playing spore, lost empire: immortals.
  (which take up all my time already)
  
  but give spaceforce a try. 3rd person.
  its like after 
 you get a few wof that baddies down, u just want to play more. i had to really force myself to 
 stop yesterday as i have the others to concentrate on.
  Sweet!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Two-Cans-short
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game when visiting London I thought I had gotten myself a little bit of gold 
 there, and in a way I had but not quite. 
  Basically there are two things that I demand from almost any game I buy: Good looking graphics 
 and easily learnable control system. The graphics are there, make no mistake about that, but when 
 anything is happening in the game such as an enemy attacks your ship or you have to dock at station 
 I dont want to have to look for the "/" symbol on my keyboard to do anything. 
  Now, I would remap the controls if there werent so many actions that already have their designated 
 buttons. 
  I have a joystick but its not so much a "joy"stick when controlling this game because you cant 
 slow your ship down to save your life.
  So its a nice game to have IF you want to do a finger marathon on your keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raffid
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game out for two hours before giving up on it. The first level is way too hard and 
 I had no idea what I was doing. The three second tutorial consists of your ships computer telling 
 you whats on your HUD and what they mean. There is no actual tutorial and no where do you learn 
 how to dogfight or fly your ship. Looking through the keyboard controls helps a little bit, but 
 even after knowing what buttons to press, I still couldn't kill anything. The first enemies you 
 fight are way too fast and your guns are way too weak..
  
  My guess is that the developers spent way too much time on making this game look good, and completely 
 forgot about the beginning of the game. It's rare that I'll give up on a game so fast, but this 
 was ridiculous.
  
  I am a huge fan of space sim games like Freelancer, DarkStar One, and Freespace. This game simply 
 does not live up to the standards set by those games. If you want a good game, I suggest you try 
 out one of the ones I mentioned. If you have your heart set on Spaceforce, I suggest you download 
 the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Graham
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Spaceforce isn't as easy to get into as Freelancer but it has more depth. It isn't as deep as X3 
 but is easier to get into. For me this creates the perfect balance. I would even go as far as saying 
 it's my favorite space sim since Privateer 2. So what does it do right? Well it's certainly not 
 the story mode, that's terrible... if your playing it for the story. The enjoyment of this game 
 comes from the well crafted galaxy you can explore and the many ways the game lets you advance.
 
  
  Gameplay: This game features action packed dogfights similar to Freelancer but unlike Freelancer 
 activities like mining are far more interesting and rewarding. The combat for the most part is 
 maybe a touch on the easy side but sometimes you get yourself into a battle where you really need 
 to fight for your life. The reason for this is there is no jack of all trades guns, there is more 
 then just the simple hull buster or shield buster. Different types of guns work better on the various 
 different types of hulls and shields then others.
  
  There is many options for upgrading your ship. You can mine asteroids for crafting material, buy 
 crafting material or buy weapons. As well as ship upgrade related products the shops have many 
 miscellaneous items that can be traded for profit or loss and the trading system isn't half bad 
 but I wouldn't say it's the focus of this game. The crafting system isn't really deep either but 
 it makes upgrading your ship more fun then if you just bought everything at shops and adds to the 
 RPG elements the game attempts. There is also a number of different classes to choose from which 
 give your character advantages or disadvantages depending on the situation.
  
  Graphics: Spaceforce is a good looking game, the engine is very scalable and it gives you options 
 that change the graphical styling of the game. You can have soft lighting for a more fantasy sci-fi 
 look or normal for a more realistic look.
  
  Sound: The music has a lot of variety and most of it is very good. It ranges from classical to 
 techno and for the most part goes well with what is happening on screen. Weapons and explosions 
 sound good too.
  
  Value: If you enjoy this game you could spend a very long time playing it. There is a lot to see 
 and do and there is also many different ways to see and do things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I found GS review of SF 2 surprising giving it a (7.5) rating thus knowing that GS is strict when 
 it comes to reviewing games compared to other sites I jumped on board hastily. SF 2 or Rogue Universe 
 as they call it now is a decent space combat sim but the story, plot and game play is a little 
 too shallow for my tastes. Voice acting is really horrid and when you read this fact in other reviews 
 below believe them. You can play the story line or free campaign but honestly I did not see much 
 deference between the two. Both are really the same thing being able to go with the story line 
 missions or play as you feel in free mode.
  
  The sounds are decent (not voices) and compared to other space combat games they are aceptable 
 but I thought DS 1 had overall better sounds than SF 2.
  
  Graphics: Now this is what really saves the game. The detail is wonderful and even though most 
 of the shimmering stars, nebulas and space phenomenon are wonderful to behold they are really just 
 back drops and not three - dimensional objects in space. However, this has to be one of the best 
 looking space games outside of X-3 I have ever played with details and resolution on the highest 
 settings. DS 1 doesn't even come close here.
  
  Replay: You never finish the game even in story mode because you can play the side missions, mine, 
 trade, pirate, police, etc. until your heart's content. Overall: SF 2 is a decent space combat 
 sim that does a good job of entertaining it's clients in the short term but you will get bored 
 quickly if you are expecting a high caliber story line and plot. If this is the case then pass 
 this game up and look toward Tarr Chronicles that is coming at the end of September this year. 
 The game will have the story line and mission design that is linear in nature that is not present 
 here. If you can look passed the fact that SF 2 is a immersive but short, shallow ride then it 
 will satisfy your space foraging needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRM398
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  After waiting for a while now for the new release, I found myself torn while reading the reviews 
 of others. The solution seemed straight forward, try the demo first. If you have a love of the 
 older games, back when coms traffic was in 2d and a still picture was used as a popup, then you 
 might really enjoy this game. They seem to be going for the retro look, the universe is nice with 
 great color and detail, but the story is about a young boy who at 6-8 yrs old, saw his father die. (standing 
 in a field on a planet, looking into space.. gooooood eyesight there, Jim) .. He never forgets and 
 becomes an emotional cripple. 20 years later, probaly after some time in a hospital, he finally 
 trys for his pilots license, at about 28. His instructor is very lienient, turn on 5 satellites 
 to pass. I wish I had him as my instructor in driving class. The story, is obviously just to get 
 him in a ship and out into the universe, its saddly done and shallow. You cant even take a mission 
 without his emotional problems stepping in to remember his sister loved pizza, or the colors of 
 this system, or something. (back to the hospital there bud) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I couldnt figure it out. I tried... The concept seemed pretty cool and even getting started was 
 fun and pleasing to the eye, but when you start playing... your just lost. There is simply no way 
 to know what to do or where to go. Odd game to say the least, ODD how they spend so much time making 
 the game look amazing and dont give anyone the means to enjoy playing it. The designers need to 
 pay attention to the players and atleast release a tutorial or somthing. to add, I was really disapointed, 
 I have been waiting a long while for a space game and this one simply added to a continual problem 
 with not enough good product out there. I LOVE FREELANCER AND YOU WILL TOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panzer75
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Sadly this project is not finished. Huge number of bugs make this game not interesting. Great idea, 
 Elite and Frontier clone, games that everyone wanted to see resurrected on PC, but this game just 
 failed. If developers just spent more time on fixing bugs, it would be perfect ! This way - disappointing. 
 Pure idea is perfect, trading, combat and upgrading - that is what every fan of legendary Elite 
 wants. Even when patch was released recently, it did not fix this game. There are even some new 
 bugs after it ! Often game should be reinstalled so that some bugs disappear. That means playing 
 from beginning, and it is frustrating if you reached certain level. I do not like when game is 
 released before it is even finished. This one is like that. Gamers expect and wait for this kind 
 of games for very long time - they are all disappointed now, unfortunately including me also.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenMatrix
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Some say, it's the noobs that don't know how to play I say shaddap! I've been playing games since 
 the TRS 80 you putz!
  
  I tried this game at a friends house, I wasn't impressed at all quite frankly. He kept on saying, 
 wait until the patch, wait until the patch, this game will rock... I found out about the patch 
 and called him to see if it was worth buying... The guy was so peeved off that they didn't FIX 
 anything in the areas so many folks wanted fixing that he told me he uninstalled it and that I 
 could pick up his copy. So I did.. a free game is a free game, right? He totally deleted the files 
 so there's no piracy, he basically gave me his copy.
  
  I have to say I was excited! Until I saw that nothing had changed from before the patch, the game 
 was still as boring as I saw it was at my friend's crib... No changes, nothing new.. just seems 
 to run smoother. So OK now we have smooth crap.. but it still seems to be just that... crap. Who 
 did the voice-overs? Certainly not professionals!
  Who wrote the story? Absolutely not professionals!
  Who designed the missions? Not even close 
 to knowing what he was doing!
  Who created the GUI? A graphic design drop-out!
  Who designed the ships? Well ok those are fine! Who thought of the purchase interface? A high school 
 kid that never used tabs in his life! Or had a trapper keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ack2000
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  sadly this is a almost direct rip off of game that came out in the early 90's called privateer, 
 part of the wing commander series. If you never played the original then this a great buy. The 
 story line and factions have been slightly changed. Spaceforce Rogue universe has better graphics 
 and is fun to play.
  
  As this is a nice follow up or revamp of the original it lacks something that I can not put words 
 that privateer had. At least in privateer you had the ability to land on planets and get mission 
 from there. There was also better description of the ships and equip. Spaceforce had no tutorial 
 thats not so bad but if the manual is lacking also.
  
  original:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Wing_Commander:_Privateer
  you can download it at http://priv. solsector. net/files. htm 
 been release to public free of charge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szabig
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Spaceforce is a preety cool space sim, I have completed the game so my review is not after 5 min 
 gameplay :) It took me about 40 hours to finish the main quest and fully upgraded a Valky 2 heavy 
 fighter. Many people complained about the lack of tutorial actually for me it was a relief cause 
 I hate tutorials, most of them are really boring and annoying. The game has nice graphics but sounds 
 could have been much better. Not having a save system is not a problem at all its kind of cool 
 since you don't have to worry about saving. The gamplay is fun you can experience cool and exicitng 
 spacefights you can use missiles like nuclear torpedo.. They should make some multiplayer mod, 
 it would be really cool!
  
  The problem is that once you complete the story mod and max out your ship there is nothing left 
 to do since by then you will get sick of the side quests which are not bad but most of them are 
 the same, withuot spoiling anything the main quest story sucks!
  The timing and cloaking devices are big joke to put it shortly! I tottaly agree with people saying 
 that the game could have been much better the basis is good they just need to improve basicly everything 
 better story, side quests .......
  I still recommend playing the game to all space fans!
  
  Some tips for TOTAL NOOBS:
  Many people complained about how hard the game is.
  It's actually 
 too easy !!
  This is not the Enterprise and you are not Cpt. Piccar got it.
  You are a pilot and can get shot down once your shield is taken down you get a couple of torpedos 
 and ist over specially if several ships shoting you at once.
  
  First: load up as many torpedoes you can and use them once you take down their shield keep firing 
 them and you can take them befor they use their nanobot. the misiles are your real advantage agains 
 the AI.
  
  Second: Primary weapons are not effective against everybody For example turbolasers are good against 
 pirates but usless agains the collective..
  
  Third: Select a friendly ship open com channel (look up option controls if you don't know) press 
 1 join formation and you have a wingmen fighting on your side (costs money) and taking orders from 
 you. You can have up to 3 wingmen So you load up the best missiles and hang out with 3 ships on 
 your side the game becomes too easy you can actually have some poor ship with big space and trade 
 around.
  I was palying soldier class and my ship was strong so fro me 1 wingmen was more than enough. I 
 let you figure out the rest..
  HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertbolivar
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I honestly do not know how anyone can give this piece of JUNK anything above 3 points. How the 
 ever-so-wise-and fair Gamespot reviewer could even think of giving this piece of cow-dung a 7.5 
 is beyond me!
  
  The game is incomplete! No tutorial.
  No Key mapping help.
  Terrible mission design, infantile, stupid and lame.
  Limited ships, just the same design reconfigured... 
 nothing new.
  THE WORST IN GAME VOICES EVER!
  A horrible intro movie.
  No Joystick control.
  Stupid GUI, unclear, blurry, with crappy radar setup.
  Incredibly unintelligent 
 A. I.
  
  The only good thing this game has going for it is the outer space graphics.
  The rest, GUI, textures... horrible!
  
  There is no movement in the character shots... supposedly 
 those are video feeds when they talk over the comm channel... Static, not even simple lip movement. 
 This takes me away from being immersed.
  
  I'm going to see if I can return this piece of junk today.. if not I will give it to my worst enemy 
 so that he can turn his brain to mush by playing the stupidest game ever created.
  
  WHAT AN INCREDIBLE WASTE OF $30! I could have gotten a couple of pizzas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Spaceforce gets the basics right; graphics, controls, combat sounds and most of the gameplay is 
 spot on, but whatever the reason, a large amount of minor details makes this game tedious to play. 
 I have to admit I didn't finish the game, not even close, so it might get better towards the end, 
 but personally I had enough of it quite quickly.
  
  Spaceforce has two play modes, free sandbox type of play and a story mode, I chose the story mode 
 since it seems to offer both kinds of gameplay. Spaceforce also throws some RPG elements in the 
 mix, such as the weapon damage system and RPG type ship upgrading process. It all sounds good until 
 you start the game, the opening cinematic is one of the lamest I've seen, but even that pales in 
 comparison to the horrid dialogue and voice acting, the dialogue is so bad that it's not even funny, 
 the comments coming out of the main character's mouth are so clish&eacute; that you start wondering 
 if the game is supposed to be some sort of parody, unfortunately I don't think that's the case.
 
  
  If that isn't enough to drive away the most determined space sim fans (such as I) , the first mission 
 might very well do it for you. Even tho you're only fighting few enemies, it's so sadistically 
 difficult that I can only wonder what the devs were thinking when they made it, I personally tried 
 it and failed around 5 times before finding the difficulty option hidden in your pilot statistics 
 page, after changing it to easy I quickly defeated the enemies.... only to get stuck again, after 
 browsing GS forums I found out how to proceed and the game really began.
  
  Tho things got easier after adapting the controls and getting used to the combat system, some issues 
 remained, such as the overlong dog fights. In Spaceforce defence is often the best offence, hitting 
 the enemy ships is not very difficult, but the ship's main weapons do very little damage, and when 
 you can use nanobots to repair armor and the shields are self recharging you're in for some long 
 and boring fights. Add to this some cruising around while you wait for your jump engines to reload 
 and you find yourself quickly thinking why be doing this unless someone pays me? .. Devs also 
 left some furiating bugs behind, like for e. g. the help screen appearing in the middle of the screen 
 and refusing to go away if you've changed the keybinds, effectively forcing you to ctrl+alt+del 
 your way out of the game making you lose your progress, not to mention using joystick causes the 
 accelator to get stuck on full etc.
  
  Spaceforce does have some things working for it tho, the weapons are nicely designed, sounds are 
 good (except voice acting) , graphics and the visual sty-le are very pretty without bringing your 
 PC down to its knees, combat involves some nice tactical details such as using bright stars to 
 hide your ship, using correctly timed EMP burst to take down missiles, and having different types 
 of weapons do varying amounts of damage to different materials. Controls, despite some possible 
 bugs with joystick work smoothly when playing with KB+mouse configuration, but even tho I don't 
 require my games to guide the player by the hand all the time, some tips on what buttons to press 
 could had made the controls quicker to learn and the experience more enjoyable.
  
  In the end the fact that us space sim fans don't have much choise in the genre might be the best 
 argument for getting it, and is propably enough to force me to eventually return to it also, but 
 unless you REALLY need a new space sim I advice you to steer clear of Spaceforce, there are definitely 
 better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdanunisys
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is my very first review, i never write one before because i never thing it was necessary to 
 write one, you have sayed all about the others games, but for this what ever it is i just this 
 to say: stupid game, very stupid game, d not belive me just play the game and tray to save and 
 load the stupid game is so ..................... stupid, very stupid one of the things which are 
 new and are ok is the 2 device , time and clock device that is ok but the game is stupid
  
  ps : i hope this is my last review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastersmith
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  If there is one thing I can say, it is this game is one of the worst overall games I have seen, 
 and Space sims are my favorite outside of RPG. It looked good in the trailer, and after the dissappointment 
 I got with Dark Star One, I was hoping it would play well. Boy was I wrong. The plot is rather 
 dull, the economy is a joke, ship customization is far too expencive then it should be, controll 
 system is rather ridgid. The AI is good, but poor ship design puts a dampener on it. They should 
 have spent more time on gameplay, and less time on graphics.
  
  A clone of freelancer, a rather BAD clone. Starlancer was better then this game. Freeplay is nice, 
 or at least it would be, if the rest of the game was not so terrible. Still... if you can get past 
 all that initial frustration and disappointment, there is a very deep game here. I am going to 
 stick with it a bit longer, praying the patch comes out soon that will with any hope, fix all the 
 bugs. The Graphics are awsome, but its all flash, no bang... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mchristie
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  why oh why do developers promise so much and deliver so little? firstly, given six months more 
 development this could of been something special. secondly know your user base inside out, provox 
 must of known the kind of ppl who would buy SF2 and still produced such a weak piece of software. 
 have the developers never played elite, privateer ,the x series, even tie fighter a ten year old 
 game that feels more modern than this effort. lastly, this game is so broken its hardly playable 
 why is my throttle stuck on full power what am i supposed to do now? on the case it says discover 
 space, i say discover freelancer which is what this game wants to be me thinks. if you want to 
 see something special goto www. fl-tw/infinity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Spaceforce Rouge Universe is a game I have been looking for for at least a month. When i got it 
 i thought space will be cool. All is installed so i start it up. I look through the start menu 
 and find no tutorial. So i click start and just start the game instead. After the crappiest voice 
 acting (that you can't skip) , You find yourself next to a giant space station. Visuals- Check 8/10
 
  
  Controls- Check 6/10
  
  Sound- Check 5/10
  
  Now gameplay. Overall it's good but theres some typos, bugs, and thing that thry could have done. 
 They could of at least gone through it with a fine tooth comb. Also the space traveling gets really 
 annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_balo
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  While the graphics are nice and you'll probably see some cool visuals, the game lacks substance.
 
  You'll be thrown in there with no directions at all on how to do... well just about anything. 
 Plus the voice acting is just... just... god awful.
  
  Rather then to just pummel the game to the ground with my virtual penis (which is enormous by the 
 way) , I'll write about my experience.
  
  First mission - activate five radars.
  
  Ok, here I'm thinking I'll get some pointers on how to maneuver effectively. Bad luck for me because 
 the game just throws couple of pirates on my tail.
  Ok. I was dead before I could activate my thrusters.
  No biggie. I'll restart. Oh goody - an 
 enormously long loading screen.
  I got up, heated some pizza leftovers, ate it, went for stroll in the park and when I got back 
 I still had some time to catch up on some reading.
  
  Finally I was able to extract my revenge. In your face pirates.
  After bumping into all of the 
 radars and pressing every key on my keyboard in finally found out you can activate them by simply 
 pressing 'Enter' in the right distance.
  Oh well.
  Mission over.
  
  Let me say that things didn't get better. After that I was bumping into all the meteor in the freaking 
 galaxy, while trying to find a simple docking hole/place/thingy. And after that the game really 
 got on my nerves.
  Switching galaxies - more excruciatingly painful loading.
  Enemies - dumb morons with more firepower then you'll ever have circling around you.
  
  But 
 I'm not saying that you won't have fun with it. I was smiling with utter joy when I was un-installing 
 it.
  
  Unless you want to spend hours of your life trying to find out the inner workings of a below then 
 average game. I suggest to just walk past it.
  
  Definitely not worth the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don`t know how to describe this game. I never get pass the first mission, since controls 
 don`t work and even with afterburner the satellites or the pirates don`t get close . I tried 3 
 times to start the plot and I got : one blocked ship, dead in space - no, I didn`t hit the kill 
 engine key !? ; one ship not moving at all, for some reason, beyond the boundary of a space station 
 and no pirates, even that I heard them speaking ; one ship seeing pirates and satellites, but for 
 some reasons not moving , etc. A game who fail to ~ move ~ the action from second one is lost to 
 the players and it`s a pity for the work they put in creating new civilizations. How could you 
 note gameplay, difficulty, sound, value, etc. when Spaceforce doesn`t feel like a game ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1000
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game had and still has the raw potential to be top of the tree space shooter / trading game 
 aka elite. Unfortunately that is all it has, potential. Once again the current plague of the PC 
 games market has raised it's ugly head and another far from finished game hits the shelves. Normally 
 this is the fault of publishers and unreasonable deadlines, men in suits who's only motivation 
 is the width of their ever growing wallets. With Spaceforce: Rogue Universe however I think the 
 developer also needs to shoulder some of the responsibility as many of the small and extremely 
 annoying bugs hit you in the face after only a couple of hours playtime. Bugs such as commands 
 and functions that quite simply do not work as intended and a few that do not work at all. One 
 major, game breaking bug causes the entire right side of the screen to turn white when closing 
 on some mission objectives. This can be fixed temporarily by jumping back to the station but will 
 only happen again as soon as you attempt to once again head for the mission. This particular bug 
 has not yet appeared in the story missions but seems quite common with the side missions.
  
  Flaws also exist in the game design. Flaws such as being able to take missions for a certain 
 faction that involve you attacking one of that factions structures and was handed out in that factions 
 space station. Okay this may seem petty but the fact that an EMD station hands out a side mission 
 to destroy an EMD spacedock in order to greatly aid the UF ( the EMD's greatest enemy) does smack 
 realism in the face with a wet fish.
  
  Perhaps the greatest flaw in the game design however is one that would immediately be familiar 
 to any MMO player, the existance of the dreaded grind.
  
  In order to advance it is essential that you upgrade your ship with better weapons, armour etc. 
 or indeed buy a newer, bigger and more powerful ship. No problems there but how it is achieved 
 involves either hours upon end of smacking one asteroid after another to gather saleable materials 
 or smacking one pirate ship after another to nick his cargo. I should also point out that the mining 
 option involves the purchase of special mining tools that wear out with each successful attempt, 
 which is clearly a money sink that the developers felt was needed but honestly it wasn't and just 
 adds to the monotony.
  
  Now if the grind mentioned above was restricted to the freeform game then fair enough, that really 
 isn't the essence of the game and gives people something to do once they have cracked the main 
 campaign. Unfortunately it is also an integral part of the campaign itself which is a very bad 
 thing and a serious design flaw. A few missions in and doing well when all of a sudden the next 
 one is so far out of your league that it's in the next universe, which leaves the player not only 
 blown into a million space particles but back on the treadmill. Hit rocks, hit pirates, sell stuff, 
 hit rocks, hit pirates, sell stuff, add points to something ..... rinse and repeat.
  
  Overall Spaceforce: Rogue Universe is a mediocre, unfinished and badly designed product. Buy it 
 only if there is nothing else out there and you really really need a fix of pixelated tedium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Upon installing and starting this game your presented with (and the only way to configure anything) 
 starting screen, you then click play and a short while later the main screen with loading your 
 pilot starts. Once selected then comes the HIDEOUS loading time (30 secs+) and your dumped right 
 in the middle of someone else's war. Your ship has bugger all protection and a laser weapon that 
 has the same class as a type 2 lacky band. But wait the stupid onboard computer is chatting in 
 your ear that your shield is down but the thing isn't???, the enemy is flying around like they've 
 had 230 pints of Guinness and you die. You will die several times before you work out what's going 
 on and can start chosing your destiny (whether to keep playing or not) .
  
  I've been playing (according to the stats screen, 572 something, days minutes, fingernails, who 
 knows) . The only way to make a decent amount of money is to buy mining tools and mine the asteroids 
 and build up your inventory. Each time you do you'll have the stupidly annoying computer voice 
 telling you that you've 'Found some goods', oh but wait, there's nothing there?! So after playing 
 for maybe 10+ hours plus you eventually get enough cash together to start upgrading your tin can. 
 This game does compare to a space sim, but none that are currently released, even a game 4 years 
 old in Freelancer. I would suggest abit of patience in playing this or a mouse will end up thru 
 the monitor.
  
  The graphics are very well done with alot of particles around, the planets are well drawn and the 
 space stations are worth stopping for a look. The spaceships, well the smaller ones zoom around 
 and the larger craft hang in the sky just like all the other space sims.
  
  The sound is just like the music from X2/X3, ambient chilling and quite good to listen too, BUT 
 you've got the most ANNOYING voice talent ever invented to soon end that. Your welcomed into a 
 station via a long dialog that's still continuing after you've landed and off getting a cup of 
 coffee. The computer voice ... well please PLEASE P L E A S E, release a patch to turn it off and 
 the enemy voices sound like they were recorded by people whp'd had a cold for a month.
  
  I'd anticipated this game with baited breath as alot of hype about a sim that compares to those 
 games already mentioned could be the 2007 GOTY. Nope, bollocks, bargain bin, it is, would recommend 
 to someone who's looking for a beginner's space sim but then Freespace 2 is still my space sim. 
 Its a pity because alot of times seems to have gone into the graphics, and then along comes the 
 people who did the storyline and the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breslin_
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Opportunities like this only come around once every couple years, and if you're a big fan of the 
 genre like I am, it's extremely depressing to see such a promising game wasted. It truly had amazing 
 potential, but Provox (the developer) hired an incompetent and zero-experience novice to do the 
 high-level game design, destroying the game in the process.
  
  What's really amazing is how much effort went into the game on the basic stuff -- engine, art, 
 etc. -- and how little effort went into directing this to a great gaming experience. In the grand 
 scheme of things, it takes relatively little money to hire a good writer/designer, compared to 
 the rest of the investment. If only they had done that, this game would absolutely sing. As it 
 is, it sinks like a stone.
  
  The game really does not play well. There's a lot of unpolished and apparently untested aspects 
 of the game. For instance navigation is very difficult/tedious. You cannot set way-points or ride 
 in trade-lanes, autopilot doesn't work, and it takes like 5-10 minutes (in real time) for the jump 
 drive to recharge. So traveling from point A to point B is about as tedious as sitting there watching 
 a large file download from the internet.
  
  It's difficult to believe that the game was beta-tested before it was released. The excuse has 
 been that the publisher rushed the game towards the end, but that doesn't explain the horrible 
 choices they made about the writing. Being rushed doesn't imply that you'll hire somebody who is 
 horribly under-qualified and incompetent.
  
  They hired an incompetent 19-year-old student with zero experience to do the entire mission design 
 and writing. He did even worse than you'd imagine. Here's the mission outline for the first two 
 missions of the main campaign:
  
  Mission 1:
  Perform a dogfight against two ships. (highly difficult)
  Perform a scan five times in a row. 
 (highly tedious)
  
  Mission 2:
  Perform a dogfight against one ship.
  
  Yes, that's it. Zero thought went into this. I'm not even going to get started on how bad the writing 
 is. As another reviewer said, A Saturday morning cartoon looks like Hamlet in comparison with the 
 story. (Brett Todd -- gamesradar. com)
  
  There's no tutorial of any kind, so learning how to deal with the command interface is slow and 
 awkward. And even once you get good at it, it's still awkward, which again suggests that it wasn't 
 well tested. For instance, every time you tractor in some goods (from a kill) , you have to go to 
 the inventory menu to select which ones you'll keep. There's no way to select take all by default. 
 So every single kill essentially requires a tedious menu to deal with.
  
  Some may believe that a patch will fix major problems, but the major problems are so major that 
 this is exceedingly unlikely. They would have to rewrite the entire campaign, for example. That's 
 not something one can simply patch.
  
  The game is badly balanced. On discussion boards everywhere people are complaining that it's really 
 difficult to win the very first battle. This is because the developers didn't try to make the game 
 playable, let alone enjoyable. (From a game-design point of view, the first mission is supposed 
 to show you how to play the game; it's not supposed to be a highly difficult trial.)
  
  From a bare simulation point of view, the game is playable, and a patch might even make it enjoyable 
 in a very limited sense, although the stuff that *badly* needs fixing will never be fixed by a 
 patch.
  
  But even if the game becomes playable, I recommend boycotting the game. Developers need to learn 
 that it's not cool to destroy a game with so much potential. -- That post-purchase concerns like 
 fun are as important as pre-purchase advertising. The writer needs to be fired immediately. And 
 the person who hired him needs to be shot at dawn.
  
  The business model which produced this game is something like ecstatic customers and deeply disappointed 
 customers are paying customers all the same. If you buy it, then their business model works, which 
 means future business ventures will follow this model. Next year there will be a deeply disappointing 
 game which could have been great if only a little extra investment went into it. It would be nice 
 if, when they're doing their cost-benefit analysis, they get the feeling that the benefits of producing 
 a good game outweigh the extra cost. -- There's only one way to vote in this contest: with your 
 wallet.
  
  If you buy the game, your vote is cast in favor of de-prioritizing and under-budgeting game-play, 
 design, writing, and indeed beta-testing. Somehow I don't think you want that.
  
  In any case, do not even consider buying this game until you have tried the demo! You'll easily 
 see from the demo how badly the game is designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake40000
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok i love space sims... alot like freelancer or even dark star one, although the best in my eyes 
 was X2 and X3. the thing with this game is that there is well ill put it out this way.
  
  Downs -Controls. pretty usless they take a bit to get used to but you cant edit them and flying 
 striaght is hard.
  -Point. The best way to get money is to kill pirates and do missions what is the point of trading 
 if you dont make good money that way.
  -Plot. How pathetic is it when you use a plot that has been over used. Where is my sister i have 
 to protect her. Really name one person who has not heard of that plot.
  -Hud all i can say is wow the radar is not the best in the world all it is, is little lights that 
 you can barly see the difference with.
  
  Ups
  -Grafics. Pretty sharp they capture alot of detail even if there not perfect.
  -.... i cant think 
 of any others.
  
  basicly to say try a older game this one is not worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigodc01
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Well u gonna make it short all this game have are some pretty graphics and flying stunts , theres 
 no depth in the game .the only way to make money is doing missions . Meaning shoot and kill.
  
  i dont know how some people dare to say that this was going to be fl2 , no change , the game 
 lacks a good story line , missions are poorly writen , NO MULTIPLAYER NO MULTIPLAYER NO MULTIPLAYER 
 N
  
  Im not a mulplayer fanatic but we always want to bet the crap out some friend how can a game developer 
 make a game with no multiplayer support ? same thing happened with darkstar one (altough dso have 
 a economy system if im not mistaken )
  
  IF U ARE LOOKING FOR A REAL SPACE SIM with amazing mods great community, economy system ( theres 
 even a dynamic economy system in the north quadrant mod ) Freelancer graphics are also quite impressive 
 for a 4 years old game . And a important thing when u look to space force ships it seem that they 
 come out directly from freelancer intro movies or the ingame ships itself.
  
  Freelancer multiplayer rocks just image 128 players in the same server ( yes i just saw it 3 days 
 ago in the void server 107 players online in the server) plus u have a persistent world all ur 
 info is stored inthe server so u can play the game in rpg style and anyone can set up a rpg server 
 since freelancer have a dedicated server that keep players info stored Visit www. lancersreactor. com 
 for more info on freelancer and forget this game that brings bad reputation to the spacim sim genre 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent_wolff
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  I tried it, really gave it a chance for the whole 2 days, but now I surrender. The bottom line 
 is: I don't like this game. From the first ( tutorial ) mission it puts you right into combat with 
 2 pirate ships. I had to restart 9-10 times to learn how to beat them by myself in absence of any 
 hint from the game. The game was not helpful at all. Then comes the sector map. Its useless. I 
 don't like the interface, it looks cheap and its not that useful. Voice acting is horrible. Graphics 
 are OK but not breath-taking. It's pity this game came out too early, maybe 6 more months of polishing 
 could make all the difference. I expected a lot more from this game - got almost nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProgZmax
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  As a long standing fan of the Elite series I admit that when it comes to space adventure games 
 I am difficult to please; recent attempts like Darkstar One and X/X2/X3 have left a bad taste in 
 my mouth due to their extremely buggy designs and emphasis on wow graphics over anything interesting 
 to do, and regardless of the love some people hold for Freelancer I just never shared it because 
 the game was boring for the most part. Enter: Spaceforce, a game set to make you want to actually 
 go into space again and explore, but does it deliver?
  
  Not really. The graphics are certainly beautiful, but designers these days seem to be compensating 
 for a lack of creative flair with bloom and pixel shader 3. The plot of Spaceforce plays out like 
 just about every other game before it with no surprises or innovations. The design likewise suffers 
 from a distinct lack of originality, though I can only blame the industry as a whole for the non-creative 
 garbage they've allowed to spew out in the last ten years.
  
  Story: paper thin and predictable as it gets. You'll most likely want to free play if you play 
 this at all.
  
  Graphics: extremely nice to look at even at the lower settings and it runs smooth on my Geforce 
 6600 GT with max settings and the X-TREME G boosted drivers. Planets look suitably realistic with 
 coronas, asteroid belts in orbit and such. Ship designs are varied and more interesting than a 
 lot of recent space sims and there is the odd nebula or anomaly you can observe.
  
  Design: There's really nothing new here. The missions are extremely run of the mill and are either 
 spy on someone, destroy a building or kill people. They don't even offer escort/trading missions 
 like in Frontier. To top it off the mission structure is buggy and if you take missions in a friendly 
 system prepared to be targeting FRIENDLIES. It boggles the mind how they could have messed that 
 up, but the last thing I want when I take a quest is to go out and discover it's to kill people 
 from the group I'm working for. Also, as far as I can tell you can't actually abort a quest -- 
 at least I haven't been able to. Space station docking is likewise unnecessarily complicated at 
 times, simply because you cannot target and contact stations, only ships. Ship upgrades feel like 
 a watered down version of Darkstar One's approach, though it's better than being stuck with the 
 same crappy loadout until you can afford the bloated ship prices and actually FIND a better ship. 
 Sound: I found the music to be quite good overall and fitting. The dogfight music gets you going, 
 the space music has a good variation and sounds pleasant. The enemy voices are grating at times, 
 particularly since the comments made are quite obviously random at times (a pirate will say his 
 ship is about to blow up and you've barely scratched the shields) .
  
  Gameplay: Moving around in space is about what I expect from a game of this type and the ship is 
 responsive even early on. Trading seems like a last minute addition to the game with a clear emphasis 
 on frequent combat and tractoring in the cargo from your enemies. Mining seems likewise rushed. 
 Enemy AI is also problematic, with aliens that were on your side suddenly turning against you and 
 then being easily bought off with 100 credits. The constant insults and random comments made by 
 the ai pilots adds to the frustration. One other thing that I found really weird are the ships 
 whose sole purpose is to allow you to 'buy' your way into better diplomacy when you can pay off 
 any group from a station. The inability to land on planets or really DISCOVER anything new and 
 interesting in the game is a real negative in my book. Frontier: First Encounters, despite its 
 age, was able to deliver a complete exploration and combat model with hundreds and hundreds of 
 unique systems and planets you could land on and explore. Looking back at games like First Encounters 
 it really makes you wonder why developers aren't stepping up to deliver the kind of depth and entertainment 
 of games made 15 years ago.
  
  Overall: Spaceforce is an interesting but highly flawed game with numerous small but significant 
 shortcomings. It plays like a beta release that's still missing a few things, like a coherent tutorial 
 phase, the ability to contact and target stations, polished quests and varied gameplay. I see no 
 reason to buy a game like this when something like First Encounters is superior in spite of having 
 dated visuals. My advice is to wait for extensive patches and for the game to go on sale, or like 
 me, just keep hoping that someday these guys will stop making shoddy games just to turn some coin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Since Freelancer, alot of space sims have come and gone, and none of them have even come close 
 to beating it and Space Force: Rogue Universe on paper, sounds great. Rpg Space Sim with story 
 mode and a freeform game?! Definately sounds good to me, unfortuntely when you actually get to 
 play the game, its a totally different story. Sure, the visuals look good and the sci-fi background 
 music fits in well, but the game itself is terrible.
  
  Game starts out with a really basic tutorial that really gives you jack all information, not that 
 the manual gives much either. You'll eventually pick up a few ideas being to fly to the nearest 
 Space Station and pick up a few quests, fly through what seems endless space (boring!!) to your 
 target, engage in boring combat where your enemy can do complex and fast turns just to get in a 
 few shots on you to make it seem like a good dogfight, where in fact your target never really had 
 a chance. The targetting system is badly messed up as well, quite often flying to a station and 
 actually trying to dock can be such as frustrating event among other things, oh and don't forget 
 this game is also prone to the odd crash as well.
  
  Everything just seems very outdated, old and badly done in a nutshell. Sure, Rogue Universe will 
 have some hardcore fanbois, but to be honest as space sims go, Elite and Frontier are still the 
 grand daddys of them all with Freelancer coming in 3rd for me, if developers can't even make them 
 half as good as those, then don't even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treadstone71
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why, but I really like this game. It's very difficult at first and requires at least 
 an hour (if not two) of your time before you begin to really get the hang of it. Those not willing 
 to invest the time to figure everything out will dislike this game immensely.
  
  This game is for everyone who played DarkStar One and thought You know, this is a cool game, but 
 **** I wish I wasn't stuck with the same ship throughout the entire game. 
  
  The good:
  It's got the combat emphasis that the X series lacks and it's got the joystick control that Freelancer 
 lacked. It's got the ability to purchase multiple ships (up to 14) that DS 1 lacked. Plus you can 
 upgrade whatever your current ship is in multiple ways. It's got pretty good graphics - lots of 
 eye candy although in Space Combat games, that's almost a requirement since you can't interact 
 with 95% of your environment. It's got cool cockpit graphics which are optional but if you're like 
 me, then you like to have them in place for atmosphere . And it's got a large universe with a fair 
 amount to see and do.
  
  The Bad:
  Like all games of this type, 90% of your missions are go to X and kill Y and it does get repetitive 
 after a while, but I've yet to play an Open Ended Space Combat game that doesn't have this problem. 
 The game has no way of easing you into it - no tutorial and the manual is pathetic. The HUD is 
 not terribly intuitive and figuring out what all the indicators mean and all the keyboard commands 
 actually do is a matter of trial and error or searching on the internet. Add to that a fairly brutal 
 difficulty on the default setting and it makes for a game that's custom tailored to turn off all 
 but the most dedicated Space Combat fans. You can't land on planets - space stations only and you 
 can't look left or right - only straight ahead or behind you.
  
  I guess I like this game because for the last 15 years I've been waiting for a worthy follow up 
 to Privateer which is essentially my all time favorite game. While this game is not that worthy 
 follow up, it is a decent enough experience in the same vein to tide me over until someone does 
 come out with such a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahertz12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game last week and have spent too many hours to mention playing it...
  
  Starting out is the most challenging aspect of this game, but once you get over the initial hurdle 
 THE COMBAT DOES BALANCE OUT! Early on in the game I did have to spend many hours doing menial things 
 to earn enough money so I could afford a heavy fighter. Now that I have a heavy fighter the combat 
 has balanced out (which is probably the fighter class the game was designed around in the first 
 place) . In my opinion its worth the effort as the dog fights alone are really fun, involving, and 
 a challenge (although I rarely die now lol) .
  
  The lows...
  
  Poor in game tutorial information. (I needed to read through the demo help thread to get over the 
 initial information gap.)
  
  Capital ship combat is too easy. (Once you find a safe spot to snipe at capital ships taking them 
 down does not seem like enough of a challenge)
  
  You start out needing to do menial tasks to earn enough moolah to afford the heavy fighter. The 
 highs...
  
  The dog fights are a blast! I've been in dog fights while weaving in and out of asteroids which 
 is way cool! The sound of ships whizzing by you at high speed. Having to time an EMP burst to knock 
 out incoming missiles. Dodging missiles or strafing to miss incoming fire. Plus there are about 
 18 weapons by my guess each with its own stats for the different kinds of shields and hull plating 
 the different races employ so figuring out the right gun (s) to use keeps it interesting.
  
  The in-game physics are nice they add a layer of realism that was missing from other space combat 
 sims like freelancer or the x series.
  
  The graphics in the game are really nice, not perfect, but good.
  
  The sound changes appropriately 
 to the situation you are in. There are different sounds associated with the star bases for the 
 different races also.
  
  The story is interesting and unique. Games only $30!
  
  Overall...
  
  If you enjoy space based combat games you really shouldn't miss this title!
 
  
  And for the record...
  I played EVE for four months. I played Freelancer all the way through. I have played X3 reunion 
 for too many hours to count. I can honestly say that Spaceforce: Rogue Universe tops all of them 
 in my book for fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE. The game is a PIECE OF JUNK. The so called action and intelligent AI he 
 refers to is a melange of sporadic ship spawns. Believe me THERE'S NOTHING INTELLIGENT ABOUT THE 
 AI in this stupid game.
  
  Minkey0002: WE KNOW HOW TO PLAY THE FRAKKING GAME even an IDIOT can beat this game. How DARE try 
 to insinuate that the reason why we leave a bad is because we can't beat the game! Disqualifying 
 our opinions under the premise that we don't know how to kill the stupid AI pirates is a total 
 fallacy and childish on your part. THE GAME SUCKS AND YOU KNOW IT. This is the sole reason we leave 
 the feedback that we do.
  
  But go ahead, download the DEMO and see just how pathetic this game is... Because I guarantee you 
 it doesn't get ANY better in the full version.
  I've flown every single simulator, every single space-fighter game, every online space-sim of every 
 kind... I GUARANTEE THIS GAME BLATANTLY REEKS. It's all hype to get your to finance their other 
 game, 'SpaceForce Captains', which is probably going to be a bigger flop than this piece of junk! 
 Save the cash and buy yourself a couple of pizzas, you'll get a lot more out of your money.
  
  The game is immensely unoriginal... here I am taking my flight test, and wham, who would have 
 thought pirates appear. Great scott guys, wheres the troll guarding the bridge? You couldnt 
 have thought of something actually original?
  
  And man o man is it that hard to find people that speak English clearly and can give the thing 
 some sincere emotion?
  
  After sitting through a horrendous intro movie...
  
  The game runs fine, no glitches, no problem at all with all settings on high. Unless of course 
 I take into account actual visual content because no matter how much MIP mapping, vertex shading, 
 or how many anisotropic milkshakes you throw at a cow, it is, unavoidably just a cow.
  
  The blurry radar I dont like at all. One of the primary functions of a HUD is clarity and the 
 communication of absolute situation awareness. The radar pips are blurry, unclear and having to 
 switch between modes to distinguish between ships and buildings is silly. When different colors 
 or icons would do. Instead of those ball-lighting blobs.
  
  The textures on some of the buildings is horrendous. The bump mapping is WAY too high. It looks 
 as if the buildings were exposed to 3000 years of meteor bombardment. Space age modern tech doesn't 
 require stone bump mapping, sorry.
  
  It has its good points
  I found the flight model adequate its a relief to not have to use a joystick.
  
  The sound 
 is good, music perhaps a bit too upbeat, considering the many hours spent in this type of game 
 toning it down would avoid having to turn it off as Ive had to.
  
  Back to the bad points since they tend to remain in memory longer
  The voice acting is the worst 
 Ive ever heard in the genre! Get some professional voice actors, ones that can actually give a 
 sentence more inflection and emotion than R2D2.
  
  The character visuals are no more than plastered image of a pilot, totally devoid of any lip &amp; 
 head movements. Heck even Wing Commander had more life-infused people in the game.
  
  The trading system is horrible, no real value in trading since I can just blow up pirates, sell 
 the goods, rinse repeat.
  
  Missions are poorly written, fly there, kill pirate, fly to that system turn on satellite. Totally 
 off balance throwing you into the mess without a tutorial.
  The game feels rushed and incomplete.
  
  I want to turn off all the radio chatter, I want to 
 shut down the stupid robot chick that is constantly talking to me, I want to use widescreen graphics 
 with clear type.. unfortunately I can't do any of this.
  
  Docking... oh wow... 1.) approach base 2.) When icon appears hit 'Enter'... Geez, that is way too 
 difficult for me! GIVE-ME-A-BREAK!
  
  Provox released a demo reel that contained fantastic visuals... too bad I see none of that while 
 in the actual game.. oh well.
  
  No other piece of software has let me down as much as this in 26 years of computer gaming. It's 
 back to X3 for me I suppose.
  
  I gotta admit, the Provox people sure do have balls releasing this game like this. In spite of 
 what the FANBOYS would like you to think this game is. IT'S NOT! All it is, is wishful thinking 
 from people whom have waited for a game to replace Freelancer and are still running on fumes because 
 this game's tank is empty! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey0002
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so yeah you maybe curious to know why I'm going up against the other 8 or more reviews already 
 posted which say this game is a waste of money.
  
  Well, it could be, if you don't know what you're buying, so try the demo.
  
  I did and now 
 I got the full game and am loving it even more. I'll start off with the problems, so I can end 
 with the good stuff =D so maybe it won't put you off that much.
  
  Bad:
  
  - Obviously the biggest problem of all is the learning curve. But hey once you get around thats.... how 
 is it a problem for you? Took me an hour to settle in I believe. After that hour is over and you've 
 settled in hopefully, your biggest complaint ceases to exist and so that blows a few of those reviews 
 out into the water.
  
  - Graphics do tend to have some weird effects at times which can be annoying, but you rarely notice 
 them. Only once in a while.
  
  - Story is aweful.... really can't be called a story. If I were you just skip the story and make 
 your own character and do what you like. Actually some of those reviews just talk about how crap 
 the story is and never mentioned the alternative game style.
  
  - Well there are a few minor other problems I've found till now, like seeing where a missle's comming 
 from or knowing what is shooting me (like a turret platform) . Kinda annoying little things but 
 thats all.
  
  Now to get on to the good stuff!!
  
  - Fast action... well the game litterally places you in the story game right in your test and you're 
 attacked right away. In any dog fight, the combat of this game is incredible... all kinds of insane 
 stuff going on, and at the same time you can have a wing of fighters with you aiding you as well. 
 Lasers and bullets blazing everywhere, missles flying by, EMPs knocking those missles out, its 
 quite insane. When you first start out, the stuff you have is crappy but can be replaced, but untill 
 you get the better equipment, you're battles will take long, since you gotta really hit those ships 
 hard.
  Oh by the way, yeah it has a form of Neutonian Physics. You can do quick dodge moves to avoid getting 
 blasted by heavy lazers or hopefully a missle will just miss you if you have no power for an EMP
 
  
  - Incredible AI - Yeah I just put it right on hard, flying through space heading a space station 
 to unload.... next second zzuooommmm 4 enemy fighters warp in and its an insane fight, with missles 
 on my ass like crazy and me trying to shake them. Yeah I lost actually, having a hard time against 
 those missles. The AI itself uses Neutonian Physics!!!
  
  - By the way, once that shield goes, your armour is the only thing between you and death..... and 
 when that armour is getting smacked and wacked, your ship really feels the impact and shakes and 
 can get hard to shoot accurately with. So try to make your shield last!
  
  - Lots of stuff to do.... Trading, crafting, hacking, raiding, the universe is at your disposal. 
 Its what people are calling a Massive Open Ended game, which is like Eve or any other Strategy-Space 
 Sim MMO, except this is an offline sandbox. Personally I prefer Starforce: RU to Eve cause I'm 
 not much into the Strategy Sims. I'm more of a real time, fast paced action, FPS style player. 
 Become a pirate or a bounty hunter. You can even be a policemen lol.
  
  - All kinds of items to your disposal which I haven't seen yet but am dying to get my hands on. 
 2 items in particular are a cloaking device and a time machine or something. No idea how they work, 
 but they are 2 incredibly extremely rare items which you have to make yourself and once you do, 
 they are at your disposal. THe game has 2 keys on your keyboard reserved for those 2 items. Sounds 
 cool. Oh by the way, on youtube there is the recording of a nuclear missle blowing up. Check it 
 out!
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=Nx36pS7exzI
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Let me finish this off by saying, this game has its good and bad sides. Its honestly a good game, 
 but people expected more out of it. Remember the genre its in, which is a dying genre. Needs to 
 be revived a little with something fresh (not saying Starforce: RU is it) , just saying there have 
 been very much worse! Its a good game because there are those people who really enjoy playing it 
 like myself. And then it has its annoying problems with put a lot of people off... in my opinion 
 for the wrong reasons. You don't play this sort of game for the corny story and you can't keep 
 complaining about the game's learning curve if you know how to play the game and settled into it. 
 Anyway, play the demo, find out for yourself if you think you'll enjoy this game or not. The forums 
 on http://www. spaceforce-game. com/forum/ have a tonne of information on how to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that when you make a promise on a box, and fail to deliver on that promise, 
 you deserve every trolling review that is written about you. You were warned and did it anyway. 
 You messed up. Furthermore do not go off on your website as if everything is fine and the problem 
 is in our heads. No. You and your lack of talent are the problem. End of story.
  
  Moving on... This game is crap. What can I say that hasn't already been said? The graphics are 
 horrible. The sound is crap. It takes up almost 5 gigabytes and considering what other games do 
 with that much space I really don't think there is any excuse to release a game this crappy.
  
  The story is bland and almost nonexistent. Oh noes, wheres my sister! My sister! My sister..!! 
 Sound familiar? Of course it does. But, wait! There's more! There's the ever dreadful PIRATES!!! 
 OH MY GOD!! WHAT WILL WE DO?? What the heck do you think you will do? You will just blow them up. 
 But, wait! There's more! More stuff to blow up that is. All you do in this game is blow things 
 up. Except at the beginning; you don't blow things up then because you are too weak to blow things 
 up. Wonderful way to start off a game: With another ignorant arrogant brainless hero . I don't 
 know about you but I am getting quite sick and tired of these developers who OBVIOUSLY know absolutely 
 nothing about video games yet continue to attempt to believe, and persuade, that they do. These 
 people went to college for this. Releasing crappy games like this is no excuse and I am sure this 
 type of stuff wouldn't even pass you through college. Yet there is a whole team of them..... How 
 irritating! Stop wasting our time and money OR don't be surprised when we start wasting yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Looks nice. Takes advantage of NVIDIA cards. But graphics-wise it doesn't stand out that much.
 
  
  Cons: Weak weapons (you can shoot an enemy for 10 minutes straight with your beginning blaster 
 and not so much make a scratch) .
  
  Unintuitive controls (can't remap movement keys like turning controls to the keyboard) .
  
  
 When joystick/keyboard configuration is used, the ship is always stuck on full speed. Terrible 
 voice acting, similar to how bad the voice acting of House of the Dead 1 voice acting. But at least 
 House of the Dead can get away with it because it has virtually no story, but Spaceforce has terrible 
 voice acting and even more horrid scriptwriting, and it is trying to tell a story about an space 
 saga. Not only are the story sequence voice acting terrible, but the h. u. d. remarks of the other 
 pilots are absolutely asinine
  
  When compared to Freespace I and II the controls for this game are absolutely laughable. Please 
 bear in mind that Freespace was made in 1999, this game was made in 2007. The negligence of the 
 developers spans all aspects of this game. Do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razerc
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I start as an UF headhunter with pirate corvette (or what ever it is) and dock to get a quest. 
 When I saw the targets I engaged. I spent all my missiles to one target and I managed to get it's 
 shields halfway down. I tried to use my gauss gun but it was way too underpowered. Target's shield 
 kept coming up.
  
  Now the target engaged me. With only a couple of shots it took my shields halfway down and finished 
 them with missiles so I fled. Nice...
  
  Game looks good and musics are mostly the basic space ambient you hear in every space game. Controls 
 are awful and game's almost impossible with Logitech 3D force pro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Its not a bad game, and its got tons of potential, there is 1 thing that would in and of itself 
 help it TONS, A REAL SAVE GAME PROCESS. I do enjoy space sims, and this one is good but .... not 
 very refined it kinda just drops ya in deep water ans says OKAY swim! navigation is a bit tricky, 
 the actual feel of the ships is good, combat.... great, uh yah just needs maybe a slicker navigation 
 system and a REAL savegame. Just one more thing, THE MUSIC BUGS THE HELL OUT OF ME, its too....... uppity.... eh, 
 i think for a space sim the music should be more sort of mysterious foreboding instead of happy 
 bouncy music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMAFUA
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Not worth paying any amount of money for. Voice acting was very bad, controls were junk, AI was simplistic, weapons 
 had little effect. AI while simplistic were tough to kill with horrible weapons, story was just silly. Learning 
 curve was abysmal took me forever to work out the controls. Loading times were the absolute pits, Postal 
 2 had quicker load times and anyone who has played Postal 2 knows how long that takes. The only 
 thing it had going for it were graphics, and they were mediocre at best. Dark Star One was better 
 than this, and it was a real stinker.
  
  The space sim community has long awaited a successor to Freelancer. Many waited with baited breath 
 for this game thinking it may be it. As so many times before hopes were dashed with the harsh truth 
 of reality. The company that makes the game promised that they were listening to player input. They 
 obviously didn't.
  
  Think my review is a bit harsh? Don't belive me. Download the demo yourself. Waste many hours of your 
 time playing this. I know I did. Guess that makes us both suckers huh?
  
  I see some people are actually buying this waste of space piece of junk. I don't know who these 
 people are who keep giving this junk good reviews. I suspect fan-boys myself. Whoever they are they 
 are full of it. I've played space sims for years too, and this stinker is one of the worst I've seen.
 
  
  Oh and did the developer say we just don't know how to play this and that's why we give it bad 
 reviews? What is that guy on? We give harsh reviews when games don't deliver on their promises. Period. AI 
 too hard? Don't make me laugh. The only time you have any difficulties is in the beginning with such 
 weak a** weapons. Heck even starting weapons on Freelancer were better, remember those Justice Mk 
 1's? And EVE's junk start guns at least did damage. What are those guns shooting anyway, blue ice? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, kudos to the developers for even daring to venture into the cursed genre of space 
 sims. As you know, major developers avoid it like the plague due to the widespread belief that 
 there is no money in it (or at least not the kind of money Blizzard is raking in right now) . Unfortunately 
 what we got here is another candidate for the Wal-Mart bargain bin. Space Force tries to combine 
 features from the classicElite, Freelancer (2003) , X3 Reunion (2005) and others, and ends up doing 
 just thatproducing a truly mediocre composition. The GOOD: interesting fighter ship design, colorful 
 world (if youre not one for realism) , descent size galaxy, balanced gameplay between fighting, 
 trading, and exploration. Being able to craft your own ship upgrades from mined asteroid resources 
 is an interesting option. It allows you to bypass trading altogether and provides for quick funds 
 (although it takes something away from the depth of the economy) . Finally, the learning curve is 
 pretty milddont believe Gamespots half-fast review on this one! At some point they decided that 
 we have all become lobotomized monkeys and started recommending games like DarkStar One (2006) a 
 lazy excuse for a space sim with the depth of rock-paper-scissors. Just print out a key chart for 
 quick reference and youll be zipping like Han Solo in two hours.
  
  The BAD: The graphics use many of the latest DirectX 9c bells and whistles like shader model 3.0, 
 blur effects, HDR lighting, etc. (and therefore require a pretty powerful rig) but you still cant 
 say the game looks good. Textures are washed out and overly bump-mapped. Ship models (especially 
 bigger ones and stations) are boxy and lack detail. The tiled minimap looks abysmal. Cutscenes 
 (not that they matter) were drawn by some middle-schooler. Finally, (imho) everything is just too 
 darn colorful! Its like a tie dye t-shirt factory exploded in there. Contentwise the capital 
 ships and space stations (of which each race has only 1 or 2 varieties) lack the scale to impress, 
 as they seem barely big enough to house your fighter (oh and yes, you will only be flying fighters) . 
 Teading and mining is numbingly repetitive. Case in point: there just isnt enough variety in the 
 content whether it is mission types, ship types, activities, or plot. So if you are a diehard space 
 sim fan, this one will get you through 2007 until the next one comes out, but if not, I say: PASS.
 
  
  By the way, if you never played X3 Reunion (2005) because GS sandbagged it with a 7.2 rating (justifiably 
 so, because it shipped with many bugs) , you must pick it up now!!! The bugs have since been fixed 
 and new content was added. The game is breathtakingly beautiful, like you always dreamt space travel 
 would look. And it will run well on any remotely current machine. There is about as much content 
 and depth as in ESIV Oblivion (100 hour+ game) . Fly anything from tiny interceptors to mammoth 
 carriers through a vast universe. Trade a complex supply-demand driven economy and build an empire 
 of ships and stations. Explore a vast universe with no loading screens between sectors (god only 
 knows how they did that) . Yes, its a complex game to learn, but you can do it, and learning is 
 half the fun. Anyway Ill stop gushing here because this is actually a review for a different 
 game, but I think it will be a long time before X3 gets wrestled from its throne as king of the 
 space sim genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogviamask
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  At first, I hated it. But after the learning curve, this thing's growing on me. The combat is crazy. 
 I think my experience is better due to a nostromo game pad with well placed custom mapped keys. 
 I screenshot and printed keys out for easy reference. I like the upgrading aspects. Fabricate your 
 own upgrades from raw materials, capture loot from downed ships, etc. Storyline is corny. I haven't 
 seen a game's that wasn't to me. But I get past that and appreciate the game for it's potential. 
 A completely immersive universe without scripting leading you by the hand. So the graphics aren't 
 cutting edge, but they're decent. I kept the music on. 99% of them I turn it off. I think it complements 
 moving through outerspace very well. I believe this game is synergetic, where the total is much 
 greater than the sum of individual parts. I've been playing video games for over 25 years, and 
 this one could start a new genre- MOE. Massively Open-Ended... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
