-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Special Forces: Nemesis Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/nemesisstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You've got to admit, the game does have variety.
 Several different weapon types, including a few somewhat innovative ones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken enemy AI.
 Broken stealth mechanics.
 Broken gun accuracy.
 Not broken, but still ugly graphics.
 Free-fall shooting sections are dumb, dumb, dumb.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.6, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 128 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: Asobo Studio
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Mar 24, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a trite and aggressively boring version of what a million other third-person action games have 
 done. And even for its budget price, it's a pretty lousy value. 

  Hip Games' Special Forces: Nemesis Strike, or CT Special Forces: Nemesis Strike, depending on whether 
 you believe the box art or the game's main title screen, is a console and PC reenvisioning of the 
 publisher's semi-obscure CT Special Forces franchise, which has existed solely on the GBA up to 
 this point. However, whereas the GBA CT games were thoroughly competent knockoffs of the Metal 
 Slug franchise, there's nothing particularly competent about Nemesis Strike. Essentially trying 
 to ape everything from Splinter Cell to kill. switch, Nemesis Strike throws far too many disparate 
 parts into one cluttered mess, and it doesn't bother to polish any of them beyond what was required 
 to get the game gold and onto store shelves. It's a trite and aggressively boring version of what 
 a million other third-person action games have done. And even for its budget price, it's a pretty 
 lousy value.  

          Meet Raptor, an action hero so lame he makes Michael Dudikoff seem impressive by comparison. 
     

  In Special Forces: Nemesis Strike, you fight terrorists. That's it. That's all the plot you need 
 to know, because that's as much of it as makes sense. You play two different characters throughout 
 the adventure: Raptor, a scenery-chewing commando type that falls somewhere between Jesse "The 
 Body" Ventura from  Predator  and  Thunder in Paradise -era Hulk Hogan (in terms of action-hero 
 bravado and credibility) , and Stealth Owl, a predictable copycat of just about every other stealth 
 action hero of the last decade. As these two knuckleheads, you penetrate various locales that have 
 been overrun by terrorists (gasp!) and shoot them all in the face -- over and over again -- occasionally 
 stopping to fight a ludicrously easy boss, rescue a painfully dumb artificially intelligent hostage, 
 or drive a poorly designed vehicle.  

  When you play as Raptor, it's all run-and-gun, so you blast away at nasty terrorists with little 
 regard for anything else. Occasionally, you'll have to duck and cover. And when you do, in a kill. switch-influenced 
 mechanic, you can peer around the corner to fire, or you can just poke your weapon out and blind-fire, 
 with a slight accuracy decrease. Of course, that accuracy decrease would only matter if the weapons 
 were even accurate to begin with. Unless you're standing dead still and manually aiming the reticle 
 as precisely as you can, chances are you're going to miss a lot of shots. The machine guns fire 
 wildly, throwing bullets practically everywhere  except  where the nearest enemy is, and the shotgun 
 even seems to bypass enemies at close range from time to time. As Raptor, you'll also find yourself 
 driving occasional vehicles, like snow sleds, hovercraft, and what have you. However, no matter 
 what kind of vehicle you're driving, they all handle exactly the same, which is to say, badly. 
 Turns are impossibly jerky, every vehicle has a preternatural tendency to slide out, and the few 
 that feature mounted weapons just seem underwhelming in terms of impact.  

  Granted, Raptor's levels are practically money in the bank compared to Owl's ill-conceived stealth 
 levels. Mechanically, Owl works much the same as Raptor, only with a different variety of weapons 
 that don't hit their targets and a couple of different grenade types that are cool ideas but are 
 poorly executed. Basically, when you toss them, they'll either magnetically pull or repel any metal 
 objects in the room. Again, this is a cool concept, but it's terribly underused throughout the 
 game. All you ever really do is use them to move metal boxes and occasionally pull the weapons 
 from your enemies' hands. Apart from all that, since Owl is a stealthy fellow, you can turn on 
 a  Predator -inspired invisibility suit that actually doesn't really work very well. Even though 
 you're supposed to be invisible, enemies will immediately become alerted to your presence if you 
 get within 20 feet of them.  

  On the plus side, your enemies are idiots, and they're terrible at actually shooting you. You can 
 stand just outside of their detection ranges, picking them off with headshots one by one, and they'll 
 just stand there looking bewildered. That's not to say the game is by any means a walk in the park, 
 but instead of improving the AI of the ground troops, the developer made the game harder by sticking 
 a bunch of snipers and guys with rocket launchers on rooftops. While it's understandable that rocket 
 launchers would kill you pretty quickly (and you can actually dodge the rockets reasonably easily) , 
 the snipers are ridiculously overpowered and overly accurate, picking you off from incredible distances 
 with only a couple of shots needed to kill you. Hell, even Vassili Zaitsev would be jealous of 
 their skills.  

  The one unique aspect of Owl's gameplay sequences involve something of a free-fall combat mechanic. 
 Essentially, before every single one of his missions, Owl has to drop from a stealth bomber, free-falling 
 for a few thousand feet and then parachuting the rest of the way. We love this idea, but it's so 
 terribly underdeveloped. Essentially, you're saddled with an arbitrary time limit during every 
 drop, and all you do while you're dropping is occasionally spin around to shoot other parachuting 
 bad guys and periodic missiles, all while holding down the speed-drop button to gain a little extra 
 movement boost. It's never exactly explained why only Owl has to do this -- especially when Raptor 
 has no problem just kicking the door down of whatever area he has to clear out -- and the fact that 
 it's so devoid of any enjoyable aspects makes us think this concept was some kind of last-minute 
 addition to the game that didn't really have much thinking behind it.  

  Both the Xbox and PC versions of the game also have their own unique quirks that make them equally 
 problematic for different reasons. The Xbox version generally controls worse than the PC one, mainly 
 because the right thumbstick control of the aiming reticle is painfully slow, making it way too 
 hard to line up a proper shot. And before you even ask, no, you can't change the speed of the reticle 
 movement. It also doesn't help that the auto-lock targeting, which can be toggled, just doesn't 
 seem to work at all. While that might have made the PC version the clear-cut winner in any other 
 situation, the PC version of Nemesis Strike is dragged down for different reasons, not the least 
 of which is the game's relative instability. The game will always crash when you quit out of it, 
 meaning you'll have to deal with the "this program is not responding" message every time you want 
 to leave the game. Nemesis Strike will also occasionally crash in-game for no particularly understandable 
 reason. And this is made more frustrating by the game's lousy save system, which only saves at 
 the very end of a level. None of the restart checkpoints carry over if you quit out of the game. 

          Meet Stealth Owl. He really, really wishes he was Sam Fisher. But he's not. Not by a long 
 shot.     

  Neither the Xbox nor the PC version of Nemesis Strike looks good at all. While both versions generally 
 run at a solid 60 frames per second, it would be hard for them not to with how low-res and ugly 
 everything in the game is. The character models are blocky, animate stiffly, and take up way too 
 much of the screen for their own good. All the environments feature the same bland, colorless look, 
 and apart from exploding oil drums, nothing's especially interactive. Camera movement is a huge 
 pain, as you only get limited movement, and what you can actually do is barely useful at all. The 
 game's audio is equally uninspired, with lots of gunshots that sound recycled from other games, 
 overly subdued militarily-themed electronic beats that are more irritating than anything else, 
 and some really ham-fisted voice acting. Most of the side characters are just stiff and uninteresting 
 in their deliveries, while the main characters are way over-the-top. Raptor's the worst, overly 
 enunciating every word he's given while trying to eke out as much toughness as he can. Ultimately, 
 he just kind of comes across as creepy as he yells amazing things like "Full Throttle!" without 
 even a hint of irony.  

  Nemesis Strike features a reasonably lengthy single-player adventure, but it offers no multiplayer 
 of any kind to bring you back to the game once you're done with it. And, for that matter, length 
 is about the only thing the single-player mode has going for it to begin with, since it certainly 
 isn't much fun. If the developers at Asobo Studio had found a way to massage the wildly different 
 elements that make up this game into something more cohesive, then Nemesis Strike might have been 
 something worthwhile. As it is, it's just a clunky, uneven, ugly mess of an action adventure game 
 that's devoid of any real redeeming qualities. Regardless of its cheap price tag, it isn't worth 
 your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Tinmancr
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  anyway I think as a bargain game this is ok there are a number of console style problems with the 
 pc version and it is a bit too easy ai is crap but I found some of it to be fun most guns are bad 
 knockoffs but it is no worse than the gta games people rave about "weapon wise" the only problem 
 I had was linearity.
  oh and I only got blood effects on half the missions my favorite feature is the blind firing best 
 I've seen cover usage by ai as well I don't know these guys so I give them a chance it looks like 
 they have been around and just didn't make anything I noticed
  another thing it works perfectly with no load times on my old computer, so the graphics don't make 
 your mouth water they're ok sound ok some voice acting is bad and some is ok.
  all in all it is an ok game and other than the call signs a fairly ok and original storyline "for 
 a game"
  if you want better story play system shock 2 best I've seen or break out you ps2 and play metal 
 gear solid 3.
  better action too many to mention
  same with graphics
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieDavis
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  What a horrendous hunk of ass-juice. It doesn't go beyond the fact that you cannot reconfigure 
 the keyboard controls. Right there, a game killer. After finding that out, I uninstalled it, took 
 the disc out of my rig, spit on it, and launched it out the window. If I were you, I wouldn't pay 
 for this with game discarded fruit peels if it were the last game on Earth. In fact, go find a 
 retailer that sells this game and smack him right across the chops. May apox curse the loins of 
 those responsible for this insult to the technological progress that we have made as a species. 
 I guess you can tell I don't part with money well.
  
  Thanks a lot, Hip Games....... and f**k you, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  The idea of a counter terrorist single player game with missions that aren't same old same old 
 is a great one. Too bad Asobo Studio couldn't make the idea come to life. While SF: N has some cool 
 features such as free falling and active camoflague the rest isn't so cool. The graphics are fairly 
 low end compared to other games that were released in Spring 2005 along with the Voice acting which 
 sucks, a lot. Another thing you notice when playing SF: N is the controls. The controls are just 
 plain messed up and they aren't even mappable.... wow, if your gonna screw up the controls at least 
 let the players re-map them. To finish it all off the A. I. is very lackluster (example: they sometimes 
 nade themselves) and they die very easily. So while the thought of a futuristic counter terrorist 
 game with upgraded weapons and creative missions may sound exciting the developers of this game 
 surely should us how horrible the future could really be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeo
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm getting every penny's worth from my purchase. The great thing about bargain games is when Special 
 Forces: Nemesis Strike costs $4.96 CAN ($3.50 USD) . Imagine Splinter Cell is a bad Twilight Zone 
 episode where it's essence is split into to separate beings. Those two beings would be the playable 
 characters in SF: NS. A guy named Owl does the stealth work while Raptor is a young dexedrine-laced 
 Sam Fisher.
  The voice-work for the characters is, I believe, the same guy doing his "Tough Guy" and "Slightly 
 Different Tough Guy' voices. If human beings could have different ports, Colonel Lambert would 
 be apalled at the unimaginative doppelganger in SF: NS.
  I don't want to be too hard, I did appreciate the opportunity to run around an oil-tanker and shoot 
 terrorists in the face with a shotgun.
  Cons: Counter intuitive controls that you have no way of checking or changing them while in the 
 game itself. No in-game save.
  Pros: Thought-out mechanics of character abilities (active camo, electromagnetic shields) . AI that 
 really makes me angry at the enemy and want to shoot them in the face with a shotgun. It's fun, 
 and cheaper than a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbomb
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I am really shocked at the review by gamespot it is absolutely wrong. This game is very good. This 
 game has two characters, the stealth owl and the raptor. This game has 26 exciting and engaging 
 missions, which involve riding a hovercraft and shooting at helicopters, dogging missiles and running 
 secretly through heavily protected terrorist camps. the only problem in this game is that we cannot 
 save our progress but only wait for certain checkpoints which appear regularly thought a mission. 
 So you should make sure that the character should not die. all in all this game has excellent graphics 
 and is a must play for all gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusBaro
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  In despite other reviews and reviewers, i loved the game. Good graphics, fair sound, fun to play. 
 As good as HL2, Pariah and FarCry.
  Almost as good as F. E. A. R. or Quake 4. Got surprised with it. I recommend it. If you like the genre, 
 of course! Have no saves, just checkpoints, which is boring if you get killed. Start all over since 
 the last checkpoint, which can be way back in gameplay. So, get wise and dont get shot! The worst 
 in the entire game is the levels in freefall, in which you have to take out the bad guys during 
 the fall. Might get confusing to see from were they are shooting from. Good longevity. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
