-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spec Ops II: Green Berets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/specops2greenberets/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 47 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ripcord Games
Developer: Zombie
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The squad-based combat genre that had quickly moved far beyond Spec Ops is now even farther ahead 
 of its sequel. 

 The original Spec Ops: Rangers Lead the Way was appropriately named because it was the first of 
 a bevy of squad-based first-person combat games. But because it was on the front lines of the tactical-combat 
 genre, Spec Ops was quickly surpassed by games like Rainbow Six and Delta Force, which improved 
 upon the action, the realism, and the multiplayer gameplay. Did developer Zombie and publisher 
 Ripcord reclaim their spot at the forefront of this hot genre by striking back with Spec Ops II: 
 Green Berets? The answer is an emphatic no.  

 Building upon the basic style and feature set of the original, Spec Ops II charges you with a series 
 of missions as part of the US Army's elite Green Beret Special Forces unit. You lead your team 
 of up to four squad members into combat in a variety of locales, including Antarctica, Korea, Pakistan, 
 Thailand, and Germany. You tackle a series of loosely connected missions in each area (either four 
 or six scenarios, depending upon the region) . In fact, these operations are so loosely connected 
 that you can tackle them in any order you please. And whenever you complete one, you end up back 
 at the game's main menu. As a result, Spec Ops II doesn't offer the strong sense of continuity 
 and immersion of similar games such as Rogue Spear and Delta Force 2.  

 While its lack of continuity doesn't actually affect gameplay much, Spec Ops II's incredibly bad-looking 
 menu screens don't help either. Never before has a game relied so heavily on giant Courier-font 
 lettering. To make matters worse, the same font style is used for the barely adequate, completely 
 static mission briefings, which are anything but helpful. Basically, you get a bullet list that 
 comprises a very rough outline of the situation along with an overall objective. No useful information 
 on enemy opposition is offered, nor is there any sort of map to guide you.  

 Even when you enter the mission, the game does not offer a map feature per se. Instead, you get 
 a zoomed-out overhead view that is useful for only one thing: tracking down your squad mates after 
 they get separated from the group by some obstacle, which is an all-too-frequent occurrence. The 
 game does use waypoints to direct you to objectives, but even here Spec Ops II comes up lacking: 
 You have to zero in on these objectives by turning in place until your compass heading turns red. 
 That's how you know when you're facing an objective. There is no arrow indicator to show which 
 way to turn or any map overlay indicating the ideal route to take. Is this more realistic than 
 an all-seeing map? Probably, but it can be damn confusing, and it is just flat-out inadequate anyway. 

 Spec Ops II's actual gameplay is improved over the original, but it could still use some serious 
 work. You can take three different stances - standing, prone, and kneeling - and can move in all 
 three. However, you cannot keep your gun barrel up while running, which is extremely frustrating. 
 When you run, your gun automatically dips toward the ground and comes back up again when you stop. 
 It might not be so bad if this transition were handled smoothly, but the change from dipped to 
 at-the-ready is often jarring and awkward, making the movement in Spec Ops II feel just as bad. 
 Again, dipping the gun barrel may very well be how real Special Forces operatives work, but considering 
 that so many other elements of the game feel more like a Quake II mission pack than like a combat 
 simulator, this little slice of reality just seems out of place. The game's strongest feature is 
 the sheer number of weapons it makes available to you. Not only can you outfit your guys with 19 
 different weapons - including the prototype Objective Individual Combat Weapon (OICW) and the super-slick 
 Vektor 5.62 assault rifle - but you can also pick up weapons dropped by fallen comrades and enemies. 
 For some reason, player-controlled characters do not drop anything but weapons when they die, meaning 
 that specialty items (such as satchel charges) must be doled out to every man in the unit. That 
 way you can still accomplish the mission if some of your guys die. According to the game's manual, 
 there are typically items hidden on the map to help with key missions (and presumably eliminate 
 the need for redundant equipment loadouts) , but it's bad form for mission designers to rely on 
 hidden or secret objects.  

 At least Spec Ops II looks decent. The game inexplicably prompts you to choose a resolution and 
 color depth before each and every mission, but why not just save this information after the first 
 time? Fortunately, its sharply detailed 3D engine runs well in high-resolution 32-bit color on 
 a reasonably equipped machine. The lighting is very well done on most levels, including nice dusk 
 and dawn effects. However, night missions are a bit of a problem, as you must rely on the game's 
 night-vision mode to get around. This would be fine if enemy soldiers stood out at all, but they 
 don't, unless they're perfectly silhouetted against the sky or a building. The all-green view of 
 night vision makes it nearly impossible to spot bad guys, which definitely adds some tension not 
 found in other games, yet this operative blindness often just feels overdone. In most cases, you 
 must rely on the infrared scope of a sniper rifle to spot enemy troops. But because the field of 
 vision is so limited with these scopes, you leave yourself extremely vulnerable to attack while 
 you slowly scan the landscape for trouble.  

 It might help if your squad mates were reliable, but they are only slightly more intelligent than 
 the computer-controlled teammates from the original game. They do come in several varieties: close 
 combat, sniper, machine gunner, and so on, and they react with appropriate tactics for their specialty. 
 Still, they tend to get mowed down all too easily when a single bad guy pops up over a hill. At 
 other times, the squad mates seem almost superhuman, spotting and killing enemies long before you 
 can even hope to see, hear, or shoot them. It's this inconsistency that makes the gameplay so bizarre 
 and disappointing.  

 Another problem is the general level design. While many of the locations look good and relatively 
 true to life, the missions themselves follow an all-too-familiar pattern found in most Quake II 
 look-alikes. You will find yourself on a very distinct path through most missions, with bad guys 
 placed deliberately in spots where they can pop out and get the drop on you. In most cases, enemy 
 placement feels much more like a shooter than like a combat sim, because your foes are spaced so 
 that you can tackle them one or two at a time. And they are always just far enough apart so that 
 they eventually lead you to the objective. You simply won't find those great camp-wide alerts of 
 Delta Force 2 or the terrorist rush of Rogue Spear anywhere in this game. Again, the result makes 
 you feel as though you're playing through a Quake II mission pack rather than through an original 
 game.  

 Multiplayer support may be Spec Ops II's one saving grace, though you'll have to find other players 
 who share your enthusiasm for the game. It supports 16 players over LAN and Internet and includes 
 an intuitive lobby application from which you can host or join multiplayer sessions. However, Spec 
 Ops II betrays the original game's multiplayer deficiency and keeps the multiplayer features at 
 arms' length. You cannot host or join a session from the game's main menu. Instead, you must run 
 the lobby program separately, and that takes you to a modified main game menu. This is a minor 
 problem, but the developer could have incorporated the multiplayer options into the main game menus 
 without too much effort.  

 In the end, Spec Ops II is a marginally better game than the original. However, the squad-based 
 combat genre that had quickly moved far beyond Spec Ops is now even farther ahead of its sequel. 
 Though its graphics are good and its weapons selection is terrific, Spec Ops II's bizarre and poorly 
 matched mix of action shooter and combat-simulation elements comes off as unbalanced and, more 
 importantly, unenjoyable.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
