-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SpellForce: The Order of Dawn
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spellforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.5, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,025 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: EA Phenomic
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 11, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SpellForce's unique combination of role-playing and strategy elements makes it worth a look for 
 fans of either kind of game. 

  Real-time strategy games let you harvest resources, build a base of operations, and commission 
 an army to flatten your enemies as quickly as possible. Role-playing games let you play as a character 
 who gradually gains power by attaining fabulous treasures and powers, while also earning experience 
 levels from adventuring. Real-time strategy games have attempted to use more and more role-playing 
 elements recently, and Encore and Phenomic's SpellForce: The Order of Dawn is the latest example 
 of this trend. This colorful strategy game lets you play as a warrior or wizard in a fantasy world 
 while leading an army of elves, dwarves, orcs, and trolls to victory against a powerful foe. It 
 may have a familiar-seeming premise, and it may have a few noticeable shortcomings, but SpellForce's 
 unique combination of role-playing and strategy elements makes it worth a look for fans of either 
 kind of game.  

          SpellForce lets you create and develop a character with varied abilities.     

  SpellForce 
 lets you start out by creating a character who acts as a powerful military unit in the game. You 
 can choose to be a male or female character that specializes in various types of melee combat, 
 ranged combat with bows, or one of a few different schools of magic. As you complete your adventures 
 and defeat enemies, your character may attain new levels of expertise in these fields, in addition 
 to acquiring new weapons, armor, and magic spells. The game's character advancement is paced well 
 enough to let you create either a focused specialist character or a well-rounded generalist character. 
 And like with any good role-playing game, you may find yourself fighting just one more battle to 
 accomplish just one more goal. You may be trying to gain a level and some new abilities; you may 
 be trying to save up enough coin to purchase a new spell or item from a merchant in a town area; 
 you may be trying to explore the wilderness for hidden treasure chests full of loot; or you may 
 be trying to finish up one of many side quests you'll receive in each level.  

  The real-time strategy portion of SpellForce is just as intriguing as its role-playing elements, 
 even if it doesn't work quite as well. In the single-player campaign, your character will explore 
 huge overland maps, hack through enemies, and eventually set up a base of operations, complete 
 with worker units that build structures and troops that can be added to your armies. However, while 
 most real-time strategy games require you to research upgrades by spending some resources -- and 
 then sitting and waiting -- SpellForce's technology upgrades appear as rune items that your character 
 can add to his or her inventory. Once these upgrades are equipped, your character will always have 
 these new buildings and troops available for construction. It then becomes a matter of simply gathering 
 enough resources and subsequently ordering your workers to erect the proper buildings.  

  SpellForce features six different playable races that you'll eventually be able to recruit in the 
 single-player game (and these races are also available in multiplayer play) , which ultimately lets 
 you mix and match your troops so that you can create interesting battalions of healers, wizards, 
 archers, and melee units with different abilities. Multiplayer lets you choose from one of 10 prebuilt 
 characters with various high-level specializations. You then recruit multidimensional armies for 
 competitive play in one of 12 maps. Multiplayer offers only head-to-head and team-based competition; 
 there are no other game modes. Also, your characters do not remain persistent from game session 
 to game session, like in the Warlords Battlecry series, though they don't need to be leveled up 
 de novo in each game either, like in Warcraft III.  

          The game's interface has some problems. Sometimes you may have trouble just picking out 
 onscreen friends and foes with your mouse.     

  As mentioned, SpellForce's strategy aspects don't always work particularly well. For example, while 
 units are usually decent about following orders, they'll sometimes get stuck on environmental objects 
 and will "forget" whatever order you gave them. This can be annoying when assaulting a large enemy 
 force with your army, especially when only half of them show up. You can assign them to one of 
 a few different marching formations, though these formations don't seem to work consistently, and 
 they don't seem to be that useful. The ability to create armies that consist of varied units is 
 one of SpellForce's best features, but its interface doesn't quite seem up to the task and appears 
 to suffer from both a lack of hotkeys and some camera issues. For example, if you wish to access 
 the special abilities of a grouped unit, you need to individually select that unit, and then you 
 must click on the ability rather than by activating a predefined hotkey. To the game's credit, 
 several of the units will automatically use their abilities when appropriate... most of the time. 

  In addition, the game's perspective often limits gameplay. While you can zoom in extremely close 
 on your character to take a good look, this view is mostly useless. You'll generally play with 
 a more zoomed-out view, which is often the farthest view possible for getting a good sense of the 
 game's expansive overland maps. However, actually clicking on and targeting specific units while 
 in this view is often difficult, especially if there are trees, hills, and other environmental 
 objects in the way (and there usually are) . So you'll likely find yourself constantly zooming in 
 and out to get both the best view of your surroundings and the best view of your armies as they 
 fight. SpellForce's battles happen quickly. As such, the game lets you target the strongest nearby 
 enemy with the "Tab" key, and it also has a "click-and-fight" option at the top of the screen, 
 which brings up a context-sensitive icon that you can click on for fighting or for using an appropriate 
 special ability. At their best, these features can helpfully let you focus on your toughest foes 
 with a few simple clicks. However, the icons appear at the top of the screen, so your armies will 
 wander all over them (and can sometimes get separated) . As a result, you'll often find it difficult 
 or next-to-impossible to manage larger battles when having to click all over the screen, especially 
 when your units occasionally get stuck or wander off from their objectives.  

  At least the game has some pretty high production qualities. The fully 3D world of SpellForce colorfully 
 renders rolling, grassy hillsides, dense forests, and bustling cities, in addition to detailed 
 3D units. Unfortunately, the game's attractive graphics should have been optimized better since 
 it tends to have frame rate problems and lengthy load times -- unless you have an extremely high-end 
 computer. The game also features a fitting faux-orchestral soundtrack that changes dynamically 
 to indicate when your enemies have been sighted. It has a great deal of voice-over in its lengthy 
 in-engine cutscenes as well, and some of it is decent, though the rest is fairly bad. Unfortunately, 
 the cutscenes can't be skipped.  

          The game's blend of role-playing and real-time strategy elements ultimately works quite 
 well.     

  Fortunately, although the game's impressive visuals are best appreciated on a proportionately high-end 
 computer, most any fan of high fantasy should be able to appreciate SpellForce's effective combination 
 of role-playing and strategy elements. Oddly, SpellForce doesn't have any single-player skirmish 
 maps, and its dozen multiplayer maps aren't seeing much competition online (as of this writing) . 
 However, the game does have a sizeable single-player campaign, and its unusual character development 
 system will likely make you want to restart a few games just to try out the different character 
 abilities to see how an advanced character with different skills works in practice. SpellForce 
 has a lot going for it, and it definitely sets itself apart from other, more conventional real-time 
 strategy games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sebyval
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  SpellForce: The Order of Dawn is a highly addictive and very innovative game. I spent a whole year 
 playing this game over and over again. And I still play it a lot. SpellForce: The Order of Dawn 
 has a mind blowing storyline that last for hours and hours. You also can build your own base of 
 humans, dwarfs, elves, orcs, trolls and night elves. Each race has their own buildings, their own 
 units, and their own upgrades. Each race has a different Titan. A Titan is a powerful and quite 
 expensive unit that can take on an army by themselves. The difficulty of the game is not too hard, 
 but not too easy either, but you can also choose your difficulty in the game. You can level up 
 your character, you start from level 1, up to a high level. But, as the game says if you change 
 your difficulty that the more enemies in the game you have, the more you experience points go up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I had no clue what spellforce was. I thought it was a RPG game. I got it for free from a magazine 
 and I tried it. After a few minutes playing the tutorial I realized that spellforce was not just 
 a RPG. It was more than that. I realized the RTS features of the game and they are just awesome! 
 Unlike other RTS who starve to get RPG elements (like warcraft III) this one breaks through as 
 the developers approached the matter the different way. Making a RPG than will be a RTS and not 
 a RTS that would be a RPG)
  
  The story of the game was not that exciting as it can be considered a classic story of a RPG. Although 
 the rune system and its history is quite interesting.
  You are a rune warrior called to save the world in desperate time. A very powerful mage wants and 
 can destroy the already messed up world of Spellforce which is divided in islands due to a great 
 war which brought disaster. The islands are linked with portals with which you travel.
  More over there are bindstones which you can activate and create a vast network in which you can 
 teleport (very very useful) .
  
  The RTS feature:
  You can summon workers and build up a base wherever you find a monument that lets do so. Plus you 
 can call heroes from monuments that will join your cause. There are 6 factions in the game each 
 one designed very different from the others.
  
  The RPG feature:
  It is classic that you are a character which gains levels through experience. The only wrong about 
 this feature is that there are limited options on your character selection. Moreover I did not 
 liked the fact that in most of the game your character was useless as you always encounter enemies 
 higher level than you so you needed to avoid them or built an army
  
  The graphics and the sound of the game are nice. (Concidering graphics of 2004 and that I play 
 them in 2007 without complainning for anything they must have been awesome back then) The only 
 thing that I did not like in Spellforce is the gameplay. (It is very good but there are a few complaints 
 for that.) I found that the easiest way to play the game is to look with the RTS camera style not 
 the third person view as I could manage my army this way. But in RTS mode the main character (your 
 character) is not aggressive, he does not attack automaticaly unless he is hit hand to hand. This 
 does not apply to your units however which are always in th aggresive stance. The lack of changing 
 a units stance is a very big drawback for the game. It is not that bad but it is bad. There are 
 some other stuff I did not liked in the game as there are vast distances that you and your units 
 need to travel making the game boring sometimes and that you cannot load without going to main 
 menu. The game is quite difficult after a while or at least needs patience to get overt it. In 
 the late chapters of the game the plot is quite common for a role playing game and I realised that 
 the game repeats it self a lot making quite bad.
  In the end Spellforce is a good game that can be happily be played from RTS players and RPG players. 
 I recommend it to try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Spellforce is a game of contrasts. It looks beautiful even by modern standards, with lush greens, 
 a diverse landscape, interesting characters and some lovely effects. The opening video is simply 
 spectacular. Aside from an adolescent preoccupation with scantily-clad women on the splash screens, 
 it is truly wonderful graphically. The sound is also atmospheric and well suited to the visuals. 
 Unfortunately, it is badly let down by the dialogue, featuring terrible lines and even worse delivery.
 
  
  Gameplay features a number of fascinating and unusual ideas. The main character can be played in 
 first- or third-person, though I found I rarely used the former except to embrace the graphics. 
 Resource management is quite straightforward (with one issue) , as is recruitment. The handy tabs 
 at the top of the screen make it easy to control groups of troops, which can be grouped by type 
 with a simple click. Having to stop enemy scouts before they can get back to their base and report 
 your position is a great idea. The ability to customise the types of heroes you can summon and 
 buildings you can build is also an excellent idea, and well handled. The world is open-ended with 
 a wide-branching quest system.
  
  Unfortunately, with so many interesting ideas, many of the basics have been overlooked. Unit AI 
 is downright terrible. While pathfinding around the map is actually better than many games, with 
 a simple click often taking units from deployment to a distant position, workers often get locked 
 in a single position. They often forget their tasks, and do not show up as idle, so if you don't 
 watch your resources, you may not realise that they are not doing their job for some time. They 
 can also be very slow to react to enemies, often ignoring scouts that have spotted them and even 
 occasionally ignoring attacks. The quest system is also confusing, with only oblique references 
 to which land it is to be carried out in and occasional scripting problems meaning quests can't 
 be completed.
  
  Spellforce exists best perhaps as a promise of something that can be improved on. As a stand-alone 
 game, it can be fun to play, but through gritted teeth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  After quickly flicking through reviews on gamefaqs I thought I would have to dash over here and 
 correct the negativity! It has been claimed in every article I found that it is just a cheap clone 
 of warcraft3 or something. But considering that the criticism coming from these reviewers follows 
 the lines that it is an RTS cross RPG which was originally from warcraft3, I must protest, even 
 so that would mean practically EVERY game ever created could be written off as a cheap spin off, 
 there would only be 1 RPG only 1 racing game etc etc etc!
  
  I picked spellforce up for approximately &pound;3.33  a 3 for &pound;10 deal  I thought I was 
 getting three games to keep me busy for the 2 week Easter holiday, expecting each to entertain 
 me for only one week each or maybe a little less, as of yet, after trying out spell force first 
 I am yet to try the others, I am gripped! and cannot wait to finish giving you a quick review so 
 as to get back to it!
  
  You get to design your own character, choose what they are skilled in (magic/combat  loads of 
 different in each) and go  after a great clip at the beginning you start a nice tutorial with 
 a different character, which is a little dull, but once thats over you begin
  
  You play a rune warrior  it is unfortunately never explained to you in full as to what one of 
 these is, but I have been able to piece together that it is someone who can be summoned at a rune 
 monument, even once killed, they can be called to life againfrom the clip they are cursed with 
 eternal death and eternal life
  
  But anyway, you end up running around building settlements and armies to save the world no doubt. 
 But you level up, summon other rune warriors to aid you, and that is the basics of the main game.
 
  
  There are however loads of side quests to complete, each earning you experience and new items or 
 whatever else they offer. These allow you to run around in third person view as your character 
 which is a little limited but it does allow you to watch immense views of cascading waterfalls, 
 deep valleys, peaking mountains, beautiful skies and you can run through the town you have built 
 and created  a great new perspective to most army building games like urm age of empires etc. 
 It is amazing that views like this can now be found on your own computer! It is a shame however 
 that after the first few levels it becomes harder and harder to do this as your clan is ambushed 
 continuously by rounds of orcs or goblins, etc. Actually the further you get in the less you can 
 afford to go into third person, but I guess that is ok as it is quite limited, you cant fight 
 or rather you cannot tell your person to fight, only cast magic spells, which dont all look that 
 great but not that bad either
  
  Which brings me onto graphics, my computer upstairs can take something like the sims2 but running 
 this is a nightmare so I have to use my mums computer, I dont know the technical stuff but basically 
 it needs more than the Sims which I know people have had to buy new computers to run, but it rarly 
 slows down, only when you have about 50 units battling another 50 enemy units all onscreen. Now 
 sound, the music suits its purpose at all times, occasionally it is a little to powerful of peaceful 
 but generally it does what it is supposed to do. Oh and the voice acting is quite awful, but this 
 can be looked past, sometimes it is actually quite funny, listening to the actors try to pronounce 
 route, ahanyway yes but there are many character voices which they must have dragged in but 
 some characters are voiced by the same person, only the unimportant ones thoughnothing to bad
 
  
  Value, for three quid (thats about $5-7  ish (cant recall) , dont know about euros) , I felt it 
 to be a BARGAIN I neednt have got the other two as I am set for a good month and a bit before 
 I complete it and need something else!
  
  Hope that helps!
  
  Woodchip50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  If one game company made possible a combination between RPG and RTS that would be JoWood. I don't 
 think that i have ever enjoyed a RTS game more than Spellforce Order of Dawn. It has it all: the 
 graphics, the action, the music, but most of all the bond between the RTS and RPG elements. Chosing 
 a Rune Hero you will have to fight for the good, defeating the armies of evil, completing many 
 wonderful quest and have the possibility to fight many mithic creatures. Once you will start to 
 play this wonderful game i am sure you will like it. Try it, you will surely like this experience. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moleatom
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  At first i like it but after about two weeks i contributed the cd...
  that's all i have to say about it... others might have been more patient with this game and got 
 to its soul and discovered it more but ... i just couldn't digest it !! . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Spellforce is a combination of a role playing game with real time strategy and it works very well. 
 
  
  You have a game avatar (your character) and a number of hero's (your party) and on many maps you 
 are able to build an army. 
  
  The graphics, sound and music are all excellent, the game play is great and all the game elements 
 work well together. There are many quests and side quests with varied battles along the way. Some 
 maps you play with just you Avatar and heroes - whilst on others you will need to build an army.
 
  
  When it was first released it did suffer from many bugs. It took some time to stabilise - but Jowood 
 released patches and things got better. As a side note, I have been playing Spellforce 2 and that 
 seems less buggy than the first few releases of Spellforce so things have improved. With the latest 
 patch the game work extremely well.
  
  Highly recommend this game (and it's expansions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afterburner1313
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  I picked up SpellForce based on the reviews posted below, and found it to be a great game that 
 had me up till late at night, on too many a night during the work week. The graphics are top-notch, 
 the camera control is exemplary, the storyline is interesting, and the soundtrack is equal to any 
 out there. You also get very good value for your money: 50+ hrs of gameplay, if you're interested 
 in carrying out all the sub-quests. The only caveats I have are the tendency of some of the mandatory 
 RTS missions to become rather tedious exercises in attrition, and the rather narrow character ability 
 / skill design. But overall, if you're an RPG fan looking for some RTS flavor in a very playable 
 package, you'll want to get SpellForce for your game library.
  
  Gameplay:
  When the game was released in 2004 publisher Jowood didn't do a whole lot of US promotion (this 
 may have been due to their ongoing financial troubles) . Failure to buy ad space in the pages of 
 PC Gamer magazine, or at the Gamespot and Gamespy web pages is, of course, almost always the kiss 
 of death for a PC game in terms of hype and coverage. So this title was undeservedly passed by 
 in a lot of "Best of 2004" lists, for example garnering a 73% score from PC Gamer (mainly because 
 of bugs related to ATI cards, according to the reviewer) . But the game got a good reception in 
 Europe and the dev studio, German outfit Phenomic, put together two expansion packs and SpellForce 
 2 is in the works for a late-2005 release. 
  
  The Gold edition I bought comes with the Breath of Winter expansion, and is corrected to address 
 many of the bugs that compromised the initial release. I liked the game so much that I also wound 
 up purchasing the second expansion pack, SpellForce: Shadow of the Phoenix, from GoGamer. com (it 
 wasn't released here in the US) . On October 11 2005, there came word (at Console Gold) that JoWood 
 / Aspyr Media is releasing "SpellForce: Platinum" in the US in November '05, containing all three 
 titles in the series for just $20... a great deal. 
  
  The other reviewers go over the particulars of the gameplay in some detail, so I won't go over 
 the same ground in my review. I'll just say that the mingling of the RPG and RTS genres is, overall, 
 very well done. Think of (inevitably) Warcraft 3, HOMM IV, Age of Wonders II, Disciples II, mated 
 to Dungeon Siege, Divine Divinity, or even Neverwinter Nights. While SpellForce is in many ways 
 a complex game that you'll need to spend time with before fully appreciating just how deep it is, 
 the tutorial is helpful in giving the player a good sense of how the game functions. The initial 
 missions, which are limited in scope and designed to give the player familiarity with handling 
 the controls, ease you into learning the nuances of the Hero summoning, as well as base-building 
 management. As you progress further into the storyline the maps get larger, the enemies more numerous, 
 and the ability to exploit your resources and carry out a sound tactical battle-plan assumes greater 
 importance. For those times when the game got frustrating in terms of difficulty, the walkthru 
 by gaoneng at: http://db. gamefaqs. com/computer/doswin/file/SpellForce_a. txt was quite useful, and 
 there are also walkthrus / maps at:  
  
  I bought the Prima guide, but found it to be rather mediocre (for example, many of the unit names 
 have not been translated from the original German text) , so relying on the on-line walkthroughs 
 is recommended. Both main and side-quests are plentiful in SpellForce, but on the whole they're 
 straightforward, and the game provides an informative quest log that means you'll rarely find yourself 
 trying to figure out what you have to do next. 
  
  When an RTS starts to have tens of units simultaneously in action in a given map, responsive controls 
 and camera are mandatory to keeping the gameplay from degenerating into keypunching frenzy, and 
 SpellForce does an admirable job here.... better, in fact, than very recent RTS titles like the 
 Warhammer 40,000 "Dawn of War" series. Camera angles and control are easy to master, as are selecting 
 and moving units, and engaging in combat. Base building and resource management are a bit deeper, 
 and I was still learning some nuances half-way into the game. But Phenomic provides a long, leisure 
 learning curve to make up for the complexities of unit handling (and the fact that the manual is 
 a bit vague on some aspects of gameplay) . 
  
  SpellForce isn't perfect. There are some minor flaws that crop up now and then. The biggest gripe 
 I had was the way the developers dictate Ability and Skill point allocations. You're pretty much 
 forced into being either a hard-core fighter or a hard-core mage, since access to higher-level 
 weapons and armor, and spells, requires dedicated point input from pretty much the very start of 
 the game. If, like me, you're more interested in playing as an Old School paladin-type character, 
 with limited but decent abilities in both spellcasting and melee combat, placement of ability and 
 skill points becomes quite tricky and you will inevitably wind up with precious points irretrievably 
 spent on magic schools or combat capabilities, that don't provide all that much of an edge on many 
 maps. 
  
  Another problem is that, short of consulting the walkthru ahead of time, there's no way to determine 
 if a given map can be tackled with a predominantly RPG approach, i. e., solely by your avatar and 
 heroes; or via an obligatory RTS approach, involving extensive base-building, creation of a sizeable 
 army, and control-intensive onslaughts. Going with the second approach can, on some maps, be quite 
 difficult, and success often depends on grinding out enormous numbers of defensive structures and 
 using these to advance upon enemy spawn points in a tiring series of incremental battles. I suspect 
 that even the most hard-core of RTS gamers will experience frustration and restarts if, from the 
 very start of the mission, they try to go the base-building route on, for example, the Stoneblade, 
 Rift, or Nightwhisper maps. If hardcore base-building and RTS functions are not your style, it's 
 better to try an RPG approach to the maps whenever possible. 
  
  Finally, the game's ending can leave the player feeling a bit underwhelmed. Having the expansion 
 packs close at hand made it more tolerable, but still, you're not going to get quite the feel-good 
 atmosphere that's the norm for fantasy themed RPG titles.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are, IMHO, better than the NeverWinter Nights and Dungeon Siege series' offerings. They 
 have a crisp brightness that is pleasing to the eye and the depiction of various units, buildings, 
 and landscape features remains clear and definable even when zooming out. The game does a very 
 good job of maintaining proper scaling of human, animal, and monster figures in context with houses, 
 temples, ruins, and other architectural structures, giving every map a realistic look that compares 
 very well with all the other recent RTS title out on the shelves. Zooming in to examine the character 
 models up-close indicates that they are not quite as high-res as they could be, but since I played 
 the game in a drawn-back, 'over-the-shoulder' perspective it didn't emerge as a major flaw. 
  
  Spell effects are very nice, as is the rendering of vegetation, rock formations, snow, and 
 volcanic terrain. Units assume a blue coloring when obscured by interposed structures, which makes 
 them easy to see and prevents the player from having to resort to extended mouse-button work to 
 locate "hidden" units. 
  
  Overall, my modest Athlon XP 2400, 1 Gig RAM, and Radeon 9800SE (128 MB) handled SpellForce's graphics 
 pretty well. There was some degree of slowdown when lots of units were onscreen at once, but it 
 usually resolved once a sufficient number of units had been killed and no longer required animation. 
 Screenshots of the upcoming SpellForce 2 have been trickling out from Phenomic and they look amazing. 
 It's not yet clear what kind of system it will take to handle the graphics of the sequel, but I 
 might be willing to invest in some upgrading in order to get them in all their glory.
  
  Sound:
  The other reviewer have noted that the voice acting can be less than impressive at times, 
 but I didn't think it was so awful as to detract from the game's playability. I'm willing to give 
 an overseas dev team a little slack when it comes to translating for the English-speaking market. 
 It does seem like the developers rounded up some native German speakers with some knowledge of 
 English to do the bulk of the dialogue, but I think this says more about how well the foreign-language 
 programs work in the German school system than anything else (I have an easier time understanding 
 Germans speaking English than, say, a Scottsman speaking English... just tune into those British 
 drama shows that appear on PBS and try to tell me what on earth the characters are saying) . 
  
  The soundtrack is very, very good, and can stand side-by-side right with Diablo 2, Morrowind, 
 the Baldur's Gate series, and Divine Divinity / Beyond Divinity. It has the right kind of grandeur 
 and epic scope and lends the perfect aural atmosphere to the doings on-screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I picked up SpellForce based on the reviews posted below, and found it to be a great game that 
 had me up till late at night, on too many a night during the work week. The graphics are top-notch, 
 the camera control is exemplary, the storyline is interesting, and the soundtrack is equal to any 
 out there. You also get very good value for your money: 50+ hrs of gameplay, if you're interested 
 in carrying out all the sub-quests. The only caveats I have are the tendency of some of the mandatory 
 RTS missions to become rather tedious exercises in attrition, and the rather narrow character ability 
 / skill design. But overall, if you're an RPG fan looking for some RTS flavor in a very playable 
 package, you'll want to get SpellForce for your game library.
  When the game was released in 2004 publisher Jowood didn't do a whole lot of US promotion (this 
 may have been due to their ongoing financial troubles) . Failure to buy ad space in the pages of 
 PC Gamer magazine, or at the Gamespot and Gamespy web pages is, of course, almost always the kiss 
 of death for a PC game in terms of hype and coverage. So this title was undeservedly passed by 
 in a lot of "Best of 2004" lists, for example garnering a 73% score from PC Gamer (mainly because 
 of bugs related to ATI cards, according to the reviewer) . But the game got a good reception in 
 Europe and the dev studio, German outfit Phenomic, put together two expansion packs and SpellForce 
 2 is in the works for a late-2005 release. 
  
  The Gold edition I bought comes with the Breath of Winter expansion, and is corrected to address 
 many of the bugs that compromised the initial release. I liked the game so much that I also wound 
 up purchasing the second expansion pack, SpellForce: Shadow of the Phoenix, from GoGamer. com (it 
 wasn't released here in the US) . On October 11 2005, there came word (at Console Gold) that JoWood 
 / Aspyr Media is releasing "SpellForce: Platinum" in the US in November '05, containing all three 
 titles in the series for just $20... a great deal. 
  
  The other reviewers go over the particulars of the gameplay in some detail, so I won't go over 
 the same ground in my review. I'll just say that the mingling of the RPG and RTS genres is, overall, 
 very well done. Think of (inevitably) Warcraft 3, HOMM IV, Age of Wonders II, Disciples II, mated 
 to Dungeon Siege, Divine Divinity, or even Neverwinter Nights. While SpellForce is in many ways 
 a complex game that you'll need to spend time with before fully appreciating just how deep it is, 
 the tutorial is helpful in giving the player a good sense of how the game functions. The initial 
 missions, which are limited in scope and designed to give the player familiarity with handling 
 the controls, ease you into learning the nuances of the Hero summoning, as well as base-building 
 management. As you progress further into the storyline the maps get larger, the enemies more numerous, 
 and the ability to exploit your resources and carry out a sound tactical battle-plan assumes greater 
 importance. For those times when the game got frustrating in terms of difficulty, the walkthru 
 by gaoneng at: http://db. gamefaqs. com/computer/doswin/file/SpellForce_a. txt was quite useful, and 
 there are also walkthrus / maps at:  
  
  I bought the Prima guide, but found it to be rather mediocre (for example, many of the unit names 
 have not been translated from the original German text) , so relying on the on-line walkthroughs 
 is recommended. Both main and side-quests are plentiful in SpellForce, but on the whole they're 
 straightforward, and the game provides an informative quest log that means you'll rarely find yourself 
 trying to figure out what you have to do next. 
  
  When an RTS starts to have tens of units simultaneously in action in a given map, responsive controls 
 and camera are mandatory to keeping the gameplay from degenerating into keypunching frenzy, and 
 SpellForce does an admirable job here.... better, in fact, than very recent RTS titles like the 
 Warhammer 40,000 "Dawn of War" series. Camera angles and control are easy to master, as are selecting 
 and moving units, and engaging in combat. Base building and resource management are a bit deeper, 
 and I was still learning some nuances half-way into the game. But Phenomic provides a long, leisure 
 learning curve to make up for the complexities of unit handling (and the fact that the manual is 
 a bit vague on some aspects of gameplay) . 
  
  SpellForce isn't perfect. There are some minor flaws that crop up now and then. The biggest gripe 
 I had was the way the developers dictate Ability and Skill point allocations. You're pretty much 
 forced into being either a hard-core fighter or a hard-core mage, since access to higher-level 
 weapons and armor, and spells, requires dedicated point input from pretty much the very start of 
 the game. If, like me, you're more interested in playing as an Old School paladin-type character, 
 with limited but decent abilities in both spellcasting and melee combat, placement of ability and 
 skill points becomes quite tricky and you will inevitably wind up with precious points irretrievably 
 spent on magic schools or combat capabilities, that don't provide all that much of an edge on many 
 maps. 
  
  Another problem is that, short of consulting the walkthru ahead of time, there's no way to determine 
 if a given map can be tackled with a predominantly RPG approach, i. e., solely by your avatar and 
 heroes; or via an obligatory RTS approach, involving extensive base-building, creation of a sizeable 
 army, and control-intensive onslaughts. Going with the second approach can, on some maps, be quite 
 difficult, and success often depends on grinding out enormous numbers of defensive structures and 
 using these to advance upon enemy spawn points in a tiring series of incremental battles. I suspect 
 that even the most hard-core of RTS gamers will experience frustration and restarts if, from the 
 very start of the mission, they try to go the base-building route on, for example, the Stoneblade, 
 Rift, or Nightwhisper maps. If hardcore base-building and RTS functions are not your style, it's 
 better to try an RPG approach to the maps whenever possible. 
  
  Finally, the game's ending can leave the player feeling a bit underwhelmed. Having the expansion 
 packs close at hand made it more tolerable, but still, you're not going to get quite the feel-good 
 atmosphere that's the norm for fantasy themed RPG titles.
  Graphics are, IMHO, better than the NeverWinter Nights and Dungeon Siege series' offerings. They 
 have a crisp brightness that is pleasing to the eye and the depiction of various units, buildings, 
 and landscape features remains clear and definable even when zooming out. The game does a very 
 good job of maintaining proper scaling of human, animal, and monster figures in context with houses, 
 temples, ruins, and other architectural structures, giving every map a realistic look that compares 
 very well with all the other recent RTS title out on the shelves. Zooming in to examine the character 
 models up-close indicates that they are not quite as high-res as they could be, but since I played 
 the game in a drawn-back, 'over-the-shoulder' perspective it didn't emerge as a major flaw. 
  
  Spell effects are very nice, as is the rendering of vegetation, rock formations, snow, and 
 volcanic terrain. Units assume a blue coloring when obscured by interposed structures, which makes 
 them easy to see and prevents the player from having to resort to extended mouse-button work to 
 locate "hidden" units. 
  
  Overall, my modest Athlon XP 2400, 1 Gig RAM, and Radeon 9800SE (128 MB) handled SpellForce's graphics 
 pretty well. There was some degree of slowdown when lots of units were onscreen at once, but it 
 usually resolved once a sufficient number of units had been killed and no longer required animation. 
 Screenshots of the upcoming SpellForce 2 have been trickling out from Phenomic and they look amazing. 
 It's not yet clear what kind of system it will take to handle the graphics of the sequel, but I 
 might be willing to invest in some upgrading in order to get them in all their glory.
  The other reviewer have noted that the voice acting can be less than impressive at times, but I 
 didn't think it was so awful as to detract from the game's playability. I'm willing to give an 
 overseas dev team a little slack when it comes to translating for the English-speaking market. 
 It does seem like the developers rounded up some native German speakers with some knowledge of 
 English to do the bulk of the dialogue, but I think this says more about how well the foreign-language 
 programs work in the German school system than anything else (I have an easier time understanding 
 Germans speaking English than, say, a Scottsman speaking English... just tune into those British 
 drama shows that appear on PBS and try to tell me what on earth the characters are saying) . 
  
  The soundtrack is very, very good, and can stand side-by-side right with Diablo 2, Morrowind, 
 the Baldur's Gate series, and Divine Divinity / Beyond Divinity. It has the right kind of grandeur 
 and epic scope and lends the perfect aural atmosphere to the doings on-screen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesbreck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  What can I say? I love this game and the two add-ons. From the character development to the base 
 building, they have managed to get the balance right. The skill tree is diverse enough to tailor 
 for the aspiring mage or the human tank or the wannabe Robin Hood. There are also plenty of races 
 and units to command to satisfy the RTS fan.
  
  It has a coherent storyline, with plenty of surprises along the way, and interesting characters 
 with their own unique backgrounds. The world itself feels alive, with people going about their 
 daily lives in the towns, and looks amazing, with a true day / night cycle. There are loads of 
 weapons, armour, spells and other items to choose from. The more powerful are quest rewards and 
 some have to be tracked down with some detective work.
  
  There are plenty of side quests to keep you occupied, some of which are very intricate and span 
 several levels which are amazing considering they are not necessary to complete the game. The interface 
 works well and it is fun to switch between the overhead view, used to build your base, and the 
 3rd person view, allowing you to run around your new settlement.
  
  The music is very nice and doesnt intrude upon the game-play, the voice acting leaves a lot to 
 be desired, but nothing too terrible.
  
  All together, a wonderful blend of RPG and RTS, thats loads of fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  I always look at gameplay and game idea first. 
  Spellforce gets an A on these. I can overlook the graphics and sound when the idea is unique and 
 working. The idea of this game feels solid and worked through. It gives you the complete chain 
 of control to make this as lifelike as possible. It even adds some interesting new ingredients 
 such as the monuments from where you get your heroes and workers. Just to make this game have its 
 own place in the "strategy space" with its own fans which obviously becomes more and more important 
 these days.
  In other words, the depth of what you can do to form your environment and your character gives 
 this game great value.
  
  The 2d graphics looks like it was made in middle of 90s with a lack of detail and colors. The different 
 creatures look like they where taken from different games and putted together in this one.
  You can zoom the camera to different view but it's not smooth and beside the fact that the first 
 person camera is fun I would like to say it's really "jumping".
  
  The sound seems to have been recorded over a day and in someone's basement or by someone's neighbor. 
 To bad they couldn't improve the voices before release. Although this gives kind of a nerdy funny 
 feeling it not what you expect.
  
  I will have no problems playing this hour after hour and I'm really looking forward to play Spellforce 
 2. The graphics seems improved and so does the sound. If they have managed to stick to the great 
 feeling we might have a winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmart2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I am a veteran RPG & RTS player. I mean from the very beginning.
  I would highly recommend this game to players who enjoy the intricate nature of base building while 
 listening to good sound effects and music. 
  What we have learned through this wonderful hybrid is that we can now enjoy the character building 
 aspect we love in RPGs in the same game. I love it when you find yourself engaged and involved 
 in a game like it was a living thing. I said a sad goodbye to all my valiant troops as I left from 
 one land to another. In short I became involved. This is what we all play games for.
  This is Spellforce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  
  Spellforce 1 went thru several patches and add-ons and the reviews are always saying some variation 
 of "good but could use some improvements to the gameplay." Well I tried out the new 20 buck platinum 
 edition and those reviews are basically right.
  
  Essentially, Spellforce is a resource gathering game with player-controlled heroes that you can 
 improve with weapons and battle experience. There are quests to earn experience too.
  
  The strange thing is that the game feels more like a massive multiplayer RPG like World of Warcraft 
 than anything else. The single player campaigns are totally off-line but the interface might as 
 well be from an MMORPG. The RTS elements are very straightforward and I almost wish they weren't 
 a part of the game at all. The resources on the map should play an important strategic role but 
 they dont in practice. The maps in single-player are small and contain lots of narrow paths that 
 force you to walk down that path and fight your way thru gauntlet style. You cant jump down from 
 one path onto another. You are always stuck on these paths.
  
  Does the gameplay work? Kinda. The interface is somewhat awkward and none of the characters or 
 enemies animate in battle very well. The graphics are good if your system can handle it, but for 
 some reason this game is also a massive system hog. Most systems will need to run the game without 
 the hi-res textures. The lighting engine could also use some work. The gameworld transitions from 
 day to night but it never really looks convincing. 
  
  Hopefully Spellforce 2 will improve upon the game. There's almost a great game here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this? Can you remember the Times when Molyneux managed to combine innovation 
 with quality? .. Legendary games were born: Dungeon Keeper, Populous, Syndicate.. Theme Park and 
 so on. Unfortunately Black n' White was not one of these..
  
  Jowood seems to become something like Molyneux 2, as they are succesfully combining roleplay.. 
 and strategy in an absolutely fresh genre.
  
  As for my part i always liked RPG games alot, but i rarely was convinced of strategy games. The 
 only exception was C&C Red Alert 2. 
  Either way Spellforce was included with my Mainboard i had to buy because of computer issues, and 
 i was curious as i found out what type of game it is. so i was happy to try it out:
  
  The graphics and gameplay arent perfect yet, but good enough for solid play and progress. 
  
 
  It amazes me seing hordes of enemies being bashed down at my defensive constructions, my hero 
 gaining experience from every single mob killed anywhere on the map, leading his up to 5 fellowers 
 and a maximal amount of 50 "normal" troops to rush down enemy camps. 
  
  You've got 99 Pages of inventory constantly being filled up at an enormous rate and just when you 
 realize about the problem to sort all the items manually you notice the small useful "sort" button 
 to order your items by type.
  
  Just to name a few stunning benefits from this genre combination. Even with mediocre graphics, 
 and pretty weak vocals the story is pretty immersive and the maps and overall world is pretty big.
 
  
  considering that i am now having most fun with some type of "strategy" game ever. 
  i am really looking forward to spellforce 2, which will hopefully bring this genre to a huge success. 
 the graphics, units and landscaped/design are already looking absolutely impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  SpellForce took my breath away. From the start it made stick in front of the computer for hours. You 
 get acquainted with it very easy and from there on ...
  Well , give it a try , it 's worth it. I think that what I loved the most was the combination between 
 RTS and RPG, spells and weapons. The ending is fabulous, I never saw that coming. I can hardly wait 
 for SpellForce 2 to arrive in 2006. Until then I seriously consider going back and give it another 
 try .Maybe this time I will succeed to solve all the sub quests. Even if you do not enjoy this type 
 of games I urge you to give it a try. The only one thing that could have been improved is the character's 
 voices - they seem to repeat themselves a lot - I mean you do not expect a titan to say the same 
 thing as the ordinary soldier-but I overlooked that minor flaw and gave it a perfect 10 as it deserves 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aniaml4890
Rating: 5.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amounst the cheaper rpg'ish games out there. I was surprised it was only twenty bucks 
 when I got it earlier this year. I had seen the pics and read reviews for it here at gamespot. 
 I thought it looked rather fun and had to give it a try. I was quite wrong on my initial analysis.
 
  
  At first this game is fairly entertaining. It's like a mix of Warcraft 2 and Diablo 2. Like Warcraft 
 you build little encampments and raise armies. Like Diablo 2 you've a main character to develop 
 and collect items for. In addition to this, you collect heros to help out your main character, 
 but they are fairly static.
  
  Spellforce has a fairly innovative system of how you choose your races and heros. You collect stones 
 that represent each. You accumulate stones and the newer stones are normally better and replace 
 the older ones. For instance, you'll get a higher level of dwarves to control or a higher level 
 hero to call forth.
  
  Another innovative element of this game is that you can change the view to be a first person view, 
 so it's kinda similar to Morrowwind in that respect. This aspect actually adds little to the game 
 since it's far easier to fight battles from a higher perspective.
  
  The storyline at first has potential, but eventually becomes shallow, disjointed, and boring. As 
 you continue to play, each battle becomes more and more repetitive. Eventually you feel like you 
 are working rather than playing just to finish the game.
  
  Aside from the innovative efforts this game attempts, there isn't much substance. It's barely worth 
 twenty bucks, but if you can get it for less you might as well give it a try. The NPCs can be somewhat 
 entertaining, but it's just not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  This is my first time to encounter a game which has a mixed variety of gaming genre. The result 
 of this RTS/RPG combination in Spell Force: Order of dawn is quite amazing. The Avatar is considered 
 to be your primary hero that can be equiped with weapons and spells and even gain experiences to 
 level up just like an RPG. The rune monuments are considered to be a primary base that produce 
 a variety of units and workers to build additional units for your encapment considered to be an 
 RTS gamplay. 
  
  One downside of the game is the adjustment to the controls. I have encountered some difficulty 
 in taking control of the avatar and the perspective view of the game, but its tolerable. The overall 
 gameplay is considered to be quite difficult to handle. Your primary focus is your avatar cause 
 he's the strongest character through out the game. At first I thought that the avatar only gain 
 experience if he directly engage in battle, Iam wrong. He also gather experience through the kills 
 of other units as well. Other heroes that can be summoned is also very helpfull but unlike the 
 avatar, it doens't gain experience to level up. Casting of spells with the avatar together with 
 the heroes is quite difficult.
  
  The graphics is awesome, you can have a top view upto zooming it to a 3rd person view which I like 
 most. I love to watch the battle in a closer view and moving my units further in top view. Quest 
 rewards are sometimes usefull, its better if all of the rewards are very fitted to the class of 
 avatar you build up through out the game. 
  
  I recommend this game especially for those people who want to experience an RTS/RPG combo gameplay, 
 But it will require you a faster system to enjoy playing on its optimal performance. Overall the 
 downside are minimal control and gameplay difficulties, graphics are great, and I can consider 
 this game worth of the price.
  
  note: Pardon me if I have a bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 19, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  This game basically feels like they were mixing up 2 genres with the best intentions with mixed 
 results. First off everyone says its a RPG/ RTS combo game. I think it feels more like a RPG in 
 RTS skin. Don't get me wrog I'm liking it but I'm not sure you will. It has all of the addicting 
 factors to me with RTS, where I almost will always feel the need to clear the entire map no matter 
 what to find the drops/hidden chests. The RPG side I am able o customize my character with random 
 items. Warcraft 3's approach to mixing the genres was more sucessful (more RTS with RPG elements 
 for "hero" characters)
  
  The UI is extremely clunky, maybe because I didn't read the manual. Either way you have over 100 
 pages for your items with no way to sort them. It is a pain to maintain. Playing 1 map you get 
 an average of 2 pages worth of drops in your inventory. All of which you will have to organize 
 to see if you want them. very unlike diablo which forced you to decide on the spot if you had too 
 much junk to carry. I don't really understand the point of customizing where your race buildings/characters 
 are placed.
  
  The game still feels liek it needed soem fine uning I came a cross a few annoyng bugs, tah y may 
 have been cleaned up with the patch. During the in game movies (more like chats) my guys were fight 
 off in teh background. My choices were to either a) button through the story and miss the entire 
 story , or b) watch the cut scene with fighting noises in the background, and hopefully I'd have 
 an army when I'm done listening to the awkwardly acted scenes. And no, I'm not a big fan of their 
 cuts scenes, the voice actors lack, how you say talent.... 
  
  With all of that negativity out of the way, I have to say I have been enjoying the game. I find 
 myslef waiting for the expansion packs that seem as if they will never be realesed in the US. For 
 those on the West Coast, Fry's Elctronics is selling the European releases. I'm looking foward 
 to Spellforce 2, I'm sure it will be an improvement.
  
  The maps feel extremely challenging, I found myself getting killed more than a few times, it did 
 get frustrating, but hey what good is an easy game. For the score I can only see my self taking 
 points away because the lack of polish. I feel that this game was a bit rushed, if it was given 
 a little more time the polish would hav ebeen there and would have kicked donkey/mule. 
  
  If you are a fan of both RPGs and RTS genres you might like this game, if you are a fan of either 
 or, you might want to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuruXia
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  Upon playing Spellforce: The Order of Dawn, I had very mixed feelings. One side of me was saying 
 "Wow this game is great! Play it some more!", yet the other side was saying "Whoever was in charge 
 of beta testing game should be fired, and the voice acting is terrible! Turn it off!". As I mentioned, 
 the game has extremely fun and unique gameplay, which is a solid mix between Single Character Development 
 RPG, and large scale army RTS. You get one hero, which deals the brunt of the damage, yet you also 
 get a large army, which helps keep the gameplay diverse and fun. But with good gameplay comes its 
 downfall, the "everything else" section of this game. It is ridden with bugs, even with the latest 
 patches, the graphics are very glitchy, saving in the wrong place could mean having to restart 
 your file over, FROM THE BEGINNING (ouch) , and the voice acting is ATROCIOUS, possibly the worst 
 of any game OR movie I have ever heard. But despite the games MAJOR low points, the exciting battles 
 and fun RPG elements keep the game moving and always fun.
  
  *Recommended* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSpeake85
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2004 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I personally enjoyed this game. To begin the I enjoy all genres of RPGs so this blended with an 
 RTS was very enjoyable. I was expacting a cool fantasy setting RTS with some RPG elements. To my 
 astonishment I got the cool RTS elements, but the RPG elements were far more immersive. Basically 
 I was able to spend a lot of time leveling my character and doing quests to get items for him. 
 This in no way takes away form the RTS side which in itself is very fun. This game is perfectly 
 balanced and makes for a very enjoyable single player story. That leads into the games few drawbacks. 
 Multiplayer is not too much fun (IMO) mainly because you dont use your own character, which I can 
 see why because people would just hack there chars and put them in multi player, but still. Anyway 
 suberb game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabalas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2004 1:38 pm PT
Review:  With the trend of modern day warfare .sometimes i feel games like spellforce are often overlooked 
 for their true quality. spellforce in my opinion is a true work of art. If other developers would 
 put the obvious love of the project into their efforts. gamers wouldnt be 
  burned the 100's of get rich schemes out there. games that promise you every thing but deliver nothing 
 more than a cool opening video. the graphics and audio along with gameplay in spellforce are nothing 
 less than some of the best. The demo was excellent
  the game is awesome. Breath of winter the next add on is on its way a real add on not just a bunch 
 tweaks that should have been included in the original title, like so many are, if spellforce has 
 any downfalls, it is a lack of ADVERTISING. in europe the game seems to have a larger following along 
 with higher game ratings. This is one game that is not getting enough exposure or credit it deserves, For 
 a real time strategy, role playing, first person, third person, building, great storyline you cant go 
 wrong. dollar for dollar one of the best games i ever spent my money on, add ons bring them on, spellforce 
 2, phenomic keep them coming spellforce fans will support you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayhawk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2004 10:45 am PT
Review:  Let's begin by saying that I really, really liked this game. Having played both Dungeon Siege and 
 Warcraft 3, the blurb that this game blends these two games is pretty accurate. 
  
  There is the typical RTS array of gathering resources, with each of the six races needing access 
 to slightly different sets of them. A nice touch is that some races need resources only another 
 race produces, such as the Elves need for iron used to summon some of their higher level units. 
 The races themselves are pretty standard, divided equally into Light (Men, Elves, and Dwarfs) and 
 Dark (Orc, Troll, and Dark Elf) races. Some units seem drawn straight from Warcraft, such as the 
 Orc drummer, but others like the Elf Ice mage seem original. There's a strange thing with the elves 
 though, as the Dark Elves are all male and the (Light) Elves are all female. You'll be limited 
 to a maximum of 80 regular units, but this is more than enough for the scale of the maps.
  
  Buildings are fairly standard for RTS, such as the three stages in development being based 
 on three levels of headquarters and the various buildings that will support either other buildings, 
 or are needed to get better units (both in general availability and in upgrades) .
  
  Rush gamers, who like to pump out many troops quickly might be in for a surprise, as the units 
 are summoned rather than created in the regular ways and your avatar has only a limited amount 
 of summoning power. Although this will regenerate with time, I've been stuck with waiting for more 
 workers to appear due to my avatar being low on summoning power several times in various scenarios.
 
  
  Zooming in on your lead character, a (summoned) Rune Warrior that has been set free, will move 
 the game to RPG perspective, with the camera hovering over the avatar's shoulder. Your character 
 can be carefully tweaked with character points and skill points (gained per level and some 30+ 
 levels to be made in the campaign) . Of course, you will always have too few points to spent, so 
 you'll have to focus on certain skills and characteristics. These in turn restrict the weapons 
 and/or spells you can use. 
  
  Apart from summoning regular units, you can also summon up to five heroes, whom you can equip with 
 the spoils you find in various places. These heroes are fixed in skill and level, but you'll be 
 finding more powerful rune stones, to summon more powerful heroes as the game progresses. Together 
 with these heroes (who are not available in all scenarios) you can form a kind of adventuring party.
 
  
  So what is the game about? 
  Well, as I said before you are a Rune Warrior, summoned by a mage to help save the world from it's 
 current trouble. The game is set in a world shattered by a major magical conflict, breaking up 
 the land in small islands. This is probably the best explanation I've ever seen to keep players 
 on a single map. Various transport stones and portals connect the islands, allowing travel. 
  
  From the start of the game you are running after people and things. First running after the 
 mage who summoned you, then after an artifact needed to turn the tides of war. The story runs pretty 
 smooth, if a touch linear, with plenty of side quests to keep you busy.
  As you progress in from one scenario to the next and in levels, you will face more powerful enemies, 
 and occasionally need to go back to maps you've visited before, most often to the City of Greyfell, 
 which is more or less your home base. And eventually you will reach the final scenario... and the 
 game will be over.
  Of course, nothing is going to stop you from starting a new avatar, with different skills (as I've 
 done once already now) , or getting the expansion (which I hope to do soon) .
  
  Technically the game is visually stunning, especially in the Third Person Perspective. Sounds are 
 nice, with lots of background noises, although some of the voice acting is pretty bad. There are 
 some strange translation errors, where characters are referred to in German on screen and in English 
 in the sub-titles, but overall the story runs nicely and cleanly. 
  The game does tend to be resource intensive, and on my computer occasionally requires me to reboot 
 as the sounds and the screen become all jittery after an hour or so of play in a troop intense 
 game. 
  
  In summary, Spellforce is a great game that should keep you pleasantly occupied for hours, or if, 
 like me, you play only a few hours per week, it's going to keep you busy for a couple months. I'm 
 definitely going to by the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2004 8:26 am PT
Review:  Overall the game was pretty impressive (even though it took me 120+ hours to finish due to the 
 insanely long battles) , The ending basically (I won't give it away) is a prelude to a "spellforce 
 II" or expansion (of course) . The game is a perfect blend (as mentioned in other reviews) of RTS 
 and RPG and no other game that I have played seems to pull it off like spellforce does. The sound 
 is pretty impressive. As for the spell system, you are very limited in terms what are made available 
 to you because of the way you develope your character, if you place too much emphasis on being 
 a "warrior" and then later on decide to put more emphasis on magic, you skill point - distribution 
 for formulating your character becomes limited, so you have to be very careful. Also in terms of 
 graphics - pretty good. But you have to have a pretty good system and a powerful graphics card 
 (I: E ATI 128 mb video card at a minimum because the game is a "resource hog.." with "horrible load 
 times..") but overall, I loved it..
  So if you are a RTS/DIABLO type fan. it's a must buy. If you are looking for a closer DIABLO II 
 clone, then check out "SACRED" (it's like DIABLO II on steriods...) also another encore games title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caerid11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2004 9:57 am PT
Review:  1st: Best intro movie ever. If you haven't seen it, go to www. planetspellforce. com and download 
 it.
  Graphics: Excellent. I found the environments to be richly detailed from far zoom to 3rd person 
 view. Each character and soldier were nicely done. It's nice to zoom in on a battle consisting 
 of 150+ characters and watch all the hacking and magic. Each piece of equipment was done well also. 
 Does cause a slight computer slow-down with AA and AF on full.
  Sound: The sound for the battles, towns, and workers were done nicely. You could here all the blades 
 hitting and spells crackling in battle, wood chopping, mining et al. The voices, were.... ok at 
 best. Some were good, however a bunch seemed to have bad accents. I just read most of the text 
 and skipped the voices. The rest of the sound was adequate.
  Gameplay: The controls were easy to follow for your character and you could set up your army into 
 groups to move them. Clicking on a hero character brought up their spells and abilities lists, 
 and clicking on an enemy would bring up hero and group icons allowing you to attack or cast spells.
 
  It was tough to control your army though. Mostly they would run amuck with no real formation, 
 and often 3-5 of my troops would get cut down before the rest of the army caught up. Also, archers 
 and magicians sometimes took the lead and would block the fighters from getting to an enemy first. 
 They need an option to move a group by soldier type like fighter, then mage, then archer, then 
 healer etc. and definitely more efficient use of magic. Often times a healer would waste mana on 
 a barely hurt soldier, then run in and attack with a wood stick (and promptly be torn in two by 
 a troll) .
  Overall, the storyline was nicely done, with some RPG type quests among the fierce battles. With 
 practice, patience, and perserverance you can control your army well enough to take down anything, 
 and the earlier maps should be used for practice. And value-wise, this one's taking a good amount 
 of time to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2004 7:30 am PT
Review:  As a fan of both Real Time Strategy (RTS) and Role Playing Games (RPG's) , I was immediately drawn 
 to the concept of Spellforce: The Order of Dawn. I've not been disappointed. The RTS side of the 
 game is challenging, but not frustrating. As for the RPG aspect, it's very engaging. It's not quite 
 as in-depth as an actual RPG - the story is linear, quests have generally one solution - it's still 
 very fulfilling.
  
  The graphics in this game are phenomenal. Something fresh that the developer, Phenomic, did was 
 add the ability to go into 3D, first-person view. Most of the time you want to keep the game zoomed 
 out into the standard RTS isometric view, but sometimes it's awesome to just look at the buildings 
 or units up close.
  
  The music in the game is fantastic. It's very appropriate for the genre, and it moves from beautiful 
 to haunting to menacing and back again. All dialog is voiced and has sub-titles, which is nice. 
 Most of the voice acting is decent, some of it's great, but every so often, about 15% of the time, 
 you get some that's just ludicrous. Thankfully, those characters are generally the ones you only 
 have to talk to once or twice *whew*
  
  As for value - I've been playing the game for about a week straight, probably about 40 hours so 
 far, and I'm only about 1/3 of the way through. I can also see replaying the game in about 3-6 
 months to try different types of avatars.
  
  In conclusion, this is a wonderful game. It's fun, it's gorgeous, and it's innovative. Please try 
 out the demo if you're unsure you want to buy it, but if you like it - buy it. Support the developers. 
 That last was directed to the guy who said he wouldn't buy it but would go to a fair amount of 
 trouble to get it for free. **GRRR** But that's another soapbox :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daifu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2004 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game treads on familiar ground in the RTS genre but manages to give it a new twist with the 
 RPG element. Overall the game is totally enjoyable and multi-layered in its storyline. The multiple 
 side quests are enough to keep a player occupied long enough, let alone the challenging RTS missions 
 and the main story-driven plot. Sure, as other reviewers have pointed out, the voice acting varies 
 from good to freakishly bad, but in a way it is refreshing to hear dwarves speaking like so many 
 Frenchmen on quaaludes - as opposed to the common perception that all dwarves have to be from Scotland. 
 
  
  The AI for your RTS units and other Rune Heroes could benefit from some tweaks. First of all more 
 autonomy would be nice, with the option for the micromanagers to do their thing of course. As of 
 now some units are perfectly capable of fulfilling their potential in a fight without constant 
 supervision  while others need to be herded and prodded in order to create the appropriate responses. 
 This is most noticeable with the Rune Heroes; while the fast access tabs at the top of the screen 
 offer some measure of swiftness in reacting to combat situations  there simply isnt time to coordinate 
 your heros attacks with up to four other characters. Ideally, the Rune Hero warlock would cast 
 his various mojo instead of rather uncharacteristically running up to Mongo and trying to bludgeon 
 him.
  
  As I said before, overall its a great game. It takes a long time to plough through, the game play 
 is addictive and storyline is rich.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codepunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2004 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I really love RPG's, but I'm not a big fan of RTS's. In both genres however, I usually never finish 
 due to the endless grind of repitition. Well, this game is different. I absolutely love this game 
 for so many reasons, the primary being that the gameplay changes to keep my on my toes and to prevent 
 boredom from setting in. Here's my breakdown on scores:
  
  Gameplay: 9 definately. The story is involving and the mix of RPG and RTS is right on. This is 
 a game that will keep you awake into the wee hours of morn. Some gripes that I have (which are 
 no reason for anyone not to buy the game) include: 1) No camera follow mode (that I could find) . 
 You tell your avatar to go somewhere, but then you have to manually move the camera to follow him) . 
 2) More variety of class spells would be nice. For instance, I have a Fire Mage and I start out 
 with a Level 1 Fireburst, then I can get a Level 2 Fireburst, then a Level 3 Fireburst, etc... 
 There are a few other spells for each class, but heck, even calling them something different would 
 have been cool. 
  
  Graphics: 9. It's not Morrowind but if it had those graphics my computer would crawl due to the 
 number of units and buildings that can be in one area. One particular thing that is absolutely 
 cool is the 3rd person view. I like building a huge town in RTS mode then zooming the camera to 
 3rd person view ala Tomb Raider to walk around. It's so freakin' cool.
  
  Sound: 10. The music in this game is engaging and really gives an "epic" flair to the whole atmosphere. 
 Nothing like heading into a large battle with Orcs and hearing LOTR type music. Only gripe hear 
 is the voice acting. Some actors are good while others just downright stink.
  
  Value: 9. I haven't played multiplayer but after perusing through the Create Game options, it looks 
 like it could be improved upon. But the single player campaign is 2nd to none. I've been playing 
 the game for awhile now and it looks like I still have a ways to go.
  
  So, my recommendation: If you like RPG's or RTS's, get this game. Heck, get this game even if you 
 don't. German RPG's like this and Gothic need more support over in the states so they keep cranking 
 them out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabernac
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2004 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good RTS-RPG. It emphasizes the RTS part more than the RPG, but some parts of the 
 game are better done alone, without the army tagging along. However, those segments are limited. 
 You will find that most quests require a huge RTS implications. You can still go into battle with 
 the 3rd person view (Dungeon Siege type) but issuing orders become a problem and your army won't 
 follow you in response to the WASD movement keys. The nice thing about it is the "almost vertical" 
 bird's eye view of a large part of the map. Excellent to deal with large groups of ennemies. The 
 click and fight system is easy and saves time letting cycle through ennemies with one key and one 
 click (for spells or attacks) . Good variety of units, except for assault or artillery is absent. 
 One good thing is that units are cranked up at blinding speed, good when your base under heavy 
 attack. This game has a great storyline. You feel like you're mowing down ennemies for a reason. 
 You are always aware of how things relate to the big picture (not buried into side quests) . Graphics 
 are nice, especially the environment. Music is awesome! The "lord of the rings" epic-type music 
 keeps you in the game. Overall, great looking game that might appeal more to the RTS fans, but 
 RPG fans will get immersed and hooked by the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotinthedark99
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 15, 2004 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly, 6.8 means I liked the game. The gameplay is fairly fun and addictive, but has some 
 glaring flaws. From the looks of the demo, every race has three unit types: Melee, ranged, spellcaster, 
 with variations on which is which. In Orc for example, your Drummer and Hornblower provide boosts 
 to morale with their music and can also smack things around, their "buffs" would classify them 
 as the spellcaster type, and would be original, if WarCraft III didn't do it first. Their Totems 
 and Firemasters just throw fireballs, that makes them the ranged type. The only variation is that 
 one type is weaker than another type. Your thug is weaker than spearman, which is weaker than fighter, 
 which is weaker than the veteran. So, with enough resources, your front lines consist solely of 
 veterans. In this aspect, it misses out on the spearman bonus vs. calvary, as. . . there is no 
 calvary. Nor is their artillary. This leaves your tactical decisions down to who gets the ranged 
 unit focus fire, and which hero casts which spell where? Which, when it comes down to it, is about 
 the most you can do in large battles when you're not on crack, there's no way to slow it down, 
 and your units pretty much like to move where they wish on their own, for better or for worse. 
 As in, say, WarCraft II, it's all about gathering the most resources fastest and buying things 
 in the right order. It seems the strategic angle of the game was knocked down sufficiently to apply 
 focus on the RPG angle, which, while slightly confusing, is at least interesting, however, I'd 
 advise against a fighter type. I couldn't actually hear the dialogue, as something's wrong with 
 my EAX, but, from what I've read, I'm not missing out on much. Overall, I wouldn't buy it, but 
 I'd go to a moderate amount of trouble to get it for free.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
