-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SpellForce 2: Shadow Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/spellforceiiblendofperfection/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool blend of Diablo-style role-playing and real-time strategy.
 Huge single-player campaign with lots of quests to pursue.
 Nonlinear maps mean you can jaunt back to places you've been at any time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Though there are hundreds of weapons and items in the game, it doesn't really feel like there's a big difference between them.
 Maps are sometimes a bit too big, and you have to wait around for heroes to get from one point to another.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,351 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: EA Phenomic
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     May 5, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SpellForce 2's intriguing mix of gameplay styles makes for a great divergence from the archetypal 
 real-time strategy game. 

  2004's SpellForce: The Order of the Dawn was a potent blend of real-time strategy and role-playing 
 that was hampered a bit by some lackluster pathfinding and control issues. Now, the series returns 
 with SpellForce 2: Shadow Wars, and developer Phenomic has certainly learned from experience. SpellForce 
 2 shows strong signs of improvement while keeping the unique mix of gameplay relatively intact, 
 and the result is a real-time strategy game that feels more like an action role-playing game. Or 
 is that an action role-playing game that feels more like a real-time strategy game? It's hard to 
 define SpellForce 2, but it's certainly a nice change of pace from the real-time strategy rut. 

          SpellForce 2 is an interesting blend of real-time strategy and role-playing gameplay.  
    

  In Shadow Wars, the dark elves are on the offensive, and it's up to you, as a member of an outcast 
 human/dragon race, to rally the various "good" nations to meet the threat. But since no one trusts 
 you, you must pursue a ton of quests to gain their trust, as well as deal with various evildoers 
 and monsters along the way. In fact, there's so much of this questing going on that it won't be 
 too long before you realize that for a real-time strategy game, SpellForce 2 seems a lot like Diablo 
 and other role-playing games. The variety of quests is also impressive, since they don't feel like 
 the generic FedEx-style quests (go to point X and bring back item Y) . Actually, most of them are, 
 but you'll experience so many different challenges that it never quite feels like the same thing 
 over and over again.  

  Like any good role-playing game, SpellForce 2 inspires a strong sense of satisfaction as you see 
 your hero level up and get new weapons and armor, as well as unlock new powers and abilities. SpellForce 
 2 features a new skill system that lets you distribute points across two skill trees, one based 
 on magic and the other on combat, and you can put points into each skill up to a max of three times, 
 so you have some leeway as to what kind of character to create. You can be part magic user and 
 part warrior, or dump all your points into either skill tree. Moreover, you can specialize even 
 further by focusing on being able to use heavy weapons or armor, or perhaps lighter arms. Speaking 
 of which, there's a huge variety of stuff in the game, and thankfully, there seems to be no effective 
 limit on your inventory, so you can be a pack rat and carry everything along with you. The only 
 thing is that, in the frenetic combat that makes up most of the game, you're dealing with such 
 huge numbers (your character will easily have thousands of hit points) , that it doesn't seem to 
 make much of a difference if you use a weapon that does 130 points of damage or another one that 
 does 160. Weapons and armor seem to be there mostly for cosmetic purposes, since it's hard to tell 
 the difference between weapons that fall into the same level class.  

  When you're not hacking and slashing your way across the map, you will have the opportunity on 
 occasion to do some real-time strategy management. Thankfully, the complex economy from the original 
 SpellForce feels like it's been streamlined, so it's just a matter of setting some workers to gather 
 the three main resources, put up a handful of buildings, and start churning out various military 
 units to beef up your heroes. Command and control of all these different units is easy thanks to 
 the slick interface. While you can use regular real-time strategy conventions to create unit groups, 
 SpellForce 2 goes a bit further by letting you easily designate targets for various groups or telling 
 a hero to unload a particular spell or skill on a specific target with just a couple of mouse clicks. 

  Another enjoyable part of SpellForce 2 is the worlds that you explore. Some of the maps are downright 
 huge, and you'll wander around gigantic cities with different districts or romp across a vast wilderness. 
 Quests will have you exploring every nook and cranny of the map, and you never feel like you're 
 being shepherded along on a linear path. In fact, you can jump back to previous levels at any time, 
 and it's something that you'll have to do to accomplish some quests. This also helps eliminate 
 the need to solve every quest on each map before moving on, since you can go back and solve them 
 at your leisure at a later time.  

  Pathfinding, which was an issue in the first game, seems much improved in the sequel, and it's 
 possible to give your troops an order to move to a distant point and then tinker around with your 
 inventory while they're in transit. However, the sheer size of some maps, along with their mazelike 
 layouts, results in a lot of waiting around while your heroes get from point A to point B. While 
 your hero can transport instantly to various points on the map, the bulk of your army usually has 
 to hoof it. Still, at least you don't need to micromanage them, as they're generally pretty good 
 about not getting stuck in dead ends.  

           The huge levels make exploration fun, and the fact that you can travel back to previous 
 levels at any time lets you feel like you're exploring a virtual world.     

  The single-player campaign will keep you occupied for a long time, and when you're done with that, 
 you can tackle multiplayer. Online play lets you play in skirmish mode with any of the game's three 
 factions in a fairly traditional real-time strategy mode, and there's also a cooperative mode that 
 lets you play alongside with up to three other players in an online campaign that features the 
 same sense of role-playing as in the single-player game. The downside is that it seems that most 
 of the online player base is in Germany for now, which might give you translation issues, so it's 
 probably a good thing that the single-player campaign offers so much gameplay.  

  SpellForce2 is certainly a pretty game with some nice visuals, though, and things such as the populated 
 towns and cities and the accelerated day and night cycles help immerse you into another world. 
 SpellForce 2 lets you play from a zoomed-out, real-time strategy view or a behind-the-back, third-person 
 view. However, performance varies on a midrange machines. The frame rate does struggle if there's 
 a lot happening on the screen at once, particularly during large battles or if you play from the 
 third-person perspective. Thankfully, third-person doesn't seem all that useful, so you'll rarely 
 feel a need to use it. The audio in SpellForce 2 seems standard for the genre, with the obligatory 
 attempts at dramatic voiceovers and bombastic orchestral music. The voice acting is decent and 
 doesn't cripple the game, so it basically does the job, while the music suffices to convey emotional 
 moments, such as battles.  

  Still, the frame rate issues don't detract from the sheer variety of things to do and places to 
 see in SpellForce 2, and if you're looking for an interesting blend of strategy and role-playing, 
 this is certainly worth your while.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty of the game was a bell curve. Some areas I found easy and others I needed to read 
 the walkthrus to complete the tasks. The graphics were good, the voice acting bad, but there were 
 interesting plots, factions, and relationships (that often changed based on what part of the map 
 you were on) . The areas varied and looked great. Some of the side quests were interesting as you 
 had to make ammends for others, sometimes with unexpected results. I like the charactors as some 
 were grumpy, others struggling with self esteem, and the main charactor with a blast from the past. The 
 most difficult part of the game were the controls. 
  
  On many occassions, you could not see the action as a tree, building, or other object blinded you. 
 I was also easy to get lost in some areas and difficult to find your way out. The most frustrating 
 part was learing how to summon your buddies when you were in a different area as the trainer was 
 not very explanitory. I would encourage everyone to read a walkthru before playing the game. Lasty, 
 some times you woul click on a group with no response and you would become raw meat as your unit/group 
 stood there until it you were reloading as you were now toast. But the battles were great, with 
 different spells flashing, expanding, making great sounds, arrows flying, and fire balls exploding 
 . It was a fun game to play once you learned the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The reason I write this review is that I'm so surprised to see so many reviews from other players 
 comparing this game to Warcraft 3 and even consider it one of the best combination of RTS and RPG. 
 With my experience with the game, I don't think the developers even intended to emphasize on the 
 RTS factors. Indeed, this part of the game is very shallow if you compare it to The Frozen Throne 
 or Dawn of War: Dark Crusade. Let's see:
  - First off I want to discuss the AI. I have no idea why some of you consider the AI good. Try 
 to command your units to follow the hero right after they are spawned from barracks, I'm sure they 
 will either attack enemies or get lost along the way. Sometimes, for some weird reasons you units 
 just stand still when hostile creatures attack although you don't tell them to "hold the ground" 
 or something similar. Not only your units but also your machine opponents are very goofy. For example, 
 if you surround their base on top of the hill, they will become "meat bags" for you to hit and 
 don't know what to do. In fact, the words "retreating", "reinforcement" or "hero focus" don't exist 
 in the AI's vocabulary.
  - Secondly, have a look at the maps and resource location. How long a skirmish or multiplayer game 
 will last with this amount of resource? In any decent RTS the resource plays a role of restricting 
 the time of the game, forcing players to make decision after a while. Moreover, resource should 
 be recalculated between main and minor mines to create more strategic points on the maps. One more 
 flaw is that there is no means of transport troops for a long distance ( like "Overlords" in starcraft) , 
 plus the huge size of some maps, so you spend too much time watching units moving around.
  - Thirdly, there are very few strategic scenarios in this game. You ever played Warcraft 3 or Dawn 
 of War? If yes, you will see these game forcing players to continually making choice between several 
 types of building and units of the same tier. This restriction relates to the amount of resource 
 require and timing. In this game, although the number of unit types is impressive, there are hardly 
 any upgrading options for them. The number of building types is also too small so you can train 
 anything you want at any time of of the game. It probably doesn't matter when playing versus silly 
 AI but in multiplayer this flaw can't be tolerated.
  - Last thing I want to say is the cooperation between heroes and units. There is over 100 different 
 skills for each hero to choose, but it takes a huge amount of time to unlock enough skills to make 
 your hero significantly different from others. It means every factions start off with the same 
 heroes and there is not strategic choice at beginning of the game. Moreover, the collection of 
 items for these characters is big but has no certain effect on the strategy you choose. They are 
 merely decorative. 
  
  Few last words: I don't blame the developers for the shallow RTS part because as I have said, they 
 intended to make this one basically a RPG. But it's obviously ridiculous to compliment this game 
 as if it were a great strategy one or compare it to classic RTS like Warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanaka_k
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  What we have here is an RPG/RTS game where both components are well fleshed out. Its pretty unique. 
 I would call it a bit like Warcraft III, but with more depth and worse in almost every other category 
 (obviously the graphics are better, but its a newer game) .
  
  ***Some problems with the game:***
  
  The shadows look horrible. Even at the best quality settings 
 I had to disable them because they were flickering very badly. I have an 8800GTS (not overclocked) 
 that works fine on all my other games.
  
  Sloooooow pacing. Compared to a better RTS like warcraft III, Spellforce 2 lacks action and things 
 just dont happen fast enough. Half of your time will be spent watching units move from one area 
 to another. 
  
  Boring, useless story and an overall lack of personality.
  
  Unintuitive interface.
  
  ***Good things about the game:***
  
  Tons of items to collect 
 as well as a pretty deep RPG element where you can create a unique and powerful party.
  
  Good graphics with a lot of detail (except for the horrible looking shadows)
  
  Long single 
 player campaign.
  
  Can be purchased for only $9.99 at Fry's Electronics (hellova deal)
  
  ***Final Verdict***
  
  With a budget price of only $9.99 its worth a look. 
  
  RE-Review:
 
  
  After some more time with game game I've bumped the score from a 7 to an 8.
  
  I found that the freeplay mode is the most fun. The pacing is much faster.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swehunt
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  When installing this Game i thought it were som kind of hack and slaugth game, mabye some kind 
 of Mmorpg play, maybe som kind of strategic game.
  
  But I was gladly very wrong, this is a complete mix betwen them all.
  
  ----------------------First: 
 Background for 
  The story have two possible main-charactors who you play as male or a woman, in a clan named "shaican", 
 a bloodclan/packt with magical power from their clanleader "the patriarc." (Patriarc is a large 
 Dragon gives magical to his clan.)
  The maincharacter has in his help some bloodallies/co. characters. (who player also controls.)
 
  
  A threat has ocurred to your homland, Undead, Orc and other foul beast invade your villages and 
 slaugth your homeland leaving you to go seek help among Human millita, Dwarf, Elves and anyone 
 willing to help you fight agains the invaders. 
  Help may not be easy to get, war and lost contact between races and clans make it more difficult 
 convincing them to be your allied against opposite force. As the story evolves the threat is not 
 only to your homeland, its to the whole world, Allies have war at their homeland to. Your task 
 an quest is to healp them and combine forces to beat the invaders.
  Story have diffrent quest and tasks who all in some way are combined to the main-storyline, Save 
 your homeland and eventually the world.
  
  There are 
 two kinds of gameplay at the same time, one more like Diablo, you are a charracter who level and 
 collect items/artifacts, Armor and weponery are fully adapable, Spells and special abillitys to. 
 You get experience points for doing quest and solve tasks, when experiense get higher you level 
 to get new abbiletys. You have Heroes to help you who you also controls, they have diffrent abbilitys, 
 level and adaptable armor, wepponery.
  
  The second type is a strategic type, more like Warcraft 3, you are the same charater but as a comander 
 of an army, build an army with Elves, Paldins, Griffons, Dwarf and so on. Main guest is often to 
 defeat enemy army/forces to solve quests/tasks.
   own 
  At first 
 glimt of Spellforce 2 i rejected this game into the "bla, bla" Diablo genre, but i was very wrong, 
 theres more to it than that. As the story goes on the story actually is wery good and the gameplay 
 is various and dont get boring unlike Diablo can be. Dont get me wrong i loved Diablo 2 but sometimes 
 during that game it felt more like a slaugther game than an escalade/evolving story, Spellforce 
 2 dont have that kind of boredom.
  Spellforce 2 is a large game, up to this day im not compleate yet, and many good solid hours have 
 been played and many hours left to play.
  
  I would recomend anyone who like Diablo, and warcraft series this game.
  Visual and sound is 
 good but not exelent, story and gameplay weigth it up to a exelent game anyway.
  
  A 8 of 10 game!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Good Mixture of RTS and RPG and an added feature of User friendly interface for spells casting 
 makes this game interesting. The game lacks only in multiplayer RPG. In Multiplayer mode allows 
 you to play only RTS. The factions in the game are pretty much balanced and each and every faction 
 has its own set of troops. My favourite unit in the game is elven archer and druid. while archers 
 have long range of attack, Druid can heal them from 10 hp to 1000 with a second.
  Spellforce 2 is definitelly the game you want to play if you enjoyed the first part. Again it's 
 a solid combination of RPG and RTS genres put into one title. The gameplay is interesting and will 
 suck you in for many long hours. The graphics are not top-notch but tolerable. A variety of opponents 
 and different types of monsters is also a great feateru. Additionally the game seems extremely 
 hard even on easy diffculty settings. The maps are sometimes too big which makes the action slow 
 as hell in some parts. Overall it's a great game and a great successor as well. Enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SachinChoudhary
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  To put it in more simple words the game is great, anyone who has played Age Of Empires and The 
 Elder Scrolls and loves both the game types that this is the game where both the streams get a 
 single line of sight and get mixed in such a proportion that you simply love to play on and on 
 and on. At no point during the game-play you feel that you are getting bored or the game is not 
 up to the mark. Adding to it the graphics of the game are satisfying and smooth as they should 
 be. Hats Off To Phenomic For Such A Nice Blend Of Both Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfik41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  Spellforce 2 is definitelly the game you want to play if you enjoyed the first part. Again it's 
 a solid combination of RPG and RTS genres put into one title. The gameplay is interesting and will 
 suck you in for many long hours. The graphics are not top-notch but tolerable. A variety of opponents 
 and different types of monsters is also a great feateru. Additionally the game seems extremely 
 hard even on easy diffculty settings. The maps are sometimes too big which makes the action slow 
 as hell in some parts. Overall it's a great game and a great successor as well. Enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabon60
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 13, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  As stated I have only just started the game and thus far it is looking to be promising. The introduction 
 is quick and it is not long at all until the basics are done and dusted and you are controlling 
 your own army.
  
  The mix of RPG and RTS is satisfying. One moment you are patrolling the hillsides taking out some 
 spiders and the next you are controlling a small army of soldiers bearing swords and crossbows 
 to take on the armies of the Pact! I still have a long way to go, (60 hours of gameplay according 
 to the developers) and I am looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeolderellik
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  This game has what other RTS are missing, a good amount of ROL mixed inside. The graphics are excelent 
 and very nice detailed; music is nice also and each audio track is unique. Al tho the sound is 
 not so good since I found that some of the sounds are already used in other games.
  
  The controls are very easy and it only takes a couple of tutorials to learn the interface and keyboard/mouse 
 controls.
  Once you get used to it you will be using mainly 5 buttons only:
  Mouse right click to order movement, mouse right click (hold) for panning the view, TAB for selecting 
 enemies and numbers from 1 to 3 for assigning and selecting groups (al tho you can create up to 
 10 groups) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I really liked the origional Spell Force series. This game kind of follows suit with the 1st game, 
 but some of the features have been taken away. I don't like how the races are combined. I have 
 found that some of the sub-races are useless, cool, but useless. I still find myself wanting to 
 play the old Spell-Force, which I do. I like that they kept free-game mode. I do like how you start 
 with at least some resources. There is also less to manage, but I guess that is preference. I am 
 also surprised at the lack of wide-screen support. Still, it is worth a try at current pricing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Spell-Force 2 is bring lots of good fun!!
  The game-play is very addictive, and fast paced action is let the SF2 zhe one ofe the most innovative 
 strategy game of 2006.
  
  Spell-force 2 needs high system performance. For HIGH-END graphic you have minimum: 3,5GHz P4 | 
 1,5 GB RAM | 384 MB Ge-force 7800 ----- or better.
  but, Spell-force 2 have a beautiful world, named: EO
  
  Sound? Spell-force 2 brings one of 
 the best musics of 2006, perfect work!!!!
  when we alone the music is slow, but, if we are in combat (3 or more enemies) the musics changes 
 to a addictive, fast music... Overall: Spell-force 2 is good for RTS fans and RPG fans, and other 
 genre is also find a good game in SF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  After you have got used with the series here it is , it is back better then before, here is Shadow 
 Wars. Playing the role of a Shaikan warrior you enter again the fabulous world of Spellforce. If 
 the first 3 games, order of Dawn, Breath of Winter and Shadow of the Phoenix were so good, the 
 remarcable bond between RPG and RTS you have to play this one. Shadow Wars come with some changes. 
 The graphics is changed, more pleasant for the eye, the music is asa remarcable as ever and the 
 gameplay as captivating as you have used to enjoy until now. The items have changed, also the skills 
 and as for the rune heroes you have know they are gone, but don't be sad , now you will permanently 
 have heroes with you. It is really a great game and if you are a Spellforce fan you can; t miss 
 it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Game story line is good, Best 3D environment but AI programming is very very POOR.
  
  This game has the worse AI programming that I have ever seen.
  Sometimes when enemies are attacking 
 players own units are standing
  still until they get killed. Even when given the command to follow a unit, that
  following unit 
 will start attacking any enemy units thats along its path &amp; will
  not follow that particular unit. At the starting point of the game it says
  Heroes are always 
 lower level than the Avatar. But when the Avatar reaches
  level 30 Heroes are stuck in the level 24. And most of the items (Weapons,
  Armor &amp; Magic) 
 cant be used by the Heroes Bcoz they are stuck in the level
  24. This game has the best graphics as a strategy game but you can only
  view it by changing 
 view to 3rd person, only then you can see the sky, sun,
  moon, waterfalls, mountains &amp; all the other BEAUTIFUL scenes on the
  map. Game music is good 
 &amp; you will fall in love with the Dun Mora map when
  you are playing the campaign for the first time. Map Dun Mora music is
  really good. And dont 
 forget to play this game twice, as the Soul Carrier in
  the campaign &amp; in the Free Game Mode as a young Shaikan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The release of SpellForce 2: Shadow Wars has finally come! Im near the end of the game and Ive 
 really enjoyed it, about 30 Hrs of gameplay so far with about another 5 to go (im assuming) . Its 
 an RPG/RTS. If you played the original + the 2 expansions and enjoyed those or like games similar 
 to dungeon siege you'll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Blending any genre is a breath of fresh air. RTS has been typically stale and even the greatest 
 ones have their exploited class and annoyances. This one allows you to play a series of RPG quests, 
 experiance the story, while building up your party and using that party in the various RTS battles 
 that take place. With the right gear and spells, you can turn the tide of a battle and move on 
 in the long storyline.
  
  Gameplay - Besides blending RTS and RPG very well, its very simple to use the menu and manage characters 
 and units alike. You will get the rare lost or runaway unit. But the RTS controls are great. You 
 basically have these tabs that you can set for groups of units you select. Once tabbed, they are 
 your instant select. You can mix up units per solider/animal/catapalt, you name it. Or stick your 
 more powerful party members with certain units. Its very easy to use and a great system. The RPG 
 leveling is fairly basic with a ton of items. You'll often fins yourself with too much loot and 
 not sure which item to use. Doing all the sidequests, the campaign is pretty long. None of it is 
 boring. Take your time and you'll get over 45 hours out of it. Its so long the time could vary 
 by 10 hours or more depending on the players style. Graphics - This is not terribly important in 
 this type of game but on release they were nothing great. Not bad either. The character models 
 are pretty well done. Sound -- The voice acting for the english release varies from pretty solid 
 to pretty dull. The score is pretty good and the the sound effects are pretty dull in most spellcasting 
 and unit fighting. Replay - Online and Skirmish modes offer some extended play. There is also a 
 toolset available for user created maps. The RTS system in this game is not outstanding and works 
 better in the single player aspect when there is a clear goal. You also get to use a hero to lead 
 your troops like you do in the campaign. Its RTS elements are not good enough on their own though. 
 If you are into RPS or RTS you might want to give this one a shot. Or better yet, if you are skeptical 
 one of those genres and love the other, this may teach you to appreciate both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeduncan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  It is not you typical RTS it has a lot of stress on Hero characters you actually create you own 
 Avatar that is with you through out the game. Your avatar is upgradeable and you choose to specialize 
 in Magic or Melee or both actually. You also get access to a surprising amount of items and the 
 chance to buy and sell items with Merchants. Its kind of like RPG but you do actually get to built 
 towns and raise armies... and you will need them.
  
  Awesome graphics and engaging story first and foremost. I also like the ability to customer your 
 avatar giving the game a sort of personal touch. The level variety has so far been nice also moving 
 from army building maps to dungeon crawls with just your heroes, keeps things interesting. The 
 path finding of the NPC is great too and its not something think about until you send all of your 
 reinforcements across the map only to have them get stuck at a river somewhere because they can't 
 find the bridge, this games path find is awesome I have had an NPC get stuck or lost yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playaspike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I turned everything to the max for the graphics with my 7900 GT GPU. Even with the setting set 
 to max, some of the shadowing was a little bad. They integrated a day to night, where the light 
 from the sky would adjust the brightness of the level. It gets annoying when you are playing because 
 when you can see the block pixels on the ground for the shadows. You know that they didn't plan 
 to have a person running a large GPU to run the game. My rating for the graphics for SpellForce 
 2: Shadows Wars is 8; they needed to fix up some of the graphics, but it is not noticeable to a 
 normal person. Especially, when they are not looking for gliches.
  
  When, I got the game, all the audio were turned to medium sound. I may not have the best speakers, 
 but I usually turn all the sound up. I left the music slide bar where it was. I usually like the 
 game's music, but I usually listen to my own music. The in-game music fits the game. I turned up 
 all the other ones up. I like how the bass of the sound effect when I am playing the game. Some 
 of the sounds are annoying, especially for some of the creatures, but they fit the creatures as 
 well. The sound rating, I gave this game, a 9. There is some lag with the sound, but I think Windows 
 has a lot to do with it.
  
  Most of the cut-scenes are a bit laggy, even with my GPU, but the meshes are clean. When, your 
 character walks up to a check point or talks to a NPC, it lags a little bit. I think it is going 
 from a player's interface to a movie interface. The in-game movies uses the game engine to create 
 the movie, so the number of objects (NPC) on the screen is lagging the movie clips. The rating 
 I give the cut-scenes is 7, if they didn't mix some kind of movie clips because they used more 
 of the game engine to create their movies.
  
  I like the gameplay, there are two modes of gameplay. I remember playing Balder's Gate, this game 
 is almost like, when you got a main character and you can't really control the NPC that fight along 
 side with you. SpellForce 2 uses that concept and takes to an extra step. You can tell the NPC 
 to attack the enemy, by telling them to use a spell or just attacking. You can pick different spells 
 for them to use automatic and they will use them. The other mode, it's more for the rpg gamer, 
 where you are behind your avatar. The gameplay rating, I would give for this game would be 7.
 
  
  The reason why I gave it 7, the interaction with the game with your keyboard and mouse, it could 
 be my wireless keyboard and mouse, it was really laggy. When, you hover over a button, the information 
 is simple, but it doesn't give you alternatives like hotkeys to use. To view the stats of characters 
 is pretty unique, you have to select the character and hover over the hp/mp bars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Spellforce 2: Shadow Wars is a very decent sequel to the first one, The Order of Dawn, and its 
 accompanying expansions. The gameplay and interface has been improved some, there are plenty of 
 puzzles and quests to figure out, and plenty of fighting to go by.
  
  The main quests for Spellforce 2 takes place after the time of the first Spellforce. The power 
 of the Rune Warriors are gone - those left on the lands forced into more normal lives. However, 
 there are still plenty of dangers, as the Dark Elves of the Norcaine, led by Sorvina, march into 
 war. You take control of a Shaikhan, an agnostic human with the blood of the dragons flowing within 
 who is put into the thick of things when the Dark Elves come knocking on Shaikhan lands.
  
  This time, there are more customizations available, as you can have your Shaikhan use particular 
 weapons or spells, or mix the two into a hybrid warrior. You also get to control up to 5 other 
 major warriors whom you can either let the computer build as they level up with you, or direct 
 their styles yourself. There are also 2 companions that come along, and both are critical to the 
 missions; the Dark Elf, Nightsong, and one of the Orcs of the Clans. Unlike the previous Spellforce, 
 your armies lvl up too, going up to lvl 18 by the time your Shaikhan reaches the maximum level 
 of 30, and allied heroes go up to lvl 24.
  
  The quests are many, and you'll find yourself using the journey stones very often to continue a 
 quest or complete one for the rewards. You can even take control of a part of the Realm and build 
 it to a sense of glory that brings citizens and certain people that, by doing corresponding sidequests, 
 can give you weapons and armor.
  
  The graphics are somewhat improved from the first one. The citizens have more expressions, even 
 if their faces doesn't really show all of the realistic expressions. There are still the myriad 
 of environment scenes, buildings, ruined areas, and so forth. The units also have some realistic 
 movements, where it takes them about a second to go into a full run, and their attack speed varies 
 too.
  
  The audio isn't something worth really talking about, although some of the BGM is decent enough, 
 while a few of them are carryovers from the first one. At least your Shaikhan doesn't speak as 
 much outside a cutscene as your Rune Warrior from the first one does, so the mundane stuff is pretty 
 much lowered. The worker units doesn't speak much either, so you won't really know when a building 
 is finished, of if they or the base is under attack.
  
  Like the first one, this one is very lengthy, with the replay value decent for the different builds 
 you can employ on your Shaikhan. Some of the battles are epic, with enemy forces pouring in continuous 
 waves to maraud your defenses or your attack force. Other times, it will just be your Shaikhan 
 and your closest allies. You won't see any medusae petrifying them, but there will be some challenging 
 boss battles before you find the final main quest boss. It can also be pretty hard to direct your 
 army, especially if they see a nearby enemy or enemy towers.
  
  So overall, it's right there with the first Spellforce, with a few improvements. The main quests 
 are long and challenging, with sidequests to help add some diversion or help drive the main quest 
 through. It's long with good replay value, so it is worth a buy if you're looking for a good long-term 
 RTS/RPG blend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leustenia1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  SpellForce 2 is a great game.. a nice mixture of rpg, strategy, and adventure. Has a great story, 
 it is touching sometime, has a great grafics design... and it is easy to se the cests that are 
 in back of some buildints... witch is very good. The control of the game is a little bit ocuard... 
 becouse there is no Key shortcuts..... for some important actions.. like "Atack anything to that 
 point" or "Stop all" , "Hold Positions" and in my opinion that are some important things in a strategy 
 game. The RPG stile is nice..... you have a lot of artefacts, and have from what to chouse... but 
 it is sad when you are level 28 and have alot of hight level artrefacts... but youre other companion 
 are only lvl 23.... the diference is to higth. and you find artefacts way to earlier from youre 
 companion's level. Another fact is that.. when you make level 30 ( witch is maximum) youre companion 
 dont make XP anymore.. and dont rise level up.... Why??? for example i finised with a black magic 
 magician... lvl 30 and all others horoes were lvl 24 : ( ( . i think this is a quite enoying. 
  Well that is enougth with critics:) but after all this.. it is a very nice game... and you have 
 some oportunuties to speed up the quests... using only heroes. ( this of course if you are skiled 
 enougth to figth like in matxis stile:) dont look at figth just read "betwen lines":) ) 
  I finish Spell Force 1 and now SpellForce 2 and i have to say that the last one is a little better, 
 and the story is better to. Congratulationt for this game it tooks me a lot of "white nigths" to 
 finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  It came out of no where and just seemed to show up on store shelves. It just seamed one day I was 
 looking for a game and came across the demo for spellforce 2. About 8 hours later I found myself 
 down at the store buying it and I am happy that I did.
  
  The game is a odd mix of adventure game and a rts. So far it has been great fun and a good story. 
 If you do not know if you will like this game or not then get the demo you wont be sorry. This 
 game is hard to explain but its like a Heroes of Might and Magic but with out all the turned based 
 combat that it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Beaner69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played many RPGs and RTS games before, but I have never heard of a RPG/RTS game. When I 
 got this game for a gift , I was curious about this because of the gameplay. When I put about 2 
 hours in it, I was addicted to this. The gameplay, sound effects, character effects, graphics, 
 and even the music. The story is very understandable and interesting. There are some down sides 
 to this game. Even thought the gameplay, graphics, and music is so great, you might have some problems 
 about this game your computer. The graphics are great but you are going to need a powerful graphics 
 card with the latest drivers. The music is so good, but requires a great sound card with good speakers. 
 Now the computer itself. All this depends on your computer speed. But if your computer itself with 
 the great features, then you will might love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, very easy to learn. There are a total of nine races divided in 3 factions. The 
 main story is interesting and well implemented while some secondary quests tend to get boring. 
 A vast number of items are available from long swords to daggers and bows. The skill tree makes 
 your heroes unique making it capable to have any combination between melee fighters and magicians.
 
  The units that can be built are justified in the campaign missions but are not well balanced.
 
  The game is even longer than expected at a first look as it takes you through a series of interesting 
 areas, and mixed missions ( only heroes/ army) .
  It looks nice , every modification in the inventory is visible on the hero, and in crystal shard 
 you can see your units reflections which is great. the sound is not well inspired but is not discomforting 
 either.
  In conclusion it's a good game, it lacks certain ingredients but is worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yspeed
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Some tech problems prevent this game from being the instant classic.
  But if you don't mind these you may have a hell of an experience!
  The single compain maps are 
 well done but the side quests are sometimes boring and not "talking to you".
  The main quest on the other side is well done but too bad you have to complete some bad created 
 side quest to level up.
  Also you don't get any exp for killing foes thus creating the illusion that you are killing for 
 nothing,
  The strategy aspect of the game is also sometimes lacking. For instance, no way to assign hotkeys 
 for buildings only for groups.
  In conclusion, Both the strategy and the role-plaing aspects of the game are not perfect and sometimes 
 are missing a feature or two but the overall and the combination is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Intro: 
  SpellForce 2: Shadow Wars (SP2: SW) is one of the very few games in the RPS genre, or Role-playing 
 Strategy. It blends the levelling, exp, questing, talent trees, armor and weapons of the RPG genre 
 and mixes them in with the base building, army gathering and strategy concepts to create a very 
 unique game.
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  The graphics are great. All the character models have been done exceptionally well and even your 
 simple soldier unit has been created well and is easily distinguishable from other units. Enemy 
 units look good too and each has its own unique style. The scenery is awesome, the trees, plants 
 and resources all look amazing and the buildings and towns that you will venture through all look 
 very nice. Nothing breathtaking, but better than you may expect.
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  As mentioned earlier, the gameplay in Spellforce is unique as it mixes RPG and RTS. As you begin 
 to play you will quickly see the RPG aspects of the game. You get to create your own Hero character 
 and as the game progresses put points into their talent trees and aim them to using combat or magic 
 skills. Your Avatar can also level up and gains experience from killing enemies and completing 
 quests.
  Apart from your avatar you will have numerous hero characters and will always be slightly weaker 
 than your avatar, but are much stronger than normal units. You can move with the point and click 
 RTS style or move with WASD in an RPG style, however the point and click generally works better.
 
  But, it could not be an RTS without the true RTS features. Fairly earlier in the main campaign 
 you will begin to build your first base. You have three resources to work with: Lenya (for some 
 units and reviving Heroes) , Silver (for creating units) and stone (for creating buildings) . There 
 are many different buildings and units to create from Soldiers and Farms to Castles and Titans. 
 There are plenty or armies you will have to come up against and use your strategy and superior 
 numbers to defeat, but the use of RPG type skills will also influence the outcome.
  For those of you who want something to compare the game to, its kind of like a cross between Warcraft 
 III and Guild Wars, but only vaguely. 
  
  Sound 8/10:
  The background music in Shadow Wars is fairly plain and you'll be quickly running your own music 
 instead as its fairly bland and repetitive. However this is easily made up for with the sound effects 
 department. The effects have all been done wonderfully and they really draw you into the game. 
 The voice acting of your own Avatars and Heroes is generally pretty good, but the voices of NPCs 
 is generally a horror to listen to.
  
  Replay Value 10/10:
  The main campaign itself will take many, many hours to complete (you'd be looking at something 
 like 30+ on a normal difficulty level) and even once you have done that you could do it again, 
 either on a different difficulty level or influence your characters talent tree in a different 
 direction to keep things interesting. There are also two other single player modes, but they are 
 nowhere near as good as the campaign. On top of that you then have an online multiplayer mode to 
 have fun with!
  
  Outro 9.3/10:
  Spellforce 2 is an awesome game and is definitely worth a look at. Ignore playing the demo as it 
 pales in comparison to the real thing and is not a good show off of the game. If you are a hardcore 
 RPG or RTS fan though, you may not quite find what you are looking for here. But if you like both 
 the genres and are interested in a blend of the two, then this game is definitely for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game since Thursday and I have been playing it at least for 3 hours a day! I love 
 the environment and the scenery and the graphics in general. Shining armour and fog of distance 
 makes it all that much better. As far as the story line goes it is satisfying and I love the way 
 that I keep on finding cool new weapons and goodies!!! I recommend this game if you want to pass 
 your time beautifully without stress. The combination of RPG with Strategy gives you pleasure of 
 switching game styles, that way you hardly ever get bored. I must admit that the strategic part 
 of the game could do with some extras but considering the whole package I say that it is a must 
 have!
  
  Have a nice time exploring the wonderful world of Spell Force 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanorman
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Spellforce 2 took me by surprise. And it hit me hard. I am still a little bit dizzy. In simple 
 words - the game is great. It looks, it sound and it feels exactly like I would imagine and want 
 it to do. From the early stages till the very end - in never stopped to amaze and entertain me.
 
  
  Visually it's just beautiful and full of colours, just like fantasy world should look like. But 
 great graphics and animation alone can not win prizes and fan's feeling for the game. Spellforce 
 2 delivers also all the things that are not seen or heard. Difficulty level is set just perfectly 
 what helps the game gain on gameplay. The main storyline is fine as well - nothing specially revealing, 
 but still top class. It doesn't bore you to death.
  
  The character development system is one of Spellforce's 2 main advantages. It is more similar to 
 RPG rather than to casual RTS games.
  
  I really encourage you to buy this title. It's worth its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  You have not played the first Spellforce I would highly recommend getting Starforce Platinum edition 
 which includes the Original game plus two expansions never released here in the US before this 
 year. Its not necessary to play Spellforce 2 but the original still looks and plays great. As for 
 Spellforce 2, its a really great evolution of the series where the same Real time strategy elements 
 mix it up with Role Playing. The campaign is a long, interesting journey with great environments 
 and characters. Its great to be able to lay out your buildings from the typical RTS view and then 
 zoom in to a third person view and be able to see the buildings and all the activity going on. 
 
  
  Don't let this one pass you by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryker1979
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  As a major fan of just about any and every RPG, whenever a new RPG comes out, I buy it, almost 
 no questions asked. I picked up SpellForce 2 for $40 at my local video game store, and thus far 
 I have not been disappointed. While not without a few rough edges (I'll get to those later) I have 
 found myself spending more time than I should be playing SpellForce.
  
  First off, what is it? Honestly, SpellForce 2 almost defies description. For those of you whom 
 have played the Warlords Battlecry games (RTS with a hero character that gains experience as you 
 progress) , SpellForce 2 will seem very familiar... sort of. Fans of Dungeon Siege or Diablo (I 
 really don't need to explain these ones, do I?) will also find a good deal of familiar material 
 in SpellForce 2. Basically you have a group of six heroes (and/or heroines) that the storyline 
 follows. Your avatar, the leader of said heroes, gains experience as quests are completed, and 
 the other heroes lag about a level behind. When you level you gain access to better weapons and 
 armor and also a magic and/or combat skill set, which you can mix and match as much as you want.
 
  
  At intervals your avatar will be given command over a base and accompanying army, generally with 
 the mission to destroy an enemy base that is large enough that if you send in just your heroes... 
 they all die. Unfortunately, this is where SpellForce 2 falls a little short. While the RTS portion 
 of the game is not particularly bad, in some ways it almost feels as if it is an afterthought to 
 the RPG portion of the game. While most RTS games provide all sorts of upgrades for your units, 
 in SpellForce 2, the upgrades just aren't there. There also are very few special powers available 
 for your units.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  The controls for SpellForce 2 are very intuitve and easy to pick up. There is also a feature that 
 makes fighting a little simpler called "click and fight." The way "click and fight" works is you 
 select an enemy, and then boxes appear under all of your heroes and groups of units that give you 
 options to attack the enemy. This is particularly useful for healing units, as you don't have to 
 deal with hitting a hotkey, then casting the spell on the wrong unit. Instead you click on the 
 unit to be healed first , then a cast heal box appears under all units that can heal, which can 
 be clicked to cast. Honestly, I hope that option starts appearing in other RTS games, and am a 
 little surprised no one has thought of it before now. 
  
  Camera control can be a little clunky, particularly around changes in elevation. You also have 
 the ability to zoom in on you avatar and control with the A, W, S and D buttons, which I have found 
 useless, but otherwise the controls are by and large excellent.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Nothing particularly special. Nice 3-D graphics, particularly of the terrain, and the ability to 
 zoom in and watch the fights very closely if you so desire. Generally not a good idea in the middle 
 of large battles, but it is there if you need it.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  The musical score is very easy to listen to. While not quite of the caliber of recent blockbusters, 
 I have found myself humming the music from time to time. The sound effects sound like you would 
 expect, from arrows hitting their fleshy targets to lightning bolts crashing down. Nothing exceptional, 
 but nothing particularly poor either. 
  
  Except for the voices. The voice acting is not particularly poor, but the lines are all wrong. 
 Basically, the text sounds like a poor translation. Which given that I believe the makers are German (?) , 
 is certainly excusable, but should at least be noted. Many of the words used don't mean exactly 
 what the translators thought they meant, and while it doesn't break the game, it can be an annoyance, 
 particularly for big fans of the english language (Hey, there have to be some out there!) . Also, 
 there are some issue with text being spoken after it should have been. Example, I free some dwarfs 
 from a cage, then walk through an area that triggers them begging me to free them. Huh?
  
  Value: 8
  There is a good deal of play time to get out of this game. I've barely scratched the 
 surface and have been playing for over 20 hours. There are many subquests to complete and while 
 I am playing through with a pure fighter build this time, I will need to play through with a mage 
 next time.
  
  Tilt: 10
  Dear Reader, perhaps you've heard of the phrase "Jack of all trades, master of none?" SpellForce 
 2 is a good RPG, a good RTS, a good dungeon crawler game. It doesn't excel in any particular area, 
 but the way everything has been put together works pretty well. I can't walk away from it. I've 
 played it for 20 hours out of the last 60 since I bought it. It can be very addictive. 
  
  If you are looking for a pure RTS, this is not the game for you. Honestly. However, if you are 
 a beginning RPGer, someone looking for a decent dungeon crawler, or just someone who likes video 
 games, this game is a good deal.
  
  In terms of stability and requirements, I haven't had any problems, no comment from the peanut 
 gallery.
  
  In summary, while not without its faults, SpellForce 2 is a very solid game. It is easy to learn, 
 fun to play, and will provide hours of enjoyment, if you like that sort of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sastra1978
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  A mix of RPG and RTS elements is a dream come true. But to have it seamlessly blend together is 
 the ultimate RTS/RPG experience.
  
  Phenomic have a hit on their hands. Smooth graphics, decent voice-overs, great gameplay. I have 
 not tested multiplayer yet. Supports both campaign modes as well as free play. Multiplayer supports 
 co-op and assault modes. Game supports isometric and chase viewing angles. The UI has been extensively 
 though out. Some of the UI elements makes you wonder how other games missed out on those features. 
 
  
  I have a strong feeling this is going to give Titan Quest a good run for its money. At $39.99 this 
 is a must buy.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Spellforce 1: The Order of Dawn, you won't be hugely surprised by Spellforce 2: 
 Shadow Wars, which is a good thing, because the original did a lot of things right. Mostly what 
 it needed was some rounding-off of edges and polish, and Shadow Wars has benefited from a fair 
 amount of refinement. A far better game than Dragonshard, yet the official reviews aren't as good. 
 Maybe it's because Phenomic is a German developer, and simply doesn't have the publicity elsewhere.
 
  
  The RPG elements of Shadow Wars are much deeper than those of its predecessor. The skill trees 
 are large and varied, with one tree for combat and one for magic. Skill progression is restricted 
 by the number of points you currently have distributed (effectively a level restriction) . Beyond 
 that, you're free to choose whatever you want, either in magic or combat, though it generally pays 
 to stick with one or the other. On the combat side, you have skills like dual wield blades/daggers, 
 heavy armor with plate/chain sub-skills, warhammers/two-handed swords, bows/crossbows, etc. On 
 the magic side, you have spells dealing with healing, elemental, mental, summoning, etc. Character 
 customization is limited to choosing male/female and a face, from a selection of 20 or so.
  
  The RTS side is pretty straightforward, involving resource collecting and base building. There 
 are 9 playable races: Humans, Elves, Dwarves, Orcs, Barbarians, Trolls, Norcaine (Dark Elves) , 
 Gargoyles, Shadows, with Humans, Orcs, and Dark Elves being the primary races and the others being 
 sub-races. There are other races, like the undead, demons, and beast people, but they are not playable 
 in the SP campaign. Each of the races is distinctive with their own strengths and weaknesses and 
 unique units. Humans are balanced with good ranged and healers (druids) , Orcs are strongest in 
 melee with some ranged units and offensive magic-users, and the Norcaine have summoners (necromancers) , 
 stealth units (shadows) , and good flying and ground melee units (gargoyles) . Titan units can also 
 be summoned, which can be as powerful as several heroes combined.
  
  As far as the story and characters go, it's very well done. For the most part, the voice acting 
 is decent, with a few odd  here and there, like "This is the 
 stuff of children." In other words, "This is child's play." The story is tight and keeps things 
 moving along at a nice pace. Other heroes join your party after they have been infused with the 
 dragon blood of the avatar, which gives them the ability to resurrect each other. There are two 
 additional slots for temporary heroes, who come and go throughout the game, over which you have 
 limited control (no inventory or skill access) . There are plenty of sidequests available and even 
 a minigame-type quest, enough to add a good 10-15 hours on top of the main quest. There's a good 
 array of weapons and armor, including some strangely highly-protective bikini-type armor for female 
 characters.
  
  Combat mechanics have been improved from the OoD. Character attack behavior can be set to pretty 
 much anything you want, auto-attack even has different levels of aggro. In combat, the player will 
 mainly be concerned with casting spells/special attacks/abilities. At the hardest difficulty setting 
 some battles will require very efficient use of spells/abilities, otherwise the party will be wiped 
 out very quickly. I couldn't imagine surviving most big battles without at least 3 strong healers 
 and at least 2 tanks with very high armor. If you like a challenge, I suggest playing on the hardest 
 difficulty. Path-finding and AI are quite good, and I know full well how much of a game-killer 
 bad AI/pathing can be in an RTS (BfME 2) . The enemy tends to send out a sizable force, yet keeps 
 their bases well-guarded. Attacking enemy bases can turn into a long attrition slugfest with heroes 
 dying and being resurrected 5 times in the same battle. 
  
  The environment graphics are easily the best ever seen in an RTS, which can be seen more fully 
 by going into camera chase mode behind the avatar. The unit graphics are noticeably low-poly close 
 up, but most of the time, you'll be viewing them from above at distance, and it would probably 
 kill most people's framerates otherwise. The heroes look much better of course.
  
  That's about it. If you're a fan of either RPGs or RTSs, there isn't a better combination of those 
 two genres to be found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaGoose
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  From the opening movie the game grabs hold of you and doesn't let go. FIrstly I have to mention 
 the graphics, the minimum spec will allow most users to enjoy the great graphics but this games 
 stand head and shoulders above for high spec pc's. With everything turned up the graphics are stunning 
 and the landscapes come to life. Game play is quick and easy to pick up and with the third person 
 WASD system even FPS gamers will pick it up and feel at home with it. The skill and level system 
 is very good and allows you to chose you favoured path, be it range weapons or close up tanking 
 for the melee classes. You will also be able to choose a huge variety of spells with the mage classes. 
 You can also choose yeour destiny very early on in the game being good or bad is your choice and 
 iy will effect your path in the game. All in all the game is superb and will be loved by both RTS 
 and RPG players but it is highly recommened to people you shy away from these games. Try it you 
 WILL NOT regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgmail
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I personally ever have experienced.
  
  I don't understand why some reviewers say this game has bad voice acting. Voice acting is great 
 in this game.
  
  Some extra minimum 100 words:
  
  This is one of the best games I personally ever have experienced. This is one of the best games 
 I personally ever have experienced. This is one of the best games I personally ever have experienced. This 
 is one of the best games I personally ever have experienced. This is one of the best games I personally 
 ever have experienced. This is one of the best games I personally ever have experienced. This is 
 one of the best games I personally ever have experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaikanWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  At first you must know that SpellForce 2 is a RTS & RPG hybrid. This means that you can play it 
 like a classical RTS game but you also have a hero which you can equip with items or skill with 
 a skilltree. You can also go into a 3rd person view where you can directly control your avatar 
 through WASD or the arrow keys.
  
  So and now to the game. At first I want to mention the graphics which are amazing. I never saw 
 such a detailed fantasy world in any other RTS game.
  
  Then there is the fantastic sound. The music is very epical and fits perfectly into the world. 
 If you liked the soundtrack of SF1 you will love the SF2 soundtrack. The speech is also quite good 
 - especially compared to the speech in SF1.
  
  The story and mission design is varied and never bored me. There is always something to do and 
 there are many optional quests which you dont have to do. On the whole the campaign has a playtime 
 of more than 40 hours.
  
  Multiplayer Mode has some connection glitches if you dont configure it correctly but if you do 
 its also great fun. There is the free game mode which offers a seperate campaign which has also 
 a playtime of about 30-40 hours.
  The Player vs. Player mode is not that good but its also enjoyable - mostly because the AI is very 
 intelligent.
  
  As a concolusion I would say that SF2 is one of the best games this year. Fans of RPGs & RTS should 
 get it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
