-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spellbinder: The Nexus Conflict
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spellbinderthenexusconflict/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 7.3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 10 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Centropolis Gaming
Developer: Mythic Ent
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mythic has tempered what would otherwise be a solid but unremarkable shooter with a number of role-playing 
 game elements that make Spellbinder surprisingly deep and distinctive. 

 At a glance, developer Mythic Entertainment's fantasy-themed team-based first-person shooter Spellbinder: 
 The Nexus Conflict might seem like other first-person shooters that have come before it. And considering 
 that it was released within weeks of two of the most sensational first-person shooters ever, Unreal 
 Tournament and Quake III, Spellbinder doesn't really seem to have much going for it. However, Mythic 
 has tempered what would otherwise be a solid but unremarkable shooter with a number of role-playing 
 game elements that make Spellbinder surprisingly deep and distinctive.  

 Spellbinder is an online-only multiplayer shooter; you don't buy the game in stores, and there's 
 no real single-player component. Instead, you download the extremely small install files from the 
 Centropolis Gaming Center, then run the game's download setup program. Once you've got the game 
 installed, you connect to Centropolis' servers and create a character from one of four spell-slinging 
 classes, each of which has its own base attributes and starting spells. Each of the four character 
 classes plays differently: The magician's strength is sheer firepower; the subtler mystic can alter 
 his own abilities to run faster, jump higher, and turn invisible; the runemage specializes in dropping 
 explosive trap runes; and the healer is the weakest attacker but can cast regenerative and protective 
 spells on his teammates. There's only one game mode available in Spellbinder: a team-based game 
 reminiscent of Starsiege: Tribes' capture-and-hold. In it, you and your allies have 60 minutes 
 to attempt to capture all the power nodes on the map and bias them to your team by approaching 
 them and infusing them with your team's magic. You must also attack your enemies' nexus - the primary 
 power node each team possesses - and defend your own. Once a team's nexus has been destroyed, and 
 all of its nodes are lost, it is defeated.  

 Since Spellbinder doesn't come on a CD and takes up so little space on your hard drive, you might 
 expect its graphics to be blocky and plain in the interest of speed. This isn't the case. It should 
 be mentioned that as of this writing, Spellbinder is still in its early stages of release; as such, 
 there are only a scant four multiplayer maps and four character models available (each with four 
 different heads and three clothing swaps) . But all of these look quite good. The game's four levels 
 - the keep, the ruins, the glacier, and the temple - are all huge, solidly designed areas that 
 don't look especially original, but their cleanly textured stony walls, tapestries, and pillars 
 have a picturesque high fantasy flavor. And though there isn't much variety among Spellbinder's 
 character models either, each is colorful, crisply textured, and each is animated fairly well. 
 Spellbinder's special effects also look quite good. Every magic spell has its own special effects: 
 Fire spells explode into bursts of flame, protective spells encase their targets in transparent 
 shells of light, and tripped rune traps envelop their victims in a sizzling collar of energy.  
 

 Spellbinder's sound is also sparse; the only background music you'll hear is the rather bland and 
 repetitive menu- and loading-screen music. In the actual game, the only sound effects you'll tend 
 to hear are those of spells taking effect and death screams of killed characters - often in succession. 
 The spells themselves sound good enough for the most part: Fire spells explode with a reverberating 
 crash, bolts of ice crack and shatter with an unnerving glassy clink, and wind spells travel along 
 the ground with a gusty whoosh. The sound effects also work with the different visual effects to 
 provide a clear indication of exactly what sort of spell just hit you and what sort of protection 
 spells to request from your team's healer. In Spellbinder it's usually best to stick with your teammates. 
 Instead of ammunition, Spellbinder uses a mana and stamina bar to measure how many spells your 
 character can cast in a given time before tiring or running out of spell points. As such, it's 
 possible to take a few kills on your own, but since a lone character with no stamina and no mana 
 is virtually helpless, Spellbinder's characters are at their absolute best in groups. A magician's 
 powerful battery of attack spells is much more effective with a row of explosive runes guarding 
 the doorway and a healer in the back for protection.  

 Each of the four character classes gradually improves over time as you gain experience points and 
 levels. Instead of simply counting frags, Spellbinder uses an experience point system whereby characters 
 gain experience by scoring hits (either with attack spells or by ensnaring with rune traps) and 
 kills on their opponents, as well as by performing healing and resurrections. These experience 
 points accrue over the course of the match in both your character's standard pool of experience 
 points and in the form of bonus experience points, which are also gained if you play through the 
 entire hour's length of a single match.  

 When characters gain enough experience points, they can advance levels. Advancing a level entitles 
 your character to permanent improvements: a new, more powerful set of spells and a handful of bonus 
 points, which you can apply directly to your statistics. These statistics directly affect your 
 character's abilities to run, jump, and strafe, as well as how much damage you can take and how 
 powerful your spells are. While in other games, skilled players simply take the higher frag counts 
 in each game, in Spellbinder skilled players advance to higher levels more quickly and are thusly 
 rewarded for their skill with a more developed, more powerful character. Fortunately, Spellbinder's 
 character development model is balanced out by set level ranges for each match; that is to say, 
 each Spellbinder match constrains its players to a certain range of experience levels - one to 
 four, three to seven, or five to ten, for example. A lowly first-level character will never cross 
 the path of a powerful seventh-level character. As such, beginners won't get hopelessly slaughtered 
 by players several levels higher, and more importantly, skilled players are much more likely to 
 play in arenas against players of similar skill.  

 Spellbinder does suffer from some latency problems. Lag isn't common, but it does happen, especially 
 during peak hours. When you do get lagged out, you'll often simply get disconnected and will have 
 to exit the game to get back in. This can be especially frustrating if you've gained a great deal 
 of bonus experience points, since these will be forfeited if you leave the match before the time 
 limit is up.  

 Spellbinder looks, sounds, and plays decently enough, but its purely first-person shooter elements 
 pale in comparison to other, more focused games in the genre. However, its RPG elements provide 
 an interesting path of character development that directly and permanently rewards skilled players. 
 If you're after the best first-person shooter out there, you should play Quake III or Unreal Tournament. 
 But if you prefer team-based shooters and want to see an actual return for your skill and effort 
 that lasts longer than the frag-count screen, you should give Spellbinder a try.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
