-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spiderman3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Swinging through NYC can be a lot of fun.
 lots of content to play through.
 City looks excellent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is either boring or frustrating, depending on who you're fighting.
 camera constantly gets in the way.
 technical glitches and significant performance issues.
 story is disjointed and doesn't tie itself to the film very well.
 Keyboard-and-mouse controls are painfully bad.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 925 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     May 4, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Performance and control issues make the PC version of Spider-Man 3 more problematic than its Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3 counterparts. 

  Alongside the hotly anticipated film comes the video game adaptation of Spider-Man 3. It's on a 
 whole bunch of platforms, and not all versions of the game are the same. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 versions are essentially slight upgrades over 2004's Spider-Man 2, whereas the PlayStation 2 
 and Wii versions are massively scaled back and dumbed down to the point of being awful. The good 
 news for PC owners is that the PC version happens to be a port of the 360/PS3 version. The bad 
 news is that this port doesn't quite cut it. The control scheme is totally unplayable unless you 
 have a good dual-analog gamepad, and a number of performance problems frequently get in the way 
 of the action.  

          Swinging through NYC is as thrilling as ever.     

  Spider-Man 3 ties itself into the new Spidey film by including some of the key story arcs from 
 the movie. You'll see Peter Parker get his black suit as well as run into villains like Sandman, 
 New Goblin, and Venom. But much like Spider-Man 2, the roster of villains doesn't end there. Scorpion, 
 Lizard, Kingpin, and others all pop up in spots. While it makes sense for the developers to extend 
 the scope of the story beyond that of the film, trouble arises when you realize that the film's 
 plot is practically glossed over. There are 10 individual storylines to play through, but none 
 of them are paced well, nor do they ever build up or deliver enough of a story to pull it all together 
 into one cohesive plot. It's almost like a hastily cobbled together Spider-Man mixtape. You get 
 all the villains, and none of the story exposition. There's about as much character depth and story 
 perspective here as is in the film's trailer.  

  If you played any of the recent movie-licensed Spidey games on consoles, you'll feel right at home 
 with Spider-Man 3 from the get-go. Like the previous games, Spider-Man 3 presents you with an open-world 
 version of New York City to swing around in to your heart's content. Swinging works much as it 
 did in Spider-Man 2, letting you latch onto nearby buildings and launch quick webs to zip around 
 as you please. Swinging through the city is easily the best aspect of the entire game. The city 
 isn't gigantic, but there's enough familiar scenery around to make you want to explore, and that 
 the city looks excellent is a big plus. Buildings are nicely detailed, the streets are jam-packed 
 with cars and pedestrians, and the game uses some nice lighting effects to give the sky, as well 
 as reflections of the sun off buildings, a rather pretty glow.  

  Of course, one required element to enjoy swinging, or really any other facet of Spider-Man 3, on 
 the PC is a dual-analog gamepad. The default keyboard-and-mouse controls are just terrible, and 
 trying to swing, fight, or manage the camera this way is simply futile. This game was designed 
 with a gamepad in mind, and no amount of keyboard-and-mouse fiddling makes it work otherwise. However, 
 if you've got a gamepad, you won't have a lick of trouble picking up the controls.  

  As you swing around, you'll find open mission icons scattered throughout the city. Fortunately, 
 you don't have to go hunting for them, as there is a city map that lets you target any mission 
 icon available to you. Though Spider-Man 3 doesn't change its formula much from previous games, 
 the one big change for the better this time around is the game's structure. No longer are you forced 
 to complete random side missions to get new story missions to unlock. The story missions and side 
 missions are treated independently from one another, so you need only beat story missions to unlock 
 more story missions. The story itself is a good 10 to 12 hours long, even if you never engage in 
 any of the side missions, so you're not forced to sit through padded content that just makes the 
 game longer. Side missions are still worth doing if you need a change of pace from the story, and 
 there's still plenty of random crime floating about the city to take care of. The one bummer is 
 that few of these random crimes or side missions deviate very far from the ones found in earlier 
 Spider-Man games, and the few that do don't really fit terribly well. Even some of the new story 
 missions seem weirdly out of place. For example, why is Spider-Man now an expert at disarming bombs? 

          As cool as some of Spider-Man's combat moves look, the fights are generally pretty lifeless, 
 and the camera tends to make things frustrating.     

  One other change to the game is the addition of contextual minigames. Clearly inspired by the gameplay 
 of God of War, Spider-Man will now engage in scripted events of acrobatic and combative heroism, 
 and all you have to do is press a few buttons in time with the icons that appear onscreen. One 
 example is Spider-Man having to leap through an impossibly complex series of lasers that will trigger 
 an alarm if hit. Just hit the buttons or analog stick movements that pop up, and you're good to 
 go. These new sequences aren't a bad addition, though they could have been implemented better. 
 There's often very little warning as to when one of these situations is about to pop up, so there 
 tends to be a trial-and-error aspect to them. The icons can occasionally be difficult to discern, 
 as well, specifically if the game is using analog-stick icons. If there's a lot of crazy action 
 happening onscreen, it can be tough to see exactly which direction the game wants you to go, let 
 alone act quickly enough to pull off the move. Fortunately, the game almost never starts you back 
 any further than the beginning of the minigame sequence you just started, so the punishment for 
 failure is minor.  

  Where Spider-Man 3 starts to lose its way is in combat. The basic combat engine doesn't feel markedly 
 different from earlier games, as it focuses on button-mashing combos that upgrade over time and 
 give you some unique special moves. The main problem stems from the game's overreliance on Spider-Man's 
 bullet-time equivalent. By holding down a designated button, Spidey goes into a slowed state that 
 lets him automatically dodge incoming attacks. In combat against basic thugs, you only need to 
 use this every once in a while, though when you do use it, you can clear an entire room in just 
 a few seconds because the grunt enemies are so inept at fighting back. But against most bosses, 
 you have to keep this button held down at all times to get much done. Some bosses can be whaled 
 on sans the bullet time, but a few of the later bosses pretty much require it, making those fights 
 a plodding chore. It gets even worse when the game tries to change things up on you. One of the 
 more tedious, protracted boss fights pits you against a giant version of the Lizard, where you 
 first have to toss him into a series of power generators using a clumsy spinning maneuver before 
 you even get down to the dull business of beating him up.  

  Spider-Man 3's camera system is an even bigger problem. The camera doesn't know how to snap behind 
 you if you have to run around in a circle to avoid enemy attacks, so you constantly have to readjust 
 it. If you happen to readjust it in a tightly enclosed area, the camera freaks out and you lose 
 all perspective of where you are or where the enemy went. It gets even worse during some of the 
 missions that require you to swing around the city. There are multiple missions where you have 
 to swing to a specific area in a certain amount of time, but getting the camera to line up so you 
 have a clear shot of where you next need to swing is an exercise in futility. You'll end up failing 
 far too many missions because of this. And if you're in a situation where you're crawling along 
 a wall or ceiling, make sure you're not easily nauseated. The quick snaps of the camera and constant 
 "Am I up or down?" perspective shifts make these parts vomit inducing.  

  Spider-Man 3 on the PC looks just about as decent as it did on the 360 and PS3, and if you turn 
 up all the graphical bells and whistles, it actually looks a bit sharper. Still, the game never 
 quite manages to look like something built for the modern generation of gaming. The city features 
 the most detail, though it also has a few issues with texture popping. Most everything else looks 
 slightly haggard in one way or another. The Spider-Man character model looks great, but all the 
 other people look bug-eyed and mildly deformed. Some of the combat moves look neat, but the animations 
 are jerky and stilted, as if transition animations are missing. You'll also encounter a lot of 
 weird physics glitches as you play, especially during combat. Enemies will get hung up on walls 
 or invisible pieces of the environment, objects don't break properly, and even Spidey sometimes 
 gets stuck in or clips through walls or set pieces. The PC version also has a hard time moving 
 with any level of consistency or fluidity. It's not merely a frame-rate issue -- the whole game chugs 
 up real bad at seemingly random intervals, though it's especially bad when you're swinging through 
 the city. Turning down all the graphical effects to the lowest settings only helps to a marginal 
 degree. We tried the game on multiple high-end PCs and got the same result every time.  

          I once ran into a frame rate hitch this big!     

  The game's audio is mostly predictable, 
 though it's decent enough for what the game requires. The biggest draw here is the involvement 
 of the film's cast. Kirsten Dunst is nowhere to be found, but Tobey Maguire, James Franco, Thomas 
 Hayden Church, Topher Grace, and J. K. Simmons all make appearances. Simmons seems to be the only 
 one that's enthusiastic about reprising his role as J. Jonah Jameson. Maguire gives an OK, but 
 generally, sleepy performance as Spider-Man/Peter Parker, and the remaining cast all seem like 
 they'd rather be somewhere else. Bruce Campbell shows up yet again to play the narrator, though 
 he generally comes across as superfluous and out of place. Sound effects and music are both solid, 
 though once again, swinging through the city seems oddly silent. You get some nice whooshes of 
 wind as you swing about, but the soundtrack either cuts out entirely or stays very quiet and understated 
 as you swing. At least the music is good during fights.  

  In the end, Spider-Man 3 has its moments. Swinging through New York is as fun as it's ever been, 
 and some of the new contextual action sequences are pretty cool. But for everything Spider-Man 
 3 does well, it does something else poorly. The camera and presentation issues, as well as the 
 clumsy combat, all conspire to drag the experience down significantly. And as for the PC version 
 specifically, the control quirks and performance issues give the impression that this game simply 
 wasn't optimized properly for the PC, making it a less-than-ideal choice compared even with the 
 middling 360 and PS3 versions. Spider-Man 3 isn't without merit, but unless you're one of those 
 diehard Spider-Man fans that can't get enough of the swinging superhero, there's probably not enough 
 to Spider-Man 3 to make it worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Legojake94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  My last review for this game, focused on all the BAD. Since I've played the game again recently, 
 I now think differently of this game.
  
  The Difficulty Won't be hard, if it's on a Strong and fast computer. If it's on a slower PC, it 
 won't accept your commands that well, thus making that certain, dodge, or attack, not happen.
 
  
  The Boss' difficultly, is JUST right, and if you have a good PC, the "push buttons when appeared 
 on screen" thing, it will be easy as well.
  
  Swinging is indeed fun! itmay SEEM slow, but it's actually quite fast! And i love the "slingshot 
 WAY across the city thing". Spider-man, also, looks real, and is scaled down to the proper size. 
 Car chases are just AWSOME! Suspect's car will ram other cars off the road in order to escape! 
 It has good A. I. and everything!
  
  The game's Story stinks. the story BARELY ties itself to the movie, (or together in itself) . For 
 example: When Spidey goes to battle sandman with the black-suit, that's the first time anyone in 
 the game sees Sandman. So why is Parker so mad at him! He's never seen him before! and why does 
 New goblin Help spidey and the end of the game! HE'S STILL MAD AT HIM FOR KICKING HIS BUTT EARLIER 
 IN THE GAME!!!
  
  The Chice of Bosses, was a good choice buy the way!
  
  They could've done better on lighting, like, oh i dunno, SOME CONTRAST SETTINGS! At night You can't 
 see anything, so you bump up the brightness, but wait! next time you're in broad daylight, you 
 can't see anything cause it's so dang bright! so you bump it down, and there's like no comfort 
 zone of lightin between, So when you play this game, it's either "blindingly bright!" or "Darkness 
 only a blind man knows"
  
  It has good levels of unlockables. When you first start the game, you may feel limited, but once 
 you complete some missions, and challenges, you'll feel like you can do it all!
  
  This game is SOOOO worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGirl789
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  It was an awesome game. It was glitchy though. It bogs your computer down when you're in the subways. 
 Especially when they're 2 trains.
  And sometimes when you'd be seeing the cinematics it would take the sound away, so they're people 
 just moving their lips. And if Spider-Man was trying to catch someone it usually had spider-man 
 looking like he was holding the person, but the person was like feet away from him.
  And don't get me started on the difficulty.
  It was a very hard game. If you are not that good 
 at video games you might wanna try a simpler game first before you try Spider-Man 3.
  Out of some glitches, and the difficulty Spider-Man 3 is a great game.
  The way the sky fades 
 from day to night, the way the water looks.
  It is a fun, and good looking game.
  By the way it gets really bright at day time so you might want to change the brightness if it's 
 day time.
  If you're a good gamer, and you love the Spider-Man games then go buy the game. It is one of my 
 top favorites.
  I rate the game very, very, very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slammers722
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for PC is hard as you get higher like king pen but it is fun. Some things are easier 
 to do on the keyboard and mouse and some things are easier on a gamepad. Like when you have to 
 press the buttons that pop up on the screen that ( In my opion) is easier on the keyboard. But when 
 you are deactivating a bomb and you have to unscrew the scews thats hard on the keyboard. Once you 
 get use to the controls for the keyboard and mouse or gamepad things will be easyer to control. You 
 might want to rent it first but it is very fun. I like to use the keyboard and mouse better than 
 gamepad because its easyer to remember for example shift is jump instead of button 1 is jump ( You 
 can set controls) . It's worth playing. It has some cursing but not real bad. That is why I am giving 
 this a this game a rating of 8.5 because it is fun and has great graphics even on the lowest settings. But 
 beware no matter how good of a computer you have it will still run a little bit jerky especially 
 in the subways with the trains ( Wich by the way is really cool and is a good source of travil. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMonsterCJ
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  Here comes spiderman 3 good but the graphics are just funny and the combat
  is'nt good for a beat em up game. but the game has some big city explore
  more butts to kick 
 while free roaming can play characters such as harry
  osborn venom when the game is finished. the pc version is having a problem
  of crashes sometimes 
 the game doesn't respond . the story is a litle confusing
  it's not good as any other spiderman games but this time spidey is funny ane
  more jokes. when 
 u're solving puzzles it's gonna blow your head 
 
  
  any way nice moves action thrilling cutscenes. The begining is confusing
  like spiderman jumps into a guy called carlyles building but that's not
  the game story ment 
 to be!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Joker_15
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Firstly, in contrast to the previous spider man games, Spiderman 3 is a league ahead. The basic 
 part of being Spiderman, the web slinging is done really well. Spiderman moves in fluid motion, 
 with flips, twists and fancy turns. There are even a few stunts you can pull and that double web 
 swing is a really neat option. Redundant in terms of its use but it is eye candy and it is a very 
 nice addition. That is something I appreciate. Detail. You can enjoy the neat acrobatics and you 
 swing around in an open environment like the GTA series. Unlike the previous Spiderman games, there 
 is no fixed path by which you must swing in order to complete your mission. You have the whole 
 of New York to swing around and do stuff Spiderman style.
  
  
  The game is fun to play. The story, is. yeah, standard Spiderman stuff, with his nerdy sense of 
 humour. Nothing spectacular in this department. And the Mary Jane thrill rides (swinging that dame 
 around town) are not very interesting. Up till the point I played this game, the only reason she's 
 in the game is to give you a back pain. Don't know if she'll be the damsel in distress later on 
 because, I'm too bored to play that game. Why? Well, for starters, I am not a Spidey fan. But the 
 prospects of swinging through a city interests me, so I did drop some money on this game. And I 
 played it for sometime because of the gameplay. But the game gets stale with the missions. Though 
 they each have distinctly different objectives, the game in the end boils down to doing the same 
 stuff, swinging, and button mashing. But to be fair, being creative with the button mashing will 
 see you put Spidey into action unleashing a variety of punch, kick and web combos, which I must 
 say are quite impressive. And yes, there are plenty of mini-games within the missions, which require 
 you to time and press certain buttons in a particular order or else you screw it up. But the developers 
 knew how frustrating screwing up these mini-games can be, so in most cases, if you fail, you can 
 hit retry and immediately jump into the mini-game section of the mission. So the game isn't as 
 frustrating as I thought it would be. Missions are nicely done, but can do much better to hold 
 your interests. The point where this game really suffers is the camera. If you are crawling or 
 running up a wall, the camera shifts to third person view, pushing it to the wall and you look 
 up at the sky, and at the top of the building, when Spidey jumps up and flips, you cannot make 
 out where he is for the moment. Similar trouble when you're in combat. You cannot tell what you've 
 shot your web at. Whenever you are chasing for example, say a helicopter, swinging above that guy 
 can be tricky, and since the camera doesn't turn as smoothly as it should, and comes back onto 
 Spidey every second web you shoot to swing, is hard to focus on the objective. There should have 
 been a mouse crosshair, which would allow Spidey to manually target the web whenever required. 
 A first person camera should allow that. Also, what does everybody compare the Spiderman game to? 
 The movie. So, it would be nice if the camera angles were more Cinematic. For example there should 
 have been a nice close up, third person camera, which would come closer every time you swing so 
 you'd feel like you are in a swing and not just watch the arcs Spidey moves in. It's like these 
 flight sim games, where the camera locks into place behind the plane, so if you dive; you see the 
 ground in front of the plane and not the underbelly of the plane moving downward. This would make 
 the swings more fun. Also, a thrill camera, or a shoulder camera would be nice. And whenever a 
 prominent enemy is defeated, maybe a cinematic camera angle for that. In nice slow motion. The 
 web rodeo is nice, but, if there were better collateral damage, it would be a lot more fun. Swing 
 the guy into a car for instance, if the glass on the car broke, it would look nice. And speaking 
 of cars, there should have been an option to lock on to any car and land on it's roof. And jump 
 from car to car when required. Kind of like the Just Cause video game if you will, but it makes 
 a lot of these car chase sequences much easier. And the bad camera angle makes it hard to land 
 on the car. Look at any Spiderman comic. There are always dynamic camera stills to every panel 
 where he is swinging. It adds to the action. This game greatly suffers from that. It's like the 
 difference watching a bee fly through flower and actually keeping a mini cam on the bee's head 
 and sees the view the little guy sees, flying through giant petals etc. Makes it more cinematic. 
 And a little debris whenever you throw an enemy into something, or whenever you pound the ground 
 or get thrown by a heavy opponent. Adds to the effect of the fight. Just bouncing around makes 
 it look like Spidey, or your enemy is just made of rubber.
  
  This game is good if you are a die-hard Spiderman fan and it certainly is worth a play for those 
 who aren't. But there isn't much replay value in this game, but the experience of swinging through 
 the New York skylines is a real motivator.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazemian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  =======================
  08 MonkeyDragon Series 2.0
  =======================
  Author: MonkeyDragon
  http://monkey. fifapoland. net
  http://www. fifapoland. net
  
  + Hello 
 everyone ! Since the first version released on 17/10/2007 + many updates later, now time to download 
 the FINAL... 08 MonkeyDragon Series 2.0 is the BIG package included many tools for you to modify 
 every aspect of FIFA 08 game.
  + This version 2.0 is COMPLETED package, there WON'T BE ANY FUTURE UPDATE.
  + After installing 
 2.0, please DO NOT re-install version 1.0 + its update. Only use 2.0.
  
  ==================
  This package includes 16 tools & 1 Patch for you
  
  1) 08 ADBoard Deluxe
 
  + Import/export adboards.
  + Gallery: save your adboard.
  + Import many ID at the same time.
  + Support 1GA,2GA (256x64,512x128) .
  (*) NOTE
  + In MANAGER 
 MODE: team uses own ID
  + Not in MANAGER MODE (Friendly, Tournament...) : adboard ID is 99
  
  2) 08 Boot Deluxe 2.0
  + Import 60+ boots at the same time
  + Players' boots database
 
  + Remove WRONG message
  
  3) 08 Ball Working 2.0
  + Import ball
  + Ball Gallery: 30 balls
  + Team's ball ID for consultation
  
  4) 08 Background Maker 2.0
 
  + Make background
  + Gallery: save your background
  
  5) 08 Cinematics Patch FINAL
  + New formation intro cinematics (1.0)
  + New stadium intro for Old Trafford, Stamford Bridge 
 (2.0
  + Unlock player goal celebration (you will see it more often)
  
  6) 08 Face Listing
  + List ID to player name.. 7) 08 FIFA FS Rebuilder
  + Help you rebuild 
 fifa. fat quickly
  
  8) 08 Font Maker
  + Make JERSEY NUMBER FONT
  
  9) 08 Gloves Manager 2.0
  + Import gloves for Goalkeeper
  + There are 19 quality gloves by 
 Efrain Santana for you
  
  10) 08 Indicator Importer 2.0
  + Import indicator
  + There are 10 indicators
  
  11) 08 PNG Kit Working
  + Import/Export Kit
  + Free Camera 
 Preview
  + Support 1GK (512x512) 2GK (768x768) 3GK (1024x1024)
  + Support REFEREE KITS
  
  12) 08 Menu Maker 2.0
  + Make Logo, banner, mini kit, face, loading stadium background , 
 stadium, manager face...
  + Fixed bug when making manager & loading stadium background BUGS
  
  13) 08 Net Working 2.0
 
  + Fixed version 1.0
  + Import NET & Linesmen flag
  
  14) 08 Popups Manager 2.0
  + Import popups
  + Fixed previous bug in version 1.0
  + You can mix up popups (By check or 
 uncheck popups detail before IMPORT)
  
  15) 08 Turf Maker 2.0
  + Make turfs
  + Choose turfs detail
  + Choose turfs stripes
  + Tutorial how to make your own turf
  + Add 
 full 12 mown patterns
  
  16) 08 Sound Patch 2.0
  + Increase sound effect in game
  + Fixed crowd
  
  17) 08 Theme Patch
  + There are 5 skins
  Blue
  Green
  Red
  Orange
 
  Purple
  
  ==============
  Credits
  ..:: Without them, no this tool for you
  1) FIFAFS 5.1 by FIFA Russia (http://eng. fifasoccer. ru)
  2) IMPBIG by Grey Mana
  3) Gfxpak 
 by Toni Wilen
  4) FSH Tool by Denis Auroux
  5) FIFA Poland for hosting my files.
  6) All fans give their reports
  7) Special thanks Hody
  And fans support my work !
  
  ==============
 
  Online Stuff
  Don't forget visit these websites to check out news and download stuff
  
  http://www. soccergaming. tv
  http://www. socceraccess. com
  http://eng. fifax. net
  http://www. fifa-mra. com
 
  http://www. fifa4fans. com
  http://www. fifakorea. net
  http://www. fifamania. it
  
  ==============
  Contact me at monkeydragon2k4@yahoo. com
  
  In Ho Chi Minh city, meet me at 
 Sai Gon University every afternoon from 2 to 4 PM, Room A305...
  
  ==============
  Copyright
  
  This software is provided "as is" without any warranties of any kind, either expressed 
 or implied. Under no circumstance may the programmer (s) or the hosts of this software be held liable 
 for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages a rising out of the use 
 of or inability of use of this software. You use this software at your own risk.
  
  Developed in Vietnam - HCM city ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Taken from the movie, the official game of the Spider-man 3 film is here. But instead of happines 
 to own this game, I would better say: what a letdown.
  
  First of all just like the previous Spider-man games, this game is not associated with the movie 
 at all. Instead, it includes villains from the TV series, who don't take part in the movie. Though, 
 the idea of swinging in NY to battle other super-villains, such as the lizard or the guys setting 
 bombs everywhere is still great fun. But not for the game which is supposed to be the one of the 
 official movie.
  
  To make matters worse, the game has some controlling difficulties, as it provides many moves, some 
 of them not that helpful or critical at all.
  
  However, there are some good points such as the Black-Suited Spider-Man or the battles taken from 
 the movie. And the graphics are good, too. Though the game needs a very good GPU to function fast 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Combat is either boring or frustrating depending on who you're fighting thats true, at sometimes 
 that game could be really booring but theres sometimes when this game is alot of fun
  
  camera constantly gets in the way - thats also true, the cameras really bother you in the game
 
  
  technical glitches and significant performance issues - technical glitches oh yes!! really bad 
 glitches, and performance is also not that good for the PC in the XBOX or PS2 the game look way 
 better than this game on PC
  
  story is disjointed and doesn't tie itself to the film very well - again your right the game was 
 nothing like the movies... maybe at some parts but not so much like i though...
  
  Keyboard-and-mouse controls are painfully bad. - yes, usually the gameplay controles in the spiderman 
 games are really good but in this game its.... mmm... yac
  
  but the good things about the games are that its fun to play like a free player and do missions 
 in new york city its pretty fun, also the greatest part when you play with the black suit
  
  let me just say that even with all the problems of the game, the game is really fun to play... 
 thats what i think so i give this game a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_GamerAAC
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3
  Platform: Multi
  Rated: T
  
  With every great Spider-Man movie comes a great.. well.. uhm.. ok so the Spider-Man games have had 
 a spotty reputation as far as game play goes. Is Spider-Man 3 really worth getting? Find out the 
 answer to that question and more in my review of Spider-Man 3 for the Wii.
  
  Game Play
  
  
  Like in Spider-Man 2 and Ultimate Spider-Man, Spider-Man 3 brings back the ability to freely 
 explore New York in between missions. This opens up a large variety of side-missions and crimes 
 that Spidey must stop in order to save New York. Unlike the previous Spider-Man games, the control 
 system is entirely different. The developers of the game used the Wii's new controls to create 
 a new and better way to play the games. Instead of button-mashing to stop enemies, you now have 
 to swing the WiiMote in a variety of ways in order to use the different punches, kicks, and web 
 attacks that Spider-Man has in his arsenol. The biggest (and probably the best) change to the game 
 is the webslinging. Using the WiiMote, you shoot webing and pull yourself from building to building. 
 This change takes a bit of time to get used to, but is well worth it in the end.
  
  Story
  
  Just because you've seen the movie doesn't mean you know exactly what happens in this 
 game. Yes, like in the movie, Spider-Man must fight a new Green Goblin, the Sandman, and Venom. 
 However, unlike the movie, Spider-Man also has three extra villians to deal with. Yes, thats right, 
 three extra super-villians in addition to the three that were in the movie. Players can expect 
 plenty of boss battles in the game that will take your abilities to the limit. I went give away 
 any spoilers.. but lets just say that one of the new bosses is a very famous reptile. In addition 
 to all this, Spider-Man is also dealing with the black costume, or the Venom suit, which is slowly 
 trying to take over his body. Players have the ability to switch Venom suit and into the Red and 
 Blue at will, however if you wear the Venom suit for too long Spider-Man will black out. While 
 wearing the Venom Suit, Spider-Man's abilities are all a grade higher. Only problem I have with 
 the story is its length. Took me less than a days time to complete all the Story missions and thats 
 while doing side-missions in between. 
  
  Voice Acting and Music
  
  This is where the game truely fails.. really. Other then Spider-Man, just about every character 
 in the game has TERRIBLE voice acting. Even the thugs of New York all have problems speaking. They 
 all seem to speak in the same 4 accents, British, Spanish, Bronx, and Indian (India) . The music 
 is just as bad. Its just one song that repeats itself at different points. The song changes only 
 once, and thats in the final battle with Venom. It seems like the Acting and Music was jut put 
 together last minute. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Well.. there really isn't much to say about the graphics. They weren't quite next gen, but they 
 were close and considering this is one of the first games for the Wii, I will give them a break 
 in that department. Graphics weren't bad, but could have been better. 
  
  Overall
  
  Well, it wasn't the best game made for the Wii so far, but it was good. A little short and TERRIBLE 
 voice acting, I will have to give the game a 7.0/10. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryser-Skyper
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I've ever played, but has still got some problems to fix and it will be perfect. One 
 of its problems is that sometimes while playing the game, you get a bit bored of beating up easy 
 bad guys, but after that when you face their "boss" it can become pretty hard. That may actually 
 be a good thing for other gamers, but I personally don't like this "irregular" balance of difficulty. 
 When it started to get tough and exciting later in the game, I noticed that the music isn't the 
 right one. What I mean is that the music in the game doesn't feel very exciting-actually, it kinda 
 feels a bit boring. It has also got other problems. But if I have to compare all those issues against 
 the game's gameplay, graphics an story, I can say that in the game you won't really see those problems 
 I'm talking about. I say - the game has some problems to fix, but in the end, it's a great game worthy 
 of buying.
  By the way, swinging through NYC is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Gamepley: You take the role of Peter Parker also known as Spider-Man. Of course this is a movie 
 based video game. Like Spider-Man 2 you get the whole city of New York to swing around in and fight 
 crime. The controls take only the short tutorial then you've got it. While this is a movie based 
 game it has multiple story-lines fighting villains of of kinds such as Rhino, Kingpin, Scorpion, 
 Lizard, Venom, Sandman, New Goblin and of course all those gangs that make life for New Yorkers 
 a living nightmare. Their is 3 major gangs and another one you don't see all that much of but are 
 still a threat. This version of Spider-Man 3 is exactly like the Xbox360 version. While this is 
 a fantastic game and can be played over again in the Black-Suit all the time the replay value is 
 kind of lacking. While Lots of people say the camera is clunky but personally i never moved the 
 camera while doing a lot of movement. While all of Spidey's attacks look very complicated their 
 very simple to pull of and you can wip out some of your best combos to show them who's the boss 
 around New York. Of course in this new game you get the Black-Suit which makes Spidey much stronger 
 and faster also their are a few attacks that only can be done in the Black-Suit.
  
  Graphics: Spidey looks fantastic swinging around New York never felt so smooth and sleek. The must 
 of spent a lot of time on his swinging motions making it feel so great. All of Spidey's attacks 
 are amazing looking very smooth and look like something Spider-Man would look like while bringing 
 the hurt. Sometimes the characters in cut scenes can look a little mediocre but is made up for 
 that fact with everything else in the game. Sound:
  Well it really comes down to how your speakers are. Now I have some awsome speakers and this game 
 sounds so awsome. The voice acting was alright not great not bad but it was ok. Controls: The controls 
 were great the seemed pritty solid so i had no problem with them.
  
  The Good: Great Game, Great Graphics, Great Action, Great New York
  
  The Bad: Some cut-scenes 
 look weired
  
  The Ugly: BUTTON SEQUENCES MAKE ME WANT TO PULL HAIR OUT OF MY HEAD, New Goblin part of the game 
 was a taunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay I'd rate hmmm 9.0/10 i guess because when your going to building from building 
 you move pretty fast but some times i go to slow.
  
  Graphics: Graphics I'd give 9.5/10 Because every1 in that game looks real except most of the thugs. 
 But still good graphics not like im saying the game is bad if you are getting this game don't let 
 this reviews and reviews on gamespot stop you.
  
  Missions: The missions are fun and just the right difficulty for the missions but at the end its 
 pretty hard but i give the missions 9.0/10.
  
  Summary: So practically this game owns by what the reviews say and what i think to and probably 
 what you think to if you see reviews and more. Get this game if you want if your not sure rent 
 it first. Remember don't let anyone change your mind about getting Spiderman 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Well, a game for the Spider-Man 3 movie is to be expected and after months of speculation on whether 
 there would be PC version and if it was a port from the Xbox 360/PS3 version, it has finally arrived, 
 along with many problems that not even Spidey could stop. I'll start with the good first. There's 
 a lot of content packed into this game and its free-roaming so you can swing around a very detailed 
 New York City stopping random crimes. In total there are 42 missions, mainly based on the movie 
 but there are other side stories as well, where you'll face villains such as the Lizard, the Mad 
 Bomber, the Kingpin, along with the movie ones (Sandman, New Goblin/Green Goblin II, and Venom) . 
 Spidey is the most detailed character but everyone else looks somewhat rubbery and plastic-like. 
 As I said before, NYC looks great, and its a nice playground to do your good deeds. The sound is 
 okay, the music cuts in and out and is just standard action music. About 90% of the cast reprise 
 their roles for the game, giving it an authentic feel (Kirsten Dunst is missing) . Combat is just 
 button mashing but its nice to see Spidey rip through so many enemies, especially when you get 
 the Symbiote costume. However, the game's requirements are just way too high and even those that 
 meet the requirements can't run it well. It just feels like a lazy port, with bearly any options 
 to tweak the game. Unless you're absolutely sure you can run, I'd recommend you just get the console 
 versions, as you'll be fighting the horrid framerate and the twisting turning camera more then 
 you're fighting Spidey's enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samir550
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  very easy gamevery easy game veryeasy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game 
 very easy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery 
 easy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery 
 easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy 
 gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy 
 gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy 
 game veryeasy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy gamevery easy 
 gamevery easy gamevery easy gamevery easy game veryeasy game veryeasy gamevery easy gamevery easy 
 gamevery easy game veryeasy game veryeasy gamevery easy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlorynSnake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome like the movie but is too pretensious for a 2007 game. Spider-Man and Venom 
 rocks and the black suit...... very nice, and now i wait the 2009 year to see Spider-man 4 . I want 
 to know who are the enemies in this movie. Anyway any Spider-Man fan love this game i'm sure about 
 this.:) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :)
  
  the swinging in the is almost perfect but as always it needs more moves into it but its still great 
 a very huge city you can go anywhere swing anywhere very long story mission great side missions 
 but they are repetitive nothing much to some skyscrapers to be found a secrets the sound is great 
 in the game spider man's voice the web sound will theres not much to talk about in this game just 
 that its good game not too bad not too good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've played all the games, Spider-man; Spiderman the Movie, Spiderman 2 and now, the New 
 Spider-man 3.
  
  Well first thoughts, from taking note from other reviews, weren't too good. They main notes i picked 
 up, were, 'Horrible keyboard &amp; Mouse controls; Bad Peformance Issues; Last gen frame rates; 
 not next gen enough and notclose enough to the movie'.
  
  Now i'll have to agree on most of them, particularly the last Generation F/S (according to PC Powerplay 
 AUS it caps at 30F/S) . But other stuff, like the Keyboard and mouse Controls, actually aren't that 
 bad. The Keyboard and mouse controls are pretty much your third persoon shooter defualt keys (if 
 you dont change them, that is) , however there are some little anooyances in the control schemes. 
 the first one is probably the the 'dodge and counter-attack' system. The 'Q' button in game is 
 Dodge, or, more like Slow-mo, Matrix/ Maxpayne stlyes; and when in slow mo and some is about to 
 hit you, you see a little red icon of a mouse button and then you have to click the mouse and Spidey 
 will Counter Attack. Sounds simple? It is. But when you have 20 or so Enemeys angrilly attack you; 
 you'll be sorry. The Combat is not too fun, it can be, and has its moments, but After a while it 
 does get boring. You just get more and more Angry men saying stuped repetitive catch phrases trying 
 to pin you down. The problem is, It's either too easy, and you can beat all the baddies up, which 
 Is boring. Or, Its too hard, and it gets frustrating; You start getting angry. So Next gen combat, 
 I'm afraid is a miss.
  
  Speaking of Next gen, The detail in graphics is just superb. Like all next gen games though, you'll 
 need a high-end gaming Rig to pull this game up. I play it at lowest settings, and guess what? 
 its actually still very impressive. I run around town; and walk past a civilian, and the detail 
 on one lousy civilian is amazing. Using Shader model 3.0, the models look good enough to be compared 
 to a first person shooters models. Infact i Can say that the human models probably look better 
 than alot of half life 2 models. Most of it is thanks to shader model 3.0, but i have to say, Treyarch 
 put a mighty fine job in this one. The City detail is amazing as well. the textures a good the 
 lightings good, the cars look good, even though theres only one family car model, you don't actually 
 notice that, and thats not too important as human model variation.
  
  The game is set in a sand-boxed New York city, and takes Spidey on a GTA style gameplay. You basicaly 
 have This big city, and you free-roam and can do what ever you want to do. Like GTA, you can Drive, 
 well, Swing, to these missions, or if you're stupid enough to or like Watching the details of the 
 game, you can walk there. Also, Like GTA, the City has a full day scale, so no crap 'choose-day-or-night' 
 thing, but you get day time, with night time changing. Unfortunately, though, there is no weather 
 changing.
  
  A poor thing I had with the game is that I didn't really get an adrenalin rush for a new game. 
 When i purchase a new game, I'm so happy, im playing it all the time day and night. However after 
 about 20 mins of Spiderman i got a bit bored with the game, the Cities felt a bit repititive, and 
 i just ,well headed back to desktop, looking to Play some Hitman: Blood Money. It was a shame that 
 I didnt stay on for too long. I do came back though, after a while you begin to miss it. Gameplay- 
 like GTA (im getting tired of writing those 3 letters) , Free-roaming is Fun, The web swinging is 
 totally Next gen and very, but the Game suffers a bit from minor gameplay repeating.
  
  Graphics- Totally Next Gen. Bump mapping looks brilliant on the City; and lighting does as well. 
 Pity the game caps at 30; and Most people will Suffer stellar frame rates.
  
  Sound- Average you'd expect from a Spider-man game, although i do really hate Spideys stupid catch 
 frases... they're the worst Jokes ever. but the otherwise It's pretty good.
  
  Value-The games Value aye?? well... I'm not so sure.. At first it's very Fun, then its boring, 
 then repititive, then really fun, then ok, then frustrating...
  mixed... The game Could've been more funner, but It has It's moments.
  
  Overall, I think the 
 game developers did a good job of making you a good spiderman game. This is really Good for all 
 those Spiderman fans, and alot of people will enjoy just swinging In New York manhatton. I think 
 they could've fixed the Camera a bit though...
  but otherwise I think Treyarch should've thought about the Low-end Pc's as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger_the_best
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  After more than 20 years of comic books and cartoons, I'd like to think I'd be a pretty good superhero 
 if I was bombarded with cosmic rays or given a mysterious green ring. However, after spending some 
 time with Spider-Man 3, I'm starting to doubt I could save New York without throwing up all over 
 it.
  
  The camera is super-villain bad in this game.
  
  As Spidey swings around New York -- a version of the city that's 2.5 times bigger than it was in 
 Spider-Man 2 -- the camera swings and swivels like mad behind the hero. Granted, you're in control 
 of it via the mouse, but it's nonsensical control. Rather than have the mouse direct the webs you're 
 slinging with the handheld device, Spider-Man 3 has you use your A and D buttons while the mouse 
 controls the camera, combat and webbing. The convoluted controls are one of several flubs that 
 remove the fun from your time in Spidey's PJs.
  
  Spider-Man 3 uses the mega-huge movie's storyline as the main bridge of the game. Yes, you'll battle 
 villains from the comics (Kingpin, Kraven, etc.) and some original gangs, but the meat of the story 
 is Peter Parker's dealings with the Sandman, his former best friend Harry Osborn (the New Goblin) 
 and Venom along with his personal struggle with the symbiote -- that's the black suit for those 
 of you who don't speak geek. Once Peter dons the dark duds, he goes from a wisecracking hero to 
 a skull-cracking jerk. The longer he wears the suit, the worse his attitude gets.
  
  Just like Pete's descent into darkness, Spider-Man 3 gets worse the longer you play. The game opens 
 up with Bruce Campbell acting as our familiar narrator and walking Spidey through his new found 
 controls. Ol' web-head can now web zip with one button; his Spider-Sense turns the screen black 
 and white while displaying enemies in red, allies in green and objectives in yellow; and Spider-Reflexes 
 allow the wall-crawler to slow time and counter attacks with a single button press. You get the 
 basics down while saving some folks from a fire, and get your first glimpse of New York.
  
  The city looks good, but when Campbell pops back in to walk you through web-slinging, things start 
 to sour -- namely when he tells you to use your left stick to direct your web. Uh, Bruce, I'm rocking 
 a keyboard and a mouse here, buddy. Get past Campbell's banter, and you're set loose on the city, 
 where the horrid framerate jumps out at you. Even on IGN's supercomputer with the game on its default 
 settings -- 1024 x 768, city detail low, surface quality low -- Spidey chugs through the air as 
 he uses the clumsy control scheme to swing through the streets.
  
  Yargh.
  
  It might make you carsick, but there's plenty to do in Spider-Man 3. The title features 42 missions, 
 a plethora of random events such as hurt cops and gang fights that pop up as you swing around the 
 city, races, skydiving challenges, 75 gang tokens, 35 secret tokens, 30 skyscraper tokens and 30 
 subway tokens for the web-head to tackle.
  
  If the same handful of crimes in the last Spider-Man game kept you happy, the expanded roster of 
 events -- Activision said there are three times as many events in Spider-Man 3 -- will keep you 
 playing. Can they get repetitive? Sure. It seems every mission has you stopping a car, but sometimes 
 you'll get to do something cool such as follow a speeding police cruiser to a crime scene. Even 
 better is the fact that the pop-up crimes aren't just there to be there this time around -- they 
 play into Spidey's Crime Fighting Index. See, New York is broken up into different gang zones. 
 These zones are visible on the in-game map as well as tracked on Spidey's stat menu. It's up to 
 you to patrol these areas, bust bad guys and watch the zones turn from angry, gang-controlled neon 
 to peaceful, Spidey-influenced green. The better you do, the more upgrades you get for your health 
 and reflexes.
  But please don't let the expanded crimes fool you. Like any super-villain in Peter's life, this 
 title's got problems.
  
  Although New York is prettier than last time, Spider-Man 3 is not up to snuff visually. Cars, buildings 
 and textures pop in and out as you shoot through areas; you'll still see the same civilians over 
 and over; the frame-rate chugs along as Spidey swings; the view gets a smear of Vaseline as lights 
 in the night crop up; and collision detection is laughable - watch in horror as Spidey sinks into 
 window awnings and stands with one foot off of a car.
  
  The gameplay doesn't take a bite out of the Big Apple either. Activision and Beenox tossed all 
 sorts of combos and goofy names for moves into this title, but when all is said and done, Spider-Man 
 3 is a button-masher. You'll get dispatched to a group of enemies, jump into the air, and begin 
 alternating between your mouse buttons to decimate the crowd. There's no manual lock-on either, 
 so expect to get stuck in a bicycle kicking animation with a knocked out baddie while his partner 
 shoots you in the back. Once you get the black suit -- around the six-hour mark -- your attacks 
 will be suped-up, but other than the visual, it's not much to write home about.
  
  However, the biggest problem in Spider-Man 3 is the simple fact that the missions aren't fun. Even 
 if you're just in this for swinging and random crime -- which also suffer from the aforementioned 
 framerate and car-stopping problems -- you'll have to suffer through the storylines to improve 
 Spidey's skills, and you'll find yourself ready to web your own eyes closed in frustration. Guarding 
 gas dispensers from a horde of attacking lizards and defusing bombs in the subway become exercises 
 in anger, and they only serve to propel you towards terrible bosses.
  
  Look at the leaders of the Arsenic Candy, one of the gangs plaguing your city. While the rest of 
 the all-female crew can be dropped with a few punches, the mallet-toting leaders of the group are 
 all but invulnerable to regular Spidey attacks as they hide behind their wobbly hammers. To win, 
 you have to let the girls come at you. When they do, a yellow fist appears over their heads, you 
 hold down the reflex button, time slows, Spidey dodges the attack, you press another button, and 
 Spidey hits back to inflict damage. It's easy, but it's also excruciatingly tedious.
  
  But, Greg, you say. It can't be that bad. You beat those girls in a few exchanges, right? 
  
 
  Yes, you do beat the girls quickly, but not bosses such as the Kingpin. If you've read a Marvel 
 comic book or watched the Spider-Man animated series of the '90s, you know the Kingpin. The undisputed 
 king of organized crime, Wilson Fisk is a massive man who packs an equal amount of muscle. Coming 
 into Spidey's tiff with baldy, I expected the battle to be a tough one and Kingpin's health to 
 deplete slowly as Pete wailed on him.
  
  Sadly, I was right.
  
  The Kingpin fight is twenty minutes of joyless reversing. Spider-Man stands in the middle of the 
 room, the Kingpin attacks, Spidey dodges, and Spidey punches Fisk once in the face. If I punched 
 him more than once, I risked getting caught in a combo or running out of Spider-Reflexes and watching 
 Fisk land a devastating attack. I played it safe and patiently countered the mountain of a man 
 one slow, boring punch at a time.
  The worst news? Kingpin isn't the exception when it comes to boss battles - they all suck. New 
 Goblin? Run in circles while Harry shoots crap at you and then reverse his attack to win. Kraven? 
 Let him rush you, reverse and win. Scorpion? Run in circles to dodge his laser, let him rush you, 
 reverse and win.
  
  I wish I had more good news for you, but I don't. One of the photo missions has Spider-Man standing 
 in a populated park taking pictures; most pedestrians don't react to battles in front of them; 
 and let's not forget the lame Mary Jane Thrill Rides in which you and MJ swing through the city 
 collecting hearts that are floating in the midair.
  
  Stan Lee must be rolling over in his bed of money.
  
  Closing Comments
  If you're desperate 
 for a Spider-Man game, Spider-Man 3 will fill your need for webs -- but I urge you to get it on 
 another platform because the PC version is a bust. On other platforms, I was lenient on the game 
 because even though the missions were terrible, the web-swinging was fun. Sadly, that's not the 
 case here. The swinging through the city on the PC is cumbersome and awkward. You'll never feel 
 like you're Spider-Man if your wielding webs with your keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This game sucks man nothing unusual in it it is very stupid with the worse grafics in this age.
 
  
  It is not diffrent from the other spider-man games, i can't see many new moves or actions in it.
 
  
  only doing like prince of persia when u have a dark side but u can't change it that's the problem.
 
  
  In my obinion i can't have great fun playing that game i say it is not fantastic or magnific.
 
  
  The game had any stupid things like bad grafics no many new moves i also hoped that spider man 
 be multi characters in it.
  
  i don't prefere spider-man 3 as a game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amareen18
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  this is the greatest spider man game yet its all in the great free roaming a highly detailed big 
 city good texture nice web swingeing nice crime fightings long story mission whats else do you 
 need from a spider man game but every game has it flaws
  
  the swinging in the is almost perfect but as always it needs more moves into it but its still great 
 a very huge city you can go anywhere swing anywhere very long story mission great side missions 
 but they are repetitive nothing much to some skyscrapers to be found a secrets the sound is great 
 in the game spider man's voice the web sound will theres not much to talk about in this game just 
 that its good game not too bad not too good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  hard to play with out a controller can make this game be the worst in world and no patch for errors 
 make this game be more bad.
  
  large and big city to swing and make things , when it sounds the music is good but not allways 
 sound music when your swinging on the city , story way to boring and really repetitive , the movie 
 is really away from the comic but this game is like SPIDER-MAK no thing is like the real story 
 , treyarch and activision have done really bad with this game its feels like the same allways,
 
  
  spiderman rocks but this game is not what a spiderman fan wiil even like PLAY THE GAME IF NEED 
 ACTION GAME BUT IF YOU HAVE GAMES AND GOOD ONES DONT PLAY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0rD_ShAde
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The game is absolutely hopeless. Especially if you buy for the PC, you are wasting your money. 
 For those who play spiderman games cose they love the movies wont be appealed much by this crap. 
 The graphics is downright ugly. Spiderman looks more like a plastic action figure. The character 
 models arent that great either. Besides these the new feature (ie hitting the key at the right 
 time) is absolutely frustrating especially with a keyboard and mouse. After those sequences you 
 will find out that you successfully desrtoyed your keyboard and mouse. No matter how fast and hard 
 you hit the key the chances of succeeding is low. And this gets even frustrating during a boss 
 fight. For those who have a gamepad wont find this a problem. The story as gamespot said is also 
 not properly done. The symbiote spiderman is also not that great. He may look good but you probably 
 get tired of this suit. The character resembles wolverine in the game wolverine's revenge , only 
 thing is that it is a bit refined. If you are a die hard fan of spiderman, this game may appeal 
 you but for others .... lets say its better to save your money and wait for the games which are 
 releasing this fall. But if you like frustrating games, this game might appeal you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedemoness
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  To put it bluntly the system specs for this game are insane, and why it is not that different from 
 the ultimate spiderman they even used a upgraded version of that engine so i think activision screwed 
 up big time with this game.
  The graphics are at high detail nice and sharp, but you need a monster pc to have it playable then, 
 the sound well new york city must be the first city where a woman can scream louder then 300 cars 
 make noise.
  The gameplay only doable with a controller.
  
  The game is a dissapointment, and a waste of money as it is now, i sure hope activision will patch 
 it to make it more playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stRifle
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  After all of that waiting, previews, videos and even the video feature that Tobey Maguire was previewing 
 the game in, all was keeping the game interesting. that was before the the game release. But after 
 that it became a real disappointing game especially after hours and days of waiting.
  
  Well the good thing in this game was the city, it looks awesome; and there was a lot of enemies 
 to play against &amp; kill.
  
  That was the good things let's see the ba ones:  combats that 
 -as gamespot said- depends on who you're fighting with, the controls are a real disaster, and much 
 much more of disasters ;) .
  
  The whole game's a massive cuz it's disjointed and doesn't tie itself to the film very well.
 
  
  The sound in this game as I saw and heard of course is great but it becomes bad &amp; worse with 
 the Gameplay &amp; it's graphics.
  
  I don't have much to say cuz I didn't play a lot I just was playin' it with a friend of mine got 
 that game.
  
  Hope u like it &amp; thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bisherzaki
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 PC Readme
  Last Updated: 03/30/2007
  
  
  TABLE OF CONTENTS
  
  INTRODUCTION
  
  INSTALLATION &amp; SET UP
  
  1. Minimum System Requirements
  2. AutoPlay
 
  3. Electronic Registration
  4. DirectX&reg; Detection and Installation
  5. Game DVD
  
  VIDEO ISSUES
  
  1. Monitors
  2. Windowed Mode
  3. City Detail and Surface Quality
  4. 
 Anti-Aliasing
  5. Switching Screen Resolutions
  6. Windows&reg; 2000 and ATI&reg; Cards
  
  GENERAL ISSUES
  
  1. Controllers
  2. How to Close the XBoxStat. exe Program
  3. Alt-Tab, 
 Alt-Enter, Ctrl-Alt-Delete, and the Windows&reg; Key
  4. Uninstalling with Anti-Virus Software Enabled
  5. Windows&reg; Sticky Keys
  6. Game-play 
 Items
  7. How to Delete the Save Game File
  8. How to Delete the Configuration file
  9. Windows Vista Game Explorer
  10. TurboCache and HyperMemory Video Cards
  11. Screenshots
 
  
  CONTROLS
  
  1. Accessing the Controls Menu
  2. Default Xbox 360 Controller for Windows Game/Menu Controls
  3. Default Keyboard and Mouse 
 Game/Menu Controls
  4. Default Controller Game/Menu Controls
  
  
  
  INTRODUCTION
  
  Refer to this document if you encounter difficulties with one or more aspects of installation 
 or running the Spider-Man 3 game. Many of the most commonly encountered issues are covered here.
 
  
  
  
  INSTALLATION &amp; SET UP
  
  1. Minimum System Requirements
  
  - 3D hardware accelerator card required: - 100% DirectX&reg; 9.0c-compliant AGP/PCIe 256 MB onboard 
 memory hardware T&amp; L-capable video card with Shader Model 3.0 support and the latest drivers*
 
  - English version of Microsoft&reg; Windows&reg; 2000/XP/Vista
  - Pentium&reg; 4 2.8 GHz or Athlon XP 2800+ or higher processor
  - 1024 MB of RAM for Windows 
 2000/XP, 1536 MB of RAM for Windows Vista
  - 6 GB of uncompressed hard disk space (plus 600 MB for the Windows swap file)
  - A 100% Windows 
 2000/XP/Vista-compatible computer system including: - DirectX 9.0c (Included) - 100% DirectX 9.0c-compliant 
 true 16-bit sound card and drivers - 100% Windows 2000/XP/Vista-compatible mouse, keyboard and 
 drivers - 100% Windows 2000/XP/Vista-compatible 2x speed DVD-ROM drive and drivers
  
  * Supported Chipsets for Windows 2000/XP/Vista: - NVIDIA&reg; GeForce&reg; 7300 GT 256 MB and better 
 - ATI&reg; Radeon X1300 256 MB and better - Important Note: Some 3D accelerator cards with the 
 chipsets listed here may not be compatible with the 3D acceleration features utilized by Spider-Man 
 3. Please refer to your hardware manufacturer for 100% DirectX 9.0c compatibility.
  
  - Optional Requirements: - 100% Windows 2000/XP/Vista-compatible 12+ button gamepad with dual analog 
 thumb sticks and native USB support - Important Note: Some gamepads may not be compatible with 
 the DirectX 9.0c direct input features utilized by this game. Please refer to your hardware manufacturer 
 for 100% DirectX 9.0c gamepad compatibility.
  
  2. AutoPlay
  
  If the Windows AutoPlay feature is enabled on your computer, the Spider-Man 3 Launch screen will 
 automatically appear when you insert the Spider-Man 3 game DVD into your DVD-ROM drive. Simply 
 click on Install and follow the on-screen instructions to continue the installation.
  
  If the AutoPlay feature is disabled, you can begin the installation by doing the following:
  
 a) Double-click on My Computer.
  b) Double-click your DVD-ROM drive icon.
  c) Double-click Setup. exe.
  
  -or-
  
  a) Double-click on My Computer.
  b) Right-click 
 your DVD-ROM drive icon.
  c) Select AutoPlay.
  
  3. Electronic Registration
  
  During the Spider-Man 3 setup, the install process will prompt you for electronic registration. 
 Microsoft Internet Explorer&reg; 5.0 or later is required for electronic registration.
  
  4. DirectX&reg; Detection and Installation
  
  During the Spider-Man 3 setup, the install process 
 will prompt you to install Microsoft DirectX on your computer. If you choose Yes the Microsoft 
 DirectX setup program will install the appropriate files on your computer. DirectX 9.0c is a set 
 of sound, video, input and network functions developed by Microsoft. The latest release of DirectX 
 9.0c is necessary to run Spider-Man 3.
  
  If you already have other Windows 2000/XP/Vista games on your computer, you may already have a 
 version of DirectX installed. In this case, the Microsoft installer will detect and overwrite any 
 previous versions with DirectX 9.0c. At that point, you will need to restart your computer for 
 the changes to take effect.
  
  If you choose not to install DirectX 9.0c when you install the game, you can manually install it 
 later. To do so, use the following instructions:
  a) Place your Spider-Man 3 game DVD in the DVD-ROM drive. The Launch screen should appear. See 
 the AutoPlay section above if it does not appear.
  b) Click on the Extras button.
  c) Click on DirectX and follow the installation process. When the DirectX installation finishes, 
 you will need to restart your computer for the new drivers to work.
  
  5. Game DVD
  
  After installing the game, you can run Spider-Man 3 at any time from the Start Menu or by clicking 
 Play on the game DVD Launch screen. Please note that you must have the Spider-Man 3 game DVD in 
 your DVD-ROM drive at all times in order to play the game.
  
  
  
  VIDEO ISSUES
  
  1. Monitors
  
  Please make sure your monitor supports the game resolution you are trying to 
 play in. To check what resolutions your monitor supports, do the following:
  a) Double-click on My Computer.
  b) Double-click on Control Panel.
  c) Double-click on Display.
 
  d) Choose the Settings tab.
  e) Locate the resolution slider in the Screen area box and drag it to the far right.
  
  The 
 resolution shown underneath the slider is the maximum resolution your monitor is capable of displaying. 
 If you do not want to change to this resolution now, select Cancel. Your Desktop resolution should 
 be set to be the same or higher than your game resolution. Please make sure your monitor type is 
 properly specified to insure correct reporting of available video resolutions.
  
  2. Windowed Mode
  
  Windowed mode is not a supported feature of Spider-Man 3.
  
  3. City 
 Detail and Surface Quality
  
  From the Video Options menu (located in Pause Menu/Options/Video Options) the user can change two 
 display settings that will increase the texture detail used on buildings and specific models. The 
 user can choose Low, Medium or High for City Detail and Surface Quality. Please note that users 
 with older video cards may experience a decline in the game's performance when using Medium or 
 High settings.
  
  4. Anti-Aliasing
  
  For video cards that support Anti-Aliasing the user can enable 2X and 4X Anti-Aliasing from the 
 Video Options menu (located in Pause Menu/Options/Video Options) . Please note that users with older 
 video cards may experience a decline in the game's performance when using 2X or 4X Anti-Aliasing.
 
  
  5. Switching Screen Resolutions
  
  Switching to a different resolution can be done using the Resolution setting in the Video Options 
 menu (located in Pause Menu/Options) . By clicking the current resolution setting the user can set 
 the display to the desired resolution for Spider-Man 3. Pressing the Enter key will also cycle 
 through the available resolutions. To accept a desired resolution select Apply and then choose 
 Yes when you are asked if you want to keep this setting. Please note that users with older video 
 cards may experience a decline in the game's performance when setting the display size from the 
 default resolution of 800x600 to a higher resolution.
  
  6. Windows&reg; 2000 and ATI&reg; Cards
  
  Spider-Man 3 uses an advanced shading system. To 
 better enjoy the gaming experience and take advantage of this advanced shading system, we recommend 
 that users who are playing the game using a supported ATI video card on Windows 2000 use the latest 
 Windows XP drivers for their ATI card. These Windows XP drivers take full advantage of the advanced 
 shading system used by Spider-Man 3. The latest Windows XP drivers can be obtained at http://www. ATI. com
 
  
  
  
  GENERAL ISSUES
  
  1. Controllers
  
  Spider-Man 3 has been tested on a wide variety of supported controllers. If the user runs into 
 button prompts that do not match the users controller, while in cineractives/mini-games, we recommend 
 rebinding the controller buttons (located in Pause Menu/Controls) . If this does not allow the user 
 to progress we recommend using the keyboard to pass these areas.
  
  2. How to Close the XBoxStat. exe Program
  
  On some machines the Windows Xbox 360 gamepad 
 drivers will force a program called XBoxStat. exe to run. On most systems this will not cause a 
 problem while playing Spider-Man 3. However, on some systems this program will force Spider-Man 
 3 to minimize and prevent the user from re-entering the game. If this happens the user can turn 
 XBoxStat. exe off by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del and selecting Task Manager. From the Processes tab select 
 XBoxStat. exe to highlight it and select End Process. Once the program is turned off the user can 
 re-enter the game. On some systems the machine will need to be restarted. If XBoxStat. exe launches 
 again, and forces Spider-Man 3 to minimize, simply repeat the steps above.
  
  3. Alt-Tab, Alt-Enter, Ctrl-Alt-Delete, and the Windows&reg; Key
  
  Using Alt-Tab, Alt-Enter, 
 the Windows Key or Ctrl-Alt-Delete to exit Spider-Man 3 and/or switch to another application is 
 not recommended. While you may be able to Alt-Tab/Alt-Enter to exit Spider-Man 3, and the game 
 will remain running in the task bar, you may not be able to recover the game by Alt-Tabbing/Alt-Entering 
 back to it. At this point, you may have to use the Windows Task Manager to close Spider-Man 3. 
 Hold Down the Ctrl-Alt-Delete keys to bring up the Task Manager, then select Spider-Man 3 from 
 the list of programs currently running and hit the End Task button. Please note that Alt-Tab, Alt-Enter, 
 the Windows Key, and Ctrl-Alt-Delete are not supported features of Spider-Man 3.
  
  4. Uninstalling with Anti-Virus Software Enabled
  
  The uninstall process may take more time 
 if anti-virus software is currently running, even if the anti-virus software is running in the 
 background. Although Spider-Man 3 will still uninstall correctly with this software running, disabling 
 any anti-virus program can make the uninstall process run faster.
  
  5. Windows&reg; Sticky Keys
  
  If you press the Shift key 5 times consecutively in Windows 
 2000/XP/Vista the following message may appear:
  
  By pressing the Shift key five times you have turned on the Sticky Keys feature. With this feature, 
 you can lock down the Ctrl, Alt, or Shift keys. 
  
  Click OK or Cancel to leave this feature on.
  
  To avoid this message from appearing in the 
 future, click the Settings button on the window referenced above. When the Accessibility Options 
 screen appears, click the Settings button in the Sticky Keys portion of the window. On the next 
 window (labeled Settings for Sticky Keys ) , uncheck the box that says, Use shortcut , click on 
 Apply, and close the windows. The Sticky Keys message should not appear once the Shift key shortcut 
 has been disabled.
  
  6. Game-play Items
  
  The first Arena (located in Pause Menu/Extras) is unlocked after completing the main storyline. 
 The user must defeat each Arena to unlock the next Arena.
  
  7. How to Delete the Save Game File
  
  Spider-Man 3 creates one save game file per user account. 
 If this file is removed all progression will be lost. Please note that there is no New Game or 
 Delete Game functionality within Spider-Man 3. During the uninstall process Spider-Man 3 will give 
 the player the option to remove the save game file for the user that uninstalls the game. Any other 
 user's save game will remain. If the user wants to manually move this file, the save game file 
 is named main_save_data and is located here:
  
  In Windows 2000/XP go to:
  C:\Documents and Settings\\My  3
  
  In Windows Vista go to:
 
   3
  
  8. How to Delete the Configuration File
  
  Spider-Man 3 creates one configuration file per user account. During the uninstall process 
 Spider-Man 3 will give the player the option to remove the configuration file for the user that 
 uninstalls the game. If the user wants to manually remove this file, the configuration file is 
 named savedbindingstx. bx and is located here:
  
  In Windows 2000/XP go to:
  C:\Documents and Settings\\Application Data\Activision\Spider-Man 3
  
  In Windows Vista go 
 to:
   3
  
  9. Windows Vista Game Explorer
  
  Spider-Man 3 can be installed and played on Windows Vista. The Vista Game Explorer will give 
 the user information about the game, and allow the user to launch Spider-Man 3.
  
  10. TurboCache and HyperMemory Video Cards
  
  For NVIDIA TurboCache video cards and ATI HyperMemory 
 video cards that meet the game's Minimum System Requirements found in the beginning of this document, 
 Spider-Man 3 requires an additional 512 MB of system RAM. This is because the video card will use 
 between 256 MB and 512 MB of system RAM. If Spider-Man 3 is run with a TurboCache or HyperMemory 
 video card (or any video card that meets the MSR and shares system RAM) on a system that has less 
 then 1.5 GB of system RAM, the game will experience stability issues.
  
  11. Screenshots
  
  Screenshots can be taken using the F11 key on the keyboard. To open a screenshot go to the 
 following folder:
  
  In Windows 2000/XP go to:
  C:\Documents and Settings\\My  3\screenshots
  
  In Windows Vista 
 go to:
   3\screenshots
  
  
  
  CONTROLS
  
  1. Accessing the Controls Menu
  
  The default control device for playing Spider-Man 3 is 
 the keyboard and mouse. Many of the game's controls can be rebound in the Controls Menu (located 
 in Pause Menu/Options/Controls) . To access the Controls Menu, pause the game, cycle to the Options 
 Menu, and choose Controls.
  
  2. Default Xbox 360 Controller for Windows Game/Menu Controls Left Stick: Movement A Button: Jump 
 X Button: Fast Attack Y Button: Strong Attack B Button: Crawl/Web/Grab Right Trigger: Swing Directional 
 Pad Up: Web YoYo Directional Pad Down: Photography Left Trigger: Speed Boost Right Bumper: Super 
 Attack Left Bumper: Spider Reflexes Click Right Stick: Spider Sense Right Stick Up: Camera Up Right 
 Stick Down: Camera Down Right Stick Left: Camera Left Right Stick Right: Camera Right Back Button: 
 Opens and Closes the City Map Start Button: Opens and Closes the Game Menu Directional Pad: Scrolls 
 Up or Down in Game Menus Left Stick: Scrolls Up or Down in Game Menus A Button: Select option B 
 Button: Cancel/Go back Left Bumper: Scroll through Menus to the Left Left Trigger: Scroll through 
 Menus to the Left Right Bumper: Scroll through Menus to the Right Right Trigger: Scroll through 
 Menus to the Right Start Button: Opens and Closes the Game Menu
  
  3. Default Keyboard and Mouse Game/Menu Controls W Key: Move Forward S Key: Move Backward D Key: 
 Turn Right A Key: Turn Left Spacebar: Jump Left Mouse Button or Number Pad Key 4: Fast Attack Right 
 Mouse Button or Number Pad Key 6: Strong Attack E or Number Pad Key 5: Crawl/Web/Grab Mouse Wheel 
 Button or Number Pad Key 8: Swing R Key: Web YoYo C Key: Camera Left Shift: Speed Boost Caps Lock: 
 Super Attack Q Key: Spider Reflexes 1 Key: Spider Sense Arrow Key Up: Camera Up Arrow Key Down: 
 Camera Down Arrow Key Left: Camera Left Arrow Key Right: Camera Right M Key: City Map Left Ctrl: 
 Walk ESC Key: Opens and Closes the Game Menu F11 Key: Take screenshot, which is saved to: In Windows 
 2000/XP go to: C:\Documents and Settings\\My  3\screenshots In Windows 
 Vista go to:  3\screenshots Up/Down Arrow Keys: Scrolls 
 Up or Down in Game Menus Left and Right Arrow Keys: Scroll through other Menus Mouse Wheel: Scroll 
 Up and Down Mouse Wheel Button: Scroll through Menus to the Right Enter and Left Mouse Button: 
 Select ESC Key: Cancel/Go back
  
  4. Default Controller Game/Menu Controls Left Analog Stick: Movement 2 Button: Jump 1 Button: Fast 
 Attack 4 Button: Strong Attack 3 Button: Crawl/Web/Grab 8 Button: Swing Directional Pad Up: Web 
 YoYo Directional Pad Down: Photography 7 Button: Speed Boost 6 Button: Super Attack 5 Button: Spider 
 Reflexes Click Right Analog Stick: Spider Sense Right Analog Stick Up: Camera Up Right Analog Stick 
 Down: Camera Down Right Analog Stick Right: Camera Right Right Analog Stick Left: Camera Left 9 
 Button: Opens and Closes the City Map 10 Button: Opens and Closes the Pause Menu Directional Pad 
 Up or Down: Scrolls Up or Down in Game Menus Left Analog Stick Up or Down: Scrolls Up or Down in 
 Game Menus 2 Button: Select option 3 Button: Cancel/Go back 5 Button: Scroll through Menus to the 
 Left 6 Button: Scroll through Menus to the Right 7 Button: Scroll through Menus to the Left 8 Button: 
 Scroll through Menus to the Right 10 Button: Opens and Closes the Game Menu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALaGa
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this, I was amazed about the graphics. Ive never seen that detailed characters 
 before. The problems began, when Parker entered the city. In the background I saw house textures 
 going nuts, and the performance goes up and down, even though my pc is only 8 months old and built 
 for gaming (2.93 GHz p4, 256 mb ATI Radeon X1300 and 512 mb Ram) it can run everything out so far, 
 but not this game. The games system requirements might be common in 2008-09, but today they will 
 cause heavy-lag on most systems. On the other hand, the game is packed with minigames, which reminds 
 of those in Daxter (PSP) or Resident Evil DS, like when you need to detonate a bomb or stop a train. 
 The city map, with missions, races or crime fighting gives you a sense of freedom which we missed 
 in the predecessor Spiderman 2, and web-swinging to the location is fast and smooth. The fighting 
 system is kinda cool, because you have so many moves at your disposal, and unlock tons of new ones. 
 Unfortunately, you tend to use the same moves over and over again, because its the fastest way 
 to overcome the enemies. In the beginning though, its fun to kick ass. I recommend buying a dual 
 analog controller as well, because you must get used to readjusting the camera all the time. Let 
 me sum up=
  Good versus bad: Good: Fast, frenetic action --- revolutionary game engine --- city map - one stk. 
 New York hereugo! Great overlay --- city life is a masterpiece
  
  Bad: High end gaming rig required --- full of annoying bugs --- lack of storyline
  Camera issues 
 --- bosses can kick your ass, but normal thugs are a little too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loosers
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  You basically u need a 7950gx2 or 8800gtx or 7900gtx in sli to play this
  this good don't get me wrong because when someone pays &pound;300 or $600 for a graphic card i 
 think they should be treated like royalty and let them enjoy what no one else can.
  
  sad thing is the average PC owner or even the enthusiast who browses ebay every day to find better 
 graphics cant play this game
  
  my card is advertised by nvidia as an extreme HD card find out the specs
  7900gt oc 520gpu and 
 720 ram clock speed
  
  i cant even watch the story video
  
  thats for graphics
  
  The camera is awful.... did they really release this game and what system did they test it on dumb 
 ass your suppose to test games on normal pc's not simulations systems
  
  the controls on the x box are weired you have to program them like crazy
  it can be done. by 
 turning movement actions into the buttons on the right hand side so basically x o and so on will 
 be for movement you think thats crazy try and use the analogue sticks the controller freaks out 
 and applies both camera and movement together
  
  U know what kills me the most they banned the demo because they know their fall
  
  don't believe 
 me find it if you can
  
  thats day light robbery
  
  don't get me wrong i would do what they done which is a game that can only be played on the best 
 graphic card possible
  the graphics are worth it
  but pleas be honest because honesty is the greatest policy fraud fraud fraud fraud fraud if you 
 are an extream 30 inch lcd type games who owns a 7900gtx in sli or something then by all means 
 this is the game you been waiting for
  for extrema gamers i am gona upgrade because of this game
  **** direct x 10 until gddr3 ram comes 
 out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krossestine
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I liked the freedom with consoles that is the usng keyboard an the monitor with live visual stants 
 and aids no one will ever over ride as a meer game play.
  
  With true to real live game graphical represantations with lost of navigational aids to add to 
 the advantage of the player, there is no telling what's up next installed for the next in series 
 of the Spider Man generational fans like me, deepily in loved with the idear and also with the 
 motion of the udgement of the faith and fate of the Spider Man in action in a real policeman in 
 a game, with no jurisdicton other than that of the worlds of the criminals as well as that of the 
 clandestine activities of the operatives of the underworld not to mention the challenges he faces 
 up with the spirit fill endangering outworld ot t tear him apart with lots of cybonic imageries 
 to defend ne self aganist.
  
  Sounds of wispers are heard loud and clear withing the natural environment of the game as well 
 as acton impactations on the course of the game, blows, kicks jumps, runs hurts etc.
  
  I like Spider Man 3 a lot, with lost of exciting free loding graphics and scenes totally under 
 the control of the player, this game will indeed interest a lot of PC gae lovers and users with 
 lots of tiem to relax as well as think ahead of a banch of criminals, chasing, kicking, running, 
 crawing and of course web swnging from one end to the other with lost of speed and precision with 
 the swings to victory whch is not always achieve without sweat and tear within time at one's desposal 
 and always with the spirt of victory on start up where lots of PC game lovers will yen more of 
 the game adictive to the fan and also to the faithful of the new world order Spider Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Gamepley: You take the role of Peter Parker also known as Spider-Man. Of course this is a movie 
 based video game. Like Spider-Man 2 you get the whole city of new york to swing around in and fight 
 crime. The controls take only the short tutorial then you've got it. While this is a movie based 
 game it has multiple storylines fighting villains of of kinds such as Rhino, Kingpin, Scorpion, 
 Lizard, Venom, Sandman, New Goblin and of course all those gangs that make life for New Yorkers 
 a living nightmare. Their is 3 major gangs and another one you don't see all that much of but are 
 still a threat. This version of Spider-Man 3 is exactly like the Xbox360 version. While this is 
 a fantastic game and can be played over again in the Black-Suit all the time the replay value is 
 kind of lacking. While Lots of people say the camera is clunky but personally i never moved the 
 camera while doing a lot of movement. While all of Spidey's attacks look very complicated their 
 very simple to pull of and you can wip out some of your best combos to show them who's the boss 
 around New York. Of course in this new game you get the Black-Suit which makes Spidey much stronger 
 and faster also their are a few attacks that only can be done in the Black-Suit.
  
  Graphics: Spidey looks fantastic swinging around New York never felt so smooth and sleek. The must 
 of spent alot of time on his swinging motions making it feel so great. All of Spidey's attacks 
 are amazing looking very smooth and look like something Spider-Man would look like while bringging 
 the hurt. Sometimes the characters in cut sceans can look a little mediocre but is made up for 
 that fact with everything else in the game. Sound:
  Well it really comes down to how your speakers are. Now I have some awsome speakers and this game 
 sounds so awsome. The voice acting was alright not great not bad but it was ok. Controls: The controls 
 were great the seemed pritty solid so i had no problem wiht them.
  
  The Good: Great Game, Great Graphics, Great Action, Great New York
  
  The Bad: Some cut-sceens 
 look weired
  
  The Ugly: BUTTON SEQUENCES MAKE ME WANT TO PULL HAIR OUT OF MY HEAD, New Goblin part of the game 
 was a taunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gusmt66
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is just OK. I agree with some comments posted in here but people!, come on! Why 
 are you so exigent??. The graphics are really nice dude!... I realized that It could be better 
 but I think is really nice just like that.
  I liked and enjoyed the way you go around the city by using your spider web! It's kinda nice!!.... 
 The way you fight is not the best but it's kinda good as well, I think it's a little hard to learn 
 all about movements and combat techniques but it could be worst hahaha....
  The animations in this game are awesome!!... I really loved it!...
  By the way.....
  I disliked 
 the lack of music in this game :- (
  The huge amount of stupid racing missions, it's boring!!..., and stupid taking pictures missions 
 too!.... wow!... I just did a couple of that and ENOUGH!....
  
  Finally, I recommend this game if you really like the spiderman series and if you have a good computer 
 cuz the game requires a little amount of computer resources..... Enjoy this game!..., it isn't 
 a bad choice at all! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnakeSS2G
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay so the reasons this game is getting such horrible reveiws for the PC I think is the the combat 
 button mashing and the horrible porting job to the PC. Combat has always been like this I do not 
 know why they expected more.
  This is why this game isn't awesome, the porting from the 360 to the PC is really bad. Negatives 
 First!
  The ingame button sequences are cool but it is not a keyboard mouse thing. I spent hours on just 
 replaying sequences of button hitting.
  I got so mad and so tedious of it. Why should I have to replay the whole boss fight over again 
 just because my keyboard lags a little and I do not have the best hand-eye-cordination. I had to 
 actually download a saved game right after the part where I was at to beat it.
  
  Next the boss fights these are usually tedious and uninspired in any version.
  It consits of 
 attacking pressing the slow motion button to dodge and then counterattacking. The boss' have about 
 x2 the health of Spiderman black or red so you can see how uninspired and how thoughtless they 
 were. Performance issues
  OKay even top of the line computers cannot play this game sometimes.
  I have a mid range system 
 and get 15 fps average (ALL SETTINGS LOW) and it caps at 30...
  This is only the pc problem not really a Spider-Man 3 in whole problem. (You got to run this game 
 on super low if you want playable fps)
  
  Spiderman game with no epic music com'on!
  The lack of music in this game makes it a horrible movie game. And it is virtually unmoddable...
 
  
  Postive things!
  NYC never looked so cool! So many tall buildings to swing on!
  
  Spiderman never looked and felt better!
  Spiderman animations are the some of the best I have 
 ever seen and with the really good skin and model you cannot go wrong if you got this game for 
 free roaming. The black suited spiderman looks cool also!
  
  Races combat tours bomb tours .... the list is endless
  if you ever get bored of free roaming 
 there is always random crimes or these mini games. Which get boring and repeptive/
  
  Basically if you want a Spiderman game and do not really care about the story line of SP3 just 
 you like to be Spiderman and take pictures at the bugle and swing around and beat people up this 
 game is for you.
  If you want a in depth spiderman 3 game that looks awesome and has a complex combat system and 
 follows closely to the movie this game isn't really for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invaderzim_1634
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  So i got the game at BestBuy. One thing its way to expensive! I thought i would be a great game, 
 but instead its slow. No interesting new moves! Odd and Hard missions! If you just want it, then 
 get the XBOX! The PC is so confusing! Also the Graphics is pretty bad. The characters durring the 
 cutscenes look like the ones from Halo 1! The sound is pretty amatuer as well. The moves are ok 
 and barely any imagination put into this game. I broke one of my buttons because it needed to be 
 used so much! Just BE CAREFUL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSanta
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 23, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  C'mon ... I loved Spider-Man The Movie (the video game) even though many said that it wasn't so 
 good... and this one seems a lot like the first one so for me it would be great... BUT WHY THE HECK 
 IT REQUIRES 1024 MB of RAM and 256 MB video card and a 2,6 Ghz processor ( AT MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS 
 ) I'll never understand ... so for me ... in order to play it ... I first have to upgrade my computer 
 which would be a bit TOO EXPENSIVE : ( ( (
  (until that ... I'll just have to settle with playing it at a friend )
  Anyways they've kept 
 the camera view from Spider-Man 1 which makes it a bit difficult to handle but it also provides 
 from my point of view a better game experience ... and of course they've made it bit more realistic 
 regarding to moves Spidey does in the game ... other than that , it all depends on everyone's tastes 
 for this type of video games ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuzzlebutt142
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 21, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The base idea of the game is good, with swinging around New being quite fun, but the Interactive 
 Cutscenes Are so frustrating beyond belief that this is the first game I have ever returned for 
 a refund. Combat is either simple beyond belief, or frustrating due to enemies having the ability 
 to super dodge and not get hit, and boss fights coming down to the Interactive cutscenes, which 
 will often require replaying them many times, due to them being so difficult. The game runs so 
 poorly that it is barely playable with a top end system, and really doesn't justify its high end 
 specs it requires, as the visuals aren't that fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Being a pc gamer i can tell you there are some games meant for keyboards and there are some meant 
 for controllers, this ones meant for a controller, and if you have an xbox 360 pc compatible controller 
 lying around hook it up because its exactly what it needs for a great thrill ride. If you dont 
 have a controler do not even bother its like another DMC on our hands with the controls people.
 
  
  But seeing as how i do infact have a xbox 360 pc compatible controller it is a great game! Gameplay, 
 You know what, i totally feel like a ninja running on walls and web slinging off real buildings 
 of NY this time around, in past spidermans you would just shoot up at the sky and it would somehow 
 hold you up. In spiderman 3 there is a nice guide that introduces you into the game he acts cool 
 so its funny. Once you get the hang of it he lets you continue doing your mission until you finaly 
 grab your own mission later on then he just chills out for awhile talking less and less only when 
 its needed. But all that said its a good game but what really pissed me off is the fact that in 
 the movie is spiderman comes flying around a street conor everyone looks and points, in the game 
 they have no reactions whatsoever!! Even if i fall down from a sky scraper and get killed, iv had 
 cars run over me like i dont even exist. But no matter i was just having fun web slinging while 
 viewing all this it wasnt story mode. The story mode is very good
  
  Graphics, good graphics but its still not WOW yet... its just &gt;.&gt; meh... Good enough for 
 me to keep playing but hardly a boost from the last spiderman, but i think they just wanted it 
 to be very playable which is admirable.
  
  Sound, Sound isnt good really, not enough environmental soundtracks, sometimes voice acting doesnt 
 even match up to the characters lines and i get no lag on my game whatsoever. Its a shame to say 
 its actualy funner just playing some music while your web slinging, then without because there 
 music doesnt cut it the whole 9 yards.
  
  Value, easy to install and uninstall, fast, fun, and i totally love ninjas
  
  Recommendation, 
 dont get it if you dont have a pc controller, dont get it if you dont have a hole lot of ram either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srocciso
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 13, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Even though this game has some really good eye-candy, I have to say as a spider-man fan that I&acute; m 
 truly disappointed with this game ( at least the PC version) . the controls are not really that 
 intuitive and some missions tend to be really difficult since the controls are not that quick to 
 respond. I know it&acute; s not my controller (Logitech Chillstream) because I&acute; ve played Jade 
 Empire and NBA Live 07 with it.
  I&acute; m really surprised to see some freezing in this game even though I have a pretty decent 
 system (hell I run Supreme Commander, C&amp; C 3 and Oblivion with the highest settings) and I still 
 don&acute; t get a fluid game.
  Also since this is a console game, it&acute; s the pretty standard hack and run game, there&acute; s 
 no real strategy or any excitement in the game and after half hour you&acute; ll find yourself asking 
 for something else.
  Unlike some other great superhero games like X-Men Legends or Marvell Ultimate Alliance I found 
 the cinematics in this game without any quality at all.
  Really if you&acute; re a spiderman fan stick with the comics because this game (or the new movie) 
 will really disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 for the PC offers a direct port from the Xbox360/PS3 versions of the game. However, 
 the game has some problems. To full enjoy this game, you will need a top notch computer and a gamepad. 
 Keyboard and mouse controls make the game extremely frustrating. Swinging through the city is really 
 fun, and is a good as ever. The graphics are great, andn characters look lifelike. This is a plus 
 for the game. The sound is good, and the voiceovers arent bad at all. One way the game moves down 
 is the combat. The combat is basically button mashing to a rythym of time. Most boss fights, like 
 the New Goblin, include pressing the right buttons at the right time so that you can move on to 
 beat him up. Overall combat is average.
  Spiderman 3 has decent camera controls, but the camera can go out of whack. The city is bigger, 
 but this can be frustrating, since you have to travel to mission starters unlike the previous installments. 
 Traveling can take up to 5 minutes, which being forced to avert crimes along the way adds on to 
 this. Overall, Spiderman 3 is a good game, and if you have a good PC and alot of patience, go for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emirgulum
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 12, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  New York modelled beautifully but there are lots of bugs in the game, they are compelled to release 
 at the same time of the movie. If they released the game when it is completed, this can be classic. 
 It has potential. But it is the best spiderman game after spiderman 1 movie game. Some of the missions 
 are unnecessary like mary jane jide and some of the mob missions and there are some unnecessary 
 puzzles. They do noc count as puzzles but it can freak you some time when you have bug in that 
 puzzle. As a result it is pretty game but only addictives can endure ao the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depakjan
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 11, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of the ****ing game u will ever play.......... the framerate sucks even in damn good 
 pc......... and being a super hero he has very very very very very very low health........ come 
 on... we r trying to play here..... even the road side thugs will easily two or three hits u r 
 done.. what is this.. if he is challenging opponent it's ok... THUGS will kill u..... and the combat 
 is awfull.. there should be a strategy for fighting.. nothing here........ mashh buttons and when 
 u r sorrounded u r done for........ what is this... a SUPER HERO and he has run away from thugs........ 
 never mind what the hell.... WHERE is the MOVIE STORY man......... this is not a movie realese... 
 just another worst spiderman........ stick to the movie alone.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2kun
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  I think they did a good job at capturing the essence of Spider-man. And it feels so good playing 
 this game after the big letdown from the Spider-man 2 for PC a few years back. Can't stop swinging 
 around NY while occasionally battling thugs. The story itself is quite good and they put in some 
 moves from the movie for the in-game movies. The voice acting is so much better than previous games. 
 Bruce Campbell, as always, gives nice and funny anecdotes from time to time.
  
  The only thing that makes this game kinda disappointing is the frame rate. Whenever I get close 
 to an accessible building I get major fps drop. I hope they can fix this in future patches. After 
 all, this game is not that good visually (compared to splinter cell or F. E. A. R. this game is supposed 
 to run better, don't you think?)
  
  Anyway, it's nice to have a great Spider-man game on PC again.. I love it! Swing away!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazraq
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  When Windows Vista launched, I built a new gaming rig with a high end 8800 gtx video card. Ever 
 since then I have been looking for an example of how my computer compaired to the new consoles. 
 Finally something comes out to test it. Too bad that it tested it the way it did though.
  
  SpiderMan 3 is a port of the PS3 and XBOX 360 game. It looks better than the last game, but not 
 as much as you would expect. It's kinda like the developers added a thin coat of paint to the graphics. 
 But at what a cost! My computer dips into the mid to high 20's (frames per second) when swinging 
 around the city. The rest of the time it's locked at the frame rate cap (30) . Woah! this machine 
 was built to play crysis. I sure hope it will.
  
  As far as the game is concerned, it is as described by Alex N. A side step in the series. The mission 
 structure is better. Dynamic crime through out the city is better. And the visuals are by no means 
 revolutionary.
  
  Since i have the wireless gaming reciever, I can play the game with my 360 controller. Its sweet! 
 But what suprised me was the fact that all the buttons were mapped perfectly. And even cooler was 
 the fact that all the on screen commands looked like xbox 360 buttons! So if you have a super high 
 end computer and an xbox controller, buy this game. Its cheap! But if your computer isn't boss, 
 you should avoid it like the plague. My XP computer crawled when I loaded it up. Athlon 2800 1.5 
 GB ram agp x1950 pro ran it on lowest settings under 15 frames per second. weak! there are just 
 a few people out there that can pull any enjoyment out of this game. I'm glad that i am one of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 was awesome. I don't know where GS got their 6.6. Seriously, this game has 20+hours 
 of content and GS or should i say Alex Nevarro, was rushed to make the review and didn't give it 
 the full 360 degree look they should have.
  
  All in all, besides the faulty camera and dull music, spider-man 3 is a well rounded game. Sporting 
 good graphics with great lighting, good sound and good voice acting (besides topher grace IMO) , 
 this game was really a joy to play.
  
  I won't go into detail, but the graphics are great. High dynamic range lighting and detailed textures 
 make this game eye candy. Though not the best of eye candy, it was still good to see spidey in 
 this much detail.
  
  As far as sound goes, the music was literally the same thing over and over, and didn't really fit. 
 It would have been nice to get some more spider-man theme music in there. The sound however was 
 pretty good apart from the music.
  
  On thing, i will never be able to get over, is how bad of a score GS gave this game for gameplay. 
 Besides the annoying camera, whats so bad about it?!? Alex must have been in a really bad mood 
 the day (or hour) that he rated this game because the combat is really fun to do and look at. There 
 is so many combos to play with and special attacks (which look totally awesome) .
  Also, swinging around NY has never been more fun and the black suit gives you a new way to fight 
 once you get it. The only thing that kinda put me off was when a boss fight or cut scene threw 
 a God of War-style button pressing thing in your face, too fast to react. The idea was fine, but 
 they didn't exactly nail it every time.
  
  Once again, i say, all in all this is a Great (8.0+) not Fair (6.6&lt; cough, great job GS, cough.... not) 
 game and deserves recognition from spidey fans and action gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizruption
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for 2 days and I haven't stopped playing it yet...
  
  The Graphics: Outstanding, the buildings look like buildings, people are people, and free falling 
 from a scy scraper, and web slinging before mashing the ground is exhilerating. Those with yesterdays 
 model pc will have trouble, running 5 ghz proc., 2 gig ram, and 1 Nvidia 8800 GT card and it runs 
 all the way up on full settings no problem , no slowdown, no stutter just butter the whole time. 
 A Nividia 7 series card should run this fine on medium settings. Anything else forget it. Sound: 
 Like a spiderman should sound , wind whistling past your ears the faster you go, the whole nine 
 yards. Music was ok.
  
  Controls: Keyboard, slight learning curve but hardly impossible , w, a, s, d q, e and space bar, 
 all can be done with one hand, the other on the mouse... Some of you complaining oh why o why the 
 keyboard should stick to console.. Gameplay: Spiderman can do everything.. EVERYTHING you can possibly 
 think of , Dual web slinging, tying a bad guy up by each hand and foot to different light poles, 
 Running up, (yes, running up, and around the sides of buildings, not just crawling up walls) . 
 Theres almost no limit to the mobility of him as you move around the city, and its fast!! Random 
 crimes spawn around the city as well as there are missions... That's right stop muggers, robots, 
 lizard men among other things that happen as you patrol the city, even all out gang wars with 15-20 
 gang members!! Conclusion: If you have a PC that can handle this and you like Spiderman this is 
 the best game that has ever been made for the webbed wonder, buy it! If you don't find a friend 
 who does cuz you really don't want to miss out on this one. Oh yeah the game starts off easy, but 
 don't let that fool you the difficulty ramps up about 2 hours into the game, Don't get me started 
 on the fight with Raven one of the hardest yet... Ok now the bad things and i haven't found much 
 myself, The camera is a bit tricky at first and even on highest mouse sensitivity its still turns 
 a bit slow, but if you leave alone while webbing down the street the camera auto- follows you, 
 if you try to turn it your self its jumpy.. So when webbing don't move the camera it will do it 
 on its own, getting a roller ball mouse helps. The only real bug i have found is sometimes on the 
 random crime spawns, the bad guys are inside of buildings, out of reach. All in all a very good 
 game check it out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveosaurous
Rating: 4
Date: May 8, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Atleast the movie was worth the money I spent on it.
  
  Spiderman 3, the game, had a great deal of potential to work with here. They've got the ability 
 to offer this game outstanding graphics, add in many new gameplay elements, and work with alot 
 of the old comic-book spiderman characters. However, the innovations that are carried out, are 
 very poorly done.
  
  Graphics - It goes without saying that this game has top of the line graphics. However, the graphics 
 are very poorly optimized. I find it difficult to believe that there is a system that can handle 
 this game (with a decent frame rate) at top settings. Even at low settings you're gonna need a 
 fairly new and top of the line pc.
  
  Gameplay - Absolutely horrendous. Unless you have a controller to play this game, you may find 
 it completely unplayable. This game was clearly not meant to be played with a keyboard and mouse. 
 Even veteran gamers will find themselves struggling to coordinate the mouse and keyboard together, 
 especially when webslinging. Webslinging, a major function of the game, requires so much skill 
 on the pc you may actually have to be spiderman to do it properly. Fighting is so repetitive and 
 boring you'll get more interaction just watching the movie. And some of the missions, such as Mary 
 Jane Thrillride, will have you pulling your hair out as you try to maneuver with the horrible controls 
 while fighting the constantly jittering camera.
  
  Sound - Nothing bad but nothing great here. Music usually doesn't fit in with what's happening 
 on screen and is sometimes nonexistant. But when it does come into play it's nicely orchestrated 
 and exciting.
  
  Replay value - None. Assuming you can actually stem the frustration and make it all the way through 
 this game's 42 missions. I doubt you'll find any reason to replay this game again, with the exceptance 
 of just wanting to swing around town. But in that aspect, you're better off playing Spiderman 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micke_2000
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 10, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  When I first saw GameSpots review on the Xbox 360 version for this game I got surprised by the 
 low rating, but that was before I played it myself on the PC...
  
  I'm just going to make a quick text and sum up the good and bad.
  First, the graphics is great 
 - especially on Spiderman himself. The bad thing about the graphics is the performance! You'll 
 need a monstrous computer to even play this game at lowest settings, and even then it can't keep 
 the framerate above 30 fps. This is a VERY bad optimized engine I'm afraid, and from the Xbox 360 
 reviews it isn't very stable there either.
  The physics is really boring, you can't break anything (almost nothing) and you can't interact 
 with pedestrians. Even if you try to hurt a person on the street it doesn't work, you can shove 
 the person to the middle of the street by running into him (embarrasingly bad) and the car that 
 hit him (the car doesn't stop, just keep on running til' it hit something) just stops the second 
 it touches the person, and nothing happens. Other things happens to spidey! When a car hits him 
 he is likely to fall down, with embarrasing physics.
  There is no really great animations, no variation.. it's always the same ones. The fighting I think 
 can be a little bit interesting though, you can do quite some impressive tricks, but it gets boring 
 after a while and it's very repeating. There is no real WOW when Spidey comes flying in for a mission, 
 because it looks just so mediocre... He flies, possibly through a window, a small amount of soundeffects 
 are played, and then together with bad animations he says something like No autographs, please! 
 and it doesnt fit in at all!
  
  The camera is hilariously bad, especially when climbing buildings, when you jump, the camera goes 
 crazy and changes viewpoint all the time, it's impossible to aim to your destination while it does 
 this.
  
  The gameplay I think is the best part about this game, swinging around the city, looking for robbers 
 with spideysense... That's what makes this game over the the 5 stars. I do not recommend this game, 
 with its extremely badly optimized engine andrepeating gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casartelli
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I've played it for just over 15 hours now. I was very afraid after the Gamespot review that this 
 game would s**k bigtime, but actually it's a quite ok game, and it has his moments :)
  
  Sure, the graphics are solid, alltough the frame-rate drops when you have more then 5 villans on 
 screen (even I with medium settings and a 2,4ghz dual-core and 7800GT) , and the camera is possibly 
 one of the worst you've ever seen in a game... but in the end, Spidey does a great job. Why should 
 they stick to the movie-line (wich has just 3 bosses) , when you can get 8 bosses! The defusing 
 of the bombs are actually cool, new and original puzzles (Make circles with your mouse to turn 
 bolts etc.)
  
  Sometimes the game is a bit buggy tough. Every missions has a few sub-missions... One time,.. i 
 failed the 2nd sequence.. It asked me if I wanted to try #2 again, or if I wanted to do another 
 mission. I choose for again and suddenly I started with #3.. I got the mission, but never got #2 
 right... The game gives you power-ups when you don't need them (kick 30 villans in a missions and 
 you'll get nothing,.. kick 1 on the street and you'll get full heath) etc. etc.. The game has great 
 potential, but it looks like it's rushed just to get it in stores at the same time as the movie. 
 There is no other way to explain the camera work, the voice acting, the textures and the bugs.. 
 But i'f you're willing to look through all of that,. you'll have a great time webbing your way 
 through NYC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Testamen060689
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Is a fairly nice game, but is much of the same as its predecessors. The graphics are better but 
 not that amazing, at least from what I have seen so far in other game. One thing is that apparently 
 they didnt put much time for the PC version, which is the one I own. I didnt wanted to spend 60 
 dollars for the 360 so I bought the PC version, and I was very confident that the game would play 
 well on my PC. Well I was wrong, the PC version has a lot of slow Frame Rate issues. I don't think 
 is my PC since my PC passes and goes a little beyond th recommended requirements. I expect a patch 
 very soon.
  
  The controls for the PC version are not so good neither. It will get you some time to get used 
 to the keys, but you can also edit the key settings to a way that you see most fit. Still I would 
 recommend a Pad for this game, better if you have a wired 360 pad, the game automatically detects 
 the 360 pad and it automatically set the keys for the Pad, it would be like playing the 360. Gameplay 
 is a little better now, but much of the same, you will get more of a button smashing experience 
 now, the combos over the time get old and repetitive. Still is very fun to swing around the huge 
 and very well detailed city. They also added timed button-press cinematics, this make some fights 
 interesting and fun, especially the boss fights.
  
  I wont comment on the story since I haven't completed the game yet, and I don't want to spoil anything 
 neither. To conclude this review, is a fairly nice game, but its much of the same from the others 
 Spider-Man games, the game is still enjoyable though, and also, I would recommend the 360 or PS3 
 version over the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  In Spider-Man 2, we finally had the freedom of roaming New York City as spiderman himself. This 
 time around in the 3rd one, that freedom was taken to the next level. With the new Resident Evil 
 4 style gameplay and cutscene mechanics, makes the series play soo much better than how it did 
 before. The only issue that I personally had was just the camera. The camera gets in the way in 
 tight spaces, as well as when climbing walls. One other problem I had was just the speed. Sometimes 
 I'd feel spiderman moves way too fast, but to others that might just be a good thing. Control wise, 
 it gets a bit complicated. It's obvious to say that in the console version, u probably won't have 
 to press as many different keys as we do here on the pc when it comes to doing the cutscene sequences, 
 but it's still fun and exciting to do them. Gameplay wise, the game is a blast, especially the 
 boss fights. Possibly a game that has some of the best boss fights since games like resident evil 
 4 and shadow of the colossus. If you are a spiderman fan, or just want to pick up a game to enjoy 
 playing, get spiderman!! Tho, the requirements are a bit high for pc, it's the best looking one, 
 and it doesn't suffer from as many frame rate issues as the ps3 and 360 versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizallah
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I am a die hard pc gamer. I have never owned an Xbox or a Ps2 so I never had the opportunity to 
 play the REAL Spiderman 2. The pc version of Spiderman 2 doesn't count. That being said, Spiderman 
 3 is the best Spidey game available for the pc. The fighting is pretty good, the web swinging is 
 a blast and the city environments look awesome! New York city is respectfully recreated in the 
 game. My only gripe is some of the voice acting in the game sounds a little lazy and uninspired. 
 Be warned, you will need a decent graphics card to get playable frame rates but pc gamers who have 
 been waiting for a decent Spidey game should pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattBisett1
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 4, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is an ill game expect for the fact if you dont have a top of the line computer forget 
 about it I got a 7800 GS and it runs 10-15 FPS which is playable but enjoyable no if you have a 
 PS3 or an Xbox 360 go with those versions they will of course be optimized for that system and 
 will run great other than that Spider Man 3 improves on all aspects of gameplay from Spider Man 
 2 for Xbox Dont worry it isnt the whack verision like spider man 2 was it is a str8 port the game 
 is really fun to play and easy combos are quick to pick up and there is a short tutorial mode when 
 you start the game NYC is real my only gripe is that there is very little difference in cars trucks 
 etc. you will see 10000000000 of Ford Crown Vics The side missions are really fun and there is 
 a point to them because they get you bonus moves and upgrade your web skills Missions are sort 
 of GTA style in which you select where to go and what to see overall it is a sick game if you got 
 the hardware 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisfairc16
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If you liked spiderman 2 then you will like this ., quite simply put does everything sm2 did but 
 better . better graphics much improved story mode, works really well with the 360 controller even 
 rumble, takes abit of getting used to mind . but the whole game changes when you plug in the 360 
 controller even the buttons on screen the prompts etc change to 360 buttons . as for action it 
 never stops , also like in god of war it has those big button combos to defeat a boss i really 
 like how its done in this game. overall really pleased and is a must play ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
