-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Friend or Foe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spidermanfriendorfoe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Action is stylish, easy to pick up.
 Great cast of characters supported by some solid voice acting.
 Doesn't take itself so seriously.
 Lets you play as some of Spidey's greatest enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much enemy variety.
 Sidekicks not as much fun to play as Spidey.
 Incredibly easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.2, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 285 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 2, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some flashy action, a playful sense of humor, and a clean visual style bring this otherwise straightforward 
 beat-'em-up to life. 

  Although the Spider-Man movies have been credited with helping comic-book movies mature and take 
 a more sophisticated turn, the problem with all of these complex, serious heroes and villains is, 
 well, that they're all so complex and serious. They lose sight of the fact that Spider-Man is far 
 more entertaining when he's wheelin' free and crackin' wise rather than stressing out about the 
 whole "with great power" thing and generally being riddled with angst. The webslinger is in loose, 
 smart-aleck form in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, a beat-'em-up that doesn't get bogged down in character 
 development. Instead, the game puts the focus on the kind of combat that's simple but showy, with 
 an art style that reminds you that comic books shouldn't necessarily be so somber.  

           The team-up premise of Friend or Foe feels like it was ripped straight from the pages 
 of What If?      

  The big concept twist that Friend or Foe offers up revolves around Spider-Man teaming up with some 
 of his most memorable foes. In a reference to Venom's origin story from Spider-Man 3, some unknown 
 mastermind is using shards from the meteor that spawned the symbiotic suit to brainwash villains 
 such as Doc Ock and the Green Goblin to do his bidding, as well as to power an army of holographic 
 monsters called phantoms. With the help of S. H. I. E. L. D. director Nick Fury, you trot the globe, 
 recover the shards, and free the brainwashed villains, which turns enemies into allies. As thin 
 as the premise is, the game's jokey, playful tone makes it seem less far-fetched, and it ultimately 
 serves its purpose of letting you fight alongside some of Spidey's greatest villains, a concept 
 that manages to stay novel throughout. You'll also team up with other heroes along the way, including 
 Spidey regulars such as Prowler, Black Cat, and Silver Sable, as well as b-team favorites such 
 as Iron Fist and Blade. A big part of what carries the humor in Friend or Foe is the quality of 
 the voice work, which is consistently great.  

  The basic structure of Friend or Foe isn't terribly interesting by itself. You'll travel to some 
 exotic location, such as Tokyo, Transylvania, or Nepal, where you'll beat the holographic snot 
 out of the phantoms before facing off with a brainwashed villain. The phantoms come in just a few 
 different varieties, and though they get stronger over time and change appearance between locations, 
 the same tactics seem to work pretty well from start to finish. Although the boss fights are presented 
 differently, they all rely on the same basic strategy of throwing objects at the villains from 
 afar. They can occasionally be a little time-consuming, but they're never particularly challenging. 

  There's really not much else to the game beyond the fighting, either. There's a little bit of exploration, 
 in that there are DNA samples and secret arenas scattered throughout the game, but more often than 
 not you'll just stumble over them in the course of playing the game. Spidey can double-jump and 
 use his webbing to swing over small gaps, but platforming is minimal. When you do die, be it at 
 the hands of an enemy or from falling off a platform, the only penalty is that you'll lose a couple 
 of tech tokens, a type of in-game currency that falls out of defeated enemies and smashed objects. 
 You use the tech tokens to upgrade the abilities of Spider-Man and friends.  

  It's pretty much all fighting, all the time, against the same handful of enemies, with no consequences 
 for dying. The whole thing can be wrapped up with a bow in less than six hours. So what makes the 
 action in Friend or Foe interesting? A lot of it rests on the combat, which manages to be both 
 accessible and somewhat dynamic. There's a single attack button that you can use to tap out some 
 simple combos, but it's Spider-Man's web-based abilities that bring a lot of panache to the game. 
 The webslinging abilities let him grab enemies from afar and launch them into one another, into 
 the ground, or right off the edge of a platform.  

  You'll earn additional web talents over time, including the ability to shoot projectiles and wrap 
 enemies up, but your starting abilities seem to be the most useful. They're also the most visually 
 interesting, though admittedly some of the actions look more exciting than they might otherwise 
 due to exaggerated physics that cause everyone to linger in the air before gravity pulls them back 
 down. It's very easy to string these moves together, and even though it's not much of a challenge, 
 fending off a dozen enemies at once with a constant flurry of attacks can be pretty satisfying. 

  It can be a real kick in the pants to fight alongside some of Spider-Man's greatest villains as 
 well, and you can switch back and forth on the fly between controlling Spidey and his sidekick. 
 When controlled by the artificial intelligence, your sidekick can take care of itself pretty well. 
 As awesome as it might sound to finally get to play as these villains, the sidekicks simply don't 
 have as many abilities as Spidey, which makes them inherently less interesting. This ends up limiting 
 the appeal of the game's two-player support, although it's consequently less disappointing that 
 there's no online play.  

           What it lacks in challenge, it makes up for with style.      

  The experience of playing 
 Spider-Man: Friend or Foe on the Xbox 360, PC, and Wii was pretty consistent across platforms, 
 though there were some predictable discrepancies. The PC version demands a good gamepad, and we 
 found that the game provided seamless support for the Xbox 360 controller. The game plays it pretty 
 safe on the Wii, in that it relies on motion controls only for secondary stuff such as switching 
 characters and performing grab modifiers. All three versions feature the same clean art style, 
 which isn't technically demanding, but it looks sharp. The environments favor clean textures over 
 complex geometry, and each location features a distinct look while keeping with the overall cartoony 
 feel. The character models are nicely embellished, and some of the animations -- Spider-Man's in 
 particular -- look terrific. The PC and Xbox 360 versions look pretty comparable, though on the Wii 
 there's some pretty jagged edges, some minor frame-rate issues, and a little fuzziness that diminishes 
 the look of the game, if only somewhat. It seems worth noting that the achievements in the Xbox 
 360 version are pretty fabulously easy, and they require only a little extra effort beyond finishing 
 the game to earn the full 1000 points.  

  The low level of challenge, the cartoon-inspired look, and a tone that favors humor over pathos 
 certainly make it seem as if Spider-Man: Friend or Foe was designed with a younger, less sophisticated 
 audience in mind, but for what it is, this is a well-crafted game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  The dissapointment I feel when I see that each and every Spider-man game misses vital ingredients 
 which bring success cannot be written. So FoF is not exception. The exception would be positive, 
 if there was one, because the Spider-man series are a total letdown. I may be wrong, but it is 
 definately made for little children in mind.
  
  Anyway, Spider-man turns round the globe in order to defeat his arch-villains, who help him afterwards 
 to succeed, till they beat everyone affected by the symbiote. This story is not that serious, as 
 it comes up with tons of humoir, which is essential for such a game. But it is unforgivable that 
 the combat is even more humoirous, like a joke, if you take into consideration the difficulty of 
 the game which is completely missing. Apart from Spider-man, you can take control of his enemies, 
 who help him. But it is not the same fun and satisfaction as it is with him. In fact, it seems 
 that the combat moves of Spider-man are very-well made, whereas the others are moving like trash 
 bins. However, what FoF misses in difficulty is what it wins with its overall style. But it is 
 not enough, as there are more cons en route. After a while, you will realize that the levels don't 
 change that much progressing in the game, and the same could be said for the enemies you face. 
 And to make matters worse, the graphics of the game may be respectable, but they are not unless 
 you own a powerfull graphics card or a smooth-running processor.
  
  Spider-man's new adventure lacks the adventurous style it had the previous years, replacing it 
 with a lacklustre humoirous one. It is a game you should fairly avoid by the time you are not a 
 Spider-man fanatic or you have passed the fifth grade.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaunToncray
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe pulls off an interesting feat- it feels both fresh and stale at the same 
 time. It's refreshing to play as villains along side Spidey, but the gameplay is lacking in variety, 
 and Spider-Man is so strong and versatile compared to other playable characters that playing as 
 another character feels like a down-grade.
  
  The villains in Friend or Foe could use some work as well. They come in four sizes, and that's 
 all the variety you get outside of the boss battles. You can customize Spidey's web abilities to 
 better take out the small, medium, or large enemies. The extra-large enemies are what the group-attack 
 power-up was made for- as soon as one pops on-screen, cue it up and watch it evaporate.
  
  The customization that you can do to Spider-Man's web abilities is actually the most interesting 
 thing in the game, but it comes at the cost of making every other character feel totally lacking 
 in options and skill.
  
  Whereas Spider-Man has 3 web modes (Sling, Shoot, Stun) that each have special attacks for each 
 enemy, the unlockable characters only have 2 special attacks each that consist typically of a projectile/ranged 
 attack and an AOE (area of effect) attack.
  
  I understand that this game was designed with kids in mind, and maybe having robust customization 
 for the secondary characters would be too complicated, but it would have at least made the game 
 feel balanced. Put simply, whoever has the player 2 controller in their hand the whole time will 
 miss out on most of the fun this game has to offer. And for a co-operative game, that seems kind 
 of unacceptable.
  
  The level design is also quite uninspired. The formula is to walk into an area, watch brief cutscene, 
 kill the enemies, hit a button, open a door/lower a bridge, and move to the next area. Yawn. At 
 least the game throws enough enemies at you that it usually still feels fun and invigorating. There 
 is also unlockable content to find, but it's not incredibly worth it.
  
  And this may be a bit picky, but there's one more flaw I'd like to address before getting to the 
 praise- the Tech Token system. Basically, you kill enemies and smash objects to get Tech Tokens 
 which can be used to upgrade Spider-Man and the other characters. It's also tied in with your life 
 system, in that when you die, you lose 15 of them. But here's the kicker- depending on the way 
 you die, you may also lose your combo multiplier which is actually more crucial than the 15 or 
 so tokens that you lose on death.
  
  How does one lose their precious multiplier? By dying in combat while fighting the forces of evil.
 
  
  How can one avoid losing their multiplier? By committing suicide by diving off a cliff.
  
  Um yeah. To recap, you die fighting and are punished, but if you kill yourself before your 
 health meter runs out, you are punished much less. Isn't that a bit backwards? Especially for a 
 kid's game.. jeez.
  
  BUT.. after all those negative points are tossed out there, at the end of the day Spider-Man: Friend 
 or Foe is still a pretty fun diversion. I was only able to play single-player, but the AI was decent 
 and it was fun switching to Blade or Venom when they were unlocked and fully upgraded.
  
  Also, the game has a wonderful sense of humor. The game doesn't take itself too seriously, and 
 that is one of the things that made it so fun. Also, the art style and graphics were well-suited 
 to the mood of the game, and pretty sharp- though there were some instances where I could clearly 
 see through seams in the walls/floor.
  
  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe is 100% compatible with the Xbox 360 controller, and I played the game 
 with it. The rumble features are intact too, which was a nice surprise. The controls are smooth 
 and responsive, and this would be a great game to plug in 2 controllers and kick some simbiot tail- 
 no matter what your age.
  
  Just don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  This Spider Man Friend Or Foe game is, from my point of view, a different version of Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance with a younger target group of gamers in mind. If you compare the two straight out then 
 you will find Spider Man Friend Or Foe doesn't match up as well. 
  
  Content:
  The storyline seems to stem mainly from the Spider Man 3 movie but also from various comic book 
 sources for the other playable characters. I believe you have over 16 companions to unlock and 
 play. What is nice is some of them are bad guys like Venom and Dr Octopus.
  
  Game play:
  The game can be played single player or two player co-op in battle areas. As with most side scrolling 
 adventures you have your basic attacks and special moves. This game is no different. Along the 
 way you collect credits to unlock more powers per super hero. While most of them sound and looks 
 different they are basically do the same damage. There are five major chapters with four levels 
 in each one to complete.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are decent. Interaction with different objects is clearly visible. With various stages 
 are the world, you do get a slight feeling of the locale. The character doesn't look realistic 
 but more kids cartoon like. The cut scenes are cartoon clips.
  
  Sound and Music:
  Action sounds can be heard from the Super Heroes and their enemies. Time to time each blurbs out 
 classic lines when walking around or when fighting. The music is nothing special, just provides 
 a little ambiance.
  
  Difficulty:
  This is a very easy game. If you fail you lose credits you already gained for the level and continue 
 on. If you get stuck just replay a level you already passed to get stronger. The enemies are distinct 
 patterns to be easily defeated.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you take a look at this gamer seriously you will find a lot of flaws or weaknesses. If you look 
 at this game for a younger audience then the difficulty and fun level should keep their attention 
 for the entire length of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge Spider-Man fan, so I thought I'd pick this one up. This game was just what I expected 
 it to be -- a very expected kids game that isn't really entertaining for very long.
  Story -- the story is really basic. Spider-Man gets kidnapped by Nick Fury in a helcarrier to try 
 to save the world. Meteor shards have landed all around the Eastern Hemisphere, and it's Spider-Man's 
 job to get them back. Along the way villains show up throughout different levels, along with other 
 heroes. They'll join sides with you to complete the adventure. During combat, Spider-Man will make 
 some sarcastic and humorous comments, but the humor is based for a younger gaming audience. The 
 story fails to get you really interested in it.
  Graphics -- the graphics are surprisingly good, considering it's a cartoon-based kids game. Spider-Man 
 and his comrades have detail, along with (surprisingly) the environments, which the developers 
 usually don't pay too much attention to, as it is a kids-based game. Enemies look alright, though 
 there isn't much variety. Overall, the graphics are a bit better than I expected.
  Gameplay -- the gameplay is fun for a while, but gets frustrating and boring after a while. This 
 is a two-player game, which adds more fun to the game, as you can play with a friend throughout 
 the missions. There are 5 different missions, with 4 levels in each. The game takes about 10-12 
 hours if you want to collect everything. The combat is like a button masher. The buttons consist 
 of punching and a variety of web attacks. Defeating enemies will earn you money, which can then 
 be spent on upgrades in the helcarrier. You can upgrade Spider-Man's web attacks or upgrade the 
 other character's you discover along the way. Unfortunately, the combat wears off, becoming repetitive, 
 along with the levels. Boss fights aren't that fun either, being too simplistic. I usually like 
 easy games with a bit of challenge, but this game is far too easy. To take a break from the story 
 missions, there's a multiplayer versus mode, where you and a partner choose characters and a level 
 and battle each other. It seems like this was just put in for some extra playing time, and it becomes 
 dull very quickly, just like the rest of the game.
  Story: 5.3/10 -- even though this is a kids-game, they could've put a bit more effort into the story, 
 as it doesn't provide any twists, though there are some humorous scenes.
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- the graphics are surprisingly good for this type of game, with good-looking character 
 models and environments, though the enemies have almost no variety and the animations look ugly. 
 
  Gameplay: 5.7/10 -- alright for a while but grows dull after a few hours into the game.
  Final Thoughts: For any young Spider-Man fans, go rent this game, since it doesn't have any replay 
 value. For anyone who isn't a Spider-Man fan, but is young, it's worth a rent, as you probably 
 will enjoy it. The game is worth a rent for the easy achievements, if you like those. The game 
 has its humorous moments, but the dull combat and boring story will prevent you from enjoying this 
 game much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I always liked superhero games where they bring the comic book look "to life". Spider-Man: Friend 
 Or Foe achieves this and a little more.
  
  The game takes on the movies storyline of Venom's origin and complements it with several other 
 meteor shards falling around the world. Their symbiotic properties are then being used by a madman 
 to create these holographic monsters called Phantoms. Also, he uses them to brainwash Spidey's 
 old enemies, such as Dr Octopus, Sandman and many others to do his biddings. It is now up to Spidey, 
 with the help of SHIELD's Nick Fury, and other buddies you'll find along the way to stop this menace. 
 Along the way, you'll be able to free the villains from their mind-controlling shards and have 
 them join your team and fight by your side, which is one of the main purposes of the game.
  
  One of the game's strong points is its humor. Characters' punchlines fit well in the current 
 situation, as well as some hilarious cut scenes, and this is aided immensely by great voice-acting.
 
  
  The game is extremely easy, and there isn't much change throughout the game. The sceneries and 
 enemies have a makeover on the next level, but the tactics all remain the same, and we get the 
 feeling we are doing everything all over again, but with different looking monsters who aren't 
 that different. Also, you don't actually die. When you kill a Phantom he drops these tokens that 
 you can later use to upgrade your character as well as your web-shooter. When your health reaches 
 zero, you just suffer a minor penalty to your token count and that's it.
  
  The game suffers from not having an online play option, which is a major fault. This game is not 
 supposed to be played solo, although the friendly AI isn't that bad and can handle itself pretty 
 well in battle. So if you get the chance, play it with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronFist2099
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  I read and heard plenty of bad reviews for Spider-Man: Friend Or Foe but I have to say it is a 
 pretty solid game that is perfect for younger children. I am the father of a 6 year old and we 
 like to play games together and this is just perfect for the both of us since we are both HUGE 
 Spider-Man fans. The game has enough stuff to keep me interested and more than enough for him. 
 The game is very easy for me (HARDCORE GAMER) and just right for him just hard enough. So if you 
 have any young children that enjoy playing games this is a perfect game for them to play. The game's 
 graphics are very cartoonish and lighthearted. The storyline is filled with little jokes that little 
 one's will laugh over. I'm relived to find a game that me and him can both enjoy especially considering 
 how hard it is to find games that he can play at his level of skill. In the end it is a great time 
 for a father and son to share. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  friend or foe plays well with rather smooth controls, although sometimes you can accidentally pick 
 up a box instead of webbing your enemies. although it rarely happens, it is one of the few control 
 glitches i have with friend or foe. its really quite fun to play, although spider man is overpowered. 
 you can upgrade spider mans web abilities and his stats, like his stamina, strength, etc... but 
 you cant upgrade the other characters abilities, making them lacking in what style attacks spider 
 man has. talking about style, friend or foe makes the game in such a way that a single button press 
 can make your character do a cool move. combining button presses will make spider man do even cooler 
 moves. the storyline is half-baked. you start off in a flying aircraft with terminals to teleport 
 you to various parts of the world to save people. i know the developers wanted to create different 
 environments, but this idea really sucks.
  other than minor control problems and bad storyline, spider man friend or foe is a game you should 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  despite its an incredibly easy game and the AI of the game isnt that intelligent but your side 
 kick can hold there own but you do most of the work and its still a great game to play. the game 
 made me laugh through out because it didn't take itself so seriously it had the spideman wise cracks 
 in there and some classic lines in the game. the level designs are quite good. you gather these 
 orbs things that then you can purchase upgrades for spiderman and the other characters in the game. 
 the characters in the game are well designed and with the cartoon graphics it dose give it an authentic 
 feel to the game. with the 360 version the achievements don't require much effort to archive you 
 will probably get the first achievement straight after the first level or was that just me. the 
 unlockables are ok like the arenas you unlock after you fight loads of robots after you get the 
 key. i thought that it did need more difficulty in the levels and better AI on the enemies also 
 it could of given more variation in the enemy design and more than just 2 or 3 different attacks.
 
  
  in conclusion its a good game i recommend either a rental if your still unsure about it or get 
 it when its in a sale or something 20 is a good price i payed for it and i thought it was a good 
 purchase and if you are a avid spiderman fan its a nice game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunoleao
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I always liked superhero games where they bring the comic book look to life . Spider-Man: Friend 
 Or Foe achieves this and a little more.
  
  The game takes on the movies storyline of Venom's origin and complements it with several other 
 meteor shards falling around the world. Their simbiotic properties are then being used by a madman 
 to create these holographic monsters called Phantoms. Also, he uses them to brainwash Spidey's 
 old enemies, such as Dr Octopus, Sandman and many others to do his biddings. It is now up to Spidey, 
 with the help of SHIELD's Nick Fury, and other buddies you'll find along the way to stop this menace. 
 Along the way, you'll be able to free the villains from their mind-controling shards and have them 
 join your team and fight by your side, which is one of the main purposes of the game.
  
  One of the game's strong points is its humor. Characters' punchlines fit well in the current situation, 
 as well as some hilarious cutscenes, and this is aided immensely by great voice-acting.
  
  The game is extremely easy, and there isn't much change throughout the game. The sceneries and 
 enemies have a makeover on the next level, but the tactics all remain the same, and we get the 
 feeling we are doing everything all over again, but with different looking monsters who aren't 
 that different. Also, you don't actually die. When you kill a Phantom he drops these tokens that 
 you can later use to upgrade your character as well as your web-shooter. When your health reaches 
 zero, you just suffer a minor penalty to your token count and that's it.
  
  The game suffers from not having an online play option, which is a major fault. This game is not 
 supposed to be played solo, although the friendly AI isn't that bad and can handle itself pretty 
 well in battle. So if you get the chance, play it with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  the game looks ok, and is graphically well engineered, but that's not what gamers are looking forward 
 to, right? we need more! this is a game to be played for maximum a week then put it on a shelf 
 or even throw it away if you'd like to it's only 20$!!!
  And like all spider-man games, non of them is done correctly, if they give you free roam they take 
 away combat, and if they give you combat they take away free roam, as it's the case of the game 
 on hand.
  as for in depth analysis of this game the camera's fixed and there's some sort of collectibles, 
 which are all images, and they suck, so my advixe is don't bother finding them. The combo system 
 is better than marvel ultimate alliance, but still you get bored shortley as it is repetitive.
 
  so, this is a game for rental only, and that's for sure!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipperputtfark
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I usually feel the fine reviewers here at this wonderful site are, well, a little rough on some 
 games. Very picky when it comes to their scores. But to classify this pile of elk dung as good 
 and to insult the number 7 by giving it a score of same boggles this booze soaked mind. This is 
 easily EASILY the worst superhero game ever made. (worse than Superman for the 64, worse than Justice 
 League, and YES YES worse than Aquaman) Game Play: You punch and kick, then a bridge lowers and 
 you can access another area where you punch and kick some more until another bridge lowers (to 
 be fair sometimes they rise, rotate or appear from nowhere) and this goes on and on and on and 
 ON. I got through three levels and said I get it, there are a lot of bridges and put Halo 3 back 
 in. So there you have it, from my fingers to your eyes. Take it or leave it, but leave this game 
 alone or the terrorists have allready won! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Well fist off got this game becuz i was bored nothin really intrigued me in getting it really ....
 
  
  the graphics are ok not top-notch but iight .... sound exceptional ... the gameplay is very similar 
 to the last marvel franchise if im not mistaken ultimate avengers .. so if u loved playing that 
 game you'll love playing this one ...
  
  Pros
  
  * Action keys are very easy to learn (no complicated combo action keys)
  * Got a large collection 
 of players (marvel characters) u can choose from to tag-team with spidey on missions ....
  * Gameplay is very easy (might be a let-down for some who love a challenge, but when it comes to 
 games like this one .. i like it easy .. LOL)
  * Spidey's Greatest enimies are included (Doctor Octopus, Venom, Goblin, Sandman don't know i missed 
 out any.....)
  
  Downfall
  
  Gets Tedious quick .. due to the same routine through all the missions
  
  this is the only 
 one i can think of now .. jus started playing .......
  
  If u love Marvel Comics &amp; luved playing Marvel Ultimate Avengers , then u should get this game 
 ......... it's Okay .......... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
