-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: The Movie
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spidermanthemovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 19, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Gray Matter
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Apr 14, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of Spider-Man: The Movie succeeds mostly in capturing the essence of Marvel Comics' 
 popular superhero. 

 PC games adapted from movies haven't fared well in the past -- nor have games based on comic books 
 for that matter. But Spider-Man: The Movie, an action game released simultaneously for no less 
 than five different gaming platforms including the PC, succeeds mostly in capturing the essence 
 of Marvel Comics' popular superhero. That's in part because the development team at Treyarch simply 
 built off the core gameplay of the previous Activision Spider-Man game released on the PC. As a 
 result, Spider-Man: The Movie boasts some impressive graphics (and requires a high-end video card) , 
 but it has also inherited some of the older game's faults -- the camera is incredibly difficult to 
 deal with at times, even despite some extra camera options available in the PC version. Also, the 
 control can be a little difficult to get used to, and the enemy AI can be pretty bad. Nevertheless, 
 most Spider-Man fans will still have fun swinging in between (and mysteriously high up above) the 
 game's massive skyscrapers or lurking in the shadows, waiting to pounce on an unsuspecting villain. 
 The convincing graphics will also help most Spider-Man fans look past most of the game's flaws. 
           Spider-Man looks better than ever in his latest game.    

  If you've played the previous Activision Spider-Man game, then you'll be able to jump right into 
 Spider-Man: The Movie, since most of the basic actions are nearly identical in both games. Unlike 
 its console counterparts, the PC version actually lets you map keys to specific actions -- however, 
 this game was definitely designed for use with a gamepad. If you're stuck using a keyboard, then 
 the controls in Spider-Man: The Movie are going to be much more difficult. Interestingly, the PC 
 version lacks the option to switch between the two different types of web attacks and instead forces 
 you to use the "enhanced" control mode designed by Treyarch, in which you press down a web-modifier 
 button and a corresponding action button to perform one of Spider-Man's web attacks. This works 
 well, and unlike with the default controls of the console versions, it prevents you from moving 
 around when you're trying to pull off one of Spider-Man's special attacks, like the web dome or 
 the web pull.   

  But inevitably, you'll encounter serious control problems that have nothing to do with the layout 
 or how responsive Spider-Man is to your commands. Many of your frustrations with Spider-Man: The 
 Movie will be directly linked to the game's camera, which sometimes seems to take on a life of 
 its own regardless of which camera mode you choose. In the passive mode, the camera doesn't have 
 a default position where it stays directly locked behind Spider-Man, so, for example, even when 
 you're simply running down a hallway or across the rooftops, you'll find yourself perpetually having 
 to adjust the camera and Spider-Man's direction. This problem is significantly magnified when you 
 use the lock-on option. There are many moments in which you'll be heading in one direction and 
 then all of a sudden switching to another so that the camera can compensate to keep both Spider-Man 
 and the enemy onscreen at once. In the active mode, the camera attempts to stay directly behind 
 Spider-Man, but since you'll be making so many sudden changes in direction, the camera can't quite 
 keep up, and you'll still sometimes find yourself heading in an undesired direction.           
 Some of the outdoor levels are truly spectacular.    

  The perspective works at least reasonably well in the outdoor areas and during missions that require 
 stealth, which occur quite frequently near the end of the game. However, the stealth element isn't 
 done nearly as well as in games like Metal Gear Solid or Thief, and more often than not, you'll 
 find that taking the time to be stealthy just isn't worth the effort. Spider-Man can essentially 
 hide himself in the shadows, but some shadows offer more cover than others do because you won't 
 be fully hidden -- unless the icon in the upper right-hand corner of the screen is completely shadowed. 
 The stealth system is not only inconsistent, but also just doesn't make sense at times -- clinging 
 to a certain spot on a wall that's completely visible will shade the icon, while lurking in a shadow 
 in a corner of the ceiling will not. If anything, this makes the game more time-consuming and challenging; 
 however, there's no denying that Spider-Man's stealth sequences can be pretty awkward.   

  Thankfully, there are other types of gameplay that are much more fun. Most, if not all, of these 
 occur in the outdoor levels, which unfortunately are less frequent (and shorter) than the indoor 
 levels. There will be times when you'll wish the game wasn't based on the movie so that it could 
 include more of these outdoor levels, with their fun high-flying action. On the other hand, the 
 indoor levels fall victim to boring conventions -- like those requiring you to find items and then 
 backtrack through a level to use them -- that at best sometimes give the illusion that the gameplay 
 is deeper and more involved than it really is. It's unfortunate, because Spider-Man: The Movie 
 probably would have been much more enjoyable without these indoor levels.    

 The basic action elements save Spider-Man: The Movie. The combat is fun and actually requires you 
 to think a little and scan the environment for good places to take on groups of enemies. In some 
 of the earlier levels, you'll have to take on five or six thugs at once, some of whom have guns, 
 making it easy for them to stay back and fire at you while their buddies take swings. In situations 
 like these, you'll find yourself looking for areas where you can take cover against gunfire and 
 fight enemies hand-to-hand at the same time. Of course, in the same situation, you could use any 
 one of Spider-Man's web abilities to help you out. Generally, there are several different ways 
 to approach combat.           The battles against Spider-Man's biggest rivals can be very tough. 
    

  You can expand Spider-Man's fighting abilities by finding yellow Spider-Man icons that are scattered 
 throughout each level. Each icon indicates the button combination to one of dozens of new moves 
 that Spider-Man can execute. While it's not completely necessary, the game will be much easier 
 for those who take the time to find these icons and learn how to use different combinations effectively. 
 That's because as you progress through the game, the boss characters, and even some of the more 
 powerful thugs, will start to block your combinations and even counter them if you continually 
 use the same ones.   

  There are a quite a few surprises when it comes to the enemy AI in Spider-Man. The aforementioned 
 hand-to-hand combat boss battles can be quite difficult, but even the weakest of enemies will sometimes 
 foil you. If you jump on the back of a thug and stay there for too long, he'll run straight for 
 a wall to knock you off his back. Unfortunately, the AI isn't all good -- some enemies just walk 
 around in circles even though they know exactly where you are, and others are incapable of opening 
 certain types of doors, which gives you an easy escape route if you happen to be close to such 
 a door.   

  Most of the enemy character models are reasonably detailed, considering there are usually five 
 or six onscreen at once, but the real beauty of Spider-Man: The Movie is in the main character 
 models and the outdoor environments. Spider-Man and the boss characters all look great, especially 
 on high-end systems. You'll be able to see some really small details, such as the cloth pattern 
 in Spider-Man's suit and the reflective surface on his eye patches, and you'll be impressed with 
 his fluid animations. The outdoor environments are massive, with plenty of skyscrapers and smaller 
 buildings dotting the landscape. Windows all reflect the surrounding scenery, sunlight shimmers 
 off a nearby river, and traffic scurries far down along the streets below. You'll definitely be 
 spending your first few moments of the game taking in all the detail and marveling at how much 
 better the outdoor areas look than those in the previous Spider-Man games. The indoor levels aren't 
 nearly as impressive, though they still feature plenty of clean textures and some decent lighting 
 effects. For those who aren't equipped with the latest in computer hardware and have to use many 
 of the default graphic settings, the special effects won't be as prominent and the frame rate will 
 tend to fluctuate a little more -- but the game will still look good and will certainly still be 
 playable.           The indoor levels aren't always fun, but it's still a good game.    

  In keeping with the fact that this is a game adaptation of a movie, Activision was able to procure 
 the services of both Toby Maguire and Willem Dafoe to voice Spider-Man and Norman Osborn, respectively. 
 Disappointingly, Toby sounds as though he really doesn't want to be doing voice work for a video 
 game. However, Dafoe's performance is actually quite energetic and entertaining enough that it 
 saves the exchange that occurs between Spider-Man and Norman Osborn's alternate identity. Also, 
 the music is surprisingly subdued for a game of this type. The tracks actually do a fairly good 
 job of giving you the sense that you're playing through a video game version of a big-budget action 
 movie, but most of the tracks are really short and none are particularly inspired.   

  Spider-Man: The Movie is really two Spider-Man games. The outdoor levels are much more fun and 
 enjoyable than the indoor levels -- so much that the game could have been considerably better had 
 there simply been more of the former and less of the latter. To be fair, some of the indoor missions 
 are entertaining in their own right. And even despite the camera problems and some of the other 
 issues, most players will probably enjoy playing what ultimately turns out to be a graphically 
 enhanced version of the previous Activision Spider-Man game, which faithfully captured the superhero's 
 moves and antics to begin with. For good measure, the sheer number of extras -- which are rewarded 
 to you based on your performance in each mission and include things such as Spider-Man Bowling 
 and production artwork -- along with the high degree of challenge, should keep you busy for some 
 time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: The Movie incorporates the plot of the movie into a game format relatively well, and 
 also includes several other infamous villains with their own separate in-game stories like Shocker, 
 Vulture, and Scorpion. The structure of the game is linear, so you are limited to completing the 
 missions of each level in order to progress to the next one. Spider-Man doesn't just pummel baddies 
 and swing around, though. In many situations you'll have to use quick thinking, puzzling-solving 
 skills, strategy, and stealth to complete your mission. The game offers a large variety of attack 
 combos which can be unlocked by finding golden spiders hidden within the levels. Many times you'll 
 find yourself more on the defensive, though, because of running low on health.
  
  There are a few things about this game that I don't like. In any of the outdoor levels, you are 
 limited to staying high above the ground, swinging on weblines attached to nothing. You are also 
 confined to a region that has plenty of skyscrapers but also a ton of airspace. Also, the game 
 is way too short. The majority of the levels are lengthy, but the end comes up so quickly that 
 it leaves you wondering if that was seriously all they could think of. The graphics are pretty 
 decent and movement is fluid most of the time. However, the camera sometimes gets in the way and 
 targeting sometimes screws your visuals up. The sound effects are good, but some of the voice acting 
 is lame.
  
  Spider-Man: The Movie is worth playing through once, but unless you want to set it to different 
 difficulties to challenge yourself, you probably won't be replaying it too many times. The relative 
 shortness makes this game seem like a missed opportunity, but the action is still good enough to 
 give this game a try.
  
  Score: 7.2
  Grade: B
  Preference: Moderate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Swing High Swing Low web Slinger. Swing through the city taking on bad guys just to find more coming. 
 More webs needed. This game was cool but I wanted more out of it. Loved the training room where 
 I got to perform my skills and abilities before they even sent me on my first job. This preparation 
 was very useful to my success in the game. Track down the bad guys one by one as you leap from 
 building to building. Too bad you can't touch the ground all over. Full control in the city would 
 have been nice. Shot webs through your classic Spider-Man villains such as Electro, Rhino, Green 
 Goblin and more. The story line is nice but could have been better (I guess everyone feels like 
 that) . I'm an older Marvel fan so my expectations and standards are higher than most peoples. But 
 this game will pass that and then some.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman: The Movie for the pc was amazing. I don't have it anymore. I remember playing it and 
 I used to just play on the first level and not even try to progress through the story. I won't 
 tell you the story because you have probably already seen the movie. in the game there are these 
 upgrades that give you new attack combos. There are cheats for the game which can let you play 
 as the goblin or unlock all the combos. Playing as the goblin is fun because you can shoot missiles 
 or bullets. The tallest building isn't climbable on unless you use a glitch that can help you get 
 on it. The game isn't too great now with spider-man 2 and 3 out. I personally think this game is 
 better than the second and the third one but not many people agree. Well to wrap this up if you 
 want a very fun spidey game this game is the best but if your looking for one with good graphics 
 get the 3rd one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Debarred
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  The spider-man game is a decent game the first time you play through it, the free roaming is great... for 
 about 10 minutes because there is literally nothing to do at all, after you get bored of the roaming 
 you can do the story mission, they are short and easy to beat and are not free roaming, and is 
 quite short in all.
  There are a few quite fun cheats like playing as green goblin etc, but thats about the best part 
 of the game.
  This game is overhyped and doesnt deserve it at all, avoid this game if you can, one of the other 
 things i found good about this game was the music, it was amazing for a super hero game atleast 
 from my experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Youve seen the movie, worn the Underoos, eaten the breakfast cereal, and even have a poster of 
 Kirsten Dunst as Mary Jane Watson hanging in your bedroom. Of course youre going to play the Spider-Man 
 movie game. The question is, will you enjoy it?
  
  The answer is a resounding, if somewhat qualified, yes. Not to be wishy-washy about it, but if 
 you liked last years arcade-friendly Spider-Man game for the PC, youll positively zwip! over 
 this one.
  
  The two games are nearly identical gameplay-wise, but the movie game has received a big-budget 
 upgrade: gorgeous cinematic visuals, aerial combat sequences, a targeting camera, a web-load of 
 new combos, and celebrity voiceovers (Tobey Maguire as Spider-Man, Willem Dafoe as the Green Goblin, 
 and over-the-top thespian Bruce Campbell as the tutorials snide narrator) .
  
  If anything, the improvements are so profound that its devastating to see Spider-Mans remaining 
 faults hamstring the action. You see, theres a super-villain far more evil in this game than the 
 pumpkin bombthrowing Green Goblin, and its the camera.
  
  In short, Spider-Man needs a zoom-out function. Imagine if youd watched the movie and saw nothing 
 but Tobey Maguire for two straight hours. Bad guys could be shooting at him from offscreen but 
 all you ever saw was the Tobe. Wouldnt that be frustrating? The ability to zoom out to get a better 
 view of Spideys surroundings wouldve been a huge boon to gameplay, especially during stealth 
 missions and melee combat.
  
  Anticipating this complaint, the developers have included a target-lock mode that follows your 
 target anywhere on camera. Tailor-made for boss battles, perhaps, but this function is nearly useless 
 against multiple attacking enemies.
  
  And since Im venting, here are my other gripes: no saving during missions; awkward control when 
 wall-crawling; and a few annoying audio and graphics bugs (one blacks out your screen, usually 
 in the tutorials) .
  
  So why does this game warrant such a high score? Because the rest of it rocks.
  
  Need an example? 
 The moment I forgave Spider-Man and all of its transgressions came during my first aerial battle 
 with the Green Goblin, the climax of which takes place over New Yorks lush Central Park. No blanket 
 of fog covers the city as it did in the last game: theres a living, breathing world down there 
 with moving traffic, awestruck pedestrians, and real-world geography. It hit me: visually, this 
 game (like Spider-Man himself) is amazing!
  
  The phenomenal aerial combat alone is worth Spider-Mans modest $30 price. Web-swinging through 
 the city, youll launch web-projectiles, punches, and cannonball kicks at enemies, and if you get 
 the timing just right, you can even land on a villains shoulders and beat him senseless in mid-air.
 
  
  Besides straight-out action, youll find plenty of stealth, puzzles, and tutorial mini-games to 
 prime your interest. Tons of secret areas and power-ups await, including unlockable costumes and 
 skins (play through the game as Mary Jane if you want) , and theres even a secondary game that 
  if you beat the game on Hero difficulty  lets you replay as the son of the first Green Goblin 
 (in Goblin garb and with his powers) intent on clearing the familys name. The Shocker, Scorpion, 
 and the Vulture make cameo appearances as well.
  
  Spider-Man is one of those rare movie-to-game translations that mostly gets it right. My advice 
 to Spidey fans? Swing on by your friendly neighborhood software store and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amareen18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  spiderman is a great game you just can't get enough of this game shame its not free roaming the 
 spiderman gameplay:
  will the game is awesome with the swinging and all but .....
  
  the game is short and its not free roaming but its still great game and the cheats are cool and 
 of the cheats you can play as green goblin awesome right
  
  the are great with Toby Maguire voices spiderman the graphics are sweet great looking spiderman 
 the bosses are great and green goblin but not very hard bosses you can beat them in 4-5 minutes 
 but the game can use a little more work the gameplay can be better and the bosses a very easy but 
 its still a very gooood game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link4u91
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game over all was fairly simple to accomplish the ending. The game layout was also well done. 
 It is easy for any one to play and the codes for the game makes it even more fun overall though 
 i think it would hold a younger childs attention moreso than a older men. My younger cousin age 
 ten enjoyed it after i beat it for him so he could play as the goblin ( when beat on hero) and 
 would not let go of the controller. I found that a lot of the codes posted for this game didi not 
 work like alien and girlnextdoor . But other did like arachnid which gave you spideys combos and 
 all the video clips. and the code organicwebbing which gave you unlimited web. this game was addictive 
 and led me to beat it in less than five hours. I enjoyed it as well as all of my family and it 
 is good for a family game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was simply incredible. It was seriously an incredible adaptation of the movie. It captures 
 the fighting style you would expect from a good game based on a movie. A long list of combos and 
 good animations make this game a must-own for any action craving gamer out there.
  
  This game gives you an amazing experience of being Spider-Man. Whether it be swinging around and 
 taking in the breath-taking scenery or fighting enemies this game definitely delivers. Swinging 
 might take a little getting used to but it is totally worth it when you get to fight in the air. 
 Amazing levels such as the one where you fight The Vulture are incredibly designed. The level where 
 you fight the Green Goblin is even better. The environment and airfights have just been incredibly 
 made in this game.
  
  The graphics and animations in this game are awesome. Wall crawling really makes you feel like 
 Spidey not just some civilian stiffly moving around walls. You are given the type of flexibility 
 that Spidey deserves and you really use it well in the game. You are able to do virtually anything 
 Spidey does in the movie. Overall this game was incredible. It totally captures the movies style. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srnm55
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I think this game was released a little too early. It still needs lots of work. I experienced quite 
 a few bugs. ex. falling through the ground, boss life never decreases, and webbing shoots but doesn't 
 grab. I like the story, it was pretty solid, but I think it could have included a few other characters 
 and bosses. I loved the movies, great graphics. If only they had incorporated those graphics into 
 the actual gameplay. This game had quite a bit of potential, but sadly, the opportunities weren't 
 taken advantage of. I think that you should have been able to play as more characters such as shocker 
 and the other villians, I know you can with a cheat but they should have made their own story instead 
 of using up space with useless minigames and corny MOD's. Overall I think it was mediocre at best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Well Spider-Man: The ..... Was my first PC game !!! Did I enjoy it???? I loved it!!! Then I saw 
 more fascinating games but I still play S-M: TM !! Why?? I'll tell you. Spidey starts with uncle 
 Ben's killer!!! Beat him up !!! Then he falls from the window. Well then u fight Shocker, Vulture, 
 Scorpion, Goblin.
  Spidey has a lot of cool moves!! Combos to colect! The web is infinite for webbing & swinging but 
 fore web moves you need web pickups. The game gives you points to unlock new things!! If you finish 
 the game on hero or super hero dificulty you get to play as goblin and the story changes. Well 
 with goblin you fly the glider instead of swinging, you throw bombs ......
  Graphics could use some more details. Sound good but not very good. My opinion : Worth the money 
 and the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  The game was one of the worst games that I have played
  
  The GOOD: There really is not much good in the game, the graphics were pretty good, I think what 
 kept me playing the game was to see how the ending would be, if it would be a little defferent 
 to the movie ending
  
  The BAD: Well starting from the story, the story is pretty broken and lame, there are some parts 
 that are dumb, the freedom in the game is limited, you can't even walk in the street, I mean that's 
 not reality. If you think this game is bad then you should play Spider man 2, I mean the first 
 time I played that I thought that it was a knock off game. 
  
  Overall I think they tried to make a wuick game but it fired back besides gamers are not that keen 
 of playing stories they already know about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is plainly made for action, i would give this game a high action score. But the game 
 it self is not the best one, lets take for an instance, theSpider-Man: The Movieshould not 
 be called that because this game does not have anything to do with the movie. Shock, Vulture etc 
 are not a part of the movie, well the Green Goblin takes his part in the game but that is not enough. 
 I personally think that the should focus more on the story in the game, go more into the small 
 details.
  But i'm here to give you a review and that's what i am going to do so i'll brake the game into 
 3 small parts and descripe what i think.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are good, probably with the best once when the game came out. The city 
 is huge and you can basicly swing aoround the whole city with your ' spider web '. So the graphics 
 is a big part of the game and i give it 8 out of 10.
  
  Game play
  The game play is really good and a lot of action, but the game doesn't follow the story of the 
 movie. That is one of the bad things about the game, well of course some parts of the game follow 
 the story but mostly the game is about caching other criminals. I think they should have focused 
 just a little bit more on the movie, that would have made the game alitle more fun, or even just 
 have the game splitted into parts. Like story number one ' Caching the Vulture ' , Story number 
 2 ' Caching Shock ' and there fore they could spin more around those stories. But the main part 
 of the game play is the action, the game gets Spider-Man's moves pretty well and the game play 
 is fun. 
  There fore i give the game a 7 out of 10 for the game play.
  
  Sounds
  The sounds aren't that good at all actually, i'll take an example when the Vulture is after Spider-Man, 
 Spider-Man says as calmly and relaxed as he canow no, i got to get awayorI need to stop 
 him before he does any serious damage ". So the voice acting is not that good in the game, but 
 other sounds are pretty good.
  I give the sounds 5 out of 10.
  
  This was my idea of idea of the game and i hope the review helped you out. Thank you, Lingermania. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Spider-man. Always have been and always will be. So it is unfair for me to write 
 a review. But I am going to anyway.
  
  I love this game. Luckily it is not based on the story line from the movie, so it is not predictable 
 and restricted at all. Actually, I don't think there is a real story line.
  
  Basically you have to crawl, swing and punch your way through all the stages. I can't remember 
 how many stages there were, but trust me there are loads. All the stages have new challenges and 
 new enemies.
  
  The game features some of the original Spider-man villains like Rhino, Shocker, Scorpion and Vulture 
 as well as the Green Goblin. The Villains are awesome and their powers are very well done.
  
  The game play is great and the Graphics is even better. Great environments and excellent villians. 
 
  
  I loved playing this game and I will play it again, even if I did already finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekg65
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  "With great power comes great responsibility." This game based on the movie based on a forty-year 
 old comic book is so-so, but I've seen a lot of things better than this. Spidey's swung onto your 
 computer screen, and frankly, I think he got stuck there for a bit long.
  
  Graphics
  
  I'm just going to get to the point: the graphics suck goat blood. I personally think that Activision 
 spent a bit much time working on how perfect Spidey was going to look, they forgot to focus on 
 the details of the bad guys. The graphics look very unrealistic, and a lot of the time it looks 
 as if the characters got their shoulders glued to their neck. So, in terms of graphics, this is 
 pretty good.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Unfortunately, the sheer mindlessness and beat-em-up quality of the gameplay easily becomes long, 
 boring and downright hard. There are a few rare points where you need to stop and think, but it's 
 mostly just kill anything that moves. But of course, it's Spidey's job to beat up bad guys, so 
 you can't really blame the action. And at least Activision gives you variety while playing the 
 game, so you can collect fight combos to dish out justice in a stylish way. You fight against lots 
 of other enemies that didn't appear in the movie, like Shocker, Scorpion, and Vulture, and the 
 way the game plays along sets almost an entirely different storyline.
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is pretty good, when it comes to SFX and voice-overs. Now when it comes to music and VOs 
 for Spidey, that's when this game begins to lose it. The music is repetitive and annoying, and 
 the VOs for Spider-Man and Peter Parker sound like drones.
  
  Replay value
  
  Playing this game again is almost better than playing it the first time. By winning the game you 
 unlock secret costumes, and by winning points you unlock special FMVs and bonus features to use 
 in the game. Plus, you have the enormous array of combos to collect, which gives you control of 
 Spidey in an entirely different way.
  
  Buy, rent or flush?
  
  Even if this does sound promising, you should rent the game first and see what you like of it. 
 If you absolutely hate it, flush it down the toilet, but I won't cover any ninety-day warantees 
 or crap like that.
  
  Until we meet again....
  
  ~geekg65 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
