-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spiderman2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 745 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Fizz Factor
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 28, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gameplay in Spider-Man 2 is stripped-down to a fault. 

  In this day and age, most third-party games are released across multiple platforms. When the game 
 in question is a major licensed property, like Spider-Man 2, it's almost guaranteed that you're 
 going to get the same game on several different systems. Activision did this, in part, by releasing 
 a Treyarch-developed Spider-Man 2 game on the Xbox, PlayStation 2, and GameCube. But for some reason 
 that game didn't make its way to the PC. Instead, PC owners are getting a completely different 
 game. Between the game's overly simplified gameplay mechanics and its weak presentation, this is 
 definitely a case where "different" doesn't mean "better."  

          The PC version of Spider-Man 2 has overly simplified gameplay.     

  At its core, the 
 PC version of Spider-Man 2 is attempting to do the same thing that the console game does. It takes 
 only the most basic shreds of story from the movie of the same name and inserts them into an action 
 game. In an attempt to liven things up a bit, the game does more than merely pit Spider-Man against 
 Dr. Octopus. You'll also face other villains, like Mysterio, the Puma, and on multiple occasions 
 you'll square off against Rhino. When you aren't doing that, you're stopping bank robberies and 
 beating up on other, lesser thugs. Generally speaking, the game doesn't go out of its way to tell 
 any story at all. You'll get a cutscene here and there, but most of these cutscenes are ugly. A 
 few of them come from the console versions of the game, and these look just fine. But the cutscenes 
 that were created specifically for this version of the game are awful. They run at a choppy frame 
 rate, and the scenes would probably look better if they were just rendered in-engine.  

  The gameplay in Spider-Man 2 is stripped-down to a fault. The game controls like your standard 
 third-person PC action game, with the mouse controlling your turning and viewpoint and the keyboard 
 controlling your actual movement. The left mouse button is a context-sensitive, all-purpose action 
 button. If you're pointing your targeting crosshairs at an enemy, an onscreen targeting device 
 will say "attack" or "web" if you aren't close enough to punch. Pointing at the side of a building 
 or other flat surface will let you "zip" to that location with a touch of the button. In some cases, 
 you'll be able to "shoot" web balls at various targets. And when you're close enough to a swing 
 icon, your targeting device will light up and say "swing."  

  Wait, a swing icon? Yes, that's right. Unlike in the other version of Spider-Man 2, where you can 
 swing around the city freely, here you can swing only from specified swing targets. This, in a 
 word, is lame. In two words, it's incredibly lame. The freedom of swinging around the city is one 
 of the standout features of the other version of the game. Here, it's just a joke, whether you've 
 seen the other version of the game or not.  

  The boss fights in the game are, for the most part, dumb. It certainly doesn't help that the game 
 pauses before each fight and spells out  exactly  what you need to do to win before every single 
 fight. This feature and the one-button gameplay may have you thinking that the game was intended 
 for kids, but the game is really ill-designed all over the place, and it doesn't feel like it's 
 catering to any specific crowd. It's also a fairly short game, clocking in around the five- or 
 six-hour mark.  

  Graphically, Spider-Man 2 looks OK. Most of the game takes place in a city environment, but the 
 rigid, boxlike structure of the skyscrapers doesn't make you feel as though you have any sort of 
 citylike freedom. The game's textures are passable, though most of the non-player models are ugly 
 and animate poorly. When you beat enemies, they blink out of existence with a static effect that 
 makes you feel as if you're playing some sort of "Spider-Man in The Matrix" mod. The whole game 
 just looks dull and unexciting, both technically and artistically.  

          Each boss battle starts with a diagram that spells out exactly what you need to do.    

  Most of the sound effects in the game are good, but this is offset by some bad voice acting. You'll 
 hear some of the voices from the movie here, but Tobey Maguire must have used up all his voice-acting 
 energy on lines for the console version of the game. Here, the script is bad to begin with, and 
 the line delivery isn't any better. The game has some music, but it basically just fades into the 
 background and stays there.  

  Why didn't the PC get the  good  version of Spider-Man 2? Who decided to make an entirely different 
 and decidedly mediocre version of the game specifically for Windows users? We may never know the 
 answers to these questions, but as for your question about whether or not you should spend your 
 time and money playing this version of the game, the answer is definitely no.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Unless you're some little kid who can't comprehend the definition of a "good game," anyone who 
 gives this game a positive review has poor judgement. Being a die-hard Spider-Man fan isn't even 
 an excuse. Spider-Man 2 for the PC probably makes the list of the top 50 most poorly planned games 
 of all time. 
  
  The story is majorly underdeveloped and doesn't follow the movie very well. The introduction clip 
 for this game is actually an excerpt from a cutscene that appears partway through the console versions 
 of this game. So right away, you don't know who is who or what's going on. Now, understandably, 
 Doc Ock can't be the only boss in the game, or else the scope would be narrow and length of the 
 game would be short. So to spice things up a bit, they added in three other bosses and included 
 levels and missions to go along with them. As in the other versions, this game includes the recognizable 
 villains Rhino and Mysterio. However, the first mistake in this game comes in when the producers 
 decided to substitute Puma for Shocker. Puma? Sure, he's been in the comics, but only comic-reading 
 geeks would know about this short-lived character in the Marvel universe. And yet when Spider-Man 
 encounters him in the game, he exclaims "Puma?!" as if you can remember him from the previous movie-based 
 game.
  
  In addition to this mishap, Doc Ock (the main villain in the movie, mind you) is introduced in 
 the beginning, but appears only a few times throughout the game with little interaction. At times, 
 you become so engrossed in the secondary plots that have nothing to do with the movie that you 
 even forget Doc Ock exists. Not enough emphasis was put on him until the very end of the game, 
 and even then, the final boss fight was a turn-off just like the other ones.
  
  As I've said before, the PC version of Spider-Man 2 is badly planned out. The controls must have 
 been the last thing the programmers worked on, and apparently they were pressed for time. You use 
 the W, S, A, and D keys to move and strafe, the space bar to "dodge" (which isn't very useful in 
 the heat of combat, which isn't hot at all) , but to fight and jump you click the left and right 
 buttons on your mouse! As for swinging, which is probably the most exciting, original part of any 
 Spider-Man game, you also use the simple point-and-click system developed by the boneheads in charge 
 of making this game. There are these little web-shaped icons mysteriously floating in the air near 
 buildings that you can aim at and click your mouse to swing back and forth through the air in the 
 same motion for hours on end. You also move your mouse to rotate the camera and aim, which contributes 
 to the list of mistakes for Spider-Man 2 and affects the gameplay significantly. You may be given 
 a big city to roam around in, but the New York that you're given is empty, lifeless, and is divided 
 into several sections that require a loading screen to get to. You'll also frequently find yourself 
 fighting the same group of thugs numerous times.
  
  The graphics are pretty average compared to what can be seen on any modern PC game. Besides Spider-Man 
 himself, all the main characters, enemies, and bosses have a boxy appearance with faces that seem 
 to be painted on. Movements such as walking, running, fighting, jumping, and even cars speeding 
 away from the scene of the crime seem to be somewhat unnatural. Even the buildings and skyscrapers 
 aren't that detailed. You may be told that you're swinging through New York, but it doesn't look 
 like it. The sound is pretty average too. The entire city is dead silent, characters barely talk 
 at all, and the background music is quiet and rarely plays. The voices are clear and understandable, 
 but the acting is bland. In addition, the sound of Spidey's fists punching an enemy in the face 
 sounds like someone is smacking a mattress, somewhat killing the combat experience.
  
  There is nothing special about Spider-Man 2 for the PC that could possibly influence me to recommend 
 buying it. And the fact that the bad outweighs the good 3 to 1 renders this game unworthy of a 
 rent. This version deserves no praise whatsoever, although it is a little fun playing it through 
 if you already own it. I recommend the slightly better PS2 version over this one. Do yourself no 
 harm; walk away from this game immediately.
  
  Score: 4.2
  Grade: D
  Preference: Bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antrikshy
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 wasn't at all like expected. I played the demo and loved it. I bought it somewhere 
 I spied it in a corner and began playing.
  
  I found again, a lot of problems, faults, glitches and bugs in it. The graphics were less than 
 average and the voices were too dull and sick. The music was nothing to speak of. There was again, 
 the lack of realism in this one too. The attacks were very few and the multi-purpose cursor idea 
 was a total flop, like the web slinging points.
  
  The Mysterio part begins to heat up a bit, but the scene is too hard to do. The lack of a level 
 select menu was another disappointment after playing the original, comic-book Spider-Man game. 
 The bosses are okay, except Mysterio, who was extra-tough. The concept was better than the gameplay. 
 Thank God Activision didn't stick entirely to the movie storyline. 
  
  Okay, the climax was another thing good in the game, or maybe the first. The train one was good, 
 but still, there was no realism. It should have had people in it, like the movie. The warehouse 
 was good too. The final scene was again too repetitive, like the other parts too. Rhino was too 
 pesky and Puma was okay.
  
  I never expected this from Activision, ever. Though, it was a bit better than the original from 
 the graphics and storyline point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Activision releases the official game of the official movie of Spider-man 2. Nevertheless, it bears 
 no resemblance to the movie, except two places: the train battle, and the final battle (and not exactly) .
 
  
  First of all, the gameplay is too simple. In fact, it is so simple that i thought that it was not 
 the official game! And before every battle, it is shown to you how to beat every opponent. Wouldn't 
 it be better, if you would have to find out on your own? But the most annoying thing is that you 
 are not allowed to explore NY till you beat the game, the only thing you can do is to stick to 
 the script of the game.
  
  In fact, Spider-man 2 is good only the first time you play it and then becomes very boring.
  
 
  To summarize, this game is good only for the beginners in such sci-fi and action games, while the 
 sophmores and the loyal Spider-man fans will find it boring and really not what they have expected 
 by such a great games developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_Banner
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. It's too easy, the enemies are dumb, and you can't even swing on your web 
 string wherever you want. And the Mysterio levels suck. The game based on the first movie is much, 
 much better. Spider-man 2 (the movie) was so good that I thought they'd make a game equally good. 
 But I am sorry to say that I was wrong. And I can't understand why only the PC version (as I was 
 told) is so bad. Why didn't they make the same game for all platforms? Maybe it's because they 
 keep making new versions to all videogames except PC. As you don't need to buy a new PC every time 
 a game is released, only update every once in a while, they stopped making a PC version for many 
 games, so that you are forced to buy the new vg versions if you want to play a game. Disappointing. 
 That's why I prefer old games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Well, I bought this when I was maybe 9, thinking "Oh look, Spiderman videogame". But 3 years on, 
 I realise what a mistake that was! The game was meant to offer thrills like flinging through buildings, 
 wind in your face, and kissing Mary Jane. All I got was a badly structured game, with many bugs, 
 glitches and graphics that looked like they were from 1999. All I could do is, play, get immediately 
 bored, shout the word "Abysmal" and give up, because It was so easy I had completed it. Sometimes 
 I wonder why the bosses looked so stupid in this game, it was because it was released unfinished, 
 with a graphics engine that god-forbid should be used ever again in any video game that I'm going 
 to play. Rant over.... I can't think of anything good.
  There is my award winning review of a bad video game, because they are the real villains here.
 
  
  Everything Sucked (-9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 is a really boring game. The game is short and easy. The game is open-ended but the 
 environments are small and there's almost nothing to do except complete more missions. And when 
 you do do the 7 short missions, you'll be bored. No, really. The game makes you fall asleep. All 
 you do is click, click, press the down button, click, press the up button... Now, picture you doing 
 that 5,000 times over and over again every level. The game is repitious and boring. The only good 
 things about the game are that some of the cutscenes look solid... enough. However, the game's graphics 
 still look bland and annoying. The music can also be annoying at times. Spider-Man 2 is a repitious, 
 annoying, linear, easy, boring, and (most importantly) not fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieforever
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  this was one of the most awful games I have ever played in my life, I thought that it would be 
 cool seeing the counsle versions, but instead i get this pile of crap? everyone invlolved should 
 get fired. CDs dont make good firewood and they dont biodigrade so I cant even get rid of this 
 thing, 5.0 was pretty generous of gamespot. Arg! it makes me so mad that a software company can 
 get away with something like this. For Shame. I have to make this 100 words so I will procede to 
 type gibberish. rhad fha dfh aefhg aer yghaer gad fg aeknrpaertbpaer bvape rbvpaeibr japerbi aper 
 v ahbte. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 for the PC is completely different than the great console games. The graphics are much 
 worse, the gameplay is extremely easy, and there is absolutely no free roaming as you would come 
 to expect. If you want Spiderman 2 go for the console versions, these are great and are worth your 
 time. Dont't buy this game, unless you want a short, unsatisfying, childish game that will drive 
 you to a point in which you will say, why did I even buy this game? The graphics are terrible, 
 the cinematics are atrocious, the sound is weak, the controls are horrible, this game doesnt even 
 support a damn gamepad. You have to swing from swing icons. i mean for Pete's sake, if you're gonna 
 make a spiderman game, make a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  The game is just not what you'd expect it to be... The game has somewhat followed the sequence 
 of events as in the movie Spiderman 2. But it hasn't been able to recreate its success.
  
  The game has optimum graphics that looks fine in higher resolutions and also the sound quality 
 is ok but the gameplay is not good even though it is smooth. The game provides a variety of situations 
 in which you are to save the day as everybody's favorite neighbourhood super-hero, Spiderman. The 
 storyline is exactly the same as the movie even though it introduces new characters and situations 
 in between the original story and the controls are totally based on the mouse and it creates difficulties 
 in some cases. The gameplay is not upto the mark because of its lack of requirement to control 
 as everything is conveniently ready such as the web sling points where you just have to jump and 
 point your mouse at the target to web sling and the boss characters aren't very difficult to beat 
 and the game really doesn't present much of a challenge to the player. The missions are relatively 
 short and uninteresting and only the boss battles are in some cases interesting but in the end 
 turn out to be disappointing. The game in itself is very boring because of its stereo-type storyline. 
 The game could have been much better with a little more creativity. The game has a very child like 
 gameplay style and just doesn't induce much interest.
  
  This game is meant to be played if you feel like a kid and want to experience games that remind 
 you of how it was like to be a kid playing games at that age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 is well.... incredibly short. Youll hardly need a day or half to complete it. The 
 swinging is nice and access to large parts of the city is some nice enjoyable inclusions. Spiderman's 
 maneuverability is good considering the fact that the mouse plays a major feature in his movements, 
 it helps in better control and provides proper directionality to the characters movement which 
 is quite fun. In case of Spiderman 2 u dont have the freedom to choose what to do that is depending 
 on the kind of enemy or object u come across the crosshair will decide what u have to do. One can't 
 choose whether to tangle your enemy in webbing or to punch him or to kick him or to throw web balls 
 at him, nor do u have any combos to perform which was a nice little feature in the first Spiderman 
 for the pc. The lighting effects are good, when u have a look at Spiderman for the first time and 
 all the buildings, the graphics seem impressive, that of course lasts for a short while till u 
 have a look at the cut scenes showing MJ or Aunt May or Peter Parker, the models really suck. Doc 
 Ock has a very uncanny gait, quite funny actually. Spiderman has been made very lean and thin. 
 The people on the streets comment on u if u dash against them which after a while gets very annoying. 
 U cannot enter into buildings unless it is a part of the mission and u cannot go to the roof top 
 of every building which is bad. The voice over acting is not that good. This game has a childish 
 aspect to it, if u kill.... er.... beat up a thug, he disappears and uses a gun that fires plasma. 
 Probably young kids would enjoy it profoundly. There are side missions to complete like catching 
 broken out jail inmates, or collecting colorful spiders to unlock special abilities which are the 
 only things which may keep u fixed to the game if one is interested in it. Still dont understand 
 why they brought in Puma, Rhino and mysterio in Spiderman 2 who had absolutely no role whatsoever 
 to play in the movie of the same. The game does not present as such a very big challenge of any 
 sort. The swinging is extremely enjoyable. The missions are good enough to be played once (Puma 
 one was very annoying) . Worth enough for a try but I still think these Spiderman games would do 
 better if they were a little more mature in terms of story, action, voice over etc. Overall a nice 
 game to play but still a waste of money for what just lasts for a day, this should've been available 
 for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2player9X99
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Spider man 2 is a game that you can pick up and takes around thirty minutes to get used to. There 
 are flaws and some pros. Spiderman 2 is a Free Roaming action adventure game. It is like a Grand 
 Theft Auto but with out the killing and all the swearing. It is a very influential comic video 
 game. It has revolutionized the spider man universe. I bought this game for because my friend got 
 it and it was very fun. The PS2 version is better than the Xbox version, in my opinion. Spiderman 
 two delivers some flaws to the game. Like the voice acting is not the best. They do not seem excited 
 even in the most climatic parts of the game. When you go to a pedestrian to ask what is wrong the 
 give no expression. It gets repetitive fast. Swing to a the builing place and beat up bad guys. 
 The pedestrain missions are usealluy the same thing. beat up thugs is all you do.
  
  Overall Spiderman 2 is a very fun game but gets repetitive fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 15, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is hardly the same as the Treyarch developed game for the PS2, XBox and GameCube. This is 
 instead an overly simplified game that in my eyes seems more designed for kids than long-time Spidey 
 fans.
  
  Oddly enough, graphics are what's best about the game. The spidey model seems to be more detailed 
 than that of the console versions but that's where the good stuff ends. Many characters are poorly 
 animated and effects are just bad. Even the cinematics made for the game look horrid. Sound is 
 just downright sad. You have your voice actors like Bruce Campbell and Tobey Maguire who sound 
 tired of recording stuff for the video games. Sound Effects are very bland and don't help the game 
 feel any better. The music wil rarely ever be noticed even at a high volume level. Gameplay in 
 Spider-Man 2 is one of the most basic designs I've ever seen. You have the standard wasd movement 
 key plus the mouse, whose two buttons do everything in the game, webs, zips, swings, attacks, jumps, 
 and other interactions. Unfortunately, the swinging mechanic almost made me put the game down right 
 away. Compared to the great big enviroment of the console versions, you have seperate sections 
 cut-out, possibly for faster load times. But to swing in the already confined space, you have to 
 click on a swing icon that hovers in mid-air, bringing the freedom of Spidey to it's barest requirements.
 
  
  Also, the boss battles are ridiculous. Not in how you do them or what they are, but that when you 
 start going in to attack, you get a screen that pops up and freezes the action to tell you exactly 
 how to win. There goes my fun of guesswork. If you're an adult looking to get this game for your 
 PC or Mac, stay away. stay very far away. But, if your the parent of a child who has an intrest 
 in the game, it might not be a bad buy, but I think it's hit and miss even for kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Errur
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 5, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I regret... more than ever for buying a game... that too my fav super hero's... this game absolutely 
 SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Worst controls
  Worst Gameplay
  Worst Sound
  why did they even make this game? The console versions are so lot better than this version... I 
 played the PS2 version first, i liked it n i bought the PC version thinkin it might b the same 
 one but what i found out was the most boring game of my LIFE. The only level that was lil better 
 was the one in which every building flies in air. I recommend everyone not to but this stupid game... the 
 most boring part of it was finding the bombs and diffusing it... the stupid thugs, the stupid villians 
 n the kinda spoon feedin interruptions abt how to kill the villians.... the limited freedom... u 
 do wht the controls tell u to do not control them as u like.... finally jus don't even think of 
 givin this game a try, EVEN IF U GET A FREE COPY OF IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, lets get something straight, I finished this beast in 3 hours or so....... The most trouble 
 I had was in the tutorial.......
  
  The gameplay in this is what you can expect, you swing around, web people and punch the criminals. 
 It can be fairly frustrating sometimes trying to web to places and it not actually been able to 
 get there.... if that made sense. Normally, well from what I saw in Spiderman 1, you could web sling 
 from the sky and eventually get anywhere you wanted, in this it is very different. There are web 
 points in which you can sling from but only a few of these lie around you surroundings, it is an 
 alright idea but gets fairly frustrating when you cannot find one actually close enough for your 
 given destination. The fighting system is nothing special but is not bad, it is just a non-complicated 
 punch up practically. I've just got to say the boss fights are way too easy for their own good, 
 they actually tell you what strategy to use to fight the given boss.
  
  The graphics are alright, but nothing special. They sometimes glitch up and go through walls and 
 all that jazz. But they are not bad.
  The bosses look nice and the game kinda looks like it has cel-shaded graphics but it does not actually. 
 It actually has quite a unique look.
  
  The sound sometimes glitches up and overlaps and all that, but the voice acting sounds accurate 
 and like their film and cartoon counterparts. Just something that got up me is Spiderman's smartass 
 comments after everything a bad guy says. But overall is sounds pretty nice and the voice acting 
 is very nice. Well the value of this game is fairly high i say, just because it may be very short 
 (a couple of hours at most) but you can probably find it for pretty cheap nowadays. I
  
  It is not the best of games but can give you enough enjoyment for a few hours. I do not reccomend 
 it fully but It will tide you over for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 12, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  The first Spiderman game in the PC was not that good, then this game comes and it is nastier than 
 the first one, the game was ruined by the first level itself. The box art has all the pics of the 
 Spiderman 2 movie, but when you play the game, you will not know the movie at all, it is very different 
 from the game, and the story itself is so bad. The gameplay is just like the one in the first game 
 of the PC. Not an advanced combat, but its just plain and simple with not so good special attacks. 
 The graphics are not good to, but they are OK. The sound is plain. There are lot of enemies in 
 this game, Dr. Octopus of course and many baddies like Puma, Mysterio, etc. The game is not that 
 challenging, the first one was good, I say, it had better graphics and everything, the second one 
 is well............ Dont Play It! Rent It First! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagrofess
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a failure in several aspects. Firstly, the biggest letdown is the web swinging. Basically 
 you aim your mouse at a target and click, that's all there is to it really. The idea of using targets 
 was a bad decision as it means your swinging is very wooden, allowing no room for improvisation. 
 On Gamecube and Playstation 2 there are no targets making the game far more engaging.
  
  Secondly, the game is too easy. Before every boss fight a blue screen comes up and tells you exactly 
 how to beat the boss, where's the fun in that? The bosses themselves are neither strong nor smart, 
 even the more educated ones like Doctor Octopus. They will continue to attack you in the same way 
 until they are out of health. For example in one of the later levels you are on a train with Doc 
 Ock and the entire level consists of him throwing various objects at you and you knocking they 
 away or dodging them. Granted the objects do get bigger but they still are no match for a ball 
 of webbing.
  
  Finally, I come to the controls and believe me when I say this is a big issue. The entire control 
 system is based around your mouse and the arrow keys.
  
  Arrow keys are for movement obviously, but the mouse is for practically every other action that 
 Spidey can do. Point your mouse at a wall and you can zip to it. Point it at a web target and you 
 can swing. Point it at an enemy and you can attack.
  
  The right mouse button is the jump and double jump button. The left mouse button is the swing, 
 zip, attack, web up, un arm, web shot and use button. It means that while your fighting if you 
 accidentally click to attack but aren't facing in the right direction, then you are catapulted 
 100 yards onto a wall breaking you attack combo.
  
  Overall Spider-man 2 for PC is a game that I would strongly recommend against buying for its lousy 
 game play, its annoying controls and the lack of a fluid swing system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbodrive
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  A person could easily throw in the towel on this game without a walk-through for help. Nothing 
 like zipping around in circles trying to figure out what needs to be done to move on. I did get 
 sweaty palms swinging around, especially where you see jets flying below you! I felt the game could 
 have been longer or simply cost slightly less upon release. I paid the new release price, which 
 I felt was a rip-off. Do not pay more than $20! Once you clear the area, it is dead. That is the 
 only signal for you to not go there again. The help screens were not as helpful as they could be. 
 That is one of the main reasons I went to the walk-throughs is to figure out what I had to do. 
 After that, the game goes smoothly. Since this is story-based, it is not as effective, emotionally 
 another time through. I personally don't read a book several times. There is so much out there 
 to experience to not backtrack on familiar territory. Maybe the game was intended for the younger, 
 less experienced gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 for the PC is a really bad game. Unfortunately this game wasn't the same as the console 
 versions, and was not better than the first one. Most games that are sequels always have at least 
 one thing that is better than their predecessors. This game failed to be better in any aspect.
 
  
  S. M.2 starts out treating you like a kid. What's worse is that there is no multiple keys to press 
 to punch or kick or shoot web. All you basically need for this game is your mouse. If you are going 
 to shoot web, you point your mouse at the target and the words shoot will appear. The same goes 
 for all the other actions that this game has to offer. If you don't feel like a kid yet, wait until 
 you fight a boss. Not only are they stupid and easy to defeat, the game tells you what it is you 
 have to do to defeat them. It's as if this game was made for eight year olds. I personally liked 
 the first game better. At least it had fighting combos and you actually had a better swinging environment.
 
  
  This game is just horrible. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. I am just seriously disappointed 
 that it wasn't the same as the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drlove06472
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 is an easy game, I finish it in 3 in a half hours. In the game you run around beating 
 up evil villains like Rhino, Mysterio, and Dr. Oct. The bad guys that follow the villains some 
 have guns the shot these power ball that are slow. Some of the bad guys go down with three hit. 
 One type of bad guy you had to web them in the face and hit them quick before a force field comes 
 up, these bad guy I like because of the challenge. The graphs look like they focus on Spiderman 
 and Dr. Oct characters. Mary Jane looks the worst like blocky and when she talks the only goes 
 up and down like a nutcracker. The builds are ok but some tall builds you cant climb all the way 
 up. The sound is the only good thing I found in the game. When the bad guys see you they yell out 
 something. Only get this game if you dont have any game systems and found the game in a bargain 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarPredator200
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  I got my Spider-Man 2 game for Xmas, and I was really excited because this was my very first Spider-Man 
 game. I was really disappointed the game control sucks I tell you, using a mouse to Attack/Swing/Zip 
 and Jump!?! You can't even set the game controls the way you want, even worse the game is so short. 
 Just took me a day to complete it and I also once you complete the game you can play Free Play 
 in the Load Game Section, and its so boring you can only go a few places and in some places Spider-Man 
 will say I can't leave there maybe trouble sometimes in your screen above, words like this may 
 come out Theres no need to go this way I mean WTH?
  
  I have nothing else to say about this game, all I hope is that when Spider-Man 3 is released hope 
 its not like Spider-Man 2: The Game. One question: How come my Spider-Man 2 doesn't have more levels 
 than what one of the walkthroughts said in GameSpot? If you would like to answer my question please 
 send an email to me at Charizard2004@hotmail. com, and also to everyone who is reading this review 
 on GameSpot... Spider-Man 2 shouldn't be in stores and its sucks and boring, so please don't not 
 buy this video game for PC. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon_02
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  now i've been wanting to Spider-man 2 for quite some time and i finally found the PC version of 
 it. i was hoping it would be a direct port of the console versions, boy was i wrong.
  the thing that was most disappointed about was the fact that it wasn't free roaming. it was bloodly 
 level based. i mean sure you could explore the level a bit, but what was there to explore? i mean 
 you'll just end up swinging around in circles and you climb right to the top of buildings. and 
 the level design was that good either which made it even worse. and the swinging sucked. i mean 
 it was slightly better than the last but you have swing from specific swing icons and if there's 
 none around then you just can't swing. it's stupid.
  the storyline is very good either. only just follows the movie plot, just. the graphics aren't 
 very good either nor the controls. pretty much one button does everything for you.
  alright i'll sum this up real quick. DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!!!! IT SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 'cause I thought... well I played the PS2 version 'nd I liked it, well this is 
 nothing like it.
  The graphics are the best of all.... and they are really bad.... the gameplay is way to easy. You 
 jump with right mouse button, you fight 'nd swing with the left mouse button and you walk with: 
 A, S, D and W... that are all the buttons you'll need. If you've played the PS2 version you know that 
 when you're in free roaming you can move freely in a big city.... and if you're bored or you've 
 beaten the campaign there are always crimes on the street that you can solve.
  Firstly, the city is quite small, and you can't get on every building... while I like to climb 
 so high that I can oversee the whole city.... not possible.
  And if you're bored there won't be any crimes to solve, you do the campaign and then you're done 
 with the game.
  WORST OF ALL... the campaign doesn't lasts longer then 2 hours!! if the campaign takes you 3 hours 
 or more you're a real dumb player.
  And the fights.... they're way to easy, and not very complicated. Just as I said, you'll only have 
 to press three buttons.
  
  the climbing and swinging was the most fun.... that's it... if you wanna climb and swing as long 
 as possible... then buy this game, but I advice you to buy a PS2 and play the PS2 version, that 
 will be a lot more fun.
  
  so... Don't waste your money and time on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan1191
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games that they make that people say that you gotta have. Let me tell you 
 this, this game is nothing like that and the missions as kinda hard. Spiderman looks like he is 
 disabled and he does stuff like disables do. The fighting is not that fun too because you just 
 have so many moves that you can counter the enemy with, the rest of the mioves are far more complicated 
 to do really fast. The graphics are kind of a let down too. Overall the gameplay is pretty good 
 till the point you are bored to death with doing the same stuff. I will probably rent the game 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 was an amazing movie. My affection for it goes beyond that of my family and friends, 
 moving into the realm of a pure white hot love that only a geek can truly understand. Now take 
 that glorious feeling and reverse it. Turn around at the speed of light and head in the opposite 
 direction straight at the dark red ball of evil. You'll find the Spider-Man 2 video game for the 
 PC waiting there to say hello in a garbled and mutated voice. I'm for kids, while pointing to the 
 E at the bottom right of its packaging. And by 'I'm for kids' I mean I control badly, look like 
 crap, make little sense, have no free roaming like the good version of this game, and have an 'easy-to-use 
 point and click system' also known as the mouse, because kids are stupid and hate good games with 
 fun features. If only Activision had planted some sort of similar explanation on the box of this 
 bastardization... no, worse, annihilation of the console Spider-Man 2 game, maybe many gamers would 
 have been able to save themselves from experiencing one of the worst PC games of this year so far.
 
  
  
  For those that are a bit confused, let me clarify. Spider-Man 2 for the PC is a totally different 
 game than Spider-Man 2 for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox. Do not be fooled by the boxes 
 that, aside from minor differences such as the E rating and slightly different screens on the back, 
 look the same. Get the console version in whatever form you like. Even if you're a child. If you're 
 shopping for a 4 year old, go buy something different altogether. The marketers for this should 
 be ashamed of themselves. We've already received several emails from disgruntled customers complaining 
 that they didn't know the difference. It isn't surprising considering we didn't know there was 
 difference until a few weeks ago when a demo was accidentally released onto the Internet.
  
  Moving away from my revulsion at the business side of the PC version of Spider-Man 2 we can 
 now run head on into my revulsion of the gameplay side. This is one of those titles where you just 
 don't know where to begin cleaning up the slick layer of crap stuck to your skin. Probably because 
 it didn't really seem like developers themselves knew where to begin. The first cutscene is chopped 
 into a messy confused blob of misdirection straight from about a half-hour to forty-five minutes 
 into the movie. There is no build-up to the action, it just begins with no pretense at story or 
 drama. Just some crappy FMV and a short tutorial. The only good part of this is that Bruce Campbell 
 once again does the voice-over during this tutorial, even if it's nowhere near as thorough as the 
 console versions.
  
  From here, you quickly learn the ropes. This is mainly because there are only about four or five 
 ropes you have to learn. This is simplification at it's heaviest and worst. You can swing around 
 the levels by aiming at set markers around each level, waiting for them to turn green, and then 
 clicking the mouse button. This may be easier for kids to figure out, but I'm not convinced, nor 
 do I really see what's so hard about the console version. These simplifications degrade any of 
 the real freedom of movement that you would find in the console version. Well, that and there's 
 no fully modeled version of New York to swing around... but who really cares about being able to 
 swing around New York saving crime and exploring a huge environment and city? That sounds horrible. 
 What gamer wants to have that much fun? What with the risk of excitement, increased heart rate, 
 and enjoyment... kids hate those things too, I'm told.
  
  In any case, Spidey can also aim at surfaces shoot out a strand and zip over to stick to them or 
 stand on them. This process seems easy, but in practice it can be an effort in frustration trying 
 to figure out which surfaces this will actually work with and why it doesn't work at all sometimes. 
 And when you do zip over, half the time the camera flips this way and that in a dizzying assault 
 on your senses.
  
  
  The usual round of jumping and double jumping is also included, though there is no power-up for 
 the jump. Spidey can also climb up walls easy enough, though there's a roof on the world so Spidey 
 can be seen frantically scrabbling towards the highest building stuck behind an invisible ceiling.
 
  
  All of these movement controls together allow some basic acrobatics and you get the bare minimum 
 sense of what it might be like to be Spidey-lite, but the camera, fussy controls, bad collision 
 detection, and inability to climb to the tallest building kill the mood even before you become 
 sad from the realization of the real lack of freedom of movement.
  
  Fighting is also disappointing, probably more so than moving. You can punch. Then punch again. 
 And if you're feeling adventurous, you can jump and then kick. Once you get your meter up, you 
 get all glowy and knock enemies out with one punch. If you're at range from any enemies, you can 
 shoot web at them to pull their weird little ray guns away, tied them up, or shoot little web balls 
 to break certain objects. That's it. No combos. No real challenge. In the 3 hours it took me to 
 finish the game (I admittedly didn't find all of the lame hidden objects and prison escapees) I 
 never got knocked out in a fight. Every enemy drops health and all of them have AI that would probably 
 make a two year old feel brilliant. Even better, holding the hand of every player out there, the 
 game actually shows the solution to each boss fight before the fight begins in an Ikea type instruction 
 page. The only dying I did was from the crappy controls in the jumping puzzles during the Mysterio 
 missions.
  
  I don't want to spend all of my time comparing this version with the console version, but it's 
 almost unavoidable. There are so many more cool manuevers and possibilities for movement and fighting 
 in the console versions that you can't help but feel completely and utterly ripped off by the PC 
 version. There's really not much positive to say about the game, so I'll keep it short and simple. 
 The Mysterio levels were the only good part of the game. It's not like the levels were really that 
 fun or exciting (in fact there were some terribly stupid and inane enemies here) , but they did 
 look much cooler than anything else in the game. It's not like everything looks technically terrible 
 (though there is a fair share of that) but there's so little artistic fun or detail that you wonder 
 what comic books these developers grew up reading. Animations are also almost uniformly bad with 
 Spider-Man being the best and Dock Ock being the God-awful worst.
  
  Closing Comments
  I guess Activision and Fizz didn't listen to Spidey's mantra. With great power comes great responsibility. 
 Unfortunately, there will be little culpability to go along with that. Even Tobey Maguire sounds 
 bored and horrified during most of his cutscenes, even though his part was almost positively done 
 before he ever saw the game. Maybe his Spidey-senses were tingling. I could probably say more bad 
 about the game and go into detail about the bad and some of the high points but what's the point. 
 Spider-Man 2 for the PC is a piece of crap. If you want a real Spider-Man 2 game, go pick up one 
 of the console versions. If you don't own a console then consider yourself out of luck. You won't 
 find any amount of web slinging fun that could come close to matching the fun and frolic of the 
 movie. After three hours (if you can make it that far) of crappy controls, mediocre visuals, and 
 boring and generally unimaginative gameplay, you'll actually be glad to have finished the game 
 so you can return it or burn it and move on with your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumen222
Rating: 2.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say?
  I have to use 100 words here to be able to publish this review, cor blimey, not sure I can do it 
 without chelpin on about how much I hate it.
  Why did they bother creating this game? Of all the pointless things in time and space, why was 
 this allowed to be created?
  I've had more excitement watching Teletubbies. Oh sure, it looks good, but it so lacking in every 
 aspect. You have to aim your mouse at mini webs just to swing, 1 attack button, why? I have played 
 the console version and what an un-inspiring boring, tedious PILE OF S*#T!!!
  I am going to sell this on AMAZON for 1p, yes folks, 1p, step right up and buy yourself a piece 
 of inanimate plastic, in perfect condition, cos no one in their right mind will play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  SP-2 :-
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  The movie Spider-Man 2 was great and the games of it came out well for consoles but not for PC 
 ! it was disastrous, for some reason they made the game different and voila!! superb terrible game!!! 
 
  
  Game-Play:-
  This PC games game-play is nothing when compared to the PS-2's (the one which i have seen) . Its 
 amazing, its a open-ended there but here its a jus a piece of Crap!! The game has awful lot of 
 bugs !! which adds to the games disaster!!
  
  Graphics:-
  The Graphics are jus OKAY, no big deal of graphics at all ! yet again the graphics are better in 
 the consoles.....!! the first cut scenes looks amazing ! and it is the only thing which looks great 
 !! But the rest of the game's graphics are really crappy!! 
  
  Sound:- 
  Sound is jus decent ! There are a lot of bad voice acting!! 
  
  Conclusion:-
  The game is 
 a total Crap! dont even think of buying it!! try the console ones if you own one as they are a 
 lot lot lot lot ....... BETTER!!! 
  
  Graphics - 5/10
  
  Sound- 5/10
  
  Gameplay-5/10
  
  Replay Value:3/10
  
  Story: 5/10
  
  Overall- 4/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 27, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a waste of time and money the game is way to easy i beat it in like 2 hrs and played it 
 a total of like 10hrs trying to see if there was anything else to do but there isn't. I thought 
 it would be like the xbox version which i thought was pretty fun but it's not (the "Spider-man 
 the movie" was better) . the graphics are ok if u turn them all the way up. You can't shoot webs 
 at buildings, instead u shoot them at little targets which is retarded. some how Mysterio fits 
 into this game along with Puma but dont ask me how couse i don't know. one of the only fun things 
 to do is stand on cars and jump to the next car and go places w/o touching the ground or web slinging 
 and climbing walls (and thats not that fun either) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  How wonderful, how cool, how awesome can Spider-Man 2 be....... the PS2 version of course. I played 
 it at a friend so I got the PC version. A big mistake...... On the PC Spider-Man 2 is pure, high 
 quality crap!!! Spider-Man can be played only with the mouse (it is played from 4 butons) . You 
 have the arrows (movement) , the space bar (dodge) , MB1 (action) and MB2 (jump) .
  Spidey can swing only by targeting some webs in the air ( the croshair will say "swing") , zip by 
 targeting a wall (croshair will say "zip") , attack only by targeting an enemy ("attack") . Our hero's 
 costume has xtremely bright colors. The city is like a labirint. You can't even go to the river. 
 The thugs are totaly dum so their easy to beat and the boss of the level.... is easier! When you 
 aproach him the game will tell you how to beat him. So you have to jump on him, throw something 
 at him.... he'll be unconcoious so you'll punch him. No combos, no cool moves.... no unlockables.... 
 The sound is awuful! And nothing "figure it out on your own" !!! The game shows you were to go 
 what to do.... There's a level in wich U chase a van. Spidey sais "I have to hurry so I don't lose 
 that van. But believe me U can stay half an hour, the van gets where it has to go and you can still 
 follow the arrow to find it. Graphics- BAAAAAAAD, sound-WORSE. There is nothing I could love at 
 this game.... Ohhhhh how stupid I am ...... I love three things at this game : the quit button, 
 the uninstal button and the picture of this game getting flushed down a toilet!!! This game almost 
 made me sell my PC and buy me a PS2 !!!! Do yourself a favour-fans of Spidey keep away from this 
 game. It should be labeled: "DON'T TOUCH ME!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_J
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Some people bought this game under the notion that is was going to be like what was shown the commericals: 
 Exploring the area with an amazing amount of freedom. The PC version of this game took away everything 
 that was appealing about the console version. 
  
  First of all, the game was too linear. The game actually told which way to go which was not neccessary 
 at all. Any person with an active brain could figure out. The same was true of the bosses. The 
 game told you how to beat them which was not needed. 
  
  The biggest insult of all was the game was too short. I completed the game in about 2 days and 
 have not played it since. I really have no desire to play it again. 
  
  If you're looking for an exciting game to keep you awake all night, keep away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  It's like that Marvel has done a beautiful designed PS2/XBX/NGC/GBA experince and rushed the NGAGE/NDS/PSP/PC 
 versions. But there is no reason to buy such a lousy game. First of all, instead of slinging your 
 web anywhere you want to, you can only swing on the places it allows you. Same with punching. And 
 climbing. And saving.
  
  The graphics are in good detail if you don't mind the bugs, and the frame rate is some what under-avarage. 
 Spiderman 2 for the PC makes your computer freezes as well (it won't happen to your computer much, 
 but you will get it somehow) and I couldn't press anything to do something on my computer.
  
  Overall, this is like if somebody is drunk and made the game. It's not so abysmal, mind, but 
 it's terriblily awful, too short, fully buggy, hardly actioned type, and dumb free-roaming. Get 
 a copy of SimCity and you'll be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok, now lets get things straight here, I think the sellers should have a warning ticket on this 
 game. With all of my respect to the makers I honestly didn't think this game should be worth a 
 penny, when i bought it I was preatty sure i would like the game for atleast like the game for 
 an hour or two. Abbysmal, I do know that they can make great games, they just need to have more 
 time and consentrait on the details. Now since I'll be reviewing this game I'll review it straight 
 out and honest.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are like the game had been made 1 and a half year back in time (some people might 
 think this is offencive, but i told you I'll speak straight out and be honest about the things 
 I'm talking about ) , altho there where some parts in the game when the graphics was detailed. I'm 
 not telling you not to buy this game becouse of the graphics, I just got disapointed becouse i 
 know they can have it better. Now, lets take a example. Spider - Man is swinging around in the 
 air and suddenly there is no web showing, or when he crashes into a wall he allmost goest through 
 the whole wall. The small details in the graphics can be big once if there are more and more of 
 thosesmall detailed mistakes ".
  The characters, buildings etc. are low poly. Spider - Man's head is allmost like a cube and so 
 is his body.
  This isn't good, we are all use to play much better done games than this one.
  So, the graphics 
 get's a poor 3, I have to admit that it's not low to low when you look at the making.
  
  Sound
  I beleve the first game that made a change to all sounds in games was a classic game called 
Sam&Max ". Now that's a what, 20, 25 year old game ? When you play a game that is released what 
 2003 or 4 you will expect better sound values than the games before Sam&Max. The sound acting is 
 terrible and you probably will have a headace after listening to the same sound 300 times in half 
 and hour. And when the characters talk, it's like 6 year olds are trying to learn to read for the 
 first time. I mean when Spider - Man saysOwoh, I better stop him, he's a cruel enimy that deserves 
 to dienot only is the text bad but he says it like thisOwoh * waiting for 5 seconds *, I 
 better stop ho, * waiting for 10 seconds * he's a cruel * wating 3 seconds * enemy that deserves 
 to die. Finally he spits it out.
  I think they should have muted the game, instead of having a bad word on the sound of the game.
 
  The sound I'll give a bad 1.
  
  Gameplay
  Finally the game play, I could say it was great but then i would be lying. I could say it was bad, 
 but then again i would be lying again. The game play is just OK, it's not bad not to good eather.
 
  Think that's the only plus about the game. Well it cind of looks like a remake of the first game. 
 But what the hec, that was the only thing i cinda enjoyed about the game. So it's alot of action, 
 missing all the tricks Spider - Man should be able to do; like in Spider - Man: The Movie game.
 
  I think the story isn't that good tho, preatty poor actually. But hey, it's the game play I'm 
 talking about now; I can't tell you anything about the story, becouse there is none.
  So the Gameplay gets a fair 6.
  
  Now I've gone through the details, it's not hard to see that 
 i personally didn't like this game. But I'm sure there are people out there that do; my reconmandation 
 on this game is rent/borrow it first, becouse I'm sure you don't want to take chances on this game.
 
  Well thank you alot, I hope this review had helped, bye.
  -Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samirspatil
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  This game Was really a let down. The Graphics were outdated. Poor controls. Uninteresting storyline 
 and gameplay makes it monotonous. Not enough excitement in the game. Failed to meet the Hype and 
 expectations generated by the movie. Definitely not worth Completing the game. Probably might interest 
 small kids but then the controls are not at all comfortable. You will feel like you have wasted 
 your time. If you still want to get a feel of the game better try the demo. It will be short and 
 ?sweet, and will be better than spending long hours playing out the entire game. The Game has Doc 
 Ok as the cheif villian with the Rhino and Mysterio thrown in for added effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  I was so saddened by this game Im not even sure how to begin. I had heard good things about the 
 PS2 version, and did not realize that there was such a difference. This game would be great, wonderful, 
 fantastic... if I was between four and seven years old. That should be explicit on the box somewhere: 
 THIS IS A GAME FOR CHILDREN. The graphics are fine, it runs smooth, but it is so simplistic that 
 I had to laugh at times. I beat the game in the matter of one afternoon, made especially expedient 
 by the fact that every boss level includes an opening sequence which in essence tells you everything 
 you need to beat the boss. This sapped what little challenge there was in the game completely away, 
 leaving it bare and shivering in the wind. 
  If you have a young child who likes spiderman or the movies, get this game for them for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 2 is a very easy game, you just jump from building to building and fight every bad guy 
 on the way. Graphics are OK but the enemy more or less have the same faces. There are some good 
 looking bosses but they were all in the original Spider-man, i don't know why they didn't come 
 up for some new bosses. The game is easy and like I said very short. They could put some effort 
 in it. The only good part of the game is fighting enemy. But it's still better than the first Spidey. 
 For the people who likes the Spider-man they'll surely like this spiderman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Why? I'm still wondering why on earth did the game change for the PC, to go from an awsome game 
 to something like this. Everything about this game sucks, from the graphics to the voice acting 
 (acting, sorry, my bad, voice  to the downright gameplay. 
 There are hardly any redeeming qualities, the only thing I could think of was that webswinging 
 wasn't that bad. Even though that was something I enjoyed for 2 seconds. It took me 3 hours to 
 finish and the difficulty is preschool-grade. I always wonder, isnt anybody in the development 
 team smart enough to go and play this piece of crap and tell someone that its not a game?! Like 
 cmon, or is it because they cant?! Dum Dum Dum! But seriously, developers like this should look 
 at thier games and get shot. Dont play it unless spiderman is the only reason you live for in the 
 first place, and even then I'd suggest you skip it. Ciao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdgaE
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  bad, bad, bad game. this game i finish per 3 hours. On console the game good but on pc the terrible 
 game. last word game very sucks fizz factor shame. bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad 
 game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game 
 bad game bad game bad game bbad game ad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game 
 bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game 
 bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game bad game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SO CRAP
  this game is so lame and more for little kids....
  it sopost to be on spiderman the movie 2
  and it does... but in the lamest way!!!
  the graphic 
 is nice but the game is lame!!
  you can't swing for every place you want.... the are stuff that
  you need to aime on for swing 
 and then continue!!!
  and the fightes are sooooooo lame!!!!!
  and the enemys have the lamest thing!!!
  they have water gunz!!! they shoot you with water gunz!!!! it 
 is so lame!!!!!
  this game is not worth to pay for it and nothing stay away from that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deebo
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Plain & simple, it sucks. The storyline is boreing and you even have a limit to how high you can 
 go. Don't buy this game because there is nothing to learn, no air combo's no special web tricks, 
 no nothing. I don't know who idea this was but it was an awful one to bad for me I had to find 
 out after the fact but I sold it to somebody and got the ps2 version which is extrmely better. 
 it has everything that was advertised this has got to be one of the best super hero games to date. 
 Activision two thumbs up for the console verison but two thumbs down for the PC version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drod2000
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow, when i loaded up this game, i remebered the terrible review gamespot gave this bad excuse 
 for a game. So i had to try it. Wow, how pathetic, i could make a better game than this, at least 
 a longer one, i started it at 10AM and finished at 10:55AM, seriously who makes a game so short? 
 WTF! The webslinging is basically full of grime, combat? plzzz, u only use one button WTF seriously, 
 i got pretty mad because of this game. If i could give this game anything under a 1, it would be 
 a -2, seriously. Dont buy it, just dont, it will ruin your day, and/or your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  This spiderman game is suck to hell and let me say to you that DON'T BUY THIS GAME EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is probaly the best thing about this game. You can swing in the sky, you 
 have some nice boses and the combo system is pretty good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics isn't good. Activision could do much better with this game especially the 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: There is no sound in this game. The only time there is music is when you have to fight a 
 boss or something like that.
  
  Value: You can play for like 10 hours and then you stuck at a level you can get by. it is sucks.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game sucks and if you want to buy a spiderman game then don't get 
 this game for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey2xxx
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  Oh my God! How could a giant like Activision do something like this to pc gamers? It is completely 
 different from the console versions and what crap it is! Gameplay, graphics- it looked like one 
 of those games meant for 2 to 3 years old. I was just stunned with dismay after playing the game. 
 Donot even think of buying the pc version of this game. It is bad enough at the begening and becomes 
 much worse later on. You might even want to throw this game out of the window after the first tryout. 
 There is no story whatsoever and the whole game seems to be loosely tied up. Spidey can swing only 
 on selected spots and the city looks as lively as those haunted cities in horror survival games. The 
 bosses are puny, the goons are braindead and the missions are nursery level puzzles. In short it 
 was an absolute FIASCO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soninlaw
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  As a true Spiderman fan from back in the days, this is one disaster for me. 
  I havent got many words for this Spiderman game. It looks like they made this game in a couple 
 of ours. 
  
  What in the world where they thinking? Letting Spiderman web swing only there where theres a web 
 hanging in the air. Not only that, you have 2 buttons for use only! One to jump and the other for 
 punch, kick, web, web balls and so on, which can only be used when the situation requires it. 
 
  
  The missions are all of the same, boring and irritating. 
  
  Even as a Spidey fan, you can leave this game in the shop and concentrate on other Spiderman games 
 out there
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyroundhead
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 18, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Oh the joyous things I heard about Spider-man 2. The free roaming explorations. The swinging wherever 
 you wanted. The immersive gameplay and GTA like side missions. Well let me tell you none of that 
 applies to the pc version of this game. Why the pc version was dumbed down into total crap is beyond 
 me but that is what happened. Usually console ports to the pc are better or at least comparable 
 to the original. In this case it's like they made an entirely new and crappier game. 
  
  Some uninspiring moments: You can only webswing by hitting green webs in the sky. They tell you 
 how to beat win the boss battles before you even start and the game can be beaten in about 5 hours 
 or less. The graphics aren't that great and the mini games are just idiotic. 
  
  If you have a console and a pc don't waste your time with this game on the pc. Pick it up for the 
 console. 
  
  Spider-man 2 for PC  all other games known to man possibly even ET from the Atari 2600 era! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 26, 2004 9:11 am PT
Review:  I didn't really like the playstation version, but ... this is even worse. First of all this game 
 has no story. You'll just have to beat some people that rob a bank, breakout the prison ... To 
 beat those enemies you'll have to (mostly) follow them by swinging around with flying webs. When 
 you're at the enemy you just have to click and the enemy can't do anything against you anymore. 
 This game has no difficulty ... or maybe the difficulty is to get not bored of this game after 
 5 minutes. Out of killing some people and some bosses you have to press some buttons are imitate 
 a song on some kind of machines. Well ... I didn't know it was boring to be a superhero.
  
  The graphics aren't much better. Textures are all the same: one simple color with a square (possible 
 supposed to be a window) . The cars -something more like a girder- riding around are all the same 
 and can ride in 4 directions (without even rotating) . The chambres in the buildings (only available 
 in some missions inside) are ... again all the same and mostly totally empty with a grey wall.
 
  
  The sound is to get crazy of. The enemies know 3 phrases, and it get's very annoying when they 
 start to repeat the phrases 20 times.
  
  I don't know why I wasted my money on this, I guess maybe out of pity for the programmers (I'm 
 not sure this game is made by several personnes)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinamann
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 8, 2004 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit i had high expectations for this game after hearing people play it on the xbox 
 and ps2. When i brought this game home, it made me dumber after playing for 10 min. Thefighting 
 was clicking theleft button only. no moves or other strategies to use to fight diffrent enemies, 
 just click next to them. the sound is pretty bad. the voice is horrible. The graphics are avergae, 
 with nothing specail. With a $500 graphics card it was a waste, you could play this game with a 
 10 year old pc.
  
  Don't buy it unless your under 12 because you will hate it for everything it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masoumi
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 10, 2004 11:43 am PT
Review:  Alright. Let's be clear. This isn't your console port. This is a different kind of Spider-Man 2. 
 An uglier Spider-Man 2. 
  
  Gameplay? The "missions" if you want to call them that are little more then swinging around the 
 city fighting groups of lame looking generic "thugs" that seem to evaporate in to a matrix-esque 
 glow effect when they die. The boss battles are atrocious. Rhino?? PUMA!??! Why is Puma even in 
 this game!? Anyway, before every boss battle, there is a detailed Fisher Price looking diagram 
 telling you exactly how to beat the boss. Is it a challenge? YES. Why you ask? Because the control 
 is so horrible that you can barely pull of any of spiderman's moves. And his arsenal of moves are 
 quite pathetic. Just lame little combos and the like. Oh, and as for webslinging through the city... 
 well, you aren't exactly slinging web on to buildings, but rather these WEB icons that you must 
 aim at and hit with web in order to continue swinging along. TERRIBLE
  
  Graphics ? Bad. Ugly.
  
  
  Sound? No score, no music. Bad sound effects. and some of the 
 most horrible voice over you will ever hear in your life.
  
  In conclusion. Stay away from this title. Stay away... forever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 2, 2004 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Even IF this game weren't a million times worse than what we are led to believe is a fairly ambitious 
 and respectable Console version; and efen IF it weren't based on a comic book and movie franchise 
 that is near and dear to all of our hearts; and even IF it weren't the newest game in the "Bargain 
 Bin," Spider-Man 2 on the PC would still have to be one of the worst games I have played in... an 
 extremely long time.
  
  The graphics are painful, the voice acting and music are abysmal and the gameplay is about as compelling 
 as having bamboo shoots rammed under your toe nails. I have played many games that I didn't line, 
 and a few that I downright hated, but I have never played a game that made me mourn the loss of 
 time that was spent by the designers, programmers, marketers and packagers of this product.
  
  Avoid at ALL COSTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shegs
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 2, 2004 2:53 am PT
Review:  OMG, it all makes sence now I was wondering how a company like actavision could elease a game that 
 actually looked played and was all around worse than the previous version, 
  the gamplay was way too linear with those stupid swing icons I could never choose where I wanted 
 to go and half the time the controls would be too slow to anything at all.
  the graphics were horrid I they are actually worse than the previous game and the technology now 
 has way increased. pitifull
  the sound and voice overs seem choked out and stale, too bad the cast had to taint themselves there.
 
  the value is as low as it can go I could say that would if I had known before I bought this game 
 I wouldnt have graced it with the thought of purchase
  
  I belive that given the controls of the game and how hard the original game was to control with 
 the keyboard they hired a bunch of no name lamers to creat this pile and pass it off as a pc version 
 with mouse keyboard support.... I cant even try to use my controller
  
  I say a better idea would be to pass the same game from console over to pc and bundle a damn controller 
 and sell it for 50 bucks making even more profit
  
  actavision doesnt even deserve my money for the sole fact they thought this crap would pass as 
 a descent game
  
  I am dissapointed in every way I could possibly be
  
  please forgive the gramatical errors in this document it was written out of hasteness and not much 
 attention was given to how well it read but more how it sounded.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 1, 2004 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I should've known...
  When I saw Spider-Man 2 : The Game, on sale for 29.99 $ on the PC, instead of the 49.99 $ pricetag 
 for the PlayStation 2, I said to myself "Dang, now there is a bargain for you... same game, but 
 20 bucks less !".
  
  Well, my friends, that was the biggest mistake of my gaming career !
  The PC version of Spidey 
 2 is a total and complete bore, it has many glitches and goes absolutely nowhere.
  
  Let me break down my rating of the game for you :
  
  Gameplay (2) : Very, very basic gameplay. 
 Nothing too hard to comprehend. Sometimes Spidey doesn't seem to wanna punch anything though, so 
 you have to jump in the air and kick your way out of situations.
  
  Graphics (6) : Only good thing about this game : The graphics are decent. Not incredible, mind 
 you, but decent. The rendering of Spidey and Doc Oc are good, but the rest of the characters are 
 pretty stale (mouths don't move when they talk, choppy moves, etc...) . There is some clipping, 
 which is not normal for me, since I have a Radeon Pro 9800 with 256 Mg.
  
  Sound (4) : The voice acting by Tobey Maguire and Alfred Molina is decent, and you gotta love Bruce 
 Campbell as the training voice... but that's about it. The vilains constantly repeat the same thing 
 ("I'll crush you like a bug", yada yada) and the music sucks. The sounds in the city are ok, and 
 the sound that the web makes is ok too... but that's about it.
  
  Value (1) : Too bad I couldn't put a 0 here. This game is aweful. It is nothing like the versions 
 that are out on the consoles, it is lineary, with a mission to do and nothing else. You can't even 
 explore the city and solve crimes GTA style. It is also very easy (with no skill level to adjust) , 
 I will breeze through this in about 4 hours. Really not worth 30 $.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (2) : I do not recommend this game to anyone, unless you are a die hard, hardcore 
 fan of Spidey who has to have everything. It is a waste of time and money. Buy one of the console 
 versions of it, should be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codepunk
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 29, 2004 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Buyer beware! You go to the game store and see Spiderman 2 for XBox, PS2 and GC selling for $49.99. 
 But what's that over there? You see the same game with the same box for the PC going for an astounding 
 $29.99. Well, your poor and since it looks like the same game for $20 less, you plunk down the 
 change and buy it for the PC.
  
  Guess what! You just bought a different version of Spiderman 2 than the console versions! In fact, 
 the 2 different versions were created by 2 different companies. The PC version is a joke and for 
 them to package it with the same box art is extremely misleading. This can't be right. Activision 
 really needs to rememdy this situation. You think that once a buyer of the PC game finds they're 
 playing a different version they're just going to go plunk down another $49.99 to buy the console 
 version. Argghh! Stop the insanity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vizhonary
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2004 10:20 am PT
Review:  After months of waiting for Spiderman 2, the game, having seen the ads on net and TV alike for 
 spinning my way across New York city, in a freeform game where one can swing from one end of the 
 city to another and encounter crimes and accidents taking place. A game in which one can swing 
 from any surface and hitch rides on helicopters with Spidey's web slinging prowess.
  
  Found the game a day before release date for $20 less than expected at Circuit City, snagged it, 
 took it home and now feel I been lied to. The game released on the PC falls miles short of the 
 game advertised. You must swing from little web targets and not from any surface available. There 
 are no random crimes in progress. There is free form swinging from edge of city to edge of city. 
 Infact, it's a few zones, with load points between them and messages that you have no reason to 
 go that way when you attempt to go off the edges of the map at some points.
  
  Similarly, there is no advanced web swinging combat, throwing villains around, or eye-widenning 
 stunts. What there is is punching, webbing thuggie's weapons from their hands, as well as the occasional 
 web in the eyes or body wrap, which just gives you a little more time to slug 'em before they get 
 free. The only redeeming quality of the game I was sold is the web-zipping, where one can aim at 
 many surfaces, fire the web and then zip up or down the web to the point where one aimed.
  
  In all, the graphics are pretty typical, sound work is a little cheap, with good quality voice-overs 
 layed out in a cheap fashion with poor timing and cinematecs that are no less than a second off 
 from their accompanied audio-tracks.
  
  Majorly disappointed after finishing the storyline of the game in 4 hours. I'd recommend that no 
 one other than the most hardcore Spidey fan purchase the PC version of this game, and with enough 
 others sharing my view would gladly launch a civil law suite against Activision for false advertising 
 and to demand my money back. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
