-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/spiderman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 563 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Gray Matter
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 17, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spider-Man will let you play hero for a day, but be ready to fight with the game's weaknesses as 
 well as its villains. 

 Once bitten, twice the guy. Thanks to the bite of an irradiated spider, budding boy genius Peter 
 Parker suddenly finds himself turned into a superhuman with the powers of a spider. The rest is 
 comic book history. As the Marvel Comics superhero Spider-Man, Parker has been entertaining legions 
 of fans for 40 years through a string of comic book titles and animated series. If the Spider-Man 
 game is any indication, the general love affair with all things Spidey burns as brightly as ever. 
 Originally developed by Neversoft, the developer behind the hit Tony Hawk's Pro Skater series, 
 Spider-Man first swung its way onto the PlayStation, and soon leapt to the Nintendo 64, Game Boy 
 Color, and Dreamcast. Now the third-person action-adventure game has come to the PC to make true 
 believers out of computer gamers. Along the way, though, it's run into a few snags that often dampen 
 the game's more entertaining aspects.           Spider-Man has a variety of moves with which he 
 can foil evildoers.    

  The story, told through cutscenes, voice-overs, and in-game dialogue, opens at a conference held 
 by the renowned Dr. Otto Octavius, who's preparing to demonstrate his latest invention. While the 
 good doctor pontificates about the virtues of progress through technology, Spider-Man suddenly 
 leaps onto the stage and makes off with Octavius' device before the assembled crowd. Since the 
 real Spider-Man, Peter Parker, stands among the members of the press taking photos for the Daily 
 Bugle newspaper, it can only mean an imposter is at large and ruining Spidey's already tenuous 
 reputation. Parker's jealous journalistic competition at the Bugle, Eddie Brock, also witnesses 
 the shocking event. The fact that Octavius is really the supervillain Dr. Octopus and Brock plays 
 host to an evil alien symbiote named Venom can only mean more outlandish trouble for our wall-crawling 
 hero. This game takes classic superhero melodrama and unashamedly runs with it.   

  After the game's mysterious opening sequence, you begin your heroic adventures in New York City. 
 You start by foiling a bank heist and then move up to greater challenges like evading a missile-firing 
 police helicopter that chases after our framed hero. Later, you'll fight swarming lizardmen on 
 top of a rushing subway train and battle alien symbiotes in the Daily Bugle. All told, there are 
 eight main locations, like Manhattan's rooftops, a high-rise bank, and the New York City sewer 
 system, making for around 30 3D levels in all. Gameplay primarily revolves around platform jumping, 
 a little stealth, and beating up lots and lots of bad guys. During your adventures, you'll meet 
 fellow heroes like Daredevil, Black Cat, and the Human Torch who'll offer tips and villains like 
 Scorpion, Rhino, and Venom who'll beat you to a pulp if you're not quick with your webshooters. 
           True to form, Spidey can walk on walls and ceilings.    

  No matter how smartly you play, be ready for some hassles -- the game uses a save point system instead 
 of letting you save when you choose. Game designers seem to ignore the fact that in the real world, 
 not all gamers have the luxury of playing for long, uninterrupted stretches until they can reach 
 a save point or the end of a level. At least you can tackle the game on four different difficulty 
 levels, including a "kid mode" that simplifies the controls and gameplay for the younger set.  

  To foil villains and save the day, you'll employ around 18 moves. For simple problems, a number 
 of simple solutions are on hand (or foot) : You can jump, grab, punch, and kick your way out of 
 the game's lesser binds. Thanks to that fateful spider bite, Spidey can perform all these moves 
 with extraordinary strength and agility. These core moves can be linked into combos, like jumping 
 punches or the "grab and kick," where you sneak up behind a villain, grab him, and then unceremoniously 
 give him the boot.    

 Of course, Spider-Man's chief claim to fame, other than running around New York City in bright tights, 
 are his masterful webslinging talents. Here's where the game's combat gets interesting, thanks 
 to Spider-Man's arsenal of clever web weapons. You can sling webs that temporarily enmesh enemies 
 or flick distant switches. If standard punches aren't working for you, you can create spiked gloves 
 out of your webbing for added damage. You can borrow a page from Captain America's (comic) book 
 and create your own webshield for defense. For pummeling villains from a distance, you can launch 
 balls of webbing at them. If that doesn't get their attention, you can shoot a webline at them 
 and yank them in the direction of your choosing. No matter what approach you use, you'll find that 
 enemies aren't overly bright; bad guys rely more on brute force than anything else. "Mindless thugs," 
 indeed.           Other Marvel Comics characters make an appearance.    

  As clever and entertaining as these diverse abilities often are, they don't get their full due 
 because of the game's awkward controls. Like many console ports, Spider-Man does little to take 
 its new PC audience fully into account. You can control Spidey with the keyboard, a joystick, or 
 a gamepad, though your controller of choice should preferably have at least six buttons. You'll 
 need a spider's agility to master the keyboard approach, though it grows a bit easier with time, 
 and a joystick can feel clunky and unresponsive. A gamepad is your best bet since that's what the 
 original PlayStation game was designed to use. It's no secret, though, that many PC gamers don't 
 own a gamepad for their computer since so few PC games require anything more than a mouse and keyboard. 
 If you decide to use the keyboard, you won't be able to use mouse-look, which is shame since that 
 would dramatically improve gameplay. As it stands, to aim accurately at distant targets you need 
 to activate a special targeting cursor that you can only move with your chosen controller. Ideally, 
 a small cursor should have been present all the time to help orient your character and aim. No 
 matter which controller you use, Spidey only turns in set increments instead of using a smooth 
 range of motion, which feels unnatural and makes viewing specific areas or moving to them harder 
 than it should be. It can be quite the challenge to make Spider-Man do anything a spider can.  

  Like the controls, the camera needs more work. Overall, it does a fairly good job of following 
 our hero, especially considering that he can run on floors, clamber up walls, and zip up to ceilings 
 on a whim. Still, walls and objects will often block your view, sometimes making spotting enemies 
 too difficult and falling off of skyscrapers too easy. Also, when you move Spidey onto a ceiling, 
 the camera sometimes reorients itself so that you view him from directly above instead of slightly 
 behind, thanks to a temporarily translucent ceiling. The effect can be a bit disorienting when 
 Spidey repeatedly switches from floors to walls to ceilings.           Some noticeable gameplay 
 problems get in the way of the action.    

  Spider-Man's simply textured, blocky graphics and muddy cutscenes are distinctly underwhelming, 
 if not outright poor. Some of the settings are bland and boring too -- the dark, drab sewers in particular 
 are overused. Still, the graphics do at least evoke the look and feel of the classic Spider-Man 
 comics and cartoons. The same holds true for the game's audio. The familiar opening theme song, 
 updated from the '60s cartoon series and featuring an incredibly catchy bass riff, sets the right 
 mood from the very start. Spider-Man cocreator Stan Lee narrates the game in his authoritative 
 style. Lee always sounds like he's having fun with his creation and doesn't take it dreadfully 
 seriously. When he describes Peter Parker as a "sometimes neurotic" hero, you know that the writers 
 aren't afraid to gently laugh along with you at the essential silliness of the game's story and 
 superhero conventions. It's all good-natured fun, though.   

  It's a shame that more time and effort couldn't have been put into making this Spider-Man port 
 better suited to the PC and the PC gaming audience, as well as improving some problems that hurt 
 the original game. The awkward controls and camera in particular often take the wind out of the 
 game's sails. At its best, Spider-Man immerses you in the colorful, enjoyably implausible Marvel 
 Comics universe, and swinging between skyscrapers and firing off webs offer up plenty of adventurous, 
 if shallow, thrills. If you've ever wanted to play hero for a day, Spider-Man will let you, but 
 be ready to fight with the game's weaknesses as well as its villains.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though this classic Spider-Man game is well past its prime, it still has enough action integrated 
 into it to make it enjoyable while it lasts. For a relatively short, beat-em-up style game, this 
 one is actually pretty gosh darn good despite its conspicuous flaws.
  
  The gameplay is straightforward; you can swing from building to building, pummel baddies with numerous 
 punch, kick, and air attack combos, and utilize Spider-Man's webbing to subdue foes, dish out attacks, 
 or zip up to the ceiling. There are various puzzles to solve throughout the game that sometimes 
 actually require a little bit of thinking. The story is original and moderately engaging, and it's 
 told through the linear gameplay that is short but oh so sweet. Some of the boss battles, for example, 
 are pretty fun. I never get tired of letting Rhino charge at me and then jump out of the way at 
 the last second to let him run into an electric generator.
  
  The graphics are somewhat mediocre even when you consider that this game came out in 2001. The 
 characters' mouths don't move, and the rest of their faces don't have much detail on them. The 
 character models have a boxy appearance and the textures of clothing, walls, and other objects 
 look somewhat painted on. The sound effects and voice acting is decent, although they could've 
 been quite a bit better.
  
  Even if you're not a fan of superhero games, I'd recommend giving this game a try. Spider-Man is 
 the kind of game that you either love or you hate, but I personally loved it, and it's definitely 
 worth replaying.
  
  Score: 7.0
  Grade: B
  Preference: Moderate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2000, Activision and NeverSoft released "Spider-Man" on the aging PlayStation. The game 
 proved to be a critical success and was ported to PC one year later. Despite a few issues and its 
 age, "Spider-Man" is still one of the most fun games featuring the wise-cracking wall-crawler. 
 Peter Parker is a science demonstration where Dr. Octavius is showing some device. Eddie Brock 
 is also there, taking pictures to try to get his job back at the Daily Bugle. Suddenly, an impostor 
 Spider-Man makes off with Octavius' device. A mysterious yellow fog soon envelops the city streets. 
 Spider-Man must get to the bottom of this plot and battle his greatest foes, including Scorpion, 
 Rhino, Venom, Carnage, and Mysterio. The story is pure classic superhero melodrama and is often 
 hilarious. It's a little all over the place and you can tell that the developers wanted to fit 
 as many villains as they can. Also, many popular heroes from the Marvel Universe make an appearance, 
 such as Daredevil, Punisher, Human Torch, and Captain America. It doesn't take itself too seriously 
 and at times, can feel campy but this adds to the enjoyment. Since the graphics are close to a 
 decade old, it doesn't really look good now. The cutscenes look incredibly muddy but the game itself 
 still looks presentable. The character models look detailed but the city is very blocky in design. 
 The whole fog plot device was added mainly because the PlayStation didn't have the power to render 
 a full, free roaming city. This didn't happen until Spider-Man 2 in 2004. Sound is pretty good, 
 with spot-on voice acting, especially Spidey himself. Stan Lee narrates the tale and seems to have 
 a blast with it. Music is mostly generic action/rock fare. Gameplay largely has you beating up 
 lots of bad guys, with the occasional boss fight. This is where the game shines and the most memorable 
 fight would be the one with Venom. You'll also need to find switches and do some light platforming. 
 The PC version is somewhat problematic; the game was clearly designed for the PlayStation in mind 
 and while the keyboard controls work (no mouse support besides menus) , a gamepad is definitely 
 highly recommended. I originally played the game on an archaic Windows 98 PC but if you play it 
 now, it's rather glitchy. For one thing, the frame rate is too high and some of the scripting events 
 don't occur correctly, often ending with you falling to your death. The camera is also a problem 
 as it seems to have a little trouble keeping up with Spidey's quick movements. Also, it's hard 
 to make precise moves as he only turns in set increments. "Spider-Man" has a few foibles but it 
 remains largely enjoyable thanks to the developers hard work in capturing the essence and spirit 
 of the famed wed-headed adventurer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Spider-man's game ispired from the comic series is a succesfull adaption, but there are noticeable 
 disadvantages and several tweaks which may prevent you from fully enjoying the game. 
  
  Spider-man's action is taken from the comic book series, and as you may suppose, there is a great 
 variety of villains you fight, such as Doc Oct or Rhino. Therefore, there are other Marvel heroes 
 who assist you, like the Black Cat or Daredevil. Of course the stories are very good and inspired, 
 full of action.
  
  Spider-man uses many moves in order to crush the bad guys. Furthermore, Spider-man can walk onto 
 walls or swing onto building, as he can in the comic books. But there are some imperfections in 
 the gameplay which you can't avoid, but they are not so serious.
  
  But serious are the problems you will face with the camera: it does not help at all, especially 
 when swinging in the city. And the controls of the game are not so simple: you will have to do 
 something like training before you are ready to have a try with Spider-man.
  
  The graphics are very bad, no detailed action, no realistic figures and backgrounds. And even if 
 you try to improve the situation through the options menu, you will be bitterly dissapointed. And 
 the sound is sometimes completely unplugged with the rest of the game.
  
  Spider-man is not a dissapointing game. But you should try a demo first to see if you can endure 
 its ifs and buts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This Spider-Man game is Activisions first shot with the license of the wall crawling crime fighter 
 based off of the Marvel Comics stories. The story starts as Dr. Octavious having a meeting of his 
 next science project, but goes horribly wrong when an evil mist infects New York City. Eddie Brock 
 turns into Venom again, and Spiderman (a. k. a. Peter Parker) has another mission to do to get rid 
 of this evil mist. Having Black Cat, Johnny Storm (from Fantastic 4) , and others helping him out 
 as well.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has great cartoon graphics for it's time. Classic Spider-Man 
 baddies such as Doc Ock, Rhino, Scorpion, Carnage, and Venom. Good beat 'em up controls. Good 3D 
 gameplay.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that it was too darn short. Some bad voice acting. Frustrating 
 moments.
  
  Overall, Spider-Man's first game with Activision goes pretty well, but it would've been better 
 if it was a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is a game based on our favourite wall-crawler Spiderman.
  Let's get straight to the point...................
  The gameplay could have been a lot better, but 
 swinging around NY is'nt that bad either, considering the story itself.
  The graphics are quite good, but the frustrating camera gets in your way when trying to combat the 
 evil-villains in the game.
  Being fair, the sound is not up-to-the-mark, but you'll get over it soon enough.
  The cut-scenes 
 will get you absorbed for quite a while, but tell me, how can you be attracted to a game by just 
 its cut-scenes ?
  Its a superhero game, remember that so there are some interesting combos to lash out. There are plenty 
 of characters to deal with, so even though the game is sloggy, they can perhaps inspire you to play 
 Spiderman.
  P. S : As I have mentioned, rent this game before playing it, or maybe you'll find yourself playing 
 a game which is completely different from what you would think of it seeing the title and the picture 
 on the cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antrikshy
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  The game was one of my earliest ones and I had played the demo first. I had loved it, but it is 
 incomparable to today's video games. This may have been worth waiting, but I think everyone should 
 remove it from their wish lists now. It was too childish, I mean the gas spreading on the streets 
 and Spider Man not being able to come down... Well, Spider Man 3 is a lot, lot better and has superb 
 graphics. 
  
  This old game has pretty well-made graphics, not to 3D, not too 2D. The sounds were also a major 
 drawback. The shouts and dialouges were too animated kind of. How did anyone manage to make it? 
 Well, I give this game a low rating because it was really unrealistic, even compared to the old 
 Spider Man standards. The bank heist etc. was too easy to complete. It was not challenging. I don't 
 mean that they should have been overly difficult like Project Eden, GTA San Andreas or Transformers 
 - The Game, but at least a step ahead of what it is.
  
  The game had millions of glitches, which would at times prevent you from completing the game at 
 all, and that meant that the complete sofware had to be reinstalled, deleting any previously saved 
 games. Though I don't use cheat codes mostly, (except the ones I recently used in GTA 2) I used 
 to reach the level 'Catch Venom', after which Spider Man used to automatically fall down after 
 the short cutscene and then use the code 'Leanest' to unlock everything, including later levels, 
 and I used to play them.
  
  Overall, I am badly disappointed with what Activision made, but was actually really happy when 
 I had bought it years ago. Just a fantastic pastime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axelander999
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Don't understand me badly!!! But I don't like game... Other people like this game. Yeah i know 
 the gameplay is pretty good, but Kid-Mode is a totally no need mode in this game... Is the same 
 as Easy Mode only that you play with other controls... May I ask why?
  The graphics are pretty stupid for 2001!!!!! In 2002 we've got Spider-man the Movie with wonderful 
 graphics. There's a month difference. No excuse from me. The voice acting is good, sound effects 
 not bad but not too good, gameplay easy. 
  I don't like that you don't have any storyline. Just something about aliens, Doctor Octopus , bla, bla, bla...
 
  The difficulty of this game is too easy. I've completed the game without dying once!!!! I even 
 completed the game in 8 hours. Less than 10 hours.
  Hard mode here is easy mode in Wolf 3D or Doom 3. 
  But this game is definetly made for little 
 kids, so children please enjoy this game until you get a big man and you realiaze that this game 
 sucks monkeyballs!
  Don't forget that this was my opinion. If you have something to comment please tell me!!!
  This 
 game deserves 5.0 points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is not that bad, it is far from good. I used to play this a lot back in the 
 day, and although 100% obsolete now, it was still playable. It just had a lot of problems. For 
 one, the graphics are crap. Although they have a little tinge of semi-nostalgic feel, they're still 
 kind of lame. Also, the sound was just annoying. Yes, we know the Spider-Man song, we don't need 
 to here it again. The same cannot be said for the gameplay. While most games these days have great 
 graphics and ****** gameplay, this one has the opposite. Not to say the gameplay is revolutionary, 
 it keeps this score a 6.5 and not a 3.0. The storyline and the writing is very uninspired, but 
 being able to fight all the classic villains a bunch of times is fun. In fact, the best part of 
 the whole game is the boss battles, even after you get jaded. Overall, I wouldn't say to rent, 
 let alone buy this game. I'm not saying that as an anti-climactic ending, because at this very 
 moment, i'm not trying to get you to play it. I'm just trying to conclude saying it is just "ok". 
 :) -skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I have not played this game for a long time but I will do my best to remember all the good times 
 I had playing this game...
  
  Gamplay: Even though the reviewers say the controls are akward... it's not just play for about 10 
 minutes, look at the game manual and its not akward anymore. The game is extremly fun with well 
 designed levels cool puzzels and a challenge sometimes. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are decent especially the cutscene graphics but according to gamespot the 
 game is ugly I don't remember it cuz I didn't play this game for years... but I do remember that 
 everything looked very nice.
  
  Sound: Good music, good sound effects, good voice acting.
  
  Value, tilt: By now its $10-$20 
 maybe even $5. Its a good game and its worth your time unless you are obsessed with free roaming 
 Spiderman games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Unintentionally hilarious game all the way around. (A few spoilers in this paragraph.) Except for 
 the "characters", all the humans' (including Spiderman) grunts sound exactly the same. A cutscene 
 will circle around a building, you hear venom breaking things inside the building and people screaming 
 (and saying somewhat strange things like "toe, toe, toe, toe... Ow my head! Toe, toe, toe") and 
 the cutscene will end with Venom swinging out of the building and Spidey jumping to his death (and 
 there's nothing you can do about it, so you have to use a cheat to jump to the next level) . In 
 the main game you can easily kill whoever you want until the second Venom fight, but in "Training", 
 even if you set it to KID MODE (and for training, you don't get all the different voices saying 
 "Kid mode!" every time you select it) the enemies somehow have good aim all of a sudden and kill 
 you right away... even the basic "troop" enemies. 
  
  The chatter everywhere is hilarious, the level design is hilarious, and if all of that doesn't 
 get you there are hilarious glitches everywhere you turn. In the Scorpion fight, all of a sudden 
 my webs started going back over my shoulder and hitting the character I was supposed to defend... 
 and guess how he grunted? In the bank level why does the bomb explode right when you close the 
 door when the timer is over a minute and a half to go? In the same level and the one right before 
 it, the hostages you "save" by running close to them take off jogging right past the criminals 
 who imprisoned them in the first place and nothing happens! Spiderman drowns right when he hits 
 any water... he sinks, then they give the controls back to you and you sometimes catch a quick 
 glimpse before he starts making drowning noises. In the elevator level, a symbiote killed me right 
 as I hit the correct switch, and as (and after) he died, Spiderman said "Yes! I got the elevator 
 running again!" The game's also full of pointless dialogue between Spiderman and random heroes 
 that have nothing to do with the game in the FMV sequences. You can just picture a few little elementary 
 kids saying "coooooooool" as Daredevil says in your basic overdone voice, "Let's just say you've 
 got your powers... I've got mine."
  And sometimes basic intentional things in the game look very funny, like Rhino being electrocuted 
 when he charges into the generators and his body lifting off the ground, parallel to the ground 
 four feet up and kicking like a little kid at swim lessons holding on to the wall. Or the lizard 
 minions flying off the subway. You get the idea. 
  
  Gameplay: 8. When it works, it's fun, but the camera is horrible and swings around to lock onto 
 an enemy when you don't want it to and doesn't when you do. Your attacks lock on pretty well, so 
 you just need to be looking in sort of the right direction to damage enemies. The control system 
 is very strange... the camera is centered behind you most of the time (a strict camera that always 
 centered behind you would have been much better) , pressing up on the stick moves you forward, left 
 and right turn you instead of running you left or right or strafing, and back runs backward. With 
 two sticks this would have been a great game. Also, turning moves you in increments... not a smooth 
 rotation. With enemies and web-swinging, this doesn't matter too much because it locks on somewhat 
 anyway. But when you're trying to pick up a small item, this makes it near impossible unless you 
 charge it from a distance. Walking across narrow areas is hard due to the camera and the incremental 
 turning... and because there'll always be something shooting at you while you're trying to walk. 
 You stick to any surface including ceilings, which would work great except the controls and camera 
 get even trickier once you're on something... if you're climbing either up or down a wall it can 
 be near impossible to turn around.
  A punch does more damage to you then a bullet does. I can understand your punches and kicks being 
 very big because you've got Spider strength or whatever, but the grunt enemies? And why do your 
 webs kill people... isn't that like the whole point of Spidey using webs, to stop enemies without 
 killing them?
  Once you get around all the problems, this is still a pretty fun game. Level design can be very 
 good (on most of the indoor levels) or overly simple (like any of the outdoor levels) . Lastly, 
 loading your old game is quite hard, as you either have to go into Options-File management or Special-Level 
 select to jump to where you were at... how about a "load" menu from the main menu?
  
  Graphics: (Bring back the old review design at least for our reviews, Gamespot!)
  7. Most things 
 are pretty defined, but when you look down in an outdoor area all you see is smog. I'm hoping NYC 
 isn't really that bad.
  
  Sound: 8. Funny, but mostly good too.
  
  Value: Perfect 10. Buy this game... hours of laughter and enjoyment for a small price used.
  
 
  Tilt: 8. I'm really enjoying this game... and I'm not even a comic-book-heroes fan (well, except 
 for the new movies that have came out for the main three heroes... all but the Superman movie {or 
 two... I forget} are very good.) Buy this game.
  
  One last note: I covered almost everything in the first paragraph, but here you go. For some reason, 
 there are comic books to collect everywhere... sort of like the secret areas of the Jedi games. 
 Whenever you pick them up, Spidey always says the same thing... in the overdone hero voice... always... 
 it makes them almost a pain to pick up. (Well, that and the incremental turning...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I have a love/hate relationship with console ports. Love, because if done well, a developer can 
 leverage the PCs raw power into a better-looking, better-playing game. Hate, because its cheaper 
 and easier for publishers to churn out a straight-up, pointless translation.
  
  Spider-Man on the PC is the same as its PlayStation and Dreamcast predecessors, and for the most 
 part, thats just fine by me. Its a throwback to the good ol days of superhero side-scrolling 
 arcade games, but updated with radiant high-res 3D graphics and an over-the-shoulder third-person 
 perspective.
  
  As Peter Parker, the Amazing Spider-Man, its just another day in the life of an unappreciated 
 web-slinger. Your wifes been kidnapped by Venom, Doc Octopus has framed you for robbery, the police 
 hound you, and six of your greatest archenemies are out for spider-mutated blood.
  
  Gifted with superhuman strength and the arachnid ability to climb walls and spin webs, youre no 
 slouch in the fighting department. Kicks and punches are the basics, but you can also pull off 
 simple combos and attack enemies with web-based attacks like projectiles, an exploding protective 
 shield, and an especially nasty pair of spiked knuckles. Props like cars, barrels, and dumpsters 
 can be hoisted overhead and thrown for serious damage.
  
  Missions are varied, but tightly linear. The 34 levels consist mostly of chasing (with you alternating 
 as chaser and chasee) , fighting, and light problem-solving. For example, one level has you web-swinging 
 away from a pursuing police helicopter and its deadly rockets and snipers. In another, youre riding 
 the top of a speeding subway train fighting off an onslaught of lizard men.
  
  And then there are the bosses. Youll fight mano a mano with the games villains: Rhino, Scorpion, 
 Mysterio, Venom, Carnage, Doc Oc, and a never-before-seen end-boss.
  
  Pick-ups galore fill each level. Youll find health, web cartridges, fiery magnesium webbing, historical 
 comic-book covers, and even the famed black-and-silver Spider Armor suit. (Every comic you find 
 shows up in a gallery, and collecting them all unlocks a new costume.) Youll even meet up with 
 other luminaries of the Marvel universe, like Black Cat, Daredevil, and The Human Torch.
  
  There are tons of secrets, too  hidden areas, extra costumes, and a What If? mode (introduced 
 by The Watcher) that changes the game, albeit very slightly. Spider-Man can be finished in around 
 five hours, so these extras go a long way toward advancing the games replay factor.
  Spider-Man creator Stan Lee gamely narrates, his jubilantly melodramatic Excelsior, True Believers! 
 style fitting the comic-book action perfectly. And the cast of the recent Spider-Man animated series 
 provides hammy but quality voiceovers.
  
  As much as I enjoyed Spider-Man, it has problems. The camera is slow to catch up with the wall-crawlers 
 180-degree spins; control is so loose that your turn radius is Hulk-ishly huge; cinematic cut-scenes 
 are a choppy and low-res mush despite Spider-Mans in-game 1280-x-1024 maximum resolution; and 
 you can save the game only between certain levels. Plus, even though SM uses only eight buttons, 
 the default setup is configured for a 10-button gamepad. (Most PC gamepads have only eight buttons. 
 Doh!)
  
  No matter. Any Spidey freak will have a blast, and comics fans will delight in Spider-Mans right-off-the-page 
 super-powered antics. If you want the PCs best superhero game, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  When I tried the demo, I expected a dumb, almost-but-not-quite-game. And it was. The graphics were 
 ok, but the actions looked too blocky, and although the cutscenes were fine, the actual fighting 
 was too unrealistic. The enemies get killed by 3 punches. 3. Unrealistic. And then I tried the 
 boss battles. Too easy. Scorpion was so easy. Web him up. Punch, kick punch. Web him up. Punch, 
 kick punch. Web. Kick, punch, etc....
  Venom was too easy. Sure, he can fade in and out, but as long as you just beat him up here and 
 there, he can't really do anything.
  Carnage... Whack. Whack. Whack. Nice try! Whack. Whack Whack. Nice try!
  What's he trying to 
 do, encourage us? He's being beaten up by me, and he's saying Nice Try? He's too kind. Now for 
 the good. The game is overall fun when you battle the bosses. Venom is ok to fight, he's fun. Mysterio 
 is creepy, and battling symbiotes blew my mind. The creativity is the only good part. Well, not 
 only, but it's isn't totally that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I love it. I played the demo then I asked my mom to buy the game on ebay.
  P. S take the gamespot download manager to make the download faster.
  The cheat code is LEANEST 
 to unlock every thing. make sure you don't use the cheat code so many times. I finished the game 
 a lot of times so that is how I got the cheat code. ok have fun playing the game enjoy. If you have 
 questions I might be able to help you. My email address is somanshreddy@yahoo. com .see ya. bye. My 
 other email adress is somanshreddy@gmail. com. I hate when the want us to write 100 words it takes 
 so long to type all the letters. so many words .ok this part isnt about the spider man review. sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan876
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  all people forward, look for this if you played all current gen and next gen's spider mans this 
 is a good last gen. for people for ps family get this, doesnt matter for ps3 or ps2 or even ps1. 
 isn't the greatest for graphics and sound is ok but the gameplay, unbaliveable for ps1. I wish 
 it would go on xbox 360 for i am an xbox person and it's value should be up for the long time its 
 been out. Its for a bargain bin though. the time i got hooked was in 1 minute though it was back 
 so i thought it had good graphics. NOT REALLY.
  I like how (i think it was neversoft?) made t so that in thps2 you could play as  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4god88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Spiderman is a fantastic game if you're willing to put up with some of the difficult control issues 
 and glitches to complete the whole game experience. The story line is involving and keeps on moving 
 right along throughout the game. It consists of you making your way across building tops, through 
 sewers, and from one skyscraper to another to eventually get to each new conflict. The game world 
 is fairly large, especially in the initial part of the game but later on becomes alot more confined 
 and your options become much more limited as far as travel goes.
  
  When you come across bosses, you can expect a fairly typical action type battle where you'll have 
 to exploit the characters weaknesses before you can do any damage. They're certainly not epic , 
 but they are a challenge at times, making it something quite a bit harder to get past compared 
 to the rest of the game. The bosses are varied, all the way from Doc Oc to Venom. Some of them 
 play a very large role in the plot, but often give you the feeling that they're not really accomplishing 
 anything plotwise, just taking up space.
  
  The game does have multiple glitches that you'll come across in the course of play. Many have to 
 do with the transitions between cutscenes and action, especially around the bosses. Ususally you 
 can move past them by just skipping the cutscene, but some take a bit of experimentation to get 
 through.
  
  Overall this game provides a really good adventure despite its setbacks. A very enjoyable play, 
 and the extras that you can unlock can also be pretty cool. The suits you can use in the game with 
 extra powers, unlimited web being the most useful, but the comic book covers come up short of anything 
 that cool. For sure a good little sunday afternoon activity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Voice acting is done quite well, along with Stan Lee doing some occasional narrating.
  -A very, 
 very long game full of enemies and bosses. On top of that, there are unlockable suits with special 
 abilities and plenty of cheat codes that give the game a great twist. WIth everything that you 
 can unlock, the replay value is great.
  -The controls are done pretty nicely.
  -Plenty of uses for the webs, like web gloves, domes, and balls.
  
  The Bad:
  -Swinging is 
 extremely linear. You go from building to building by hitting the "swing" button. Then, you'll 
 swing twice, and land.
  -No real combat system. There's punches and kicks, and not a whole lot more.
  -The levels are 
 somewhat linear, but it's especially noticeable on outdoor levels.
  -I experienced some stability issues with the game, regardless of what computer I played it on.
 
  
  Even though this game is old, I would still recommend buying it. It's a great game for Spidey fans 
 and action fans alike. It has enough meat in the gameplay to bring you back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psplord980
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Grade
  C+ (7.8)
  
  Good
  A first good Spier-Man Game
  Many classic memorable new villains are introduced
  Story is mainly what keeps you motivated
 
  Bosses are fun, but sadly easy
  Plenty os secrets and unlockables to keep you busy for a while
  
  Bad
  Some graphical occasions 
 really suck
  Pointless areas...
  A lot of ridiculous unlockables... I mean come on who wants to see comic book covers , but not inside 
 the Comic!!
  What are the webs attaching to when he's web swinging......
  
  Closing Comments: This is Spider-Mans first time in the lime light. The story keeps hardcore fans 
 motivated, Fun bosses, Classic scenes. What more can a Spider-Man fan ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty easy, and was good when it first came out. Nowadays it wouldn't be comparable 
 to any of the other ones.
  
  1) The graphics are quite poor, but that's average for an old computer game. They're somewhat blocky 
 and "glitchy".
  2) The sound is poorly recorded. The voices are okay, but when the characters talk they hardly 
 move their mouths (if they move them at all) . The music is repetative too.
  3) The gameplay is average superhero. Get to a bad guy by beating his henchmen. That's about it.
 
  4) One nice thing is that there's a bunch of different costumes you can unlock. But...
  5) The costumes are costumes like: Bag-head Spiderman, Quick change Spidey, etc... Most are pretty 
 dull.
  
  There's more stuff I could mention, but I think you get the point by now. If you like superhero 
 games, be my guest, pick it up, but don't expect much. Overall, this game was good at it's release 
 (maybe) and that's it. Rent it... maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vor_Drek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Super hero games are by now familiar terrain for many gamers, and much is expected in such a title. 
 As fun as it may be to play as Spiderman, this particular game flirts with disaster. The storyline 
 is simple and uninspired. The voice acting is good, but hard to appreciate due to the poor graphics 
 and animations. Enemies are not very intelligent, which is okay on most levels since it gives you 
 the opportunity to think of a new way to take each one out. You may need to crank up the difficulty 
 level just to find a challenge here, especially since the boss battles are disconcertingly easy. 
 There are some bonus features, such as unlockable comic book art and additional constumes featuring 
 unique powers, but since many of these items are too hard for the average gamer to find, their 
 appeal may be lost by the roadside. If you do happen to acquire the ultimate costume, you won't 
 want to play with anything else, which is bad -- it makes you invincible, which in turn makes the 
 game impossible to lose. The story is sufficiently long, and some of the training simulations may 
 keep you busy for a while, but ultimately this game won't provide much of a long-term distraction. 
 You'll probably beat it in an afternoon, so don't bother buying it -- rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Ky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man ROCKS! This game is definently an instant classic! I got it for christmas a couple of 
 years ago from my grandma and I love it! From the instant i began to play it I liked it. If you 
 are like me and like superheros and comics and ya know classic stuff, this game is just for you. 
 It has a good story that seems like it is just out of a comic book. The graphics are all right, 
 considering the game is about six years old. The sound can get annoying, yet all sound in viedo 
 games can get annoying. Don't belive the other reviews! In my opinion this is probally the greatest 
 game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  SPIDERMAN IS A GOOD GAME AND ALLOWS U TO EXPERIENCE THE THRILL OF BEING A SUPERHERO. IT KEEPS U 
 ENGAGED AS U FIGHT THE BADDIES LIKE DOCTOR OCK, MYSTERIO, VENOM AND OF COURSE NYPD COPS WHO SOMETIMES 
 SEEM LARGER THAN LIFE. BUT THE GAMEPLAY HAS SERIOUS FLAWS AND SHORTCOMINGS AND EVERYTIME U DIE IN 
 A LEVEL AND RESTART U HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE SEQUENCES AGAIN AND AGAIN WHICH CAN BE IRRITATING 
 AT TIMES.
  
  GRAPHICS: GREAT, I WOULD RATE IT 8 ON 10
  
  SOUND: SOMETIMES REPEATITIVE ,7.5 WOULD BE APPROPRIATE.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 6.9 OUT OF 10
  
  OVERALL: BUY 
 IT IF U ARE CASUAL ABOUT THE MONEY TO BE SPENT, DONT IF U ARENT. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
