-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Splat Renegade Paintball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/splatrenegadepaintball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent graphics, at least when they're not moving.
 Custom maps can be played online.
 Duck and shoot commands taken from Greg Hastings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible soundtrack.
 Bugs, particularly in multiplayer.
 Boring campaign mode with cheap, infallible enemies.
 No friendly AI commands.
 Terrible control.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 4.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 124 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Alt. Sports
Date:     Oct 11, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unbalanced AI, poor shooting control, and shoddy design at every level of the experience make this 
 extreme sports title unworthy of your $30. 

  Youth hobbies are distancing themselves further and further from action these days. Yu-Gi-Oh is 
 a game about playing a game about fighting monsters, and Splat Magazine's Renegade Paintball is 
 about reading a publication about playing a game that simulates war. For all but the most dedicated 
 of fans, this isn't a thrilling premise. But Renegade Paintball is better than some of its budget-bin 
 competition. It seems like Global Star Software played Greg Hastings' Tournament Paintball and 
 tried to incorporate as many of the features therein as possible. Its success was inconsistent. 

          Even paintball enthusiasts should see the ludicrousness of a twofold separation from the 
 thrill of warfare.     

  Renegade Paintball features a difficult career mode that's essentially a tutorial for multiplayer 
 confrontations. As in Greg Hastings, you've got elimination matches, in which you have to paint 
 each member of the opposing team, and CTF matches, in which you either have to capture the enemy 
 flag or a center flag between your bases, depending on the map. These levels include woodsball 
 and speedball arenas, which give players a taste of traditional and avant-garde paintball gameplay. 
 Woodsball takes place in large outdoor arenas with cabins and rocks as cover. Speedball is set 
 in smaller arenas and uses artificial, inflatable cover. The latter is, as the name would imply, 
 much quicker. As one shot kills in any paintball game, you'll be respawning a lot in speedball. 

  In career mode, you'll choose from one of several paintball "greats," including an editor from 
 sponsor Splat Magazine, Chris "IQ" Iaquinta. Enthusiasts may be familiar with some of these big 
 ballers, but anyone else probably won't have a clue. Your character choice actually means little, 
 as all players seem to perform equally. If you die in an elimination match, time will stop and 
 your spirit will appear to leave your body, moving to take control of another player. Characters 
 without licensed names are called horrible things like "N00b Bob." Of course, that's fitting for 
 a game that exclaims "You got served!" when the computer dishes out an especially heinous beating. 
 At the start of a particular map, the same baritone announcer voice asks, "Do you have what it 
 takes to be king, [dramatic pause] or will you just be [another dramatic pause] a court jester?" 

  The appeal of the single-player campaign is limited, due to huge gameplay imbalances. The odds 
 seem hopelessly tilted in favor of your CPU opponent, especially on the Xbox, in which there is 
 no auto-aim. You're simply expected to be as accurate with your thumbsticks as you would be with 
 a high-resolution mouse. As a result, it's incredibly hard to hit anything on the Xbox, especially 
 with the first few, lower-powered markers (guns) . Compounding the problem is slightly jerky character 
 animation, which makes it really tough to anticipate enemy movements and to lead your shots accordingly. 
 Consequently, pretty much the only way to score frags is by shooting dozens of paintballs in a 
 wide spray. When the scores are tallied, having 5 percent accuracy means you performed well. This 
 is not true of real-life paintball. Even on the PC you'll have a lot of trouble hitting the mark, 
 although this is due mostly to jerky graphics.  

  By contrast, the CPU seems to hit its mark the first time, every time -- at least on normal difficulty. 
 If you, even for one moment, step out of cover, you'll be bombarded by a spray of enemy paintballs, 
 regardless of your distance from hostiles. Meanwhile, your friendly artificial intelligence characters 
 are completely useless. On capture-the-flag maps, they'll never, ever capture the flag on their 
 own. You'll have to do everything yourself.  

          Hey, kids, do you like violence?! Too bad!     

  Some of these problems could have 
 been mitigated by rudimentary team commands, like "get the flag" or "guard the base." Instead, 
 your teammates pretty much do whatever they feel like at the time, which may be totally counterproductive. 
 On certain maps, one of your men will invariably occupy a sniper tower, even if the gun he's wielding 
 doesn't have the firepower to reach anyone from there, which is the case for all but the ultimate 
 weapon, "Sweetness." You won't even realize the poor sap is holed up all by himself until you die 
 (before which you single-handedly wasted five dudes) and spawn in his brainless body.  

  Throughout the game, you'll be heavily reliant on Renegade Paintball's best tactical feature, which 
 is borrowed directly from Greg Hastings. With the use of the left trigger, in conjunction with 
 the left analog stick, you can snap in and out of cover and take aim at your foes. Your gun and 
 body will lean into the open, but will snap back as soon as you release the thumbstick. You can 
 perform snaps while standing or squatting, but not while prone, due to the obvious mobility limitations 
 inherent in that position.     

  Multiplayer sessions are much more playable, mostly because everyone is working at an equal disadvantage. 
 On Xbox Live, players spend a lot of time accusing one another of using turbo controllers (do such 
 things even exist anymore?!) , because you'd glean a huge advantage by having a faster firing rate. 
 Players duck behind cover and fire off hundreds of rounds at each other, hoping one will stick. 
 It usually doesn't. In Renegade Paintball, everyone's in the same boat, so it's all fair.  

          Everyone online plays with the Sweetness marker. If you start a game with any other marker 
 enabled, you're a noob, and no one will ever be your friend.     

  Of course, you can't make baseless accusations of your fellow players in the PC version, because 
 there's no built-in voice support. We can't foresee anyone setting up a TeamSpeak server for Renegade 
 Paintball, either.  

  The game's built-in field editor is a nice touch. You can take an existing map and tweak it to 
 your liking, adding and removing a host of environmental features and obstacles. On PC or Xbox 
 Live multiplayer, you can start a game based on your custom map, and joining players will automatically 
 download it. Some players creatively place obstacles to allow for jumps to high ground.  

  Unfortunately, the multiplayer sessions -- both on the Xbox and the PC -- are riddled with bugs. On 
 the Xbox, you'll be dropped to the lobby at the end of every match. In speedball, sessions are 
 over very quickly, compounding the problem. It's tough to get six players together at any given 
 time at this point, so to risk losing them after every game is a terrific annoyance. An Xbox Live 
 update is supposedly forthcoming to address this problem, but it wasn't available at press time. 
 On the PC, you'll often be dropped from the host entirely, but you'll still be allowed to continue 
 playing (and you'll be wondering why no one is getting fragged) . Both versions will usually repeat 
 the end-game message twice, probably due to lag problems. As you can't sort by ping, it's impossible 
 to anticipate server performance.  

  You can also play with buddies via system link or split screen, with about equal results. Theoretically, 
 a system link could allow you to play with 14 dudes, none of whom would have much fun. As a result, 
 they'd never come over to your place again, and instead they'd start a club dedicated to hating 
 you. In both single-player and multiplayer (on both consoles) , load times are far from great.  
 

  Renegade Paintball looks much better still than it does in motion. Although the texture work is 
 universally bland, and the marker models are clearly where the most time was spent, the overall 
 look isn't bad. In motion, however, Renegade Paintball chops up, both on the Xbox and on a wide 
 variety of PCs. This problem is especially apparent during the prematch flybys, where you survey 
 your map a few painful frames at a time. Patching the game to its latest available version helped 
 a bit, and it reduced the frequency of black-screen crashes in campaign mode.  

          Seriously, paintball magazine editors in a paintball game?! Does anyone actually care about 
 these people?     

  Renegade Paintball's audio consists of two or three painfully generic rock instrumentals featuring 
 the same tired power chords. There's also an announcer, who encourages you to "run like a sissy," 
 and who generally assaults your manhood. This is only entertaining to 10-year-olds, some of whom 
 mimicked the announcer over Xbox Live. Many of these chatterboxes were on the opposing team, but 
 we could hear them anyway, because all speech in Paintball is broadcasted to everyone. This makes 
 voice chat a party line rather than a tactical feature. Unless you develop an elaborate code, you 
 can't broadcast your orders over the unsecured airwaves.  

  Splat Magazine's Renegade Paintball is decent by the standards of bargain-bin paintball games, 
 but it can't compete with the mainstream shooters of the past generation. Unbalanced AI, poor shooting 
 control, and shoddy design at every level of the experience make this extreme sports title unworthy 
 of your $30.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NukeRider
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's poor score for this title seemed unfair to me, as I've found it to be a pretty fun game 
 for my P. C.. After dozens of hours of play it is one of my favorites. It is my understanding this 
 title is more well suited for the P. C. then for consoles -- due to an optical mouse's superior fine 
 tuning over thumbsticks (the fairly inaccurate paintball markers will be easier to aim with.) On 
 this matter Gamespot's reviewer considers the innacuracy of the paintball guns to be a flaw in 
 the game, and writes having 5 percent accuracy means you performed well. This is not the case of 
 real life paintball. The reviewer may know something about video games, but obviously not paintball -- as 
 even PRO paintballers will carry nearly a thousand rounds into a game versus an opposing seven 
 man team. Do the math. Shooting paint, and lots of it, besides being fun can keep opponents pinned 
 with their heads down or tag opponents trying to move between cover. Gamespot's review goes on 
 to whine about things like A. I. and no control over computer teammates. I find the A. I. opponents 
 to be a worthy challenge that should keep you on your toes (if not ducking for cover and looking 
 over your shoulder.) With so the many game types the A. I. provide a generous heaping of replayability. 
 Being unsure what your computer teammates will do in a particular situation puts you in a situation 
 where you'll ultimatley need to make some good moves to claim victory, what's so bad about being 
 the star? For elimination mode matches, you'll respawn into an active teammates position if you 
 get hit. I play a real agressive elimination game knowing this. It can be exciting Rambo-ing your 
 opponents and knowing there is a chance you'll take one or more of them with you, and then there 
 is always the chance you'll respawn into an area where you can immediatley add to the havoc you've 
 just created with your last move. Elimination is one of several games you can choose from or will 
 have to play in career mode. The career mode is fun and challengeing, but is also one area that 
 could use improvement over the others ( skirmish and multiplayer games.) The game could have greatly 
 benefited from a prize money for equipment upgrades feature -- found in so many competition-type 
 games from the 16-bit and even 8-bit console era. But what there is, still outweighs what could 
 have been. There are alot of little corners to this game, and my gameplay adapts as I discover 
 them. The other day in an online match I noticed something from the sky on one of the fields. I 
 got closer and noticed it was a player using a fence on the boundaries to jump from. If I feel 
 like practicing shooting moving targets that won't shoot back, I'll set the friendly-fire mode 
 to on, find a tower near a spawn sight for my own team and be supplied with a constant stream of 
 CPU players heading for their objective to pick-off. For a challenge, I'll set up a match where 
 I'm outnumbered, and am forced to make several eliminations on my own. If I had to do over, I would 
 buy this game again -- though maybe a hard copy rather than downloading it. I'm not sure if this 
 would prove any difference for gameplay or not. My computer just the requirements for this title 
 and so I have to make sure there are no programs running in the background. I've found while other 
 titles allow me to leave my anti-virus running, this is not one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltyidiot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  you know splat renegade paintball isn't just about war it teaches skill for pc's. it is made to 
 be a fun game which it is. they have a good idea about paintball and they followed it so everyone 
 that doesn't like live with it.!!!!! i have many friends that thogught they wouldn't like it i 
 let them play it and they wouldn't let me play it anymore!!!! (LOLOLOLOLOLOLOL) it is like a halo 
 game just no blood!! LOLOLOL. some of the maps are alot like halo!!!
  this game rocks so buy if you don't like write something saying you don't like it. You Now what 
 I'll Say bull s#! T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourgummyworm
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Awful! Horrible depiction of Paintball, a genuine, legitimate sport. This makes the game look like 
 crap. Gun animations are almost OK, but this game really sucks. I like paintball a lot, so if you 
 really want a good game, go for Greg Hastings'. It has much better AI and speedball tournaments. 
 YOu can actually hit someone and the AI is waaay above this game's (comparing a human to pudding) . 
 This game is absolutely not worth 30 dollars, in fact, I am sure it is not worth 10 dollars. You 
 can't hit people from point-blank range, the paintball goes straight through them! The AI, again, 
 is like a box of pudding, always staring the wrong way, shooting at walls... Awful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintball451
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  it says i need a new update, but when i go to get an update, it says i have the latest version. 
 helpppppppppppp. has anybody ever had this problem with theyre game? because i really need help. 
 thats all i had to say but i have to have 100 words in this thing. so. i dont know what else to 
 say. ill just waist all this time telling you how i dont have anything else to say. so hows life? 
 got kids? yea me too. mine are ages 8 and 12. no just kidding i dont have kids. DANG why does this 
 thing neeeed sooo many words??? hmm. i love cake? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proflac
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  You can go on and on naming sports, but there are sports and then there are games. Paintball is 
 a game. You have teammates, rules and goals. If I think back to my P'ball days in which I refereed 
 on a weekly basis and par-
  ticipated on numerous occasions -- including tournaments -- there are ele- ments of the game of paintball 
 that translate well in this particular shooter.
  Having just started playing the game I must say the sound effects -- the markers discharging, the 
 shots that go whizzing past, the balls that break on cover and obstacles -- are instantly appreciated 
 by this old school baller.
  Another aspect of the game's feel I dig are the player graphics. In third person view, it's like 
 I'm watching fierce paintball action for the first time, again! Opposing players at a distance 
 tend to look a little on the poor side
  and there movement a bit stiff -- but they shoot straight as hell! Also, opposing players nicknames 
 hanging over their heads is more video game than the real deal -- it does let you know who shot you 
 last round, though. And trust me, you won't be satisfied with letting bygones be bygones -- especially 
 not after you've been "lit up."
  Gameplay is good, and it's fun to use movement, obstacles and angles to your advantage -- opponents 
 disadvantage: ( . With the different fields to choose from, you are sure to find at least one to 
 your liking, if not a handful. The greatest pleasure I've gotten from the game is probably eliminating 
 all opposing players single-handedly. It makes up for all the beatings you take on a regular basis 
 in this "GAME." Unfortunatley, this may prove to be one weakspot in that the team you play with, 
 you only play with -- there is no communicating tactics to my knowledge. But that's a realism issue, 
 and if you're after mega realistic game play, then go do the real thing. NO NOT YOU-YOU G. T. A. 
 BRAT!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Certain sports will just never translate into exciting videogames. Take lawn bowling, for example. 
 Croquet comes to mind as well. Or how about catfish grabbin'?
  
  You wouldn't think paintball would fit into that category, though. After all, playing paintball 
 is like playing a live-action first-person shooter, just without the live rounds or grisly consequences. 
 It should make the perfect videogame, right? Well, not if Global Star Software and Cat Daddy Games 
 have anything to say about it. 
  
  War is Neon Hell
  
  Turns out realistic paintball -- which is what Splat tries to convey -- makes for a pretty boring virtual 
 sport. The sights and sounds of all-out war that give most first-person shooters a greater sense 
 of excitement are replaced with pings and pops as little brightly-colored projectiles make their 
 slow arc across fields littered with a mixture of dilapidated buildings, garbage, or inflated neon 
 bouncy castles. 
  
  And you know what? None of it matters. The setting and the game type you choose in Renegade Paintball 
 is nothing but window dressing, since the gameplay never changes whether you're playing team deathmatch 
 or king of the hill -- you're basically stuck running across a map, dueling with an enemy for four 
 or five seconds until one of you gets off a lucky shot, and repeating. 
  
  Toe-to-Toe
  
  Yes, lucky shots are really the only way you will kill or be killed in Renegade Paintball. 
 Again, in what seems like an attempt to make this game a bit more realistic, the shots you fire 
 are about as accurate as George W. Bush uttering the word "nuclear." Even standing directly in 
 front of an opponent and firing at point-blank range doesn't guarantee a hit. Paintballs careen 
 off to the left or the right, and have very little airtime thanks to their slow velocity and the 
 pesky forces of gravity. 
  
  While picking off your target from a few feet away requires more luck than skill, doing a bit of 
 sharp shooting from cover a good distance away is almost an impossibility, which further limits 
 Renegade Paintball's appeal, since very fight ends up being the same fight. No real strategy involved 
 here. 
  
  Artificially Unintelligent
  
  Not that finding cover really matters that much, anyway. The A. I. in Renegade Paintball is a painful 
 mix of never-miss sharpshooters and elementary school dropouts. It's not uncommon to find some 
 of your computer-controlled opponents standing out in the open, reacting to nothing (even if you 
 stand right next to them) . Oftentimes these same geniuses will be staring at a wall or something.
 
  
  On the other hand, you'll get some A. I. opponents who can pick you off with deadly accuracy from 
 across a level. Seriously, you'll get no warning someone's even shooting at you (normally a few 
 paintballs will splatter around you before the lucky shot actually hits) . It destroys any sort 
 of learning curve or strategy the game might have hadwell, further destroys it. 
  
  Weekend Rental
  
  It has to be said that multiplayer Renegade Paintball is a bit more enjoyable 
 than the single-player experience for a little while. But that's mostly because everyone else is 
 dealing with the same control and aiming issues you are. And once everyone realizes each game mode 
 amounts to the exact same experience, interest dies quickly. In the end, Splat Magazine Renegade 
 Paintball is a rental at best, and that's only if all the good games are already rented. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckXIII
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Looks like PC isn't going to get any form of a good paintball game such as Greg Hastings. In terms 
 of paintball, this game has no realistic markers, gear, or even the right rules when it comes to 
 speedball. Unless you change certain things around more than likely you'll end up in a speedball 
 map but start somewhere totally off like the corners of the map. If you speedballed, then you know 
 thats totally off. 
  
  But ok, let's move away from it as a paintball techie perspective. As a PC game its hard to put 
 into words. There's no real other paintball game for PC that comes this close to having somewhat 
 of a paintball game besides DPB or upcomming Unreal Tournament Paintball Mod so its hard to really 
 compare. The graphics are fairly decent, but the markers are ugly, the gameplay can be quite boring 
 do to very little sounds besides the normal poping of compressed air from the barrels. What your 
 really left with is about 3 mp3 tracks worth of music, 5 or so mp3s for sound, and a lot of background 
 flashiness but boring weapons. 
  
  Don't bother wasting your life on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudMage
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game i love to paintball irl so trying out the games now. the graphics were ok sounds 
 ok game play iffyi dont know if i will buy the game though. but would play if it was free. the 
 learning time for the game is farily short pont and click, awesome fireing rate for the guns. the 
 reactions could be faster on the computer players, other then all of the that it was ok not the 
 best but not the worst. why 100 words.. why not 50 i dont know what else to tell you about.... 
 it wasent that great so how can i ahev 100 words to say about ti... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Burn2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  Hey, Why does everybody have to be so mean about this game??? it works on lower spec pcs, its great 
 fun, and its quite realistic! be a paintball lover and play it, itl keep you occupied! Many an 
 hour have i spent playing this game, going through the career, making my own arenas, making new 
 challenges all the time! It is an excellent fps to play over LAN if you have a few paintball buddies 
 to play with, try overpowering the other team, use different markers, this games great! the only 
 downside i see is that i think that you should win money, and have to buy your guns and clothes... anyway....! 
 just try it, you may find it a little too addictive.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennylum
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Please ignore my friend's review. He is just trying to piss me off. Let me explain, this is the 
 best game ever...
  
  He came to my house when I had a broken XBOX. Second of all the game that was being played was 
 Greg Hasting's Paintball Max'd, not Splat Magazine Renegade Paintball.
  
  Ever since I mentioned that I was going to purchase this game with my EB Games store credit all 
 my friends made fun of this game.
  
  Another reviewer remarks that dukeslinger never played the game, it's true. Greg Hasting's never 
 loaded because my XBOX was old, so we went back to playing Halo 2. Then I got Greg Hasting's to 
 work, except it was really laggy, and so was Splat Magazine Paintball. Splat Magazine literally 
 had frame skips. It's almost as if the XBOX can't play newer games, if the XBOX is old.
  
  Getting back on track, Splat is the best game ever. The engine is sort of odd, the music may not 
 be music from real artists, but who cares? For example, when you dive to the ground, the marker 
 will sort of do weird things like rock left and right. I guess the game's problems are in the ground 
 action. That's why I usually crouch.
  
  The real phenomenon in this game lies in the gameplay. First of all its an awesome concept. A paintball 
 is a one hit kill. Many people call this game unrealistic, when actually, it's the most realistic 
 game out there. The engine is actually pretty good, it won't make you dizzy, like Halo 2. You get 
 a quick thrill when paintballs are whizzing by your head, it's sort of like the Matrix. Your body 
 jolts when you get shot by suprise. You feel angry when you get shot. This game is absolutely phenomenol. 
 I like it better than Greg Hasting's Max'd.
  
  This game really shine's in capture the flag mode. You have to walk across a field and flank your 
 enemies and then steal the flag. This game is very hard, but very fun as opposed to being very 
 hard and not at all fun. The graphics are very realistic and beautiful.
  
  If you are familiar with FPS engines, you should be able to play this very fun game. You can also 
 peak out of corners, and reload and whatnot.
  
  There are 28 missions, and I'm about 1/5 done with the game, it's very hard. You have to win 2/3 
 matches and for some reason when you play capture the flag, and neither team wins within the allotted 
 time, you get a loss. Still that's the fun of it.
  
  The engine is also very good, I think better than Halo 2's. The balls arc, and you feel satisfied 
 when you shoot someone. If you shoot enough people it say's "Your on Fire".
  
  This version of paintball is very different than Greg Hasting's. This version is more fast-paced 
 and action-packed. I cannot really say this because I didn't even beat the first level of Greg 
 Hasting's Max'd. Splat is just too much fun.
  
  Again as I said, this is the most realistic game ever. I mean, what kind of game is it where you 
 get shot by a sub machine gun and can keep walking?
  
  In real life, if we get shot, we can't keep running and jumping, we usually stop. I have been dreaming 
 of a videogame where there are one hit kills and the players are in a flatground area, that game 
 happened to be paintball.
  
  Gameplay isn't based off what item you get like in Halo 2. Then the point of the game becomes who 
 can get the sword, who can get the rocket launcher, not who has the best gameplay. Games are not 
 about who can pick up medkits just so they can use it when they get shot, games are supposed to 
 be fun. What kind of game is it where, we have to pick up other guns to replace the gun we already 
 have? Shouldn't the programmers have programed a good default gun? Is this suggesting that programmers 
 just can program one good gun? Or is the concept of the game to pick up guns, overshields, and 
 medkit, just so we can get shot 50 times and then use the medkit? Where's the fun in that?
  
  Who even plays RPG's? Why play a game to read, and do puzzles, things we do in school. We play 
 games to escape, escape to a world where we are judged by the skill of our gameplay, not by what 
 items we have or have picked up, not by how many treasure chests we've found, not by how well we 
 scourage a dungeon, not by how well we essentially "escape" a dungeon, only to find our way in 
 yet another town or dungeon, or open plain?
  
  Paintball games are the epitomy of fun. And, oh yeah, you can tell that my friend, dukeslinger 
 is just doing the review for pure spite on me, giving the game the lowest score possible. It's 
 obvious that he never even played the game. He doesn't use the word marker, dive, or ball arc. 
 I don't think he even uses the word paintball in it. He says the word developer is foolish for 
 making the game, but it's obvious that anyone who bought the game would know the developers are 
 take-two, and cat-mad or mad-cat, evilcat or something-cat or cat-something.
  
  He could be writing a review for any game. Look 0 of 4 people agree with him. Look dukeslinger, 
 I'm going to report you for abuse, haha just kidding. Look all of these games got hella good scores 
 anyway geesh.
  
  I plan to spend more than 100 hours playing this game. And no I don't have this game on PC but 
 for XBOX. And neither does my friend, obviously. I should also mention the importance of getting 
 on the high ground which is makes hills and slopes very valuable. It's a game where you MUST be 
 sneaky to capture the flag. Usually if you go out running with guns ablazing you will get shot 
 so fast. For example, in Halo 2, you could go sneaking around, now I'm talking about easy mode, 
 which even for me was hard. There are no difficulty levels in Splat paintball by the way. Anyway 
 in Halo 2, you could sneak around and do all those things, or you could charge right in and melee 
 everyone. It really doesn't make a difference. But in Paintball, you MUST sneak around sometimes, 
 and at other times you MUST run into the battlefield. Well, not really. But you get my point. Paintball 
 is really tactical, not because the computer tells you to do little dumb missions, which it doesn't, 
 but because of the brilliant design of this game. This game doesn't have a difficulty level, because 
 it already knows it's fun. It already knows it's challenging. It doesn't have little missions or 
 quests or rewards, because it already knows that Capture the Flag, Elimination, and all that are 
 so fun. It doesn't make you stronger than you're allies and enemies, which is what's so awesome. 
 Everyone's weapons are the same. Right now I'm working on a Capture the Flag with my guys versus 
 the other guys. It's a 6 versus 6. But both Greg Hasting's Max'd and Splat Paintball support 7v7 
 with bots. Again the fact that in this game it's actually important to secure the high ground, 
 like in the movie Star Wars 3; remember: "Don't even think about it, I have the high ground". The 
 reason again is that the paintballs are affected by gravity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukeslinger
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:01 am PT
Review:  I can't name a crappier game than this i feel that gamers are being ripped off by this game maybe 
 that's why it came out for so long and gamespot hasn't review this insulting game possbily the 
 most useless game on the planet the loading time is liek ps one and graphics are like below psone 
 the sounds are insulting the high scores are either promoters of the game or designers of the game 
 but sorry folks you lost big bucks for producing this game!!! never seen such a crappier game in 
 my life way better selection of shooters i think the gamespot staff doesn't even want to try this 
 game cus it's that bad 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
