-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spore
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spore/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intuitive and comprehensive customization tools.
 Oozes charm at every turn.
 Impressively broad scope.
 Great audio and art design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Individual gameplay elements are extremely simple.
 Early stages aren't very engaging.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 6,000 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 7, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spore merges multiple run-of-the-mill building blocks into a big, entertaining game. 

  Spore is an enjoyable game that pulls off an interesting balancing act. On one hand, it lets you 
 create a creature and guide its maturation from a single cell to a galactic civilization through 
 an unusual process of evolutionary development. Because the tools used to create and revise this 
 creature are so robust and amusing, and each creation's charms are so irresistible, it's hard not 
 to get attached to your digital alter ego. On the other hand, this intimacy is abandoned in the 
 long, later portions of the game, when you lead your full-grown civilization in its quest for universal 
 domination. The idea sounds ambitious, though Spore isn't as much a deep game as it is a broad 
 one, culling elements from multiple genres and stripping them down to their simplest forms. By 
 themselves, these elements aren't very remarkable; but within the context of a single, sprawling 
 journey, they complement each other nicely and deliver a myriad of delights.  

           Just keep swimming, swimming, swimming...      

  Spore's greatest asset, by far, is 
 its intuitive set of creation tools. If you've played the separate Creature Creator, released earlier 
 this year, you're only seeing a small piece of the puzzle. At various stages, you'll construct, 
 for example, town halls, land vehicles sporting cannons, and aircraft that spout religious propaganda. 
 The creatures are the true stars though, and you can mix and match legs, arms, mouths, wings, and 
 lots of other parts into a beautiful work of art -- or a hideous monstrosity. Each part of your creation 
 can be turned, resized, and twisted, so whether you wish to re-create a favorite cartoon character 
 or develop an original concept, you'll probably find what you need in here. You don't need to be 
 a budding Pablo Picasso to make an interesting creature, however; just slapping a bunch of random 
 parts together can result in a truly hysterical beast. Yet even if your onscreen buddy is a three-armed 
 ogre with scales running up his belly, you'll be spending some time getting to know him in the 
 first few hours of gameplay, and you'll probably develop some affection for him in spite of his 
 hideousness.  

  You will need to put some creative energy into Spore, but if you aren't the artistic type or don't 
 find the building- and vehicle-creation tools as interesting as those for your creature, you can 
 use premade designs that ship with the game. Even better, you can utilize Spore's extensive community 
 tools, inserting other players' innovations into your own game in progress. It's actually a lot 
 of fun to sift through others' creations, if only to marvel at the remarkable amount of imagination 
 on display. And you can do this from within the game proper using an online database called the 
 Sporepedia. In Spore, community and gameplay come together in a fresh and user-friendly manner. 
 In fact, to get the most out of the game, you should be online whenever you play. Not only will 
 doing so give you access to the Sporepedia, but most of the other creatures, vehicles, and even 
 entire planets you encounter will have been created by other players. The early release of the 
 Creature Creator has already proven that community involvement is a core aspect of the Spore experience, 
 and the sharing factor is poised to give the game remarkable longevity.  

  In a game of Spore proper, however, you won't start off by molding the creature of your dreams. 
 The game is split into five stages, starting with the cell stage. (However, once you unlock a stage, 
 you can start a new game there and bypass any stage that comes before it) . The creation tools at 
 this stage are simple, limited to a 2D cell and a few odds and ends, like flagella and spikes. 
 The accompanying gameplay is similarly minimal, and if you've played Flow for the PlayStation 3 
 or PSP, you will have a good idea of how it works. You choose the path of a carnivore or an herbivore 
 at the outset, which determines what sort of food bits you can munch on. From here, you maneuver 
 your cell about the screen using the keyboard or mouse, avoiding creatures that are looking to 
 you for their next meal while grabbing a bite or two yourself. If you're an herbivore, you seek 
 out the green algae; if you're a carnivore, you need meat, which means waiting for a fish fight 
 to break out and gobbling up the remains, or starting the fight yourself.  

  You'll also uncover new parts as you swim about, and can then attach them to your organism. To 
 enter the cell creator, you send out a mating call, which lets you get romantic with another member 
 of your species. Then, you add a few bits that make you swim faster or jab harder, and jump back 
 into the gene pool. However, it is all ultrasimple: You swim around eating so you can get bigger, 
 and avoid being eaten. If you do fall victim to a sharp-toothed protozoan, you'll rehatch with 
 no real punishment. All in all, the cell stage may last you 20 or 25 minutes, which is just as 
 well, since it's not very interesting and wears out its welcome quickly.  

  Soon enough, you'll leave the environs of the sea, add some legs, and lumber into the creature 
 stage. You'll still find new parts scattered about, this time hidden within the skeletal remains 
 of other beasts. Again, the gameplay itself is pretty simple: You wander around exploring for other 
 creatures and advance through the stage by either befriending other nests or conquering them. If 
 you want to go the aggressive route, you should equip sharp claws, tusks, and spitters; if you 
 want to make friends with the local duck-billed orangutans, you'll go with parts that let you charm, 
 sing, dance, and pose. Should you decide on violence, the encounter plays out much like a very 
 plain online RPG, in which you click on your target and use one of your four special abilities 
 to do damage. If you want to make friends by singing and dancing, you'll play a little game of 
 Simon Says, mimicking the actions of your hopeful buddies. As you progress through the stage, you 
 build up a little pack of followers, and they will join you in your battles -- and your posing routines. 

           For carnivores, this truly is forbidden fruit.      

  The gameplay in the creature stage may be simple, but it's here that you start to see what can 
 make playing Spore such a special and rewarding experience. Seeing your creature slowly evolve 
 from a flat cell to an awkward, gangly land dweller is fun, particularly if he doesn't look as 
 though such a beast in real life would be able to walk, much less bounce around the forest. This 
 is where your relationship with the creature is most prominent, and that connection is what makes 
 the exploration of the creature stage so interesting. When you encounter a towering six-legged 
 atrocity charging at the locals, you'll hightail it out of there -- yet still be in awe, just as 
 if you were the little guy himself. It's more about the gawking than the playing, but whether you're 
 joining a pack of polka-dotted parakeets in chorus or catching a glimpse of an overhead UFO, there 
 are some legitimately appealing moments to be had.  

  Once you reach the tribal stage, you will lose some of that connection with your creation. You 
 will no longer be playing as an individual, but rather controlling a tribe, and the stage plays 
 like a slimmed down real-time strategy game. It's disappointing that you can no longer make adjustments 
 to your tribe's main features past this point; you can, however, adorn the creatures with different 
 clothing items for the duration. Fortunately, the charm and personality of the creature stage is 
 still very much evident, and you'll still have the same thrills as you encounter excellent and 
 unusual creatures as you order about your small group of wacky travelers. Conceptually, the tribal 
 stage is similar to the creature stage, only now you focus the violence on an entire village, including 
 structures. If you like that sort of thing, you can go so far as to equip tribe members with torches 
 and set the enemy village ablaze. If you'd rather woo your neighbors with the sweet, soothing sounds 
 of song, there are a few instruments at your disposal.     

   

  Spore then pulls an about-face when you reach the civilization stage. Gone are your creature-controlling 
 days; your beloved brutes, once the jewels of your eye, will now populate the cities, and you will 
 instead create fleets of land, sea, and air vehicles. Now you don't have just a tribe -- you have 
 an entire society to handle, though you shouldn't let the name of the stage lead you to think that 
 you'll find the complexity of Sid Meier's classic series here. The creation tools are just as easy 
 to use -- and just as comprehensive -- as those of the creature creator. Designing a mass of metal 
 may not have the same charm as molding a living being from scratch, but the tools give you more 
 control over patterns and colors, so expect to lose more hours of your life tinkering with the 
 possibilities. You'll also create a town hall, a house, a factory, and an entertainment venue, 
 and placing these in your cities has an effect on the happiness of your residents. However, the 
 happiness mechanic is so simple that most players should be able to beat the stage on even the 
 highest difficulty setting without giving it much thought.  

           A religious conversion is in progress. Preach it!       

  The stage plays out like 
 an even broader version of the tribal stage, though you will be dealing with some light resource 
 gathering. However, the main strategic element comes from the three different ways you can conquer 
 your foes: economic, religious, or military. Each city is limited to one of these three brands 
 based on how you choose to play, though the process plays out remarkably the same, regardless. 
 For example, if you go for military victory, you send your attack units toward your enemy cities 
 in standard RTS fashion. To convert the same city, you send religious vehicles over to broadcast 
 a holographic image that preaches to the citizens. It's neat to watch the transparent creature 
 spouting the word over the opposing city -- it's just too bad that the gameplay is so limited. Each 
 city can produce only one type of land vehicle, one type of air vehicle, and one type of sea vehicle. 
 If you go for a pure military victory, for example, you will see only three units in the stage. 
 It's breezy and enjoyable, for sure -- it's just not deep or challenging.  

  And in its final transformation, Spore enters the space stage, where many of the previous gameplay 
 elements coalesce. As a result, this stage feels like an actual destination, and while it's not 
 nearly as complex as the space exploration games it cribs from, it does exhibit the great charms 
 of the early stages that are missing from the civilization stage. This is partially because it 
 harks back to the creature stage, putting you in control of a single spacecraft (one you build 
 using the wonderful creation tools, of course) , and sending you off to explore the great black 
 beyond. The scope of this stage is suitably massive. You travel from star to star, exploring newly 
 discovered planets and searching for your galactic neighbors, and you can skim the terrain of a 
 planet -- or pull the camera light-years away to see the entire galaxy at a glance.  

  This stage is somewhat reminiscent of 2002's terrific Space Rangers and its sequel, and even exhibits 
 some of that game's wacky humor. You travel from system to system, grabbing missions from the local 
 civilizations who will crack jokes about everything from cake to umbrellas. Most of these missions 
 are quick and to the point: abduct this creature and bring it back, eliminate a bunch of sick animals 
 on this planet, eliminate all of our enemy's turrets on a neighboring world, and so on. Just as 
 in the creature stage, you will eventually pick up some AI companions, further allowing you to 
 expand across the galactic map.  

  To expand, you can't just plop down a colony and watch it evolve. The economy moves much more slowly 
 in this stage than in previous ones, so you need to be careful about how you spend funds based 
 on how you wish to play. Nor can you just choose any planet. Some worlds are simply incapable of 
 supporting life, while others need to have the environment altered to allow for expansion and population. 
 This is where the terraforming tools come in. Not only may you need to drop items onto the terrain 
 to increase the density of the atmosphere or make the air hotter, but you'll need to jump-start 
 the ecology by throwing in plants and creatures abducted from other worlds. These tools don't just 
 limit you to gameplay necessities, however. You can terraform entire swaths of land, putting craters 
 and plateaus where you see fit, or even dyeing the water purple. In space stage there is, for the 
 first time in Spore, a lot to do. At times, you are shooting lasers at enemy saucers, like a 3D 
 action game; at others, you're outfitting colonies with turrets; at still others, you're negotiating 
 trade routes with your allies. It's a pleasant and accessible mix.  

  Unsurprisingly, none of these elements are as deep as you would expect in a deep space strategy 
 game, but the real joys come from swooping onto a planet and skimming its surface to see your own 
 creations -- and those of others -- populating them, and in various stages of advancement. The stylized, 
 colorful visuals keep your eyes constantly engaged, from big, bulbous trees to herds of tentacled 
 younglings frolicking about. The animations are top-notch, so while it's hard to imagine what a 
 bowlegged, long-necked crane with four toes on each foot would actually look like as it ambled 
 about, Spore makes such sights look goofily authentic. It isn't a technical powerhouse; there is 
 a good bit of geometry pop-in, and the game does not appear to support antialiasing. Its charming, 
 exaggerated look more than makes up for it though, and on three separate machines of various specifications, 
 Spore ran smoothly at the highest settings without a single crash.  

           Pirate ships will zoom off with stolen spices. Rival civilizations aren't so cowardly. 

  Spore's sound design shines from beginning to end. The creatures themselves sound terrific, and 
 are the source of much of the game's overflowing charm. The creature and tribal stages sound enchanting, 
 from the thumping beat of the drums when you order tribal units to the squawks and squeaks of your 
 creations. The subsequent stages are of similarly high quality. Of particular note is the customizable 
 ambient music introduced in the civilization stage, and the hysterical incomprehensible Simlish 
 spoken by the various galactic leaders.  

  Spore keeps a timeline of events, pinpointing every decision you've made and assigning you into 
 broad categories based on your overall behavior (social, adaptable, and so on) , so there's plenty 
 of reason to try a different approach. Not that these varied approaches make for drastically different 
 gameplay, but they do give you a reason to revisit the amusing moments that make Spore unique. 
 Taken on their own, its pieces are nothing special. As parts of a singular ambitious vision, they 
 work far better. Throw in the best customization tools seen in years and an enthusiastic community 
 brimming with creativity, and you have a legitimately great game that will deliver hours of quality 
 entertainment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (508 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I personally own this game, and the 2 most exciting parts of the game are the cell stage and the 
 space stage. the remaining stages are meant to build your species up for the Space stage.
  
  As far as my review goes, The game itself delivers what most games cant. A good strategy, creation, 
 yet fun game to play without over complicating it.
  
  I gave this game a 7.5 rating because there minor bugs and disappointments in the game, which hopefully 
 the Spore: Galactic Adventures Expansion will Clear right up.
  
  Game-play: 3/5
  Ease of use: 5/5
  Visual/Graphics: 4/5
  Characters (in Space Stage) : 2/5 ~ Voices are too similar 
 to each species
  
  Overall: I recommend this game, it is a must have for pc game fanatics. I will let you know this 
 right now, this game is longer than it seems. A lot of time will pass for very little progress. 
 So, take your time playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Szeiden
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Intuitive editors 
  -Extensive customization
  -Myriad of downloadable creations for those lacking creativity 
  -Original presentation (You 
 won't find any game quite like Spore)
  
  The Bad:
  -Creatures do not have much impact on the game
  -Unoriginal gameplay (Each "stage" is reminiscent 
 of games you have played before)
  
  
  At first glance, spore appears to be a unique game. Indeed, it is one of a kind, but to what extent? 
 Spore is essentially a combination of many genres of games. There are five stages. 
  
  Stage one is a pacmanesque arcade game (more reminiscent of flOw, but not as many people have heard 
 of that game)
  
  Stage two is an RPG.
  
  Stage three is an RTS.
  
  Stage four is a larger scale RTS.
  
  Stage five is a... well... I know there are games out 
 there like it, but I haven't played any so I guess I can't really classify it. 
  
  This may sound great, and it is to a certain extent; However, I should warn you that each of these 
 stages is significantly stripped down. There is not any really problem with this as the individual 
 stages fit together nicely and make for what would otherwise be a shallow game (although it could 
 easily be argued that it is a shallow game regardless) . Let's just say, it may be somewhat shallow, 
 but entertaining nonetheless.
  
  The editors (creature, building, and vehicle) all work in essentially the same way. They are tailored 
 to players of all levels of "devotion". A player who wishes to devote a lot of time and detail 
 into a creation has the ability to create something truly amazing. At the same time, the editor 
 is intuitive and not overly complex such that users who wish to make a simple creation and leave 
 it at that are free to do so without having to spend an eternity figuring out the basics.
  
  My main problem with this game is the space stage. Given that the main point of the game is 
 supposed to be creating your very own creature, it comes as somewhat of a disappointment to me 
 that after the tribal age (or perhaps even as soon as the creature age) , your "special" creation 
 has little impact on the rest of the game. Sure, in the space age there is a portrait of your creature, 
 but does that mean much? No. That is the main reason that, despite my initial enjoyment of the 
 game, I quickly lost interest after colonizing a few planets and gaining access to most of the 
 ship tools. There really wasn't much to do in the space stage. Essentially all you do in the space 
 stage is colonizing new planets and defending your old ones. Combat is nothing special. All it 
 involves is strafing around opponents and clicking on them as fast as possible. Colonizing planets 
 isn't much better. While it is fun initially, all you really have to do is use the right tools 
 at the right time. This becomes old all too quickly.
  
  Do not misunderstand me, the space stage is a good start. Colonizing planets yields a certain satisfaction 
 that I have yet to find in other games. The only problem is that after colonizing a planet, there 
 isn't much reason to visit it again except to ward of attackers (which is more of a nuisance than 
 an enjoyment) or to collect spice (Spore's currency) . The latter of which doesn't even require 
 the player to visit the planet itself, just the solar system in which the planet is located. 
 
  
  So, what is the solution? Spore Galactic Adventures. In reading previews of this expansion, it 
 appears that my problems with the game will largely be addressed. Apparently, users will be able 
 to partake in a drastically improved creature stage bringing significance to your creation once 
 more and allowing you to partake in user "quests" and pre-made "quests" on planets throughout the 
 universe. I have high hopes for this expansion, but only time will tell. Don't take my word for 
 it though, check it out yourself. 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/sporegalacticadventures/news. html? mode=previews&om_act=convert&om_clk=gssummary&tag=summary; previews
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  For the last couple days I've been playing Spore and I've gotten say, that it's one of the most 
 f&*ked up games I've played in some time. It tries to be so many things that it's a little too 
 much to swallow all it once. This game forces feeds so many game-play mechanics that it's mind 
 boggling.
  
  At first you play as a cell in a game that has about the same amount of content as a game you could 
 find on a flash based website. Then it turns into kind of an adventure/RPG type game, then an RTS 
 and finally.......... well an RTS, but with a much, much, much bigger map. 
  
  The main gimmick in this game is that you can customize your entire world, and it means that literally. 
 You start off customizing your critter throughout the first couple stages, then when your a tribe 
 you customize your tribe clothing and then into civilization stage you customize all of your buildings 
 and all of your units.
  
  Then in space mode is where the game really got fun for me. This is where you can basically morph 
 the whole god***n universe. Every single planet that you visit you can colonize and land cities, 
 and Spore creatures and you add flora and fauna.
  
  This game being made by the same man who created the Sims, it's no surprise that there is so much 
 customization throughout this game. It's mind blowing really. I'm almost surprised that the box 
 didn't simply come with a copy of 3-d graphic software and message that said
  "Here you go, here's your personal universe in a box, you just have to make it."
  So if your 
 a person who loves to build and loves absolutely no structure and wants to have it your way, then 
 this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ondskan
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  For me this game was a huge disappointment. The fact that the levels lacked depth and were over 
 before you could really accomplish anything was the biggest letdown. The creature creator which 
 the developers clearly spent so much time with seemed only to emphasize the complete lack of game 
 play, making it seem worse.
  
  I found myself getting bored as the game progressed, doing ultimately the same thing over and over. 
 By the time I reached space I was completely indifferent. 
  
  One of the things that made this game almost unplayable for me was the lack of a mouse reverse 
 option. I am one of those players that uses this option and if you are used to it one way you cannot 
 play it the other. EA does this constantly, leaving out customization of controls. A patch came 
 and went and nothing. This is such an easy thing to incorporate, why wouldn't you allow your fans/customers 
 the ability to customize any and all controls the way you see fit?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Hard to describe this game or to compare it because theres nothing like it.. Which is good and 
 bad.
  Its good because not existing something like it its something fresh and addicting.. at least the 
 first two times you play it.. or the two creatures you decide to create.. The first time its preety
 
  memorable since its something completely new and there is that charm of starting as a microscophic 
 cell and evolve all the way till the space age.. For me this where problems did start.. A game that 
 was preety basic and simple but still addictive, in one hour turned out in a completely different 
 game.. The space age
  is a different game of what you had been playing around until you got to that particular stage.
 
  
  Its interesting but gets way too long and boring after a while so I went back creating another 
 creature this time with hard settings and reaching again space age.. where I stooped again.. For 
 some reason that space age feels out of place.. Its good but it was not to be part of Spore.. at 
 least not like that.
  I know a lot of people like that particular part of the game but I really felt like the game ends 
 when you go to space.
  At least half of the way in space is cool.. After that gets tedious. Another flaw is when you get 
 to modern age so to speak
  and you get to create/build your house, plane, thank, boat etc.. you only get one type. You can 
 only build one type of tank
  plane and boat.. like some more units could be used to turn that part of the game more interesting..
 
  Other then that the game is great and addicting and does what few games do.. makes you come back 
 one of these days.
  So my final note is you will definitelly give it a 9 fist time you play it after that turns out 
 in a 7 or 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  a good attempt at makeing this kind of game for maxis- trys to combind lots of game styls into 
 one -arcade -first person (kind of) - old style RTS - stratagy ETC, graphics are pritty good but 
 at higher praphics many things take long to load. creature creator is realy good but sometimes 
 the veiw is anoying and the dimensions are weird. Lots of people were saying its bad beacuse of 
 resale i dont get that... the creepy and cute parts back made the creature creator more "engoyible". 
 and its patcher and installer seem to be alittle dated for vista but maxis i think took all the 
 time makeing all the buildings-heh so far ive made like a hundred things. its worth getting.
  
  -madey not the expansion saw some pitcures of that it dosn't look that good
  
  -your fellow 
 gamer Mike1238
  Or mikey1238
  Or Aldaris0
  Or Aldaris1238 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewa417
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been following Spore since the very first premier at GDC 2005. It was amazing. The ultimate 
 game; a wild, realistic simulation where you can create anything you desire, and watch it come 
 to life. Place a spike on your creature's tail, and watch him swing his body around to try and 
 hit the other creatures. Add a giant ball to his body, and watch him collapse under the weight 
 and fall over. This was what kept me awake at nights. This was Spore. The Space stage truly felt 
 like space. A gigantic galaxy, where you can explore everything freely and do as you wish. You 
 can throw an animal into orbit around a planet. You can fly to a planet and make the people worship 
 you. This was Spore.
  Not what we have today. 
  Today we have a puppet show. The only real part where your creature's design has the slightest 
 influence on the gameplay is the cell stage. Everything else is crap. EVERY SINGLE CREATURE is 
 the same. In fact, an epically giant spider with spikes for hands and spikes coming out of those 
 spikes could be EASILY beaten by a hamster with one single, higher level spike on it's ass. Creature 
 design does NOTHING. You could create a gigantic creature leaning impossibly back, balancing on 
 one microscopic foot, and it would still move perfectly fine. No, this isn't good, its unrealistic 
 and makes the game look very cheap. Which is another thing. Before, the creatures animated entirely 
 through physics, which made them exactly like real animals. Now, they have choppy, jumpy animations 
 that "pop" from one to the other. The verb-combining they talked about in the video is nonexistent 
 at all. The battles are horribly boring. Imagine Pokemon, with only one attack. Punch. This is 
 Spore. Your creature stretches forwards (very unrealistically, I might add) , and swings his arm 
 in the general enemy's direction. Then he resets his position. This all happens in a turn-based 
 button-clicking system. The creatures don't roam around at all, and you have no freedom to do anything, 
 you can only (a poor excuse for) "fight" the creatures, or dance with them, which is essentially 
 an incredibly (in fact, a toddler could play it) easy game of Simon says. It is almost exactly 
 the same as the fighting, except you match the moves instead of choosing your own. I once put a 
 hand hanging UNDER my creature, and clicked on a fruit in a tree for my creature to eat. The fruit 
 magically teleported a few meters from the tree into my creature's hand. Once your creature kills 
 enough thing/makes enough friends (these are the ONLY ways to advance through the game) , you press 
 a button and your creature instantly becomes smart. Now you control a group of these creatures 
 in what is probably the most mediocre RTS I have ever played. You simply build a bunch of guys, 
 give them tools (weapons or instruments) and click on another tribe to ally/kill them. May I add 
 that the planet feels very very small at this point. I'm starting to notice a pattern here. In 
 every stage eliminating/befriending others work exactly the same, with the exception of a different 
 animation. Once you've killed/allied the other 4 or 5 tribes, you click a button and your tribe 
 becomes a city. Here, you get to design your own buildings (but the design doesn't affect anything) , 
 design your own land vehicles (but the design doesn't affect anything) , design your own boats (but 
 the design doesn't affect anything) , or design your own planes (but the design doesn't affect anything) . 
 See, you can put 10 gigantic guns on your kick-ass robot, but it will still fire one single blue 
 ball vertically at the enemy bases. This stage is essentially the same as the tribal, except more 
 futuristic. Again, just as I predicted, conquering or allying an enemy city works EXACTLY THE SAME 
 WAY, except for the animation. Once you have conquered all these cities, you go to the SPACE STAGE!! 
 Yeah!! This is what this game is all about, right? WRONG. The space stage's fun lasts about one 
 or two days. I tried to milk the gameplay, but deep down I knew I was doing the same repetitive 
 task over and over again. Then there are the global disasters. LITERALLY every 5 minutes, some 
 crisis happens to one of your colonies, and you have to fix it, usually by doing some boring repetitive 
 task. I got a mod that made these much less frequent, but then I realized they were simply cheap 
 perfume covering up a bad smell: by bad smell, I mean that there was nothing really there. There 
 is nothing to do in the space stage. You can fantasize, and make up ideas and stories in your head, 
 but then what is the point of the game? All in all, I am very disappointed. I have tried MANY, 
 many times to try to enjoy this game, but I just can't. They spent years making an amazing game, 
 then spent another few years REMOVING content (which is why the release was delayed from 2006 to 
 2007 and eventually 2008) . Maxis, it was an absolutely idiotic idea of making this game the way 
 it is. No, this game can not be turned into the original via expansion packs. It is too simple, 
 it would be impossible. They would need to re-make the original from scratch.
  Please, Maxis, make a good Spore. dig into your old files, fix up that 2005 demo, and release it 
 under the name "Spore 2".
  
  A video comparing the old creature stage to the new one:
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=q3OG6tv-5II
  
  PS. The reason this game is pirated so much is 
 because it is not worth the money and is filled with SecuROM crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renato1988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  When i heard for spores and save the trailer i knew it will be an great game and that i will for 
 sure buy it, even thought all people tell its very disappointing but it isn't even bad its just 
 short and if you played it you won't want to play it again. With his unique gameplay that you start 
 as a tiny spore and eat other similar size or plants how you choose, each time you kill someone 
 you'll get DNA that is like exp you grove bigger and bigger until you get to land and you can adjust 
 your look however you want, and that is probably the best part in the game, you can look just like 
 some bird or fish but you can look like something never seen before. After you get to land you 
 again adjust your look, your in "animal" stage you can be ether carnivore or an plant eater. You 
 can also just go and hunt down other animals or you can be friendly with them and hunt with them 
 or find another friends with them. Later on you move from spot to spot and in the end you eat enough 
 and you enter "tribe" stage. You have some of another same breed as you are. You can kill large 
 animals or small ones with axes and spears and bring food to your tribe. Eventually another tribe 
 will come and you will fight or become friendly and so you can adjust look with some cloths, gems, 
 amulets and stuffs. After you destroy a enough number of tribes you will enter civilization stage. 
 Here you can adjust how your Main hall looks like, you can make it look like an tower, an giant 
 building, you can do anything here, but that's not all you can change the shapes and also make 
 houses you adjust, factories, fun houses. After you have done all the things you go to cars, boats, 
 and aircraft. Now here you can't be friendly you can just take the city by force, here gameplay 
 is more strategic, not like in animal stage where it is in only one "guy". And at last you build 
 an spaceship and you learn to fly it in beginning its quite hard to learn but in few minutes you 
 will get it.
  At least the space is quite long and thrilling your home planted gets attacked, you defend it or 
 you can just defeat enemies at their planets. And not to be disappointed there are very large number 
 of plantes you can go to and you can even make the atmosphere on some plantes make it able to live 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angre_Leperkan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I figured I should finally review this game. I'd followed it for somewhere around 3 years, and 
 I was really excited when it was released. On September 7th, I ran out to the store and got it 
 and brought it home, immediately installing it. I played it a lot, and now that the initial excitement 
 has worn off, and I'm calm again, I feel I can give a non-bias review. To be quite honest, this 
 game was sort of a disappointment. In one of the older movies (this particular movie was my favorite) , 
 it showed a creature walking around, apparently hunting. Suddenly, it started running, chasing 
 after a creature, and stabbed it with its tail repeatedly. The creature died rather quickly with 
 spurts of blood coming out of it every time it got stabbed, and the creature ate it. In the Creature 
 Phase of Spore, it isn't like that movie at all. If you have a tail, you don't EVER use to attack 
 enemies (I even removed a creature's arms to see if it would do anything with its tail, and it 
 still didn't) , all the creatures are in nests, and each one has a certain relationship of you. 
 For example, if you attack a single creature of a certain nest, EVERY OTHER creature from that 
 nest immediately hates you. In primitive creatures, even if they all live in the same nest, they 
 don't always work together. Why wouldn't there be any creatures just wandering around (short of 
 "rogue creatures) ? I didn't like the fact that as soon as you crawled out of the water, you were 
 forced into a nest with relationships. I kinda just wanted to wander about, find a mate, mate with 
 her, then pick a place to put your nest. Then, you'd keep having babies until you had a group of, 
 say, 12 or 14. Then, you'd grow intelligent and start building a little shelter... and TADA, tribal 
 phase! Instead, you attacked or danced with other nests until you grew smart, pressed the little 
 button, and the game loaded the next phase of time... which I thought was stupid as well. Why can't 
 you just slowly advance over time with no loading screens? It was overly frustratingly simple for 
 a RPG fan such as myself, yet at the same time was almost too complex with its relationships and 
 dancing and working-together with other members of your nest/allies.
  The next phase, tribal phase, is one that I only have two major complaints of: I wish it was longer, 
 and I wish that you could design your own buildings. I didn't like the fact that you only could 
 make a total of, what, 10 buildings? I wish you could make your tribe into a little village with 
 a lot of random villages. It was overly simple, which seems to be this whole game's demise, was 
 that it was leaning towards a younger audience. I wish that you could have had more tribe members 
 as well, and that you could see more inner workings. For example, you'd see little families growing 
 up, and children and women walking around, passing markets and blacksmiths with a blacksmith making 
 weapons, and overall more of a community feel to the whole phase. However, even with those shortcomings, 
 it was my favorite phase in the game.
  The next phase, however, was my least favorite: Civilization. At that point, you have a city with 
 walls and buildings and people. Unfortunately, once again, it was overly simple. You can only make 
 3 types of buildings, you can only make three types of vehicles (no infantry, artillery, submarines, 
 helicopters, other advanced types of soldiers) . Also, I HATED the fact that based on your decisions, 
 you either had an economic city, religious city, or military. The three types of city should have 
 been combined to give you a wider range of options, making the game deeper. Unfortunately, the 
 game is very shallow in this phase. Also, what was the point of giving cities walls? I kinda wanted 
 to be able to blast a hole in the wall, and sent infantry in, watching as they shot their way through 
 the streets with civilians running around panicking, as they fought their way to the city hall. 
 Unfortunately, your tanks and airplanes and boats just shoot over the walls. You can build guns 
 on the walls, yes, but I wanted to see more inner-city combat, such as in the Total War Games. 
 Overall, the simplicity just killed me, and I hated how this game had changed over the years that 
 it was developed.
  The Space stage was refreshing and deeper than the rest of the game, but overall another disappointment. 
 I loved this mode more than others, and it is a very close 2nd behind the Tribal Phase. However, 
 it never felt like you controlled the whole empire of your race. Rather, it felt like you just 
 controlled your single ship as a mere pawn of your empire. I wish you could have built a great 
 armada of ships, such as carriers (all of these ships could be custom-made, btw) , destroyers, frigates, 
 small crafts. Also, I wish you could see merchant ships and civilian ships sailing from one planet 
 to another, and put defenses in orbit around your planets to protect them. Unfortunately, you can 
 not do any of that, making it very simple. It is also very frustrating when you have your single 
 ship, and you're forced to defend a planet or attack one. The enemy has dozens of ships all over 
 the planet, and all you have is your single ship (with maybe the help of one or two of your ally's 
 ships) Overall, even if this phase was the deepest, it wasn't deep enough... making me give this 
 game a rating of 7.5.
  Will Wright, with all your potential behind this game, you should have done better (what with the 
 older videos : [) Unfortunately, you made this E for Everyone and simplified the game play, and 
 basically took the old game play videos and destroyed them. To all who read this and don't have 
 this game, I'd suggest you borrow it before you even THINK about buying it, as it could be a disappointment 
 and a sadness to you, as it was to me. Good Riddance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drtran101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun. It's your imagination and god complex are both satisfied in a couple 
 of hours. It's like a classic 2D game in the beginning, then Sims next stage, then Diablo next, 
 then Endwar, then just traveling around the universe. Putting all those elements in one game and 
 its own imaginative twist is amazing. Plus the online feature makes playing the game again and 
 again not a repetitive and playing with your friend's creations is pretty cool too. And finding 
 out that people who have unknowingly downloaded your creature killed it or befriended it is pretty 
 funny (because I created a creature called "Smelly Hawaiian" and someone extincted it) . Killing 
 and deciding who lives and dies is a definite plus for me. But when I am feeling calm the nice 
 "keeping people alive and religion thing" is cool too. Basically anyone would like this game because 
 it just that game you play when you got time to kill or when you wanna play god and I love playing 
 god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  That surprised me a lot since for better or worse, Wright's previous Sim games all simulated a 
 particular activity with remarkable aptitude and clarity. If you get down to it, SimCity at its 
 core simulated traffic; SimTower simulated elevators. Even The Sims simulated interpersonal relationships 
 at its heart.
  
  Spore, much to my surprise, simulated nothing. Perhaps this should have been expected. After all, 
 the pre-show hype for Spore promised a game of such magnificent scope as to encompass all of existence 
 as we humans know it and dwarf all other games in its wake. Indeed, this is exactly the premise 
 of Spore. Yet, most games with such ambitions fail spectacularly, and sadly Spore is no exception.
 
  
  To put it more clearly, while trying to simulate everything, Spore ended up simulating nothing. 
 There are five stages total. I admit out of hand that several of the stages are actually rather 
 fun. The cell stage is fun, if only for the first 30 min or so. Controlling a little cartoon cell 
 around a fluid environment hunting other cells and organic matter appeals to the purist in me. 
 There is no complicated fluid dynamics; I am rather not certain how any game can possibly simulate 
 that and remain fun. There is no convoluted food chain. Your mouth determines what you can eat, 
 and your weapon determines what you can kill. About halfway through the stage, that would be everything 
 and everything. After blissfully swimming through the stage, collecting body parts along the way, 
 the stage is over. Even though I felt like I didn't do much, it was still over much too fast.
 
  
  Not to worry. The creature stage is a step upward. I feel this is one of the two most fun stages 
 of the game. It is precisely the cartoonish animated characters that has vexed some other players 
 that appeal to me. Despite their simple appearance, the creatures of Spore are delightfully animated. 
 They seem to have an expression for every emotion reasonable in a game. The exaggerated way these 
 emotions are expressed only adds to their entertainment value. Although the gameplay itself is 
 painfully simple, it fits the whole motif of fish out of water very well.
  
  Even if you want more activity, there is no need to worry; the tribal stage beckons like a bright 
 shining light that is civilization. With a handful of buildings that can equip your creatures into 
 numerous professions once they become village people, the tribal stage offers quite a bit of flexibility 
 while remaining fun and straightforward. It's actually not unlike the creature stage where you 
 have to befriend or kill other creatures. Now, though, you get to wear tribal cloth and war masks, 
 so you can sing or bite or dance or claw in style.
  
  Unfortunately, the merit of Spore ends here, anywhere from 3 - 10 hours into the game. The next 
 stage, civilization, is a terrible disappointment. To an experienced strategy gamer like myself, 
 this stage has no strategy involved. After spending some happy time designing my various vehicles, 
 I found that other than their unique skins, there is very little appreciable difference between 
 the same units of difference civilations or even land/sea/air units, other than the media through 
 which they travel. The ai has no variation or insight in their behavior, blissfully running through 
 a gauntlet of my tanks on their way to convert my spice refinery; this was on the hardest difficulty 
 setting. Provided that I balanced my initial construction well, when money was low, the rest of 
 the stage was just mechanics. I was a little relunctant to conquer the rest of the cities after 
 half on the planet fell to my might because there seemed not much point.
  
  Fortunately, if you have an economic civilization like mine, you can spend a lot of money to buy 
 out every other city on the planet. It's really quite handy. Oh, and you should see the animation 
 for the religious units when they are trying to convert a city... amazing.
  
  At last, all the fun elements of Spore have been exhausted at this point. The space stage, well, 
 is indeed the most complex and unfortunately the most dry stage of the game. You can do a number 
 of things: plant a colony, plan buildings for your colonies, buy and seed structures on your planet, 
 terraform your planet, transport various creatures, kill various creatures, ally or fight against 
 spaceships from other space empires, trade spice... Wow, that sounds like a lot. Unfortunately, 
 all of these activities are only interest the first couple of times. All colonies are constructed 
 in exactly the same way; they have the exact same # and layout of slots where you can build the 
 exact same 3 types of builds. You build structures on planet simply by buying them and dropping 
 them on the surface; there are only a few to choose and once you are a millionaire like me, you 
 can afford to put all structures on all planets that are worth upgrading. Terraforming sounds promising 
 in complexity, but once you play for 10 hours (like me) and get all the tools, a planet can be 
 terraformed from lvl 0 to 3 max in about 5 min. You pick up creatures and objects with tractor 
 beam, kill them with laser. Trade spice... well, you buy it on one planet for one price and sell 
 on another for a higher price, the dreary side of any MMORPG trading system.
  
  After ten hours, the space stage has pretty much played itself out... Additional gameplay involves 
 repeating what you have been doing. Least anyone has any misconceptions, the space stage of Spore 
 strongly resembles the creature stage instead of Galactic Civlizations (the game) . Even though 
 you have a space-faring empire, your civilization is only capable of maintaining one space ship 
 at a time. You will fight against multiple enemy space ships though, sometimes upwards of a dozen. 
 You do everything in your space ship but nothing outside of it. Your empire pretty much run itself. 
 The only thing you have to do is plant new colonies. Other empires are either friendly or not. 
 Friendly ones are good are trading spices and buying upgrades for your spaceship. Not to worry, 
 you can get all upgrades at your own civilization for a higher price. For my enemies, I have developed 
 a fail-proof strategy of using allied spaceships off planet, invincibility shield on planet, and 
 mega laser+anti-matter bombs for genocides. I can conquer any system of any civilization in a matter 
 of minutes with nominal loss to myself.
  
  Like I said, no strategy. The bottomline is, Spore is quite a fun game before its self-proclaimed 
 good part. That part, the space age, plays terribly and is a disgrace to strategy gaming everywhere. 
 Before that, continually evolving your creatures and watching them express themselves in simple 
 but animated ways. That is fun for players of all ages. Unfortunately, that part doesn't last. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a great game and all, but not quite what I was looking for when I bought this game. Apprently 
 you can't make exactly anything you want, and also the graphics are kind of kiddish/cartoonish, 
 which I thought was a turn off. I was hoping from all the tech demo's I saw, that the game was 
 going to turn out to be some high revolutionary scientific sims game, but instead it came out being 
 a scripted game for kids. I thought I would be able to decide what happend in my part of the galaxy 
 on the planet I inhabited, but it tuned out I was forced to do many missions before I got to the 
 point of actually being able to explore something that I wanted and even then I wasnt able to fully 
 do what I wanted to do, which defeats the purpose of playing a game. They made it seem like you 
 would be able to decide how you evolved and all that, and which ever part you picked to be on your 
 creature would decide how it hunted and how it moved. If the graphics weren't so cartoony, then 
 this would be a perfect game to do whatever you wanted to do.
  
  It apprears that once you get to the space age, the vheicles you spent time creating in the civilization 
 mode are useless and just for show, apprently you cannot fight with them and the only way to take 
 over a planet is to do it by yourself in your little spaceship. I thought there would be full galactic 
 wars and all. Your vheicles on your planets dont defend against pirates, only thing that does is 
 your turrents. I guess the air vheicles I wasted my time making in the civilization mode just fly 
 around when an invasion is going on, yeah real realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for my birthday, I had already heard very good thing about this game. For 
 example, there were 5 stages in the game each with a lot of content. This is just one of my many 
 good rumors. Anyway, in the first stage of the game it is kind of like an arcade game. All you 
 do is swim around trying to hunt or be hunted. Or both! This is one of my favorite parts of the 
 game because the game is so laid back and relaxed. The second mode in the game is the creature 
 stage. This is an action role playing game that personally, I didn't like. Next, is the tribal 
 stage. Now it is like a strategy game where you can ally or destroy different tribes. It all depends 
 on how you feel. Second to last is the civilization stage. you now build cities and try to conquer 
 the world by economic means, religious means, or by brute force. Once you do that you go to the 
 space stage; my favorite one of all! Think of it as a massive single player experience. You'll 
 never finish because there is always something new to explore and a treasure in the center of the 
 galaxy. Overall, this is a solid game fun for the whole family. If I were you, I would go get it. 
 You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  The most important rule in spore - "Create an awesome character" , or you won't enjoy the game. 
 
  I and my friend had created an awesome dragon, and we loved it so much there was no doubt we'd 
 enjoy the game.
  
  The game is fine in the cell stage, cause you know you are just starting the game. A little bit 
 of patience will lead you to the creature stage, which is great. It's like a third person action 
 game, especially if your creature's a carnivore. I had great fun flying around with my gang of 
 dragons, swooping down and attacking any weakling to pass us.
  
  Then comes the tribal stage, which is fine, but you'd enjoy more if you'd finish it quickly.
 
  'Cause its then that the civilization stage comes, where you can create your own awesome military 
 and make awesome jets, 007 cars and the navy. Trust me, you'll enjoy this stage.
  
  But after this the game loses pace. You enter the space stage.
  This is kind of any rpg, mission-based, 
 strategy kind of a game. You no longer have awesome fighting action, and you don't see your creature 
 again. 
  
  But the game before this is fun, and is worth playing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireWolf787
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Spore was one of my most anticipated computer games of 2008. I had thought that it would be at 
 least a 9.5 when I first heard about it over a year before the release. When I finally got the 
 game at the release date, it was a slight dissappiontment. The cell stage was a 8.0, but that is 
 what I had expected when I got it. You are supposed to be a cell that grows and changes as it eats 
 more food and you update the cell. It was a classic stage, though it wasn't that great. The creature 
 stage was a 9.0, and it was about as good as I thought it would be. You are supposed to be a creature 
 that is based at a nest with some others of his species. Your creature can change, group up with 
 others of his species, and ally or go to war with other species group. The tribal stage was a 8.5, 
 and it was a little bit of a disappointment compared as I thought. Your creature has now formed 
 a tribe with his nest and your creature stops changing over time. The tribe gathers food to get 
 more members and supplies, and it can ally with other tribes, attack other tribes, and do group 
 attacks with other tribes. The civilization stage was a 8.0, and it was the biggest disappointment 
 of all of the stages. Your tribe has grouped together with others and has formed a civilization, 
 which goal is to gain control of the world. You can gain the control through war, diplomacy, and 
 religion, which influences how the civilization is in the space stage. The space stage was a 9.0, 
 and it was a slight disappointment, even though it was the best of all of the stages. The civilization 
 has created a UFO and is exploring the reaches of the galaxy, conquering and engaging with other 
 empires and trading for money. The goal of the game is to get past the Grox and get to the center 
 of the galaxy, where a new power is hidden. My major complaint about this stage is that you can't 
 build an army at all when they are needed. The gameplay was easy overall, though hard can be a 
 bit of a challenge at first. The graphics are great overall, and the way the other civilizations 
 you engage with are created is revolutionary. Overall the game was still great as a 8.5, but I 
 hope that the expansion that comes out soon will improve the stages of spore. It is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  When i played spore for the first time i was really amazed. This game totally rocks: this is what 
 i said. But everyone can see that spore is wonderful in the beginning when the player is still in 
 the sea, good in the middle when the player gets out of the water and extremely boring when the 
 players travels to space. This game gets more and more boring and finally the player stops playing 
 it.
  
  It's a really weird kind of game. I don't know how to describe it's kind. No  
 was quite something new and modern and i consider this as a positive about the game.
  
  It also offers the player knowledge about how species get involved, so if i had to put this game 
 in a category i would choose EDUCATIONAL GAMES.
  
  It was also chosen for one of the most disappointing games of gamespot and i believe it was right 
 to choose it for this. It looked nice from videos and staff but most of the players were disappointed.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apokalipse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very fun, which, no matter how you put it, is what a game should be. That being said, 
 the different stages of your creature's development are almost different games in and of themselves. 
 The Cell Stage make for an interesting RPG-like experience, and the Creature Stage is, basically, 
 a more complex version of the Cell Stage, but allows for more elaborate interaction between species 
 besides just "Eat or be eaten". The Tribal Stage almost completely removes the RPG elements and 
 swings more towards full-on RTS, albeit on a very small scale. The Civilization Stage is, obviously, 
 aimed at expanding the RTS elements while completely removing the RPG parts of the game. The Space 
 Stage, which is where you will spend most of your time, is a very good balance between RPG and 
 RTS. You are a single ship piloted by a single being, and, therefore, can purchase upgrades and 
 add-ons to your vessel from various merchants of both your own species and of others. You also 
 are the main, and apparently only, representative of your race, so it is in your power to both 
 make alliances or wage war, to colonize your own planets or to invade/purchase the systems of other 
 civilizations. You basically have absolute power over your species and their domain, which, when 
 coupled with the RPG element, make for a unique and fun experience.
  The Bad: Unfortunately, as enjoyable and complex the Space Stage is, it seems like the other stages 
 are almost rushing you there. The Cell Stage is extremely short, taking 30 minutes on the first 
 try. The Creature Stage has the tendency to create invisible ditches, which, unless your creature 
 has wings, means that you will have to do the infamous "save-restart-load" routine. It's much longer 
 than the Cell Stage, though still a bit shorter than what one would hope for. The Tribal Stage 
 is also pretty short, and is, by far, my least favorite of the stages. It comes across as a primitive 
 and somewhat shallow RTS, though that may be what Maxis was aiming for. The Civilization Stage 
 is a more in-depth, and in my opinion, more enjoyable, version of the Tribal stage. I have no complaints 
 about the Space Stage, as it seems this is where Maxis spent the most work on. There is also a 
 lot of debate on the DRM included in this game. I, personally, have never had a problem with it, 
 even though I have reinstalled the game multiple times (I used the de-registering tool each time) . 
 The occasional graphical glitch can also be annoying, though certainly not game-breaking.
  The Verdict: All in all, Spore is quite an enjoyable game, and I would recommend it to anyone who 
 has a computer and $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maren179
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  ok you start out as a single cell creature you eat things tring to grow bigger while not geting 
 eaten by a bigger creature. you can cang you spore creature in the first 2 lvs the rest of the 
 game you chang different things. as you eat you grow smarter as well. at the end you get a brain 
 and grow legs. this lv you choose what you want to eat. once on land there are a lot of different 
 body parts for you to choose from. here you can atack other monsters or be friends with them. i 
 dont want to spoile the rest of the game and there is more to the first 2 levels than what i told 
 you. if you like to make your own thing this is the best game for you. this is one of the best pc 
 games i have ever played. you just simpley need to get this game. and if you are older and think 
 it is to kidish that is your problem not mine im 14 and i love it so i think you should at least 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThrillDog28
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  One of my favorites this year! A little boring till you get to the space stage but doesn't take 
 long to get there. Trade with aliens, abduct lower life forms, make desolate planets habitable 
 and set up colonies on distant solar systems. In exciting adventure to the center of the galaxy, 
 you make friends, trade spice and goods, wage interplanetary war on warmongering foes, and expand 
 your empire! The space stage is obviously the most exciting and fun part of the game but the beginning 
 stages are also entertaining where you mold your species to what the become later on. The only 
 reason I didn't give it a 10 is because no game is perfect in my opinion and the beginning stages 
 could have been better. Also, It could be a great massive multiplayer but is lacking that ability. 
 I like exploring the galaxy for ancient artifacts and terra-forming planets with new plant and 
 animal life. Again, great game, a must have for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  To think on Spore and to wait that all agree are not easy. It has many elements that become this 
 game only e that can in such a way please as to dislike much people - each player will go to develop 
 antipathy or affection for a different period of training, but are fact that, although to bring 
 excellent ideas, innovative concepts and a technology of tip, Spore it fails in the same placing 
 in level its playability, that is astray. Several are the problems: simplistic playability and 
 lack of depth in the initial periods of training, excess of complexity and micron-management in 
 the final period of training, all on for an excellent creative tool that only frustrate for conceiving 
 much more aesthetic changes of what practical. It is clearly that it has qualities if to detach, 
 as the infinite possibilities, the hundreds of gambling habit hours, the freedom to create and 
 to share what to want and to be able to play innumerable times with different strategies or creatures, 
 beyond being an excellent tool that stimulates the imagination and creation. Everything, in the 
 truth, goes to depend on the attitude of the player: it is to love or to leave, is to catch or 
 to release. Spore is a game thus: only, exotic and controversial; a multitude of detractors goes 
 to generate a multitude of fans as well as. It plays and it decides of that side you are fit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dellis66
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Spore starts off really fun with all the infinite possibilities the creation tools provide you. 
 And with that excitement I started to construct a bunch of aliens, houses, tanks, and flying fortresses. 
 But once I got into the organism development and tribal parts of the game, the game-play seemed 
 to me only slightly more intriguing then a web based flash game. So I created a few more boats, 
 single celled animals, and factories, and haven't played it since; because I decided to rather 
 spend my game time on Fallout 3 and OOTP Baseball 9. Either way, props to EA for running a good 
 ad campaign because they don't care if I play it once I BUY it. Maybe for Spore 2 Maxis can include 
 more details like: ideal habitats, inner connectedness of other species (ecosystem) , and politics 
 (seems weird but is essential for civilization) . On a brighter side, Spore might be a good game 
 to entertain kids in elementary school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcanwait
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  ill make this short, chromehounds (old sega title) was bugged and couldnt be played on the xbox 
 360 in denmark.
  
  now segas new disaster, spore suffers from the exact same problems.
  
  the game did shut down for no apparent reason a few times before the space age,
  but the 
 true nightmare began the same time as the space age did.
  
  the game will crash within seconds of starting it, most times it will crash just after connecting 
 to the server.
  
  I tried playing it offline, hoping to at least finish the game... but the game still crashes seconds 
 after the password is entered.
  
  perhaps the updates for the addons messed things up, maybe it was working just fine before that, 
 could be i need to buy the addons for spore to work again.... but im not going to
  
  this the last sega game ill ever buy.... stay away from this pile of crap!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonoforder
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Spore one of the best pc games iv ever played, now to some people spore is wrong, mainly hard hitting 
 religious people. Anyway spore just about the most bang you can get with your buck, even though 
 the cute look of it may fool you . Dont let it. Spore is basicly like this senerio: Hey your god! 
 good for you yeah this race of creatures yeah you have to allow them to evolve into Space Exploring 
 race from amiba/fish stage. Thats it basicly if you take apart spore theres a time bomb in your 
 mind with one word, Creativity. Sounds stupid i know but still you can make a creature, Tribe society, 
 Civilization, Vehicles, and Space Ships. Thats the basic fundimentals of Spore. Now take it further 
 apart to find a "Story" of some sorts. IT makes you travel on a journy Through five different stages 
 of life Cell, Creature, Tribal, Civilization, and Space. They are okay but gets old after a while. 
 Spore is a very solid game with a lot of creativity. What you proboly want to know is what all 
 the stages are about. Well Cell stage is your a little speck on a planet in the ocean and you eat 
 meat (from other animals, or just floating around) , plants, or both then eventualy you become a 
 creature. In Creature stage you are an animal just earning more and more brain power, You unlock 
 parts to upgrade your creature with, also you can extinct a race or befriend them, the choice is 
 yours. The Tribal stage puts you in controll of a group of a more advanced version of your creation, 
 you find food just like before (plant meat or both) , which you can use to buy huts that give you 
 toolls, weapons, or instruments.
  You conquore or befriend other tribes to bump up to Civilization. Civilization is like well Civilization 
 (the other game) . But you control Land, Sea, or Air vehicles to take over other citys, once you 
 control them all you evlolve into the last stage, Space! Space stage is where you control your 
 ship and fly aound a HUGE galaxy destroying or befriending other space races. your main goal is 
 to get in the center of the galaxy and upgrade to master badge. You get many tools or wepons to 
 help you on you space ride. Ths is the stage you stay in when you are done. Well i hope that was 
 helpful, thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a brilliant idea, although sometimes the execution is a bit off. You start as a microscopic 
 organism and must evolve into an entire civilization of space-traveling creatures. The beginning 
 is incredibly simple and easy, but everything becomes more complicated at each stage of development. 
 There are five stages: spore, creature, tribal, civilization, and space. Each stage is vastly different 
 from the others. Although this provides quite a bit of variety, Spore could also be viewed as a 
 collection of five games that couldn't stand on their own.
  
  In the beginning, you start with a single organism. You make the choice to be either a carnivore 
 or herbivore. Shortly into the game, you can decide to stick with what you choose, or become an 
 omnivore. As a carnivore, your only goal through the entire game is to eat or kill everyone. This 
 is the easiest type to play, although it is also the most boring due to the simplistic goal. The 
 herbivore must make everyone like them by socializing with them in a simple Simon Says type mini-game 
 (which can get very repetitive) . Omnivores are a combination of the two. No matter which you choose, 
 completing your goals unlocks new additions to add to either your creature (in the first two stages) 
 or structures and vehicles for your people (in the last three) .
  
  The first stage of development consist of simply swimming around eating food while avoiding the 
 larger organisms that are trying to eat you. Once you eat enough food, you will be allowed to enter 
 the creature stage. At the start of this stage, you slap some legs on your organism and walk out 
 of the water. Shortly, you will have access to a incredibly detailed creature editor. There is 
 basically an unlimited number of ways to create your creature, although you will be hard pressed 
 to make one that doesn't pass off as cute. This didn't bother me any, but some people may not like 
 cutesy games. Some of the tools used to make you creature can be a little confusing at first, but 
 the game is paused while in the editor, so you are encouraged to take your time. The only other 
 issue I had with the creator was that it allows you to make drastic changes in a single generation 
 of animals. For example, a six-legged pig-like creature can give birth to a two-legged bird if 
 you make enough changes in the editor, which doesn't exactly make much sense. At this stage, you 
 will also have other creatures in your herd. You will only control your own creature, but others 
 can be ordered to follow you and help accomplish your goals. The next phase is the tribal stage. 
 Here you must order your people to gather food that will provide you with the resources to build 
 structures. Again, you goal here is to either kill everyone or make them like you. The Civilization 
 stage is much like the tribal stage but on a larger scale. This time around you are supposed to 
 be spreading your religion and unite the world, by either friendship or war. It's also in this 
 stage that you start to harvest the 'spice' resource. I couldn't help but be reminded of Dune here 
 and it made the game feel less original. The final stage takes place across the entire galaxy and 
 is the deepest phase of the game. The goals are the same, but there are more units and places to 
 explore. This stage takes the longest and more closely resembles a typical strategy game than any 
 other stage. Since you can begin the game immediately from any stage that you have previously reached, 
 I have a feeling that most gamers will be starting from the space era instead of playing through 
 the whole game every time.
  
  Up to this point, I have been trying to describe Spore as a game. Even though that is exactly what 
 it is, it may be more enjoyable if it isn't looked at this way. Instead of trying to accomplish 
 goals and beat the game, most people may have more fun if they just kick back and see what they 
 can create by treating the game like a sandbox on a galactic scale. I can tell that the people 
 who will really love this game are the ones that spend more time in the editor than in the main 
 game mode. With enough patience, you can make not only any type of creature, but also craft any 
 kind of building, car, boat, spaceship, and more. The more creative you are, the more you will 
 get out of the game. If you don't have the patience for building things from scratch, then this 
 may not be the game for you.
  
  The graphics fit perfectly. Everything is vibrant and pleasing to look at. Everything is meant 
 to look cute and cartoony. The first stage has a really cool style about it, but the environments 
 in the rest of the game aren't as detailed as I would have liked. The creatures, on the other hand, 
 look amazing. Especially when you consider that they weren't pre-animated by the developer because 
 they do not exist until the player makes them.
  
  Spore was definitely made with casual gamers in mind. The more hardcore crowd may not like the 
 simplicity. Parts of the game do feel as if the development was rushed a bit (EA + before Christmas 
 release date = rushed game) . If you ever wanted to get an idea of what evolution would be like 
 on a less-than-serious scale, then Spore is worth a look. Just don't expect a strategic challenge, 
 but more of a relaxed and charming god simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  SPORE... It's worth noting just how easy it is to play Spore. Save for using the keyboard to type 
 in the names of the things that you build in the many editors or searching for content in the Sporepedia, 
 you can play almost the entirety of Spore just using the mouse. It's an incredibly accessible game 
 to pick up and play, and the hefty manual that comes in the box as well as the helpful hints will 
 get even a novice up and running quickly. 
  
  Like all Maxis games, Spore is infused with charm. The colors in the game are vibrant and warm, 
 and even the most sinister monster ends up looking a bit cute thanks to the art design. The game 
 ran smoothly on my admittedly high-end system, and it was rock-solid stable, never crashing. I 
 can't even think of a single bug. Meanwhile, humor and wit are deeply embedded in Maxis' DNA, and 
 it shows. I stumbled upon two tribe members having a Sims-style discussion, with thought bubbles 
 over their heads and icons representing what they were talking about. They seemed intent on discussing 
 the universe and god, and in this case, god is apparently Will Wright's head. Another hilarious 
 and surreal moment came during the Creature Stage, when in the midst of doing the friendly dance 
 a UFO appeared overhead and began kidnapping the panicked creatures below with its abduction beam. 
 The sounds and music are also classic Maxis. Every chirp and warble that your creatures make seems 
 authentic, and the dialogue sounds like alien versions of the Simlish that we've come to love. 
 The music seems minimalist at times. When combat kicks in, the drums pound and get your blood pressure 
 up. Yet at other times, the music takes a back seat to the sounds of your creatures' feet pounding 
 on fresh grass and other sounds of nature. But in the end Spore is more of a distraction to keep 
 you going until you get the big game that you really want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_Dan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  Due to restrictions on Terms of Use, my original review is only available on the next page (spanish) :
 
  
  http://mariodan. wordpress. com/2009/01/26/revision-spore/
  
  This is a translation trough Google Translate (too lazy to do it my self) . WARNING: Could contain 
 SPOILERS.
  
  The Good
  
  * Satisfactory implementation of behavior on the parts of the creatures.
  * Good amount of options 
 in the editors.
  * Variety of gameplay.
  * On-line mode that allows you to download and share content with other players in the game.
 
  
  The Bad
  
  * Too Easy.
  * Grat part of the gameplay is repetitive.
  * Tedius system to organize content downloaded.
  * Expansion pack expensive compared to the game.
 
  * Anti-Piracy System seems to affect more to users than the pirates.
  
  
  Spore is the latest installment of Maxis (now owned by Electronic Arts) and from the same creator 
 of the Sims, Will Wrigth. The game invites us to an evolutionary adventure where we will have our 
 creature from the microscopic world to the stars. The game is quite simple to master and if he 
 were having problems (though I doubt it) the game has a good guide to not miss. The gameplay is 
 variable and depends on the "time" that we are evolving. There are 5 stages, cell, animal, tribal, 
 civilized and space.
  
  During the cell will be playing as "Pac-man" or "Snake" a microscopic level in the water, depending 
 on whether our vegetarian or carnivorous cell is what we should eat it. "DNA" can be used to improve 
 the creature and increase their chances of survival.
  
  After each stage, and depending on the attitude that are taken, the creature will gain various 
 benefits for the next steps if you are carnivore, gain skills that are related to attacks or hostility 
 towards others, if you are herbivore, skills will help us to socialize with other species, and 
 if you are neutral (omnivore) attributes that will allow us to adapt depending on the situation. 
 Also, if you are connected to the Internet, the game will use content from other players (AI controlled) .
 
  
  The second stage, the creature comes out of the water and going to land, this game looks like one 
 of these massive multiplayer role-playing games that are on the Internet, check one of the creatures 
 of the herd and can move around the world to explore for new parts for the creature, expand territories 
 and meet other creatures. The goal is to be the supreme creature in the area either by force or 
 through alliances with other species. As in the state cell DNA win for the actions undertaken, 
 allowing parties to add to our creature that can improve their performance in combat or socially, 
 or just to look like you want without taking into account the attributes.
  
  In the tribal stage, our creature develop enough intelligence to create their own culture, at this 
 stage we can not edit your creature anymore but you can equip it with stuff to improve their skills 
 and appearance. This phase looks like a regular game of strategy (such as Age of Empires or Starcraft) 
 but small scale (can not handle more than 12 creatures, managed only one type of resource, food, 
 and buildings can be built only in certain areas ) . 
  
  The stage of civilization is another phase of strategy, but could not compare it with another genre 
 of game or at least someone who knows. You can customize the appearance of buildings in cities 
 and vehicles (land, sea and air) to be used by the creatures. The aim is to unify the planet capturing 
 all cities by the method of choice, depending on the behavior that has taken the stage will be 
 defined tribal culture and position to play at this stage.
  
  Finally we have the stage space, one can say that the most choices and freedoms, but it offers 
 the least motivation is to play, depending on all previous stages will have benefits for certain 
 activities, I will mention some things you can do:
  
  * Explore, conquer or form alliances with other worlds and to meet its creatures.
  * Revealing 
 the secret at the center of the universe.
  * Finding the land.
  * Collecting artifacts.
  * Meet missions and unlock medals.
  * Create Zoo creatures.
  * Sculpt worlds.
  
  Well, 
 I'm done with the part that is playable, as will the game is quite simple so friendly to anyone, 
 but it is its simplicity so that it becomes repetitive and if you dont liked the first time I doubt 
 you will play it again. The editors offer a good range of parts for designing creatures, vehicles 
 and structures. In the editor of creatures is amazing to see how the animations are trying to match 
 the proportions of the creatures, we should take in count that usually when something is encouraged 
 in 3D takes into account the anatomy of the model for its animation, but in this case animations 
 try to adjust according to what the user designs, is not perfect but it creates a good impression.
 
  
  Another thing that my attention is that the content that is created is saved in. PNG (an image) 
 which takes up very little space. If I wanted some content from a friend I just have to move the 
 image, dropped into the game and it will convert it to a full 3D Model
  
  Other option is the Sporepedia (which is equivalent to Pokdex in Pokmon) , this store all the 
 creatures that you do and those that have been downloaded from other players. Technically we can 
 organize the content that you just want to appear in the game, but it is too tedious and with few 
 options for filtering. Is better do it form the official site (www. spore. com) . There is also a 
 long list of achievements (missions) to fullfil.
  
  I quite enjoyed the game and I like to create and invent things, and better when these things take 
 "life" trough the game. Definitely this is not a game to finish as soon as possible because you 
 are going to find it too easy, It can be finished in less than 10 hours . 
  
  My recommendations before to buy or play this game are:
  
  * You must like to create "characters" 
 or vehicles, that is 50% of the game (I think so) .
  * Try to reveal all the options that gives you the game, experience and explore what have done 
 the programmers!.
  * Update your version of Spore, there is now a patch that will add more arm and legs parts to build.
 
  * The game has a limited number of instalations (5 to be exact) for a new anti-piracy system called 
 SecuROM, making it no re-salable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  I spent a lot of time playing this game and what i have realized is that this game focuses more 
 on creature creation then anything else. Gameplay is quite simple. You make either a herbivorous 
 or carnivorous creature and then help them grow by eating other creatures or eating plants. Then 
 you evolve into tribes and then civilization and then move into space age. But this makes the gameplay 
 simple and makes the game's life span shorter. Once i reached the space stage i had gone through 
 almost everything and only thing i could do was to create a different creature and then play the 
 game in the same way. I believe adding some nice story line or adding more feature might have improved 
 the game experience. If you like to try out making different creatures, adding nose, ears and legs 
 and making all kinds of weird animals then you might like this a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyes777
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  This is the most lame game ever, no depth, no difficulty, it's playing the same mission over and 
 over again to oblivion.
  This is'nt a game but a very bad screensaver.
  
  The problem here is that the company wanted a game that was quickly marketed like everything it's 
 not. You only fiddle with the looks of you characters, that's all.
  There is no influence along the 'evolution' no matter what you do, everything is predefined. There 
 is no freedom or difficulty in the game.
  Once you've reached space age the real disaster hits: The play is stupid... you have to trade the 
 same spice colors to the same 4 planetes over an and over again. It's so boring...
  I unistalled the game after 8 hours of boreness,... will not even sell it on ebay because I don't 
 like scamming people like Maxis and EA did with this peace of boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is alright, it's not amazing, it's not fantastic , like my classification 'don't believe 
 the hype' EA makes the game sound like it will entertain you for age's but it will only entertain 
 you for the first few days and then you won't bother playing it until a couple of weeks later. 
 So the game has 5 stages: Cell stage, Creature stage, Tribe stage, Civilization stage and Space 
 stage. In the first stage you can choose if you're a herbivore or a carnivore, so if you didn't 
 pay attention in natural science class: herbivore's only eat plants and carnivore's only eat meat, 
 so in cell stage you've got to collect DNA by killing other creatures or finding food scrap's that 
 is just hanging about but in cell stage you are going to have to kill other creatures for new parts. 
 So if you have collected enough DNA you can advance to creature stage which your objective is to 
 collect body parts, So you won't be alone on this big planet and other creature's join creature 
 stage as well and then you will have 2 options: kill them or socialize with them and then you'll 
 be set with a series of task's like migrating, fighting, socializing and who knows what else. When 
 you get to tribe stage you decide on your look for the last time and then your all set for the 
 tribe world! In tribe stage you're going to have to fish, build, fight and sing your way to victory, 
 I'm not a fan to this stage I find it boring but your mission in this stage is to beat or socialize 
 other tribe's and all that. So then you advance to civilization stage where your mission is global 
 domination and you'll win them with economical power, military, and religious power and all of 
 them are have equal power. Then you advance to the funnest stage in the whole game.. SPACE STAGE! 
 This stage is the best in the game where you can do whatever you want to do and the quests are 
 actually interesting where you meet other species and either exterminate them or chat to them and 
 they make it feel like a real galaxy with rare formations and black hole's and all that star trek 
 stuff! This game's idea is truly good and I hope all the new expansions make the game a whole lot 
 better!
  
  
  Have fun gaming
  Venom192
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endach
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  It seems my first review of Spore offended some people (Yet it seemed more enjoyed the review then 
 opposed it) and Gamespot's gracious staff was kind enough to remove the it.. But that's ok! Because 
 v2.0 is here to continue speaking the truth of how utterly worthless this wretched game really 
 is!
  
  First issue I have with Spore is the DRM that comes straight from the 9th circle of hell to fetter 
 honest buyers and make them feel like they are violated with a pinecone. Seriously, after buying 
 this game you feel like you are being punished for being an legitimate customer and I don't mean 
 in a kinky ballgag and black leather way. I'll admit that a few of my friends still found it convenient 
 to 'win' copies of the game from other sources, but I decided to take the high road to which my 
 rear end and whats left of a pinecone can both vouch to being the wrong road.
  
  The first phase of spore is enjoyable and perhaps that's why I was compelled to continue on through 
 the game.. I was haunted with the continual thought of, 'No! It's can't be this horrible! It's 
 going to get better! Keep playing! The light at the end of the tunnel will show forth eventually!' 
 well there is no light in spore and the entire tunnel collapses around you and yourself surrounded 
 by and drowning in a massive pile of steamy **** called Spore. I soon found that the only semblance 
 of fun I could coax from Spore was to cheat on a grand scale.. I played through the goo age and 
 Tribal, but once I hit the civilization age my was so numbed with inane game play that cheating 
 truly was the only option left. Once I reached the space age it was all over.. I was bored, felt 
 cheated by EA, and regretted every minute wasted on Spore. The biggest issue I have with Spore 
 now is that I cannot /GIVE/ the game away! Just before writing this review I made one more attempt 
 to /GIVE/ Spore away to a gamer who I thought might not be in the 'loop' and thus unaware of Spore's 
 epic failure, but even he was savvy enough to turn me down.
  
  But.. There still another interesting fact. My original Spore review had been on the Gamespot website 
 for months, but the night before EA announces three new Spore games my review is flagged and removed 
 the very next morning. Just seems odd to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterskywalker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played the sims 2 wanting something similar but different. Well spore is in a way 
 a simplified version of the sims 2 at times but is constantly changing.
  
  When you first start the game you see a galixy with a ton of planets. You can either select a planet 
 and start your game or go to the editors and build stuff. 
  
  When you first select your planet you are allowed to choose what stage you want to start from. 
 You can only choose cell stage the first time you play though. If you don't like any of the planets 
 they have you can always start a cell game save and then delete it. Once the planet is destroyed 
 along with your cell a new planet will appear on the map. (sometimes a new planet won't appear 
 but usually it will so don't worry) . 
  
  As a cell the game plays on a asteroids like plane. You swim up down left right. The job is to 
 eat either plants, meat, or plants and meat depending on if your a carnivore herbivore or omnivore. 
 As you play other cells will try to attack you, each other, or just swim around or eat the plants. 
 You can choose to attack them as well by ramming into them with your mouth, or using weapons such 
 as electricity and poison. As you eat meat or plants you get dna which progresses you to the next 
 stage as well as allows you got spend it in the editor upgrading your cell. To go to the editor 
 you call your mate and soon after your in the editor. 
  
  After cell stage, you emerge on to land. Here you go around becoming friends of enemies with tribes. 
 You can either attack them by using your abilities such as bit, strike potions, or socializing 
 by copying what the other creatures do or by using another ability. Each ability has 5 levels and 
 that depends on how well you do it. If you and another creature have level 1 sing you can makes 
 friends with them but if there sing is higher you can't You can also do another ability like use 
 a level 3 charm when someone uses a level 2 dance but using a different ability then the one they 
 use has a penalty and it is harder to please them that way. As you get dna you are able to recruit 
 creatures into a pack and they will follow you. Other things happen to such as your species migrated 
 but i'm not going to tell you everything that would ruin the game. 
  
  You also collect parts in creature stage from bones which you can upgrade your creature with in 
 the editor. However it is not necessary to collect them. In the editor you can edit almost everything. 
 You can make parts bigger and smaller, and you bend the legs joins, you can shape the spine by 
 dragging it out to make it bigger or dragging it up and down to bend it. The possibilities are 
 endless. In fact some people have made chao (from sonic adventure 1 and 2) and even humans. 
  In the editor you can also paint your creature by applying different textures such as a bass texture 
 a details texture and choose the color for each texture. If you click on the colors you will even 
 notice different shades of that color. Finally you can download other people creatures in game. 
 
  
  The next stage is tribal. In this stage you play it like an rts. You befriend other tribes or kill 
 them to pass this stage. Once you do this enough you beat this stage. In this stage you befriend 
 people by getting instruments and playing them. The chieftain goes to another tribe and they click 
 on one of there members. This starts a minigame where you click on the instruments to play them. 
 They may call for 2 or 3 flutes and if you have only 1 the bar won't go as high. If you get to 
 the top in a certain time then your friendship goes up. Do this again and you become friends. To 
 attack tribes just click on them. You can also purchase weapons such as spears and axes to help 
 fight. 
  
  Despite this you also need to feed your tribe by gathering food which is also used to buy instrument 
 station and stuff. If your tribe gets to too hungry they will eventually loose health and die. 
 In this mode you don't edit your creature directly but you can give them clothing pieces to wear 
 in the editor and cad adjust the sizes of these as well.
  
  When you ally with tribes they will give you gifts sometimes of 10 food and you can give gifts 
 as well to make people who are pissed at you neutral so you can convert them. You can also steal 
 food as do the other tribes. Watch out though becasue other tribes will attack you too if they 
 are annoyed whit you.
  
  The city stage is similar to the tribal stage except you build vehicles. in this stage there are 
 3 paths religious, war, and ecenomic. You become these based on what you were before in the game 
 (carnivore. omnivore. herbivore) (predator//adaptable/social)  Also 
 your special abilities in the other stages are determined by what path you choose. For example 
 carnivores can roar in creature stage and it scares other creatures so you can escape. 
  
  In this stage you build your city hall in the editor as well as a factor, an entertainment building, 
 a house, and a land, sea and eventually at vehicle. You get money from your factories over time 
 and by capturing spice derricks. however if you have to many factories people will become unhappy. 
 When they are unhappy they are easily taken over especially be religious people. You can talk with 
 the other cities and bribe them so you can be friends or if you have enough relationship you can 
 tell them to attack other cities. 
  
  If you choose economic you buy out all cities by trading and then buying them out when the bar 
 reaches full (if your price is not good enough you have to trade again) . If your religious your 
 convert their cities by sending vehicles that shoot beams and try to 
  
  If you choose economic path you buy out cities by filling a trade bar. If your religious you convert 
 their cities by shooting beams at them from vehicles, and if your war you blow up their cities 
 and take what is left (blow up the town hall) .
  
  Finally you go to space which is one of the best parts of the game. Here you go around colonizing 
 other planets, meting new species (including ones you created or downloaded) , and just exploring. 
 The galaxy is big!!!!! There are thousands of star systems (literally) ! In fact one of the empire 
 called the grox (biggest empire in the game) has 2400 systems. Each system has 1-3 planets maybe 
 4. There also worm holes to travel around the place faster. Each planet has a ground and you can 
 go down there and see what is there. If you are close enough to the ground you can actually see 
 other creatures or cities or tribes and abduct them.
  
  In space when you colonize you need to terraform planets. This makes them more inhabitable for 
 species to live there. You do this by buying certain tools and then stabilizing the ecosystem with 
 trees and animals. Then you buy a colony and place it there. Colonies are like in civilization 
 stage. They produce spice which you can sell for money. 
  
  You go around making friends with other civilizations, (going to war with them if you piss them 
 off, ) expanding your empire, or trying to get to the center of the galaxy (there is a reward for 
 doing it) . You get badges by doing stuff in space and this allows you to buy better tools to help 
 you. 
  
  There is so much more to do that i can't begin to explain it. 
  
  The one thing i should mention is that based on what you were before you take a archetype such 
 as ecologist, trader, zealot... and this gives you a special ability. 
  
  All in all this is a great game and i hope i have interested you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngons
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because there was a lot of hype around it and there were a lot of great reviews. 
 Needless to say I was greatly dissapointed. Do NOT go out and spend your money on this turd. Maxis 
 must have put a lot of money into advertising for Gamespot to give this thing an 8!
  
  The creature creation can be very fun (why this games gets a 2 and not a 0) but there is absolutely 
 no substance at all beyond that. This game consists of four stages that end very quickly and is 
 then followed by a space stage which is literally never-ending! If you want to buy this game, I 
 suggest going out and watching the movie titled "The Never Ending Story" first because if you start 
 this game, that's what you'll living through!
  
  In the never ending space stage, you basically play the same 5 mission types OVER and OVER and 
 OVER and OVER. And then you get trade spice where the spice prices change from planet to planet 
 to planet and from minute to minute. The tediousness of having to travel to every planet every 
 time you want to sell something is just mind-numbing. I usually find myself just killing everything 
 out shear boredom after a while. 
  
  Unless, you're brain dead and need a game that requires a double digit IQ, then I suggest staying 
 away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhg53
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Spore review
  
  Spore is an EA game that is tying something new. If you like making things and have them running 
 around and killing things play it. But if you're lookng of your MGS4 or Fallout3 kind of game buzz 
 off and don't give this game a look. It's fun to go online to look at all the different things 
 people made. But the expansion packs are not worth the money. The game is $50 bucks, plus $10 more 
 if you bought the CC, and $10 for the exoansion pack. The game it's self isn't worth the $50 you 
 pay for it. On to the review!
  
  Gameplay: it get's a 7
  
  This game is like 5 games packed into one then they added making your different things. From ships 
 to cells and back to towns buildings you can make it or download it. You start off as a cell that 
 can eat meat or plants and you go around eating to get bigger or killing things for parts. Simple 
 right? Very, because when you die go just respwan at the last time you grew.
  Then your cell grws a brain and some legs (if you want it to have legs) and you start your run 
 as an animal. You run around killing others or befreinding them while tring to find parts to add 
 to your person. After you kill/befriend enough you throw a stick in the air and hit your head and 
 start a fire. You are a tribe and you try to kill off/befriend other but you control more then 
 one of your own person. After doing what you want to do to the other tribes, your tribe starts 
 to talk about plans depending on what you have done in that last few stages is what the cut sence 
 does but there is always one person who wants pie. Once your a city to try to take over the other 
 with land, sea, and air vehicles. And once you get the other citys you rule the planet. With nothing 
 left to kill off your people make a spaceship and blast off into space. Now in space the main thing 
 is to do what ever you want while tring to get bages to level up. OK so you beat the games now 
 what? Do it again, but this time do it different. If you own a Xbox360 or PS3 you know if you do 
 something you can get a cool little award that gives you gamer points. While get rid of the gamer 
 points you got the same thing for Spore. It's more to show off but it's also another thing to shoot 
 for. "Now how many times is it at the least I have to play the same game OVER AND OVER AND OVER?" 
 10, yes 10 is the magic number. There are 10 different types of a person you can be. "Now wait 
 I just did the math and it show be 9!" Nope it's 10. Because if you skip to the space stage once 
 you unlock it you become a wonderer and get no cool help like prices on upgrades are lower or you 
 have more health. If there was more depth to the game it would score higher with me, but it's trying 
 somethign new and I like it.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics are great for this game. There are a few bugs like your arm and leg fuseing together 
 or the parts not fitting on right but hey it's called patches. (And no I never downloaded one yet.)
 
  
  Sounds: 8
  
  Sounds are great for this game. I mostly enjoyed the main menu background music, but the different 
 sounds for the different heads for the different races you meet in space are well down. plus the 
 fact you can make a "town tune" for each city is fun to mess with. (Award for making 10 different 
 ones I think.)
  
  Speed: 7
  
  It's slow, really overall it's a slow game with no depth so it feels like you get it over with 
 sooner. The fastest is cell stage in my opinion.
  
  Overall: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeKirby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  Spore, a hyped game that was slated for release 2008, after many delays, it finally released. We 
 can all let off a big sigh of relief, but the question still remains, did we get the game we anticipated?
 
  
  Spore was mostly hyped because of the creature creator, you could spend hours just trying to pick 
 what color goes with their hair, the position of your creatures arms and limbs, whether or not 
 I should give him 3 nostrils, do you want to design a phallic invader... ignore that last one. 
 The point is you could spend a good while actually designing your creature.
  
  Now onto the actual game...
  
  ... First we have the cell stage; we're you swim around in a 
 cute tidepool and, if you're somewhat like me, you'll probably kill every living cellular creature 
 you come across, whilist collecting parts, and to a lesser extent food. (Even though you need to 
 the food to move onto later stages in the game)
  Everything in the cell stage is procedural, if you stick a spike on your arse and you get chased 
 by carnivore, he will probably be pricked by the spike and get bored... then pick on some other 
 poor defenseless cell, or get eaten...
  The graphics in this phase I feel are very, like I said in my deck, very cutesy, the game is very 
 cute, and I really feel the textures in this game are good.
  I usually play the game with the sound off, probably listening to something else, but the sounds 
 fit averagely, but it all feels cartoony sometimes. This was probably one of my favourite stages.
 
  
  Then we have the creature phase; it completely dodges the marine phase, which unnerves me slightly. 
 You're creature having evolved from cellular life, grows legs and swims up to the surfaces along 
 with all his cellular buddies, in this phase you will mostly either socialise or kill. Though I 
 find killing most of the prey you come across be the most fun, socialise is just mimicing other 
 creatures in a slow, annoying minigame, that I could probably easily just ram a large spike in 
 and save the crap. If I wanted pack members, I'd use my own kind thanks, I can trust them better.
 
  The graphics in this phase are quite pretty, I usually like to activate the -norainbows style 
 filter most of the time though. I like to kill the colorful charm of this game like that.
  Like I said, I feel that it sometimes sounds cartoony, and I usually don't have the sound on very 
 often. This is my second favourite phase, mostly because I like to play my creature.
  
  Then there is the tribal phase, where we stop focusing on the troubles of one creatures and start 
 focusing on the troubles of a small tribe of my creature. This is mostly just a RTS, you find animals, 
 hunt them for food, you find fish, harpoon them for food. I mostly play as a Carnivore in this 
 game, and I still haven't seen the herbivore possibilites for food in the tribal phase. You can 
 either socialise with other tribes by playing instruments, or you can kill them all, and be dominating 
 sapient species of the world.
  
  Then we have the civilization phase, where we put our creatures in vehicles and have them collect 
 currency such as spice, and we have them conquer other civilizations... either by force, by making 
 them think life would be better if they we're on our side, or by raking it big. (Military, Religion 
 and Economic methods respectively) Like always, I usually start with a military civilization and 
 nuke the other ones till the rest just give up. 
  
  Then we have the space phase, where our creatures take on a different kind of vehicle... the UFO. 
 In this phase, you will explore other planets, make alliances, form trade routes and start wars... 
 all the while trying to reach a nearly impossible goal, the center of the universe.
  
  But these stages as anyone can see, are super simple...
  
  So did you get the tools you wanted? 
 Yes... did you get the game you wanted? No.
  
  You can get spore... just don't expect this game to be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halogearshitman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. You can spend hours on end just creating things in the numerous creators. 
 You can play as a few different classifications in the actual game mode, and you can change throughout 
 the game as well. While playing you feel that there is almost nothing you cannot do. There are 
 so many items and what not, it's awesome. You can't really beat the game either. At the space age, 
 once you level up completely, you can still try and conquer every planet, and let me tell you, 
 there are countless planets. You can fly around for hours and hours and not even reach all the 
 planets in the game. All of them with different animal species, plant species, and terrain. Just 
 as addictive as The Sims, at least for me. Can't wait for the future packs for this game. The only 
 reason this game isn't a ten is because, it's a little bit too simple for the amount that it seems 
 you can do, which sounds weird but if you get the game you'll understand. For example, even if 
 you're not making a creation for the game, there is still a limit to parts you can add. It also 
 gets kind of repetitive, but still, you can play for a heck of a long time.
  LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMario2500
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Spore was hyped up beyond all possible belief for years to be the "next step forward in gaming" 
 a "revolution". It was marketed to schools in its' early beta stages to teach students about the 
 theory of evolution, and intelligent design. As the game progressed the developers split into two 
 groups Will Wright's group consisted of those who wanted a realistic game, and another group was 
 for making the game "cute" and simplistic because it would "appeal to a wider audience". As time 
 went on the game shifted its focus as the "cute" group grew, the game was shunned by schools it 
 was marketed to.
  
  It is necessary to know the history of this game in order to know why you shouldn't purchase it. 
 My biggest complaint has to be the fact that it is no longer a game based on "intelligent design" 
 but a sculpting studio with miniature games attached to it. The creature creator itself is not 
 bad, but it provides no incentives for wise decisions in design, nor does the game on a whole promote 
 evolution, just making cute, fluffy, bunnies.
  
  The graphics are alright at best, nothing spectacular. There are some cool sights in the space 
 stage like when you encounter a cube planet for the first time or find a glitched water world. 
 Turning a planet into a wasteland of lava is also some decent eye-candy.
  
  Sound effects are once again decent. When in the shopping menu in the space stage you will occasionally 
 hear a remix of the old MULE theme in the background (for those of you who don't know, MULE was 
 essentially Sim City's predecessor) . Sound effects don't really stand out in this game however, 
 no realism involved so no need for realistic sound effects. No need to listen for the huge predator 
 in the distance and purchase supersonic ears to do so, you are the predator, everyone else is your 
 prey.
  
  The gameplay itself is the core of my review. The game isn't one game at all, but five mini-games 
 in one. The cell stage is alright, it reminds one of the game Feeding Frenzy, or the old Atari 
 game where you were a fish trying to eat other fish and grow. It gets repetitive just as it ends, 
 which is nice.
  
  The creature stage is really a double-edged sword. On one end this is the ONLY stage where you 
 will do any significant evolution (cell stage being the other, but it's really miniscule in comparison) 
 but it's also extremely repetitive. This stage functions like an MMO styled grind and nothing else. 
 You can play simon-says and make friends to become allies, get a pack and go hunting. Or you can 
 just annihilate anything and everyone in your wake. Either way both options are easy, repetitive, 
 and boring. At least in an MMO you socialize with other people, progress in gear by working with 
 others, and can engage in other activities like roleplaying or just exploring the world. In Spore 
 you're limited to the landmass you're on, you swim out too far and a fish eats you. There's also 
 no real variety in scenery, no polar caps, no flows of lava, nothing of the sort. It's over within 
 an hour or so and you feel like you haven't done much other than bash 4 keys and click a screen.
 
  
  The tribal stage is really a downer for me. It functions like an RTS but you can either have your 
 tribe dance and sing their way to victory, or commit mass genocide for victory. Once again both 
 options are very easy to accomplish, it's just the annoying factor of food and how your troops 
 can glitch and not eat, or keep eating, or freeze, or your chief will fly into outer space by accident 
 because he has wings and starve to death. You can't evolve here at all, just try to dress your 
 creature in crude "clothing" that looks like it was taped on and couldn't stay on any other way.
 
  
  The civilization stage is where the game picked up for myself. It's fun. You can design buildings, 
 and vehicles. What you "decorate" your vehicles with will affect its' ability to accomplish the 
 task you're set out to do. Whether it's to preach to the world your religion, buy everybody out, 
 or blow everybody up. Building placement is all about learning the best pattern, and then copying 
 it consistently to each city you get. Unfortunately there is no free-building and no depth to where 
 you put your buildings in cities. The city "decoration" feature is really insignificant and hardly 
 noticeable. Oh, you also get more clothing and some hair to put on your creature if you so desire 
 it. It's still as crude as every.
  
  Space.... The final frontier. What's that? I'm our race's only pilot? I can't build a squad of 
 my own ships or command any other ships at all? I have to make allies through a repetitive process 
 in order to get other ships that can't do anything, and get them to join me in a squad? The space 
 stage is absolutely miserable. It takes at least a good forty minutes to be able to do anything 
 useful, then it becomes a cakewalk. A cakewalk filled with defending allies and yourself from obnoxious 
 space pirates, committing genocide, quelling diseases by burning animals, and terraforming planets. 
 You also get some tin can clothing that you can wear if you so desire. The whole space stage feels 
 like an MMO with no benefits and no progression. It has no real appeal past the first two hours 
 of playing. It's repetitive, you do the same tasks for uglier aliens each time. The combat has 
 no depth whatsoever, and you don't get an army! Apparently your race can only construct one spacecraft 
 at a time. There's just no challenge to be held here or on any other stage at any difficulty setting.
 
  
  The Spore team spent years making the game, then as Will Wright stated they spent a good two years 
 to a year-and-a-half REMOVING content from the game. Which consisted of the realistic side of the 
 game and some elements that EA removed so that they can re-sell them to us in a stuff-pack or lousy 
 expansion pack. We're missing the underwater stage of evolution, one does not simply go from a 
 cell to a creature, you have to make a stop in the murky depths first. The fact that a company 
 would derail a game into a simplistic train wreck for the sake of catering to the simple minded 
 is unbelievable, let alone lying to the consumer. Let's not forget the deliberate removal of content 
 so that they can be re-sold to us like the stuff-pack released a month after Spore's release. Obviously 
 that content could have just been shipped with the game, but it's the developer simply trying to 
 make more money.
  
  Though what is most troubling is the lack of trust the company has for the consumer with the inclusion 
 of the hidden software known as DRM. It monitors your computer to ensure that you did not pirate 
 the game, and it's caused numerous errors in the computers of gamers everywhere, and I had to reformat 
 my whole system to get it up and running at normal speed. The irony of it all is that the software 
 in question does not impact the pirates at all as it's only installed with legit copies of Spore.
 
  
  With the DRM software comes a limit of five (I believe it's five now) installs. Yeah. If you uninstall 
 it and reinstall it on the same computer that's only one install still, but if you wipe out your 
 computer it uses up another install when you go to reinstall it. It prevents the consumer from 
 selling the software after purchase, and cripples used software outlets' ability to sell the game. 
 You lose your code or need more installs, you have to call and plead to EA for more. So really, 
 you're just paying for an extended rental of the game.
  
  Which is exactly what the game deserves, nothing more than a rental. Unfortunately you can't rent 
 it without paying the forty dollars to buy its' plastic case. So, the software isn't worth it. 
 The gameplay is dry and EA once again tries to suck more money out of the consumer by using stuff-packs 
 and expansions packs filled with content that was deliberately removed from the game.
  
  Buy games from a retailer that cares about its' customers. Obviously EA can't look past the monthly 
 paycheck. Spore isn't worth the money, which is exactly why it became the most pirated game of 
 all time, right up there with Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunes123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  People couldn't wait for this game to come out and know you all think its bad, why?? it has everythin, 
 the amazin but huge creation tools that lets you create anything from an early stage creature to 
 a spaceship and theres also cool patches like creepy & cute and the new one which gives you exoskeleton 
 parts and You can share with friends your cool monsters i know ive seen a few and shared some with 
 my mates.
  
  And ok it does have some bad bits but its probably because you guys have the quality on low or 
 somethin and the gameplay is pretty short but its enjoyable besides the space stage is huge,
  
  it would take you days to get through every planet and overall this game is a worth playin 
 game its not crap and you enjoy it when its your first time playin but im not sayin that its perfect, 
 there is still a lot of stuff that could be improved and thats why i gave it that score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Looking past the tedious and boring spectacle of EA and their DRM blemished past, I really believe 
 this is one of the most over-hyped titles in the last 10 years.
  
  The only thing I can credit this game for is the creature creator toolkit, which in itself is fantastic. 
 However the problems clearly show when you notice that the way you build your creature has in fact 
 nothing to do with the game apart from appearances. So much for modeling evolution.
  
  Everything is just wrong, where each stage (apart form the first) is a cheap knock-off of other 
 types of games. Done very badly, in an immature fashion (the bad type, not the good type like as 
 seen in Patapon for example) .
  
  The more the game went on the more I wanted my money back. I truly feel sorry that the gaming industry 
 can release a title like this and somehow get acclaim for it?
  
  I am shocked an appalled.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Spore had a lot to live up to. Will Wright and company promised us a deep and innovative, Intelligent 
 Design simulator with endless possibilities and a scope that has never been seen in any video game 
 ever (and which puts even Sid Meyer's Civilization to shame) .
  
  Sadly, I have not seen this game come through on any of its promises.
  
  The game is basically 
 divided into five segments:
  
  1. The Cell stage has you swimming around as a single-celled organism, eating plant residue or 
 the remains of dead cells to grow and collect DNA that you can use to add more parts to your cell. 
 As you grow, the world around you becomes smaller. Cells that were once your equals, become tiny, 
 and completely devour-able, whereas, odd, colorful shapes in the background will slowly shrink 
 down to be revealed as fellow cellular creatures that you will soon be competing with for survival 
 as well. This is easily the most interesting, attractive, and enjoyable experience that Spore has 
 to offer. Sadly, its also the shortest, lasting a whopping 5 minutes (if that) .
  
  2. The creature stage has you crawling out of the water and suddenly going form a simple cellular 
 organism, to a large, complex land-based creature with legs. Hrmmm. Whatever. You are now responsible 
 for finding food, building relationships with other creatures and collecting new DNA wich again 
 allows you to add new parts to your creature, giving you new abilities so that you can mate with 
 another of your species and create a newer, better version of yourself. Oddly enough, Natural Selection 
 does not come into play at all during this stage, as when you die, you just respawn at the nearest 
 nest, keeping everything that you collected after the last mating. Pathetic. And from here on out, 
 the game stops being a game, and degrades into cartooney crap, as you can play the game and be 
 successful with your hands tied behind your back, keyboard and mouse unplugged and eyes blindfolded.
 
  
  3. The Tribal stage has you building up a small tribe of your species. Evolution is over, and now 
 you are required to build up your culture and society by constructing buildings, and offering/receiving 
 gifts from other tribes to befriend them, or building weapons to kill them off. Here, you can invent 
 ritualistic dances and perform ritual music for other tribes to try to win their friendship, while 
 at the same time, collecting food and maybe even a native animal or two to be kept as a "pet."
 
  
  4. The Civilization stage tries to be an RTS empire-builder, but falls flat on its face with its 
 simplicity. You start with a city that is either military, religious or economic based on how you 
 performed in the previous stages. You build units at that city (either from a template, or by creating 
 them from scratch) that can only perform the function that the city performs (so if your city is 
 a religious city, you can only build religious unit) , and spread your influence over the world. 
 If you have military units, you use them to attack rival civilizations' cities and conquer them. 
 If you are religious, you spread that religion to rival cities and assimilate them into your faith. 
 And if you are economic, you buy them off with your wealth. Here, you are finally given the ability 
 to construct customized buildings, but these are purely stylistic customizations, as there are 
 no options to change the function or abilities of a building. After you have captured a couple 
 of cities, your civilization will gain a special ability that acts as an "instant win" button and 
 automatically converts all remaining cities on the globe to your control. Seriously. No joke.
 
  
  5. The space stage is a fairly appealing stage that is absolutely immense, and this is where the 
 core of the game is supposed to, as you take your civilization out on a rocket ship to explore 
 the galaxy and discover new worlds that are populated with other users' content. You can colonize 
 planets, conquer them, establish trade routes, and search for ancient relics. However, this stage 
 is plagued by tedium, as you will be constantly required to bring your one little rocket ship back 
 to your home planet to repel invasions from enemy space-empires.
  
  As a whole, these stages feel very disjoint and the transition between them is sudden and akward 
 (especially from cell to creature) . At the end of each stage, you are given a reward "trait" that 
 is applied to your species for the rest of the game and will provide you with unique benefits, 
 but other than that, there is seriously no connection from one stage of the game to the others. 
 So all in all, the game boils down to: one simplistic, yet very fun pac-man-esque mini game (cell 
 stage) ; a dumbed-down single-player mmo-wanna-be (creature stage) ; a boring city-builder (tribal 
 stage) ; a horrendous RTS (civilization stage) ; and a mildly entertaining and very huge space-empire 
 builder (space stage) . So at total count, that is only 2 out of 5 stages that are even remotely 
 enjoyable. The rest are simplistic and boring.
  
  And as for creature customization, it is all very superficial. Sure you can make the creatures 
 look like just about anything you want them to. but you are still limited to be a land-based animal 
 with arms and legs, and you have to follow almost the same series of progressions to get from one 
 stage to the next. You cannot be an acquatic creature. You cannot be an avian creature living your 
 life in the trees (you can have wings and "fly," but you still live and nest on the ground) . You 
 cannot be a pernicious virus and win by infecting the entire planet. Perhaps such things will be 
 added in expansions. . . 
  
  Which brings me to the game's one saving grace. I can see that with a couple of well-designed expansions 
 that fill-in some of the incontinuities between stages and give you a few more interesting options 
 for creature development, and which will hopefully add a little more difficulty and realism to 
 the game (Natural Selection, anybody?) , this game could become one of the greatest games of our 
 generation. But its a long-shot, especially if "creepy & cute" is what we can expect from expansions 
 or add-ons.
  
  Also, if you oppose extensive DRM, Spore will definitely repel you, as it has some of the most 
 extensive DRM of any game ever. In order to play it, you must be connected to the internet and 
 register the game. Of course, that didn't stop it from becoming the most pirated game ever within 
 a month of its release. LoL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BahamutNG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  *** Please take note that this review goes in detail about the game itself, most especially at 
 the end, so if you haven't played the game yet, I suggest you look away now. ***
  
  Everyone should know what Spore is by now, but to the unlucky one who hasn't even heard of Spore, 
 this is a game that lets you create your own creatures and seeing it evolve through five stages 
 as well as designing buildings and vehicles for your own cities. That's the basis of the game and 
 while it was a brilliant idea and the game is very creative, there are several flaws which sadly 
 bring the game down. That doesn't mean it's a bad game, however. This is a game any computer gamer 
 should have a look at, most especially the Creature Creator.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While many games today have high-quality graphics, the graphics in Spore aren't top notch and they 
 don't have to be. Although the graphics are equivalent to a 2004 game such as World of Warcraft, 
 for what Spore is, it has the right graphic quality since making them more like what other games 
 are right now would take away the charm of this game.
  
  Controls:
  
  There's nothing unusual about the controls compared to other computer games and there's nothing 
 wrong with it either. The only real issues with the controls that come to mind are the difficulty 
 of manoeuvring around in the Cell stage and entering/leaving planets and systems in the Space stage.
 
  
  For the Cell stage problem, if your cell creature doesn't have the right parts as well as the current 
 pushing it to a certain direction, you're going to have problems moving around. This is of course 
 bad and a tad frustrating when there's a bigger cell creature swiftly swimming to your direction 
 and killing your creature within seconds.
  
  The problem with the Space stage is how you have to keep scrolling or holding down Home/End key 
 to enter or leave a planet or system when it should be much simpler by entering/leaving instantly 
 as soon as you command your spaceship to go. Despite those two minor but still annoying issues, 
 the controls are still good.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game is very good. The sound effects are well done and the voices of the creatures 
 are brilliant. The voices of the creatures depend on the type of mouth they have and it works well. 
 In addition, there are voices for baby forms of creatures, which add a cuteness factor to them, 
 but sometimes, it's hard to help but think they sound like a squeaky toy for a pet dog.
  
  The music is also worth mentioning. The ambient music you hear in the game gives out a great feel 
 to the objectives in Spore. The most notable track in this game has to be the one on the main menu, 
 which is the sort of track you'd have in mind if you were in space. So overall, great sound production.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Creature/Building/Vehicle Creator - Designing your own creatures is what everyone will think of 
 whenever they think of Spore. The ability to create your own creatures, buildings and vehicles 
 is amazing. For creatures, you can either make up something completely weird or make it based off 
 something you like (e. g. your favourite Pokemon) . This is a lot of fun and you may end up making 
 lots of creatures and they don't have to be made for the main game. You could show off your creations 
 to your friends or the world wide web by uploading videos and pictures.
  
  There are four types of buildings used in Spore, which are city hall, houses, entertainment and 
 factory. The city hall is the main building of each colony, entertainment buildings are to make 
 the citizens happier and the factories are to produce items, spice and such, but decrease the happiness 
 in the city, so you have to place the type of buildings correctly in each city of yours.
  
  For the building designs, you're given a nice variety of parts to use for the buildings, but you 
 can only design the outside of buildings and never get involved with the inside of them, so it's 
 not as detailed as The Sims where you design the whole of your house with the base, the furniture, 
 whoever lives there and such. Even so, the ability to design your own buildings for your species 
 is still very nice.
  
  The Vehicle Creator is another great feature in this game. You can design land, sea, air vehicles 
 and even spaceships. Again, there's a good variety of parts to use for the vehicles and it's rather 
 easy to design them, unlike LittleBigPlanet where you have to build your own vehicles from scratch, 
 but can be designed in any shape or form as desired. How the land, sea and air vehicles are designed 
 only matter in the Civilization stage and afterwards aren't that important. For the spaceship, 
 it doesn't matter what parts it's given since there are no Health/Speed benefits at all, so the 
 player is free to design their spaceship at their own will.
  
   stages - The Cell stage is the start of the main game where 
 you are a small creature hunting for food to get bigger, but along with that, there are bigger 
 cell creatures out to get you. However, as you get bigger, they appear smaller, making you say 
 "Who's the tough guy now, Vinnie?" to the ones who tormented your own creature. Apart from the 
 manoeuvring issue, the only other problem with this stage is how short it is. This stage can easily 
 be finished within half an hour, or possibly less than that. This stage is interesting overall, 
 but could have been longer.
  
  The Creature stage is one of the best two stages out of the five. Here, you control your own creature 
 around the place befriending or killing other species you come across. The choice to like or hate 
 the creatures is up to you, but some creatures may insist on attacking you when nearby. This stage 
 is rather short if you advance to the Tribal stage as soon as possible, but there's still the opportunity 
 to explore the whole place, which is interesting to see which creatures by who appear and most 
 of all, the creatures that appear in epic form to kill everything in its path.
  
  The main issue with the Creature stage is the lack of ability to view the whole map. Without seeing 
 the whole map of the place, it can be difficult to know where you're going and which creatures 
 are located where. The ability to view the full map would have made it much easier to navigate 
 around the stage, but sadly, the Creature stage doesn't support this. Still, it's worth playing 
 this stage to see which creatures you come across, whether it be something Maxis made or one of 
 the friends you added to your list.
  
  The Tribal and Civilization stages are also short with one basic objective, which is to befriend/destroy 
 other tribes and take over the world. These stages should have had more added to them, especially 
 when the Space stage has many things to do, while these two stages are very short. However, they 
 are still part of the playing creature's evolution process, so it's necessary to have them here.
 
  
  And last but not least, the Space stage. This is the longest stage out of them all and will take 
 several hours to complete, but it's a lot of fun. There's a variety of things to do in this stage 
 such as becoming allies with other empires, forming new colonies in other planets, destroying an 
 empire, carrying out missions for any empires and reaching the centre of the galaxy. You'll start 
 off small, but as the stage progresses, you can purchase stronger weapons, planet atmosphere tools 
 and the ability to go through wormholes located throughout the place.
  
  As this is the Space stage, you are able to explore the whole galaxy and discover literally thousands 
 of planets (apparently, there's over 50,000 solar systems in this game) . This is a wonderful idea, 
 but as you play the stage, you'll feel visiting each and every planet in galaxy is overkill. Luckily, 
 this isn't necessary to do, so you're not having to spend weeks exploring every single planet. 
 However, the amount of star systems could have been halved to make it less ridiculous to find things. 
 While there's the ability to go through wormholes, isn't exactly the greatest idea considering 
 you have no idea where it takes you until you go through it. It would be much better if it said 
 where the wormhole takes the spaceship to rather than finding out yourself.
  
  The other big issue with the Space stage is that there's no real ending to the game. One could 
 argue that getting to the centre of the galaxy and defeating the whole Grox empire is the end of 
 the game, while someone else could say you haven't finished it until you've unlocked all the achievements. 
 If you defeat the Grox empire, you're not rewarded with anything special for that and in order 
 to beat them, you need to attack every single colony of theirs and there's hundreds of them surrounding 
 the centre of the galaxy. Trying to defeat every single planet run by the Grox takes hours to do 
 and it's very tedious.
  
  This is a letdown since having to upgrade to the most powerful weapons obtainable and having to 
 travel from star to star to star while getting brutally attacked by the Grox empire to reach to 
 the centre of the galaxy seems to be all for nothing, especially when you're rewarded with just 
 a special terraforming item, which isn't much at that point, unless you intend to continue the 
 game.
  
  A true ending would have felt more satisfying. Just seeing a short cutscene showing your creatures 
 celebrating would have been good enough to inform you that you've reached the ending of the game, 
 but can continue doing stuff afterwards just like in Pokemon. The endings may have not been much, 
 but you know the main goal was to beat the Pokemon League and have the freedom to do any other 
 tasks afterwards. If Spore had an ending like that, it would have been more satisfying.
  
  Besides the aforementioned problems, the Space stage is still a lot of fun and worth trying.
 
  
  Overall, this game has tons of potential, but sadly, didn't quite meet the expectations to what 
 it should have been. It's still a good game, but has a few too many flaws, which is a shame. However, 
 I found this game to be much more interesting than The Sims. I was never too keen on The Sims, 
 but Spore grabbed my interest very well. If you haven't played it yet, this game is worth having 
 a look, most especially the Creature Creator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Demii
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Spore. When I saw the first previews of this game, and even the reviews, I was psyched about it. 
 When I saw my girlfriend playing it, because her brother bought it, I was jealous. When I got it 
 myself.. I wondered why...
  
  Spore was supposed to be THE life simulator of 2008. Nothing like it had ever been done. The customization 
 options were incredible, and the way every possible custom made subject was implanted into the 
 game without any trouble seemed amazing. But in the end, Spore was just disappointing. It set the 
 bar too high for itself. The creator made too much of a hype about it. Yes, the customization is 
 awesome. No bad word'll leave my mouth about that. But what good is customization if you can't 
 do that much with it?
  
  What I'm saying is, creating your own species, watching it evolve, and playing with it as it grows, 
 is indeed a great experience. However, there are only 5 phases for a creature, and they pass by 
 way to quickly. Phase one is just eating, and takes up about 5 minutes. Then your cell grows legs, 
 and moves to the land, starting phase 2. That is perhaps the longest phase, and in my opinion the 
 most entertaining too. Here is were you make the major adaptations to your creature. As a cell, 
 you could add parts and take them off, shape your spine a bit, and recolor your body. However, 
 that was only 2D. As an actual creature, you enter 3D, and the editing expands extremely. As your 
 creature evolves, you can either become allies with other species, or wipe their species out. This 
 will take 'round half an hour. By the end of this phase, you'll have to determine your creature's 
 final physical form, and from that part the fun kinda ends. After the creature phase you enter 
 the tribal phase. It's just a really shallow strategic phase. You get to choose an outfit for your 
 creature this time, but it doesn't feel as awesome as creating a new species from scratch, even 
 though your specie is still underneath the outfit. With only 7 rival tribes to take care of, by 
 destroying the tribe or becoming allies with them, you'll proceed to the next phase rather quick 
 again, 'bout 15 to 20 minutes. The next phase is the civilization phase, which is another strategic 
 phase, just a tick less shallow. But once again, after designing a new outfit, some buildings, 
 and some vehicles, you'll fly through this phase, especially after the introduction of aircraft. 
 This phase will also take 'bout 15 to 20 minutes. After this, you must create a spaceship, and 
 the space phase commences. What it all comes down to is that you control your creature less and 
 less, which starts at the tribal phase. 
  
  Cutting a long story short, Spore is fun the first time around. After that, it's all been there, 
 done that. That's all because the game tries to cover so much at once. It fails at that. Creation 
 is fun, gameplay isn't. It's as simple as that. Spore just doesn't offer any entertainment in the 
 long run. It only amused me for a day, and for that day I was happy with my new game. After that, 
 I wished I'd just done it at my girlfriend's place, realized it was crap, and spared me the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:19 am PT
Review:  In this game, you create a specie that will evolve, and when I say create, just think it's more 
 than what you can do in The Sims.
  
  The game is divided in phases that have each their own way of playing, making the game hard to 
 describe. At 1st it's an adventure RPG, then it evolves around an RTS, to a Civilisation kind of 
 game.
  
  At 1st the game is pretty good, asking you to learn few things and play a lot, but in the RTS phase, 
 you need to learn a lot, and that could be hard to people who are not familliar with the RTS genre 
 (Strategy games) . I always loved RTS so I thought that it was mostly a really simple phase without 
 any kind of difficulty.
  
  But the civilisation phase is beginning to be too much for the "make it yourself" thing this game 
 offer. After making you creature, then your equipement, now you need to build your houses, vehicules, 
 etc. And this takes too much time for nothing. It's a cool addition, but it's not fun to make, 
 and it's long.
  
  I started getting tired of the game at this part, and I'm still not sure I will continue till the 
 end of the game.
  
  Still, it's a good game if you like to customise everything, and if you like tamagochi and the 
 likes. But if you love adventure-rpg and/or RTS and/or Civ games, you will be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theBLOBlizard
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a game that does not require a great graphics card or good graphics to be a fun game, 
 it is its cartoon factor which makes it even better.
  The Good: the fact that you can create so many awsome looking creatures and watch them develop 
 from cell to outer space explorers and you just get so attached to your creations.
  The Bad: The only thing I could question about Spore would be that you can speed through it a bit 
 too fast and not get a chance to use all the creature creator parts unless you go to the create 
 section of the menu.
  The Ugly: There is nothing ugly about this game apart from my creations!
  
  Spore is one of 
 the only games I have rated 10 because in my eyes it is flawless and unscathed, the expantion pack 
 (parts pack) creepy & cute adds more bits to use in the creator (I personally prefer the creepy!) 
 and i have rated this 7.5.
  
  If you are reading this tof find out weather to buy the game or not - go ahead and it won't disappoint 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVMole
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Spore
  ______________
  
  EA Games
  Maxis
  Strategy
  Release: Sep 7, 2008
  ESRB: Everyone 10+
  ______________
  
  Score:
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 
 7
  Multiplayer: 8
  Game mode: 10
  Fun: 9
  Presentation: 10
  Game lenght: 6
  
  Overall: 9.0
  ______________
  
  The GOOD and the BAD:
  
  + The idea is excellent
  + 
 Fun and gameplay is great
  + Great presentation
  +/- Multiplayer (only on-line)
  - Too short
  - Some times in steps, are boring moments
  ______________
  
  Games from series:
 
  
  Spore Creepy & Cute Parts Pack
  Spore Galactic Edition
  Spore
  Spore Creature Creator
  ______________
  
  Available for:
  
  PC, MAC, Wii.
  ______________
 
  
  Official webpage: http://www. spore. com/ftl
  
  GameSpot link: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/spore/index. html
  
  EA Games: http://www. eagames. com/
 
  Maxis: http://www. maxis. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I became fascinated with Spore mainly because my brother had found it fascinating. I shared that 
 interest while watching this game develop and looked forward to, perhaps, owning a copy. Well... 
 I got it.
  
  Shortly before WAR came out Spore was released with high anticipation. I got it in September shortly 
 after its release and began hours of plotting and creating of animals, humanoids, penis monsters, 
 and ugly creatures. I swear to you, I didn't even start playing the actual GAME for three days 
 or so just because I was so busy screwing around int he creature creator. 
  
  This feature, the creator feature, is probably the most endearing quality of Spore. It's seriously 
 addictive, and limited by only your own imagination. The controls are very easy to master and once 
 you make one funny looking critter you can even show it off online. 
  
  You can choose to utilize these creatures in the available stages of game play, or start from the 
 cell stage from scratch and earn all the genetic parts you will need to survive. This doesn't take 
 long and you can determine what kind of creature you are going to have in the long run while in 
 the cell stage. If you put on a tooth-filled mouth and eat other cells, you're going to be a carnivore 
 when you set foot on land. You'll be a herbivore if you eat plants cells, and a omnivore if you 
 have a more diverse plate. The choice is up to you.
  
  Zooming through the cell stage takes about 30 minutes or less if you want to get it over with and 
 forget all the little cell parts that you can collect and upgrade your cell with. Sooner or later, 
 though, you set foot on dry land and you begin to choose your next path. If you were an omnivore 
 in the water, the same is true on land and you will begin to find different mouths to fuel your 
 omnivore needs. More feet, hands, and claws will become available to you as you either destroy 
 other species or discover old bones dotted along the landscape. At the end of this stage, depending 
 on how many parts you decide to collect, you will have the option to finish the structure of your 
 creature before you go on to the tribal stage. Be wary though, you will soon loose control of what 
 your creature looks like, so make sure it's the way you want it before moving on. 
  
  The tribal stage is more of the same as before, this time with weapons and instruments. You decide 
 in this stage, at last, what kind of civilization you will have. Will it be violent, benevolent, 
 or a mix of both? It doesn't take long to decide. You're tribal leader, also a shaman with a special 
 power granted to you through your last evolutionary phase, leads the way and after defeating or 
 befriending about 7 tribes, you move on. 
  
  This is where the game sort of loses me. There's a HUGE leap in time and you are immediately instructed 
 to make a vehicle and build a futuristic city. You are no longer in control of your little creatures, 
 but the vehicles instead, and though this is cool... Spore loses it's touch a bit. It's my opinion, 
 really, that the best parts of this game are in the evolution phases, cell and landfall. I would 
 have liked to have seen more emphasis on the tribal phase, making it more in-depth and intricate, 
 but alas...
  
  Overall, you should be warned, this is a rated G game. Like more soft core than a Disney film approved 
 by angry housewives. You need one mouse button, the icons are enormous, everything is round and 
 cartoonish, weapons fire like soft artillery, mating is always done via egg, and death looks more 
 like sleeping. It can be downright childish at time to the point where you just say... awwwwwwwww.... 
 damn it.
  
  Overall, however, I like this game a lot. It defiantly has pushed the envelope a bit further ahead 
 for games to come, if a game to come is anything like this again. And I wouldn't mind seeing another 
 game like this, with the same limitless possibilities but without the far reaching future which 
 sorta detaches the player form their creatures. Pick it up if you have the money and the time to 
 lose to the creature creator. As long as you can abide soft core fluffy plot and babble-speaking 
 creatures, you'll enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyJH
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Star Control II was cool and Civilization is an untouched classic in strategic gaming. Spore sucks 
 at imitating these games, which is at the core of its game play and the inevitable point that makes 
 Spore a sore disappointment. It is a real shame to see that Wright had to dumb down so many of 
 the aspects that would have made up the actual game play of Spore. Each stage of Spore really has 
 no weight to it and adds nothing new to gaming as a whole. 
  
  What Spore does do nice is the technology behind it. The creation of creatures is a pleasure. If 
 anyone is familiar with City of Heroes I can then compare to you that Spores creation engine is 
 even more fantastic than the one Cryptic developed for CoH. 
  
  But the problem of the lack of game in this game becomes apparent again. There's very little to 
 do that will actually make you attached to your creature and there is nothing you can do to make 
 them unique from anything else in universe other than being your creatures. Check out the creator 
 engine, but don't play the game, its bad for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrglorp
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When I got Spore, I was so excited to see what kind of creature I could make. So I started the 
 cell stage, where you eat to get bigger like on Flow (PS3 game) and depending on if you're a herbivore 
 (plants) or a predator (meat) what you can eat. Along with that you can find new parts to add to 
 yourself, like spikes, a tail thing to go faster, fins, poison and stuff like that. To add new 
 parts you need DNA which you get from eating stuff. to edit your creature you click the mating 
 call button , go find another of your creatures and then after that you go into the editor. There 
 you can choose a Skin for your critter and add parts. This was cool except everything costs a lot 
 of DNA and it's not exactly easy to get 15 or 20, since you only get 1 at a time, so you'll probably 
 only use spikes and the tail thing. The cell stage only takes something like 15 to 30 minutes to 
 complete. After you're done with the cell stage you go to the creature stage and get to go onto 
 land. if you think about it shouldn't there be an ocean stage?? Before you go into that stage you 
 go into an editor like the cell stage but its 3D and you can add legs, arms, weapons (like claws 
 and teeth) and other little parts. You can stretch your creature's spine, bend it, scale parts 
 bigger or smaller and you have more skin options. BY now you think "This games really cool" and 
 so you go onto land very anxiously. In this stage you control your creature from a 3rd person view, 
 still eat like in the cell stage but you need food for energy and there's more parts to get, which 
 are piles of bones lying around. Going into the editor is the same as the cell stage, but what 
 I don't get is why you are always female. Unlike the cell stage you can do more than just eat and 
 stay alive, you can make allies. To make an alli you simply go to another creature (who is not 
 hostile) and use the dance, charm, sing or pose abilities that range from level 1-5. (5 the strongest) 
 After you've made an alli you get some DNA, can heal at their nest and have the option to bring 
 them into your pack. (But you usually don't want to) If you eat meat then you don't want to be 
 social, you want to basically kill everything in sight. Attacking is the same as making allies; 
 you attack by biting, slashing, charging and spiting poison, ranging from level 1-5. The social 
 path is easier but gets kind of old, so killing everything in sight is usually the way to go. The 
 one mistake I noticed with predators is you just get everything to lvl 5 and you're unstoppable. 
 The most annoying thing about attacking is that everything usually comes after you and you die 
 first. To make things even better everything other than you and a few other creatures, will not 
 move from their nest until you kill them. This stage would be fun if the AI wasn't nonexistent. 
 By this time your thinking the next stage has to be better.
  
  The tribal stage was just boring; you have a little village of 4-12 of your creatures. Now you 
 get the ability to use tools or weapons, by tools I mean a fishing pole and drums. (oooo) The weapons 
 range from stone axes, spears, torches and healing rods. Just like the other stages you can edit 
 your guys but this time its adding clothing. Unlike the creature stage the clothing is not very 
 helpful it's mostly just for looks. You do get stats from the clothes like attack power, health 
 and social but you'll barely notice it. You get more buildings from making allies or killing another 
 tribe, but ether ways just as boring. You can move on to civilization stage after every tribe is 
 your alli or no longer alive.
  By now you're thinking "what was that?" The civilization stage is more fun but is to simple. Instead 
 of editing your creature you're making tanks, aircraft, ships and building. Its set up like an 
 RTS (like c&c) you start with a city that's your base that makes your tanks, ect. The city can 
 be upgraded with turrets, theaters to keep you people happy, factories for more money and houses 
 for more vehicles. your creature is almost nonexistent here. You gather recourses from Spice geysers. 
 It's not something that makes sense like minerals or metal, its PEPER!! In this stage you have 
 3 options Religion, military, or economy, but it's really, attack or buy everything. The Religion 
 or military is the best, because you can kill things, with economy you get turrets on your city 
 but that's it, so you can play that way but you might claw your eyes out from boredom. The way 
 to win is to own the world, if its military or religion you conquer every city even your alli's, 
 economy well you buy everything. That's about all you do. The Space stage is probably the worst 
 part of the game. You get to design your own ship but everything you put on your ship has absofreakinlutely 
 no use, you can have a flying brick and it's a ship. One of the major problems with this stage 
 that I noticed is if you were military on the last stage your ship will have something around 2-3 
 times more health than if you were religious, economic or just more friendly than you should have 
 been as military. The thing that I thought was cool is that you can buy weapons like a laser, missiles, 
 a turret that automatically shoot things that shoot you, bombs and ship upgrades like health and 
 energy. (This is for travel and weapons) Except using the weapons is just annoying, you have to 
 click/hotkey on your weapon then your target while you're getting torn apart. Unless there was 
 a key I missed it would have been better if you click on the weapon and it shot the nearest ship, 
 but left the ground targeting on what it is. So the combat here isn't any more exciting than in 
 any of the other stages. The Other species you meet don't do anything more than sit there, give 
 you money from selling Spice to them, (Is this Dune?!) a ship if there your alli and boring missions 
 to make them your alli and some money. Having another ship would be cool if they didn't suck, and 
 if they explode your alli gets mad, but you can still get another one from them. (Weird I know) 
 If you go to war with another species they will randomly attack any planet you own and they get 
 something like 5 ships with 5 little ships around them, but you have.. well, you. This annoyance 
 goes on until you kill them on EVERY planet they own or pay them to stop. Getting the spice on 
 this stage is pretty annoying, you fly to one of your planets pick it up then, go looking for someone 
 to buy it for a good price. This idea was cool except there's like 9 or 10 different kinds and 
 you need to terraform most planets to mine it. The terraforming is hard to do at the beginning 
 since you need to buy items to do it and you have almost no money. Later on it gets way easier 
 when you buy equipment that only cost energy. After doing enough missions for your species, they 
 basically tell you to go to the center of the galaxy. (The galaxy is enormous) This sounds easy 
 but, it's surrounded by very un-friendly aliens that hurt a lot. I never got to the galactic core 
 because I got bored with this stage and the game shortly after. (But I did look it up on YouTube) 
 When you get to the core you go into a cut scene and get an item to terraform a planet with cities 
 and everything in 5 seconds. At this point you beat the game, yep that's the end. This game could 
 have been FAR better but it seems like it was made for 8-year-olds. About the only thing I liked 
 about this game is making things, but not enough to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jboy13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:11 am PT
Review:  Throughout the game you'll find it fun and creative yet other times you may find it a drag. It 
 still has a lot to offer with creating your own creature and controlling every aspect of the creature's 
 life. You'll find it a little tough with every thing being piled on you. a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spot-Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game has a super gameplay , cell stage , creature stage , tribe stage , civilization stage 
 and space stage .
  I think that the best stage is the creature stage , you can perform a powerful pack whit other 
 species or your kind . In all things this game looks great , but its too short and that is the 
 problem .
  Spore offers you a complex customize system , let you chose weapons , social charm and more . The 
 game gives you the experience of a entire evolution chain , this game worth 8.0 .
  The boring part of the game is Civilization stage , very few units to produce and obtaining money 
 very hard . The most funny part is cell stage , experience this game and you wont regret it .
 
  Spore manages quite some feats  it's accessible for casual gamers, but at the same time so real 
 and dynamic, able to offer hardcore gamers a demanding experience and, obviously, a more appealing 
 one than in "The Sims". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricaner
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  (this is my first review so go easy on me) Okay its simple ive tried spore at my friends house and 
 let me tell you its not exactly the hype as it was 2-3 years ago.
  first spore has a cartoonishy look to it; theres just not much realism to it, second of all it contains 
 SECUR-ROM (that means when you insert the disk SECUR-ROM intentionaly installs itself without your 
 permission and theres no way to remove it also its basicly just like spyware) because of SECUR-ROM 
 spore has turned out to be the most pirated game of '08 and possibly of the history of video games, third (very 
 dissapointing) back then (2-3 years ago) transitions between stages of the game were straight and 
 uninterrupted but today after every stage the loading screen comes up, while the old one was one 
 load at the start of the game (virtually elimanating what i percieved as fun p. s. the transitions 
 were my favorite) really, EA has done it this time, the've screwed up what i percieved as a fun, the've 
 made it look very unrealistic (when it was released it had the crapiest graphics, why couldnt they 
 have at least used the source engine to make it look better?) i suggest you let this game pass you'lle 
 regret it if you dont let it pass. BE WARNED EA'S TACTIC FOR THIS GAME IS GET AS MANY PEOPLE TO 
 BUY THERE GAME BEFORE PEOPLE FIND OUT HOW S**** IT IS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a great game, don't get me wrong. But sometimes you have to sit and think, like at night. 
 When you think without distractions. You created a herbivore lets say. You think at night, wait 
 though, maybe i would rather be a carnivore or herbivore? Violence isn't the answer to everything 
 but, theres no action... So it is a high replay value.
  
  Story Line
  You play an alien spcies from a cell to a space alien on a certain planet. Then get off and destroy 
 or make friends with other planets. Aliens blowing each other up... Weird, yet sounds fun! Oh yeah 
 and makking Sporecasts is awesome.
  
  Graphics
  Not too shabby graphics. A nice design of colors and patterns, everything is mainly looking right. 
 Sometimes your arm fat is connected to another arm making a long, stretchy thing (which is weird) 
 but its all cool. You can make so interesting creatures with that in mind.
  
  Gameplay/Controls
  A couple words- Turning around is a little difficult and sometimes the computer 
 bogs up and it runs slow. Like you pick up something and what is it? The screen tthing doesn't 
 show up. Five minutes later, you get a mouth piece! Amazing! Wish you had known that five minutes 
 ago! Anyway its a good set of controls.
  
  Sounds
  Slow and steady music doing its job, making you focus on the game, not the music.
  
  So its 
 good for playing, just don't expect it to be the BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-bomb20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Spore is the best game ever. Highly recommend it to all Sims lovers. It's got very cute Simlish 
 language. The dropping tools for the Creature Creator is so easy, a baby could invent something. 
 You can create an infinity of creatures all with your imagination. But, like all games, it has 
 it's downsides. It can be VERY irratating at times and the drop tools can not always end up in 
 the place you want it to be. Say if you're gonna make a creature with 3 legs. The legs always end 
 up on the side of the creature, not the middle. But other than that, it's a very good game. It 
 is split into 5 stages. 1, the Cell Stage. 2, the Creature Stage. 3, the Tribal Stage. 4, the Civilization 
 Stage and 5, the Space Stage. In the Cell Stage, you create the most simplest life form and swim 
 around, eating meat if you're a carnivore or algie if you're a herbivore. You collect body parts 
 while avoid being blown into chunks by other cells to evolve into the Creature Stage. This stage 
 is very simple as you go around attacking or befriending or both to evolve into the Tribal Stage. 
 This stage is bit more challenging as you control a whole tribe. Then you eventually evolve into 
 the Civilization stage where you control a whole city either attacking, making money from them 
 or preaching them with a giant hologram. And the final stage is the Space stage, where you control 
 a single ship and attack, make money or preach them. So the first few stages aren't very engaging, 
 but a very good game. 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaethew
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have played almost every Sim game created by Maxis since 1994 (Sim City 
 2000) , and even some that were not (Sim Tower) . I always loved the huge complexity of every game 
 and the fact that you could discover something new at every turn. Sim City 2000-4 are games you 
 could literally play for years and still never discover the trick to creating a perfect city. There 
 were always challenges to overcome, and there were never any required formulae for beating the 
 game, though there were sometimes optional missions (Sim City 4 Rush Hour) . The Sims had a huge 
 range of personality interactions between the sims themselves, and a seemingly limitless range 
 of home construction items and layouts, many of which greatly affect the gameplay by changing how 
 your sim feels in his environment and how he interacts with others.
  
  Needless to say I had been looking forward to Spore since it was announced years ago. It seemed 
 like a combination of every Sim game created previously, in one massive game that replicates evolution.
 
  
  I bought the game on the day it was released, and eagerly began the cellular stage, which quickly 
 shows the quirky charm Maxis is known for. However I immediately noticed a flaw that a reviewer 
 previously mentioned: dieing has no impact on gameplay whatsoever (totally undermining the concept 
 of evolution) . At this stage, I also noticed how simple the game was. This cellular stage has been 
 replicated in any number of simple and free Flash games, which are fun for 10 minutes and then 
 become boring.
  
  At the creature stage, I noticed the impressive creature creation utilities, which I will admit 
 are very thorough and very well designed. However when one puts the created (and slowly evolved) 
 creature in any subsequent stage, one will realize that the creature creation has very little impact 
 on gameplay whatsoever. 
  
  You have simple choices such as vegetarian or meat eater, warrior or pacifist. Yet these do not 
 affect gameplay in any way. You are given required goals you must achieve (kill/charm 5 creatures, 
 take over/buy out 5 cities) , which are the same regardless of how many times you play the game, 
 which creature you created, which behaviour you have chosen. There are no personality traits to 
 your creatures, only basic modifications to its looks or way it moves, and simple and linear parts 
 used to charm or attack others. There is almost zero difficulty at this point as well. When you 
 can group creatures together, you can easily attack and kill any other group, who simply stand 
 in one place and wait for you to arrive and kill them.
  
  The same goes for the building and vehicle and spaceship creation. While you can make an airplane 
 really cool looking with many components and lights and colours, none of these things will affect 
 how it operates. Basic stats such as speed and firepower are easily maxed out, and a ship covered 
 with guns seems to be no more powerful than one with only 1 gun, or a boat no faster with 5 propellers 
 than with 1. 
  
  The building/city stage is even more useless than the other stages, because only 4 buildings are 
 required: your city hall, a home, an entertainment building, and a factory. All can be built and 
 customized extensively but nothing you do affects the function whatsoever. You simply must arrange 
 the buildings in a manner that compliments the basic stats of happiness and productivity. To protect 
 your city you simply cover it with guns and put vehicles around it, and you are fine. When you 
 take over another city, the new city simply turns into a clone of all your other cities, covering 
 the entire world in clone vehicles, creatures, and buildings. Also at this stage, your creature 
 is entirely forgotten, and groups of them stand in your city dancing around while you move your 
 vehicles.
  
  At the space stage, you follow linear quests to travel to other planets by simply clicking on them, 
 at which point you can begin the process all over again by colonizing other planets and repeating 
 the same objectives. This also brings up a point, which is that unlike all previous Maxis games, 
 Spore has an endpoint: once you have reached the space stage, you have seen all the game has to 
 offer. You can create a new creature or vehicle or building, but the game will function and respond 
 exactly the same when you run it through the 5 stages.
  
  Spore is essentially a creature/vehicle/building creator with a test track/land for you to move 
 your creation around in. The gameplay itself is nonexistent. There is no complexity or challenge 
 whatsoever, you simply follow simple directions and click to send your creature/vehicle to carry 
 out instructions. Basic alternate charms/attacks do nothing to affect how the world reacts to you 
 and simply are means to the same objective. Other species have no interaction with each other and 
 simply exist for you to eliminate or merge with them. The economy consists of only one easily obtained 
 resource, and requires no management whatsoever.... I could go on.
  
  In conclusion, I give the game credit for the Maxis charm in its graphics and creation options, 
 though one will easily tire of both of these things. It is simply an impressive creator with a 
 series of uninteresting Flash games tacked on. 
  
  If one likes open ended games with a great deal of complexity and impacts to your actions, try 
 out Sim City 4 or The Sims 2. If one likes ruling tribes or civilizations, try out Civilization 
 4 or Black & White 2. But if one likes chilidish simplistic flash games, try Spore, though I would 
 not recommend it for anyone over the age of 8. I just hope that another reviewer was right in reporting 
 that the game was dumbed down for a bigger audience by EA and not developed for 8 years to be this 
 final product by Will Wright himself, as I was sure that he could do much better than what we now 
 have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoR_Sanders
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Easily one of the best games out on the market right now. Spore has a unique 
 character creation system to say the least. All of the things you can do with the body parts is 
 miraculous. All of the vehicles you can build with the set parts are amazing not to mention the 
 file sharing ability. Seeing all of the things other players have made is a very great feature. 
 I have downloaded countless creatures and such. Also the buildings are very well thought of. I 
 had a city that was completely supped up. I had missals, machine guns, planes and all of the spore 
 artillery. Then a rival city which I angered sometime back destroyed it. I didn't keep my eye on 
 it because I was too busy looking at another planet. So that was a little disappointing but later 
 when I re-builded my army I went back a smought them off the face of the planet. Overall I give 
 this game a 100 out of 10. Great Game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Spore was my first, and ( thus-far ) only preorder, and from E3 to Tokyo and Leipzig, I, like so 
 many of you out there, followed this game from its inception to the days prior to its release. 
 When those days finally drew unbearably close, I scoured the internet for the first sign of a review. 
 Indeed, there was one, a copied and pasted magazine review: a score in the nine's. My pre-order 
 seemed well founded! Huzzah!
  
  Soon, I raced to EB, picked up my game, installed it and played through the cell stage with such 
 glee! What flash, what style, what interesting creatures! It was fun! I wondered what might happen 
 if I died, so I didand then I respawned, and respawned, and respawned. Until I realized that 
 dying, in contrast to actual (and engaging evolution) held no real consequence to my species! This, 
 I find, is a huge flaw throughout the experience. Death, as it were, should be a constant threat 
 to a species' lineage, and, if by chance I die 5 or 10 times in any stage of the game, shouldn't 
 my species soon perish off..? Should they not die and become extinct, for being unfit to rule the 
 pond? The world? The Galaxy? I would think so; but alas, it doesn't even seem to matter beyond 
 being an annoyance, when the game asks you to seemingly go back in time (to an autosave) and see 
 if that'terrible fate' befalls you again.
  
  Now, granted, the issue of death consequence in Spore may seem like only one small issue. Indeed, 
 for some it may seem like I'm nitpicking a good game. But to me, this issue is where the heart 
 of the whole problem with Spore lies. The game, is epic in scope, but unforgivably shallow in depth- 
 even childish, in approach. There are no winners and losers in this game of life. You can never 
 die, you may kill a species, sure, but in the creature stage, all it takes to do that is by killing 
 5 creatures. 5! 
  
  Yes, when you kill 5 other creatures, apparently their whole existence is erased, and yet, when 
 you do time after time, nothing remotely threatening happens. Why is that okay? The answer: It's 
 not, its rather frustrating.
  And the whole idea of style over substance permeates its way throughout the whole breadth of Spore 
 to the point where you realize that not even the creature stage is remotely intriguing, because 
 all it really is, is a bunch of AI controlled species-nests placed randomly on a map, that require 
 your actions to force them to do anything interesting. The game never ever seems to replicate a 
 real, cut-throat existence in nature, but instead, a childish one that only moves as you move, 
 and dies as you kill. There seems to be very little AI on AI predation, war, friendship. You're 
 the only moving cog in the machinery, and that, my friends, is that.
  
  The game... From these issues, and so many more is one that is actually NOT a good game at all, 
 but rather a simple, and easily accessible game with less depth than the Sims series.
  
  Sure, it has a nice coat of paint and some interesting creation and sharing tools, but in the end, 
 the execution is just an absolute let-down. Even if it was designed to be forgiving and fun and 
 happy, which it is, there is still no excusing the poor AI, the simple builds of each stage, and 
 the lack of reason to really continue playing, besides creating stuff.
  
  In the end, Spore is truly the biggest disappointment of the year, and honestly, hype or not, the 
 game just isn't much fun, and it isn't worth the time.
  
  
  4.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve-Ooooo
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I read somewhere that the marketing guy in the spore team took out all the science and evolutionary 
 aspects from this game to dumb it down for the masses. Will was mad, but it was out of his hands.
 
  
  and this is what we get: a watered down, moronic adventure in mediocrity. Every aspect of this 
 game has been done much better in various flash games or 5 year old RTS or strategy games.
  
  The first stage is fun (all 10 min of it) as it is a well-presented flash game. With strict, 
 self-imposed rules on evolving my dude, the second phase was kinda fun for about 2 hours (making 
 it so I could only change him slightly with every step) . The rest of the game was just terrible. 
 I played to the 'end' of it too and regret it.
  
  
  I warn anyone who is going to get this game to watch out, play the fish-growing-bigger flash game 
 (or that other cool evolving one that I forget the name of) , Age of Empires 2, Civilization 2, 
 and Sins of a Solar Empire for an experience 1000x better for the same price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZacherWol19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good concept and a chance to be a very awesome game. But it didn't live up to the 
 hype, sadly.
  Why?
  Well I'll go through each stage
  Cell 6/10
  Its cool and a very good stage until you play it the second time. Then its very repetive
  Creature 
 4/10
  This gets repetive halfway through the 1st time. Its kinda like WoW accept no cool skills, or armor
 
  Tribal 5/10
  This is way to easy. I dont mind how difficult a game is, but this is just so easy i wanna blow. 
 And it gets repetive
  City 2/10
  Really bad. It gets boring after the first time you play. You never will wanna go back to this 
 stage. Spore is not a type of game where you can throw in a simple RTS
  Space 1/10
  to the loading times when zooming into planets, to repetive quest there is absolutely nothing to 
 do in space. You may say what about Terraforming, well to actually have fun with terraforming you 
 have to do missions
  All in all Spore is a ridiculously repetive game that is not worth the money. Im sure with updates 
 and expansions this could be one of the best games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polodoro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited spore is simply a masterpiece, every time you put it down you'll pick it back 
 up again, just because there is infinite possibilities. Spore has 5 levels of depth, each step 
 in the evolutionary time line sees your creature developing into a more sophisticated being. At 
 any stage of the game you have the ability to edit and customize every part of your society. In 
 creature stage you collect parts to make your creatures better, than later in space stage you collect 
 buy and sell space artifacts and weapons to further your own selfish desires. There is just so 
 much in spore to explain it is impossible to write it all down. You also have the ability to create 
 an anthem for your society, buildings, plants, vehicles, customize weapons, acquire super weapons, 
 outfit your civilization (with seriously awesome gear) and just about anything else you can think 
 about. That is why there is always something to strive for in spore and, coherently, why there 
 is so much replay value. You will never get bored with spore, with so much to do and create the 
 game will always be worth its salt. Yes it's malleable, yes its cute and yes DRM holds it back, 
 but it all adds to the awesome effect (and DRM only effects heavy internet users anyway so what 
 is everyone complaining about? (unless you're a heavy internet user of course (in which case I'm 
 sorry for your loss.) .) ) . (Man, I just used a lot of brackets.) 
  Anyway, all in all, Spore is a must see adventure that will have you playing tens of hours for 
 only 80 bucks now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortexfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Some people are crazy about this game, and some think it is a waste of time. Me? I think this game 
 is a must have if you like the gameplay. the main thing about spore is the endless custimization 
 that you can create with. You can create at least one thing in each of the five stages. In spore, 
 you must create a universe from cells to galactic warfar. There are five stages in spore, cell, 
 creature, tribe, civilization, and space. Each stage uses it's own unique gameplay abilities. In 
 the cell stage, you begin as a tiny cell swimming in an endless tide pool. Depending if you choose 
 to be a carnivore, herbivore, or ombivore, you will eat meat, plants, or both. Really this is just 
 an introduction to the rest of the game, during the fact that it will only take you 20-30 min. 
 to complete. All your doing in this stage is finding food and avoiding other enemy cells. Of course 
 you can create your own cell, well actually, you dont have a choice, you have to create stuff in 
 this game. After you gain enough DNA points wiche you use to create and evolve your cell/creature, 
 your cell grows up and heads onto land. This is the beiginning of the creature stage. You turn 
 your cell into a creature by adding legs so he can walk around the planet that you chosse at the 
 beiginning of the stage as your home planet. Of course, your creature is much bigger than the cell 
 in the cell stage. Now you must explore you new found world and gain DNA points again by attacking 
 or befreinding other creatures. You can also add creatues from yours or an allied nest to your 
 pack so that you are not alone in the big dangerous world. You will also take an ocasional break 
 to add or decreace the parts of your creature. You will also need to eat food sources depending 
 on what you were in the cell stage. Then you will enter the tribe stage. Your creature has gained 
 alot of intellegenceand has maneged to form a small tribe with a couple other members of your species. 
 You will not be able to change your creature anymore but you will be able to give it clothing items 
 or change your tribal village in the tribal planner. In this stage you will once again gather food 
 wiche you and other tribes use as s trading system. You will be able to add more members to your 
 tribe and some other tool shacks for your doing. You will be able to interact with other tribes 
 as well, either wiping them off to extinction, or befriending them and eventually adding them as 
 allies. As you capture other tribes, by dominating them in warfare or adding them as friends, you 
 will build your totem pole wiche stands greatly in your tribal village. Once you capture five other 
 tribes, you will move on to the civilization stage. In this stage, your now greatly improved village, 
 full of members, will build their first city. It all starts out as a simple city hall. Then you 
 build houses, factories, and entertainment buildings. You are no longer gathering food but now 
 are trading spice from numerous spice mines. That spice is made into sporebucks, wiche you use 
 to expand your city limites. Each city has a specific specialty, economic, military, or riligiously. 
 Using these methods, you will capture other cirys and expand your limites. All this will lead to 
 war. Every city has turrents on their city walls to defend, and if you own a military city, you 
 can take them by force. If you have an economic city, you can set up a trade route with anather 
 city. And if you have a religious city, you can make other cities think the same way as you, leading 
 to an allience. You will do all of this by using veicles, wiche travel by ground, sea, or sky. 
 As usual, you can you can design these veicles in your own ways. Once you capture all cities on 
 the planet you move one to the most complexed stage, the space stage. In this stage, you must build 
 your own space cruiser and travel the galaxy, expanding your empire and completeing missions for 
 oher alien races out there. There are hundreds of other planets out there that can be explored. 
 This stage is hard to learn and you have to keep track of alot of things do your empire dosn't 
 fall into depaire in the hands of other empires. This stage is more of an endless stage wiche makes 
 sence since it is the last of the five stages. Well those are the stages and what you do in spore. 
 Howevewr there are many other features in it to, like how you can actully interact with other aliens 
 that anather person created. This game surly satified me and it will probably do you good too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowluv12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Spore is another great game made by MADIX. The graphix is good and I really like the story scenes. 
 It may be a bit boring at the first 2 stages, but after tribal stage, it's great fun. Especially 
 in civilization stage, the action really begins! You'll be so busy protecting ur cities and capturing 
 other cities that you have no time to do nothing else! I suggests every to start of as a herbivore 
 and finish the game. Then play carnivore in a new game because carnivores are harder to grow in 
 the first 2 stages and it's overall harder. Or, you can continue playing herbivore and make it 
 harder each game as in the skill levels; Easy, medium and hard. Both are great ways to have fun! 
 If you like this game, then I bet all of you guys can't wait for the Sims 3 coming out soon for 
 PC. I can't wait either! Well, overall, ENJOY THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeg17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  The creature editor got my attention right away and I knew I wanted this game. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the editor, but the game iteself was a major let down. While trying to be all things at once, sid 
 meyer forgot one important thing: It was supposed to be an entertaining game. There is no story 
 (which is fine) but there is an arbitrary final goal at the end of the game.
  
  The most enjoyable part of the game is the space stage for the first 2 or so hours before you run 
 into a race of cyborgs that's impossible to defeat and pointless to do so. The tribal / civilization 
 stages are a waste of time, the creature phase is downright stupid, and the cell stage is way too 
 shallow.
  
  Overall, this game had major potential- it just didn't live up to it. It's a B-grade arcade game, 
 not a detailed world simulator. Your creature's behavior is unilateral, there is no sense of environment 
 / food chain, and gameplay is way too simple and tedious.
  
  Presentation: B
  Gameplay: F
  Mood: C
  
  Entertainment: C
  Good substitute: Flow + WoW + Age of Empires 
 + Civilization + Space Civilizations
  
  Final Thoughts: Good if you're 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user425
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros: customization, smooth quality, good sounds
  
  Cons:
  
  Customization has no effect on your creature's effectiveness, making it almost useless to make 
 your creature have the best evolutionary shape. All you need to add is enough points in each of 
 the attack/social mode. 
  
  Simplicity: Too simple to be fun. You only have about 4 attack and 4 social modes. Similar with 
 all civilization stages. You click a few buttons and that's it. No strategy at all. Strategy games 
 require you to think. This game requires you to get enough experience point/money. Get parts for 
 your tribe/character and that's it. No thinking whatsoever.
  
  Too Short: I finished the game in less than a day. What? I thought there was more, but that was 
 it.
  
  Repetitive: In each stage, you just do the same thing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merc_Scar
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  In Spore you make an organism which you follow through the many stages of evolution. Your organism 
 starts off as a single celled little thing and you have to choose whether its a carnivore or herbivore. 
 Then after you eat a ton of micro-organism food you evolve into a land creature where you can make 
 parties with your brethren or make friends with other organisms. Once you kill off or make friends 
 with enough species in that stage you evolve into the tribal stage which plays like an incredibly 
 simplistic RTS Game. After you kill off or make friends with all the tribes you go into the industrial 
 age. After you kill off all of your brethren you magically have the idea of space travel.. Makes 
 no sense but I guess it did to Will. In space mode you just fly around making friends or enemies 
 with other species.. This gets boring really fast and if you bore easily playing the all the stages 
 again will get very boring. Overall this game has a great idea but it fails on so many levels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leifette
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I really detest how simplistic this game is. Each era seemed extremely short, except for the space 
 era. I could see how people with a more creative bent would enjoy this game. Alternatively, if 
 I was a child I think I would have enjoyed the game more, but being an occasionally mature adult 
 I felt like I should go and put my blocks away when I was done there.
  
  It had some innovative features, which I would like to see on more serious games. For all it's 
 hype it just did not live up to the expectations I had. Now EA is gouging our pockets again with 
 a pay for new parts and animations expansion. This add on should have been free to download for 
 registered copies of the game.
  
  The oversimplification of everything in this game was maddening. If I wanted some flat two dimensional 
 romp from a microscopic organism to non-Kirklike stellar exploration/dominion I would have saved 
 my money and doodled on a note pad.
  
  This game was an almost game. You almost had the freedom to make whatever you wanted. You almost 
 could be as creative as you wanted to be. You almost feel like a child playing it. It was almost 
 fun all the time. I almost want to play it again. I almost want to buy the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Some concepts for video-games may sound very good, but they turn out to be broken. Some others 
 don't sound good enough, but they are proven to be very entertaining. Definately, Spore belongs 
 to the second category.
  
  In Spore, you develop one creature from a small cell to an intelligent and social adult. The game 
 is very good for two reasons.
  
  The first one is its open developing gameplay, which allows players endless moves and things to 
 do in order to advance their creatures. However, I have to admit that sometimes the single-player 
 gameplay turns out to be very simple, too simple for a strategy game of its genre. And to make 
 matters worse, in the beginning the game is not that interesting. But wait for a while and you 
 will be satisfied, it is worth a little wait.
  
  What makes the game really interesting and entertaining is the innumerable customizations you can 
 do to your creature. This time, the developers of The Sims have made a new record, only to beat 
 their old. From eyes to hands and skin colour, the choices never end.
  
  The graphics of Spore are very good and belong to the new video-games generation, while its concept 
 art is reasonably deep. The sound of Spore is magnificent really, from the sounds your creature 
 makes, to the score of the game.
  
  Spore is a very interesting game which will keep you stack in front of your PC for a while till 
 you realise that there are other things to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Spore has been anticipated for years, and now my rieview is finally out. This game is really exciting 
 the first time you play it. Theres so much to figure out, it fells mind-boggling. Cell mode is 
 fun, sort of like pac-man, its eat or be eaten (or run away, but that's no fun) . In between cell 
 and creature mode, there should be a fish mode, like in the original videos. Creature mode is fun, 
 but it's also kind of simple, id like to be able to make a bird or something. Tribe mode is okay, 
 its just boring. In between tribne and civ mode you should to medieval mode. Civ mode is way to 
 easy, thats all i have to say for it. Space mode is fun, but eventually the flying away, saving 
 your homeworld, flying back, finding millions of upgrades with no money routine gets very boring. 
 I would recommend spore to casual gamers, but if you're a hardcore idiot who wants top spend 15 
 hours a day at the pc, then dont buy this game.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Replayability: 3
  
  Controls: 8
  
  Overall: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehBoognish
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I had been watching all the hype for this game for a very long time. I was expecting great things. 
 After exactly 10 hours with this game I am pretty sure they spent most of the development time 
 hitting this game with a nerf bat.
  
  1. Game is WAY to short based on how long it was in development. Not worth 40 bucks if you can 
 finish the single player in 6 hours.
  2. Feels like theres more to this game. I bet it was there but has been cut out so EA can sell 
 it to you later as an expansion pack.
  3. All the customization of the game, a MAJOR seppingpoint I might add, is only cosmetic. It doesnt 
 matter if your creature has one leg or one million, it will run as fast as any other creature with 
 legs of the same rank.
  
  I think this falls under the title of Kiddie game. I was bored very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KakashiMorph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Spore was fun and entertaining, although a bit too short for my tastes. It doesn't have any big 
 replaying value either. It got the job done, but could have been better.
  The creature creator stage and the building/vehicle creator stages were probably my favorite, although 
 I was disappointed that there were no furry skin options. 
  The stages end quickly; way too quickly. Tribal stage only lasts for about an hour or two - and 
 you can't stick around like you did in the creature stage either. The longest one ( and never ending 
 essentially) was the space stage, and it is also my personal favorite, although there was much 
 potential in other stages as well, if only they had been longer. 
  The graphics were very good, and the way the creatures moved groovy and fun. The environment had 
 beautiful tones to it, and the epic creatures were a nice touch, but in the end, even though pretty, 
 spore was just too short for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I was excited for spore. Really. I liked the Sims games and I thought Spore would be good. It was 
 Will Wright's last game, and he wanted to make it a good one. Well, he blew it. What it ended up 
 being was a collection of 5 minigames, and all but one highly resemble one another. The game could 
 have been done over a series of 4 flash web pages. Instead, we've been ripped off for 50 dollars 
 to have them on a disk as a rental. 
  
  What do you do in Spore? Well, you create a creature, as a cell, then it suddenly and miraculously 
 switches to a land creature within a day. Then you kill things. Then you kill things as a group. 
 Then you kill things as a group and make a village. Then you go in circles in space.
  
  Where are the multiplayer elements we all thought they said there would be? Where is the option 
 to create your own planets and let people visit them? Where is the long, exciting evolutionary 
 process? It all got left behind with the hype. What you have left is a shell of a few cheapie flash 
 games, thrown on a disk.
  
  Spore does have some kind of cool elements. The first stage was by far the best, I was happy to 
 have purchased it when playing the first stage. The second one was lame, but I figured it would 
 pick up. Within an hour of playing, I was on the third stage and bored silly. And it never gets 
 better.
  
  Sorry, I went on a tangent of Spore hate again. But anyways, the creation tools are really cool 
 and gave me promise that the whole game would be just as cool.
  
  Any good qualities of Spore are better off missed, though, because you're paying to rent the game. 
 You get three activations (by the way you must be online to play the game the first time) which 
 are affected by hardware changes. So say you install the (bad) game, decide to buy a new processor, 
 install again, and you have one install left. Does that make much sense to you? Unless you're a 
 money hungry glutton behind a cash-stuffed desk on a corporate high rise towering over the landscape 
 in New York, no, not one bit. It's a scam and a treachery to gaming's future. I'm horrified that 
 games are already this expensive and have limited activations. The game should be yours. A simple 
 disk-check with unlimited activations would do fine, but what do I know?
  
  The DRM system was implicated to stop piracy. Ironically, a cracked (and therefore improved) version 
 was released to the internet before the actual release. I am not one to pirate, but seeing them 
 get it early, not pay for it, and not have to put up with EA's DRM shenanigans certainly makes 
 me a little jealous of them. Deservedly, EA saw Spore being pirated more than anyone could imagine. 
 In the end, the DRM caused more piracy than if the disk was completely unprotected, because it 
 infringed on the consumer's rights.
  
  I'm done ranting here, and hopefully I've deterred you from buying something which is eerily close 
 to a scam from a big company. Let us vote with our dollars to keep gaming fair. There are far better, 
 more deserving games that deserve our money right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius8041
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  I first purchased the Spore Creature Creator a while back and had a blast creating all sorts of 
 creatures. I couldn't wait for the game to come. I put the game into my PC and started playing 
 right away and was instantly addicted. It's a fun game that draws any player into a world of their 
 own creativity. I've never seen a game so driven by user generated content. Maxis did a good job 
 of meshing everyone's creations together into one big galaxy. The cell stage was a good tutorial 
 of sorts to immerse you into how the game is played and how the player should evolve their creature. 
 The creature stage was a ton of fun. Browsing for parts, making friends or enemies and running 
 from the occasional epic creature makes it a fun stage. The tribal stage and civilization stage 
 are a complete disappointment though. I was able to complete each in under an hour. The space stage 
 is where the game shines. Having more than 50,000 planets that you can visit with extraterrestrial 
 empires spread throughout the galaxy really shows how immense a studio can make a game. While parts 
 of Spore are average, the game does create a new genre of game completely driven by the players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivers_GotGame
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  In my Opinion ---  Game is fun for awile but EA made it impossible to resell a used copy. (unless 
 you give the new owner your email, profile name and password)
  I sold the game and now I am involving a third person into tis mess because of EA and the account 
 registration. Now tey prolly send it back to me and I have to give a refuind but I also have to 
 pay for shipping and explaine all this... EA put me on the spot so again.. I will never buy anoter 
 game from them again.. They already took madden 09 from me and act like they own the world. Now this 
 one copy of the game per serial key/registration/email address? NOT!
  
  I will not purchase another game from EA until this registration garbage is removed from their 
 policy.. plenty other companies making better games...
  
  Too bad, worried about piracy and people not buying their games.. lol EA is creating lost sales 
 now and in the future...
  
  Because of the game and my expieriance with it I give it a 1.0 because now I cant even enjoy the 
 game because i am so upset over te registration issue and DRM bull...... and reselling of a game 
 I purchased and thougt I could resell..
  .FOOL ME ONCE EA shame on you... FOOL me twice.. shame on me... I Won't be fooled again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The basic gist of Spore is that you control and evolve a creature that you have created by taking 
 it through different scenarios and steps in the evolution, each with its own mechanics and goals. 
 While this feels new at first it quickly becomes very repetitive.
  
  At the beginning you choose the basic attributes of your creature. For example you get to choose 
 if it is a herbivore or carnivore, and you also choose different body parts which grant different 
 abilities whilst playing and these can range from protective spikes to fins which allows you to 
 traverse through water much quicker. After successfully choosing your desired attributes and body 
 parts you are thrown into the first phase which is "the cell phase". Here you'll experience the 
 term "survival of the fittest" at first hand as other lifeforms will attack you and vice versa.
 
  
  The cell phase is also where your creature start to develop new attributes by eating the right 
 type of food (which depends on your earlier choices) and picking up bonus items that unlock new 
 body parts. This phase is very easy and dull as it's basically just "point and click" until you 
 are ready to find a mate and move further in the ladder of evolution. As time passes and you successfully 
 gather food your creature grows bigger, you are also allowed to change its appearance by either 
 altering its abilities or adding entirely new ones. For example you could make your creature spit 
 acid or produce electricity to fend off other creatures. This phase goes on and on at a pace mostly 
 set by how fast the player finds food, and should you happen to die you will respawn right back 
 with no penalties. After reaching a certain size you will be given the choice to develop legs and 
 proceed to the next phase which is where you will roam a rather wide landscape and you continue 
 developing in different ways.
  
  When playing Spore, you might be conditioned to think that the next coming phase is where the game 
 picks up and starts to show its true potential. Instead it comes to a halt simply because of the 
 sub-par game mechanics and the game does little to nothing to make you want to play any further. 
 The next stages takes you out from the water and on to dry land. You still continue to collect 
 body parts found lying under piles of bones scattered around the map and this of course allows 
 you to change the same way as before. You are pretty much doing the same thing but with different 
 controls and a new setting although this time around you can actually try to communicate with the 
 different species by singing to them or making different high pitched noises just hoping they will 
 understand. This also grants you points so those that don't wish to fight can yet again avoid it 
  this is an appreciated feature as it lets you choose your play style. Despite what you choose 
 expect to be spending quite some time doing the exact same thing over and over before actually 
 making progress towards the next phase.
  
  Despite all this it is the "creator tool" that makes the game slightly enjoyable, but it does get 
 a little tedious when you are trying to puzzle together some kind of creature that actually makes 
 sense with reality as I found that to be the most interesting part of the game.
  
  Throughout the entire game the graphics are "different" as certain phases have slightly better 
 graphics since the amount of details needed increases, but even so the graphics always remain dull 
 and bland. Since the game is not at all graphically demanding it's perfect for casual players out 
 for a laugh because that is all you will get from the various goofy animations of the creatures 
 not to mention the sound effects.
  
  As you progress through the control schemes are changed and the game switches between how it's 
 played. It feels like many unfinished games instead of one solid game. This is most unfortunate 
 as this could have been a great but most of all a fun game. Instead we got this weird mixture of 
 game styles with in lack of better explaining words lousy graphics. The game does have an online 
 feature where you can upload your creations to others, and thus show your creatures to the world, 
 and you can of course also see other player's creations likewise. This might be entertaining for 
 a couple of minutes but this is nothing that'll will keep you glued to the seat.
  So after doing various violations against mother nature you are left with an empty feeling as the 
 game leaves you with nothing but this monstrosity of a game on your hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairybeanbag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Spore is one of those games that brings along new ideas and fun gameplay. The whole creature creation 
 thing is fun. The five stages are fun but the first two stages are highly boring and repetetive. The 
 tribe stage is fun and so is the civilization and space stage. space stage is highly fun and gives 
 you a chance to explore the galaxy with about 500000 planets to explore. It can be stupid at times 
 with you fighting pirates or divertion an eco disaster every 5 minutes. Another fun part is trying 
 to get to the centre of the galaxy which is one thing in the game that is extremly hard to do seeing 
 as hostile forces seem to occupy every corn of the centre of the galaxy.
  
  The difficulity is easy and even on its hardest is a breeze. Highly repetetive gameplay is irritating. The 
 graphics are fine but not great. The first two stages are simple and boring. All you do is eat.
 
  
  Despite its problems its a good game and worth buying. You should definately buy it and it is highly 
 addictive game.
  
  Oh, and buy the way, thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGavin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I like many others expected to much about this game. I was looking forward to its release when 
 Will Wright first expressed the "idea" of Spore. 
  
  I purchased the game when it was first released because I thought It would deliver and no I regret 
 purchasing at all because it now is collecting dust in my PC game collection.
  
  Before I tackle the negative aspects of the game let me focus on some of the good things.
  
 
  Pro (s)
  
  1. Player creativity. You can create virtually anything you desire in regards to your creature 
 and vehicles and structures.
  
  2. Terra forming can be fun. Picking a planet to mold and change can be entertaining.
  
  3. 
 Easy to pick up and play, the controls and creation tools are very easy to learn.
  
  4. Graphics although very cartoonish seem to be used well.
  
  Con (s)
  
  1. The four stages 
 are too easy and fairly shallow.
  
  2. The Space stage, although it my be fun to explore the galaxy there really isn't much to do. 
 Yes you can visit other player created characters and structures and choose to ally with them or 
 destroy them.. but thats it.
  
  3. Space quests are boring, repetitive and shallow.
  
  4. Boring and over-simplistic economy, basically you mine different color ore and sell them to 
 other planets for a varying price to make spore bucks.
  
  5. Constant relentless attacks on your planets and allied planets which you have to take care of. 
 Allied planets are not capable of defending themselves apparently. This in turn limits you and 
 your creativity which this games preaches about. How can you Terra form and explore a planet/ solar 
 system when every 5-10 minutes you have to kill pirates or enemy races.
  
  6. Overly Easy, although killing pirates etc is annoying it is ridiculously easy which makes it 
 even more of a waste of time in my opinion. The only thing this game challenges in your patience. 
 
  
  This is but a few examples of what I think of Spore. I stop now because I wish not to bore anyone 
 further.
  
  Maxis has made it a point to make this game appeal to every age group which in turn hurts the gamer 
 that wanted this game to be more in depth. If you like games that are easy and don't take much 
 noodle to figure out and like expressing your creative side. Go with Spore.
  
  This game will not blow you away. Yes the galaxy is large, but its just a lot of the same thing 
 to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigelblack
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Spore had me playing it non-stop in the first day. The creature creator (and also the other creators 
 in the game) Are amazing. You can customize your stuff in almost any way you want to.
  I got to Space stage after 7-8 hours of gameplay (it's a very easy game, even on difficult mode.) 
 and the first missions were amazing.
  The first let down came only when the game started repeating itself. Same pirates attacking my 
 planets, same ecological disasters, "pay me 'x' or it's war" messages, "omg, come rescue us please" 
 messages... Boring, but I wanted to get my progress bar full. I was hopping something amazing would 
 happen. 
  Eh, not really, no. Second disappointment there.
  After this I played a little more just to find that's about it. You can keep exploring until you're 
 bored enough to stop. i got bored pretty fast.
  
  Graphics got a 9/10
  Customization is the big star of the game with a 10/10
  Sound effects just ruined it 1/10 (Annoying, 
 repetitive, annoying again.)
  Music is a 4/10. Not bad enough to get you annoyed like the sound effects and "voice" acting, but 
 not good enough to actually be noticed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  From the opening of the game, I couldn't wait to immersive myself into a masive world of creation 
 and destruction. Looking around every corner is something that wanted you out of its life and buried 
 in the ground, but wait, you've got more addons that a MAC just waiting to turn your orgasim into 
 a mega monster with 10 eyes, 3 mouths and an umbrella to keep the rain off. But enough of my ranting, 
 lets explore the game....
  
  The opening shows you the universe that you'll explore later but to start you zoom down onto the 
 world you choose and start absorbing other lifeforms. Anyone who's played F. L. O. W. will instantly 
 think that there's a serious copyright infridgement here as its basically a copy of that game. 
 SO swimming around attacking other creatures, getting powerups and growing into the next stage 
 of evolution is what you achieving here.
  
  Once you've gained enough experience your onto land to take on the land creatures, then your hunting 
 in packs. You can now explore the land looking for powerups, other forms of life and other things 
 that you'll need later. In the mix is the occassional large beast that'll take a few of your creatures 
 to bring down for essential food. There's plenty to discover here before you move onto the next 
 part of the game.
  
  Now you can bargain or take over other tribes of your species to gain ultimate control over the 
 world. Again plenty of things to fights, build and destroy.
  
  Finally .... Space is big, ITS really big, so big that you can't imagine just how big it is. So 
 now your building spacecraft to move onto other worlds, take creature or brings creatures and plants 
 to make new ones. Populate new worlds and become the ultimate power of the universe.
  
  Everything in the game is moddable, your creature, the vehicles you build, the building and even 
 the ambient music you listen to whilst playing. Graphics are visually stunning and plenty going 
 on to keep you playing til the wee hours of the morning.
  
  Thoroughly enjoyable ... go forth and prosper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scientist8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Quick review:
  Pros: Innovative, creative, replayable, easy to pick up and play, makes non creative people like 
 myself look creative.
  Cons: Creature stage is short despite that's what it seemed the game was focusing on. Some stages 
 could have had more depth and much more potential. Overly-simplistic feel in some cases.
  
  Creativity is the name of the game here and if you have a lot of creativity you'll probably have 
 a better experience but that's not to say if you don't have much like myself you can't enjoy it. 
 
  I probably made the most basic creature anyone could think of and added as much stuff I could to 
 him and still enjoyed every bit of Spore even though my creature looked like trash to most at the 
 end.
  
  You start as a cell fighting for survival in the ocean eating and dodging from being eaten by bigger 
 cells. As you grow you can collect parts and evolve and start eating those cells that were bigger 
 than you at the start. Cell stage is short but any longer it probably would have been too repetitive. 
 Once you get your land legs you make your way to land and begin creature stage. 
  
  Creature stage is where you really get to build how you want your creature to look throughout the 
 rest of the game. You can make allies with nearby creatures nested next to you or eliminate them 
 all. There are many parts to collect and a lot of land to explore so sometimes you get lost just 
 getting more and more parts to evolve your creature and make him better. Once your pack leaves 
 its old nest to relocate to another on the side of the island you really get to see how big of 
 an area it is you're playing on and just how many other creatures you can communicate with. Depending 
 how you play it; collecting parts, making allies/enemies creature stage can be pretty long but 
 if you just do the bare minimum and evolve as fast as you can creature stage can be a bit short 
 which is strange since this game seemed to rest so largely on making and playing your creatures.
 
  
  When you evolve once more you begin Tribal stage which turns the game into a bit of a real time 
 strategy game. There are many options how you want to train your tribe members, whether its as 
 a fisherman, axe wielder or drum player. There are many other options you can choose from which 
 contribute to how you interact with other tribes. Making your tribe carry musical instruments is 
 a way to befriend near tribes by playing music for them which works the same way as befriending 
 creatures in the creature stage; press drums when they ask for drums, play pipes when the play 
 for pipes, etc. You also have to gather food for your tribe to stay healthy and you can trade that 
 food to other tribes to gain their trust as well. Fighting other tribes isn't really that difficult, 
 there's really no specific strategy for it, you can literally just charge in with all your tribe 
 members and slaughter the other tribes chieftain so it's really not heavy on strategy. Evolve once 
 more and you gain entry to the civilization stage.
  
  In civilization stage it's basically like a revamped tribal stage except this time you can customize 
 all your buildings and vehicles and isn't as short as tribal stage. The main game here basically 
 like tribal stage except now you have to collect spice resource nodes throughout the map to gain 
 more money to expand your empire. Basically to interact with other civilizations you can befriend 
 them through trade, convert their religion to yours or simply eliminate them. Depending on how 
 you build your town is how they will produce the spice they bring back from the nodes, you have 
 to set your entertainment buildings and factory buildings to maximize production and happiness 
 in your city, though I haven't really been penalized on having an unhappy city. Evolve once more 
 and you reach the final space stage.
  
  Space stage is where the game shines at it's best, you can explore so much in the galaxy and expand 
 your empire with allies for your race to the center of the galaxy. You can do quests, terraform 
 planets to become habitable, trade spices, customize planets with color, hills and cities, even 
 lay some crop circles! There are many upgrades to unlock for your spaceship that will keep you 
 occupied for a long time and almost infinite amount of planets to explore.
  
  Spore definitely keeps you occupied for a very long time and you can keep playing and unlock achievements 
 or just share your creativity by creating creatures and vehicles and sharing them with your friends 
 or anyone browsing the sporepedia. I had fun with it and still am and I am anticipating the new 
 Creepy & Cute expansion set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  spore is truely a great idea for a game. I have waited this game to be released since it was announced. 
 When the game hit the store, I went out to buy one immediately. I found Spore to be "fun" and a 
 game that would be suitable for all ages and genders. It is unique in many features and gives you 
 everything from kill everything you see, to negotiate a partnership and be friends.
  The most fun and greatest depth to the game comes from the creation tools which you can spend hour 
 and hours on designing creatures, buildings, ships, etc. The creation tools are really awesome 
 but if you want great game play then this may not be the right game for you.
  There are five phases of evolutionary progression - cell, creature, tribe, civilisation and space 
 - that the player is taken through on the path to becoming the most dominant race in the galaxy. 
 Each of these phases play quite separately to each other, however, the actions performed in one 
 stage will have ramifications for the later stages. 
  In cell and creature stage you mostly work alone trying to be friends with other races, or killing 
 them, but starting from tribal stage the game takes an RTS feel, which will appeal to most players.
 
  The first stage is short and simple. After that, I really did enjoy the creature stage. I thgought 
 it was fun, and I liked adding to my creature as I progressed. I think this was the best part of 
 the game but there's no fun in killing or peace making. It's just like a repeating, repeating process. 
 More like working. The tribal stage, on the other hand, is the shortest without any good reason. The 
 civilization stage isn't much better. space stage is not bad, its a little fun.
  gameplay is very easy; You'll easily finish the entire game. The games graphics are cartoony and 
 nice. sounds are ok (not amazing) .
  Not too many options for game play in early stages just wash, rinse, repeat. Can get boring fast. 
 Not too in depth for more hardcore players. if you looking for a cute game to kill some time with 
 virtually no thinking involved, Spore is it. If your looking for a strategy game. Stay away. 
 
  All in all, Spore is a game that gives you the opportunity to make your own creation. It doesn't 
 let you play a very advanced game with it, and for me the appeal of making creatures is very fun 
 but the gameplay is far to simplistic for me as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryman1000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf 
 awdgfgdgdfgdf awdgfgdgdfgdf v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Simply, the first 3 levels (cells, animal and tribal) where kinda cool, very cool.
  But the designing was too childish, and like designing tanks & ships, its too simple, designing 
 3 guns, and only 1 stupid bullet comes out, very stupid.
  While the city defense turrets shoot machine gun bullets! 
  How incomplete.
  
  Then this 
 "space" fase.
  Wtf, cant even customize your own weapons for your ship, cause there are these STOCK weapons for 
 you.
  There is no game physic at all in this game.
  Way too easy, and you cant even do everything, only 1 ship, and some random friends which show 
 up, and you cant even land your ship and see your cities growing and all, in the space fase you 
 can only fly in space and beam things up, thats all, the strategy is long gone then.
  
  Designing your creatures was pure fun, but there where a lot of missing styles and concepts, making 
 only childish creatures.
  
  EA Promised much, but gave crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Spore game is dived into 5 levels or stages of evolution. Here they are:
  
  Cell: This is the easiest stage of the game and I passed it 15 minutes after I installed the game. 
 It is very fun though.
  
  Creature: This is the toughest stage of the game. I took me 2 months to beat it! It is the best 
 part of the game however. ( Fun tip: Go on top of a geyser and your creature will fly up in the 
 air!)
  
  Tribe: One of my favorite parts of the game. I normally don't like strategy one bit, but I still 
 love this stage.
  
  Civilization: It is fun but a bit too easy to beat.
  
  Space: It is nice but I don't think it is possible to beat it in less than a year.
  
  
  I 
 really love the creation tools that come with the game. (Don't be upset by the price because it 
 includes the creature creator with it and so really cost about the same as any new-release game.) 
 The only flaw is that it is sometimes difficult to take a picture in your head and make it in the 
 creator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The time has come and now you can create your world.
  The Spore game allows the player to develop a species from a microscopic organism to its evolution 
 into a complex animal, its emergence as a social, intelligent being, to its mastery of the planet 
 and then finally to its ascension into space, where it interacts with alien species across the 
 galaxy. Throughout the game, the player's perspective and species change dramatically.
  The game is broken up into distinct yet consistent, dependent "phases". The outcome of one phase 
 affects the initial conditions facing the player in the next. Each phase exhibits its own style 
 of play, and has been described by the developers as ten times more complicated than its preceding 
 phase. While players are able to spend as much time as they prefer in each, it is possible to accelerate 
 or skip phases altogether. Some phases feature optional missions; when the player completes a mission, 
 they are granted a bonus, such as a new ability.
  Every time the player interacts with a creature, the game will create a quest depending on what 
 stance is used. If the player is in a social stance, it will give them the goal of befriending 
 a certain number of that species. If they are in combat stance, the goal will be to kill a certain 
 number of that species, and therefore, render that species extinct. If the player's creature kills 
 off or befriends a species, the creature will be able to heal at their nest.
  Creatures have stats for Abilities, Attack, and Social, using a numeric rating system. Adding specific 
 body parts grants the ability to perform actions, such as "Call" and "Jump". Creatures can be given 
 a name, description and tags. Body parts can be found during gameplay, which add that part to the 
 editor for future use. These come from preying upon/befriending alpha creatures or finding bones 
 of dead creatures. The only body part a creature requires is a mouth (or it will starve to death) . 
 If a creature has no feet, it will slide across the ground with the lower section of the torso, 
 in a similar fashion to a slug or worm. Creatures also may have a limited ability to fly: gliding. 
 A creature's ability to stay aloft is dependent on two factors: the jumping ability and gliding 
 ability.
  Also, a creature may have the ability to sneak, sprint, charge or spit poison and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fechex
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Even tough the game uses an almost unexplored territory and its very well design, it gets old very 
 quickly.
  
  The first stages are EXTREMELY easy, you can change your character so many times and so differently 
 that it takes away all the challenge. Whatever need you may have (faster creature to explore, tank 
 to destroy, or a social monster) , you can customize your creature from scratch and fulfill them.
 
  
  Civilization stage building and vehicles creation is very complex, but it has no charm. You can 
 spend half an hour designing an incredible building or vehicle, but the stage takes almost the 
 same to be beaten, so... where's the fun in that? 
  And there is also the customize-as-you-like factor, that makes very easy to create, for example, 
 an only speed vehicle to feed your commercial needs.
  
  The last stage (space) is very much like a space simulator, the only difference is that you create 
 the monster that is going to navigate the ships. It can be entertaining in the beginning but its 
 loses power as it becomes repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aercy18
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Spore has hyped & I think many will agree that it has done justice to its anticipation. As one 
 starts from scratch to Singular-Cell-Life, working through Cave-Man-Life, Tribal-Life, Hat'n'Suit-Life 
 all the way up to the Star-Trek-Life, he or she will feel that it is a multi-game experience for 
 the price of one. 
  
  The Creature Creation is magnificent; considering the numerous options & ways one an create a creature 
 is spectacular & deserves a separate appreciation. Cell stage is where you get the fun of Wii games, 
 simple yet amusing. Creature stage is like being in a 'Third Person Sim' game (3rd Person shooter 
 as well considering you can Spit & it's almost as good as bullets ;-) ) . Tribal Stage & the Civilization 
 stage is like playing a Command & Conquer with your creature & your community, only the first one 
 with old-school weapons & later one with big-bada-boom weapons of mass destruction. Then you go 
 to the final frontier, the Space Stage where you are exploring galaxy, expanding empire & eliminating 
 obstacles such as other empires & creatures with offensive mean or political mean (smarter) . 
 
  
  Ultimately you play as a God who interferes a lot with the lives you create, which is a terrific 
 & addictive. Only the Space Stage tends to be long & one might feel bored of this stage as the 
 tasks are repetitive. But otherwise the experience of the game is impeccable & it's highly addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crip123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the game I wasnt to sure how it would play-out. After playing a for a few hours 
 I had a lot of fun, its very simple to design cool looking creatures, cars, tanks, airplanes, jets, 
 ships, spaceships even a 5 year old could sit down and have a blast with imagination. This game 
 is very good for children and anyone with a imagination. There is tons of features to play around 
 with and tons to do. With many planets and huge amounts of creatures and empires this game will 
 have you hooked for awhile. I will admit after you get into the space age and fly around it gets 
 a bit old with the constant planet attacks and pirate raiders but on the bright side thats what 
 mods are for. I gave the game a 8.5 and really think thats the score the game deserves. The graphics 
 are great and zooming ini and out of black holes, or down to a planets atmosphere is a lot of fun. 
 As I mentioned above you can customize mostly anything in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdraco41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Spore's whimsical style will attract those looking for a different type of game. When it is initially 
 played, Spore is exciting and fun, but after the third or fourth run through, it begins to get 
 boring. However, after giving it a break and returning, the neat, tingling feeling you got from 
 the initial game will return. I think that the best attribute of the game is the seemingly endless 
 amount of discovery you can achieve by playing the game with different types of creatures (so long 
 as you do not lose interest first) . I also agree that the achievement aspect of the game will encourage 
 people to continue playing the game. At the end of the game, the space stage, you can do almost 
 anything, so long as you have money. The cost of almost any tool that you can use is so insurmountable 
 that you would have to spend months traveling from planet to planet selling spice in order to buy 
 all of the tools you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Decent game. But cell to civilisation stages are too short so you jump into space stage in just 
 a few hours. The great thing is that you can bring your imagination to life, change how your planet 
 look like (If you have the tools) and create your creature.. However, there isn't much textures (skin 
 patterns etc.) Though the lack of parts is solved in the expansion pack. What's more is it is a game 
 of a couple of different genres. Cell stage is stimulation, Creature is action/adventure. Tribal to 
 Space is strategy. However, when you are in tribal stage you'll find out that the planet your in 
 ain't so big after all, each planet is too small for one's liking. However, once your in Space stage, you 
 can instantly tell which planet is perfect for terraforming or not without clicking lots of buttons 
 and stuff. This is a perfect game if your not a hardcore gamer and can only play for one to two 
 hours. ----------------------END-Hope this review helps -------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogeyman777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, and I hate it. I love it for the intrigue and fun it brings; I hate it for the 
 sleep it has deprived me of. It has been a long time since I've played a game that had me saying 
 "... just a couple more minutes" only to look at the clock and realize that I had to get up for 
 work in a few hours. Spore shares that mantle with few other games.
  
  There are more reviews out there that would better address the nuances of the game; I won't pretend 
 to be a game reviewer in the professional sense. With this in mind, I'll present a few points that 
 may help someone decide if Spore is right for them.
  
  Are you a creative person? Spore contains a series of content creation tools that are intuitive 
 and fun. You can design your own creatures (obviously) , vehicles (land, sea, air and space) and 
 buildings. You don't have to be an artist to get great results. The creation tools really help 
 lend a personal touch to Spore gameplay.
  
  Game-play has a bit of everything. Some have compared the stages in Spore to classic video games 
 (i. e. the cell stage is somewhat akin to Pac Man) . These comparisons are fairly valid and lend 
 familiarity to game-play of such depth. Though each stage has its merits, I have found the Space 
 stage to be the most interesting. Engaging in commerce/battles/diplomacy with other species' empires 
 is a lot of fun.
  
  If you have enjoyed any of Will Wright's previous releases (i. e. SimCity, SimEarth, The Sims) , 
 this game will float your proverbial boat. If you like to tinker with the development of a civilization 
 through cellular evolution to galactic domination, you won't be disappointed. Certainly, this game 
 doesn't offer the same kind of micro-management of other civilzation simulations, but its breadth 
 and management for each stage of evolution more than make up for that.
  
  Despite my praise for the game, I did experience a couple of technical issues at first (I was a 
 victim of a serial key misprint and the decoration "spam" bug) . Wading through support forums to 
 find solutions for these issues was worth it. I've more than got my money's worth out of the Galactic 
 Edition and expect that I will put many more hours into game-play. I happily bestow a rating of 
 10/10 for this game. Personally, I don't see why it would deserve less than that. The development 
 and execution of this game are nothing short of legendary. Innovative, entertaining, absorbing, 
 and sure to induce late-night red-eye in most players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciuslucavi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  When i got spore i had this feeling i was going to play a "civilization" all over again, but for 
 my surprise it was not. 
  
  Spore is a Mix up of various games in just one, and i really enjoyed the all of them.
  
  In 
 the early bacteia phase you got to survive eating whatever, and fighting with another bacteria.
 
  
  The beast phase is my favorive, you can either be friends or extinguish another life forms so can 
 yours, continue to evolute.
  
  In tribal phase and the Civilization phase it all passes too fast. You got to either kill or comune 
 with the other tribes.
  
  Then it all get to the Space phase. its all the same, you got to either kill or be friends with 
 the other empires, making trade routes. But the really interesting part of this phase is that you 
 can terraform the planets, its very fun setting up colonies and terraforming the planets.
  
  So, the mix up of games is what make spore a fun, quick and nice way to spend some hours in 
 front of your computer, or console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Spore was a game that was on the top ten games must play this year list. It was hyped a lot, and 
 was said to be a game to change gaming forever. Sadly Spore does not do all that. But it is still 
 fun to play.
  
  In Spore, there are five stages. The first is stage is which you are a singled celled organism 
 and you need to swim around and eat things. Then you move on to land, and have to go around and 
 make friends and kill things. Then you go to the tribal stage, and the game turns into an RTS. 
 Then yo go to the civilization stage, and filly the space stage where you fly to different planets. 
 The stages are all fun in their own way, but only take an hour each to get through. But when you 
 get to the space stage, who does not like picking up animals and trees, and flinging them around.
 
  
  Like I said, Spore is held back by a bunch of problems, like length. I personally liked the civilization 
 stage a and the land stage better than the rest, but those stages were super short. Spore also 
 has a lot bugs. Some times other animals in te world will go invisible. Other times, when you order 
 an attack, some times you creature won't respond, or will attack, but you won'y see any fight animations. 
 The latest patch fixes a lot of these problems.
  
  I you don't want to play through the singe player in Spore, then you have a creature creator. You 
 can create things without playing the single player, and you can share them online. This is a lot 
 of fun, and not to mention can be really addictive. This is where Spore shines.
  
  Spore's graphics look pretty good. There is not a lot of eye candy in thi game, but environments 
 and creatures look pretty good.
  
  The sound in Spore is good. The music is all right, and the sound effects are pretty good.
  
 
  Over all Spore is a good game that has a lot to offer, but if you don't like games like this, 
 then this game will not change you mind. Getting back to my statement above, that Spore was on 
 my top te games of 2008. Now would I leave it there. As of right now I do not know. I still have 
 to see how other games are for me to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Spore is the game where you literally get to play God. You get to create a single-celled organism 
 and control it's evolution. You make the decisions about what type of creature you are creating... will 
 you be peaceful and social or will you attack other creatures establishing yourself at the top 
 of the food chain? Will your creature have six legs and four eyeballs or will it be a biped?
  
  As you make these decisions you progress from a tiny creature floating in the ocean to a vast 
 space empire. You get to create every detail from what your creature looks like, to what it wears, 
 to what vehicles it commands, to what it's houses look like... virtually every aspect that comes 
 into play during the game is customizable by you.
  
  Now for the not so great...
  
  Despite all the customization options (which are great.. and very innovative) the game play itself 
 is... well, quite frankly, disappointing. The different stages (cell, creature, tribe, civilization, 
 space empire) vary in length from a few minutes to a few hours. It's relatively easy to advance 
 from stage to stage but it gets rather humdrum after a time or two. The whole point of the game 
 is to evolve but even that gets rather boring after awhile.
  
  I've played through the game to the last stage and have had no desire to play through it again. 
 It's not engrossing and there are few options to make the actual game play different from the first 
 time you play through it.
  
  The bottom-line... a very innvoative game but lacking in the game play department. Spore just doesn't 
 have enough to keep you playing it over and over. I'll give it a 7.0 just for the innovative factor. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your the leader of a tribe. Lead em to the space and dominate or befriend everything in 
 your path.
  
  Missions: Kill or befriend mainly untill you reach the end of the age and move on to the next one.
 
  
  Controls: Mouse and Keyboard.
  
  Features: Great Graphics, Cool story, Awesome editor with millions of combinations and possibilities.
 
  
  AI: Its alright. Not the best at times. 
  
  Graphics:. Everything is very detailed and looks great. The space age looks amazing as well as 
 the jungles, swamps, water and everything else.
  
  Audio: The sound and soundtrack is cool with the tribal music. 
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
 
  
  The Good: Great sound and graphics. Huge editor with lots of possible combinations
  
  The Bad: A few bugs, Not the best AI
  
  The Ugly: Nothing.
  
  Replay Ability: Very High. 
 You could play this game up untill the day you die and never have seen every combination of Creature, Vehicles 
 and buildings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is referred to as a "massively single-player online game" and "asynchronous sharing."Simultaneous 
 multiplayer gaming is not a feature of Spore. The content that the player can create is uploaded 
 automatically to a central database (or a peer-to-peer system) , cataloged and rated for quality 
 (based on how many users have downloaded the object or creature in question) , and then re-distributed 
 to populate other players' games. The data transmitted will be very small - only a couple of kilobytes 
 per item transmitted. This was due to procedural generation of material.
  
  After reaching the space phase, players can visit other players' planets, and interact with other 
 players' species, tribes and civilizations.
  
  Via the in-game "MySpore Page", players receive statistics of how their creatures are faring in 
 other players' games, which has been referred to as the "alternate realities of the Spore metaverse." 
 The game reports to the player on how other players interacted with them (for example, how many 
 times other players allied with their species) . The personalities of user-created species are dependent 
 on how the user played them.
  
  
  Sporepedia
  
  The Sporepedia is a major part of the game. It keeps track of nearly every gameplay experience, 
 including the evolution of a creature by graphically displaying a timeline, showing how the creature 
 incrementally changed over the eons; it also keeps track of the creature's achievements, both noteworthy 
 and dubious, as a species. The Sporepedia also keeps track of all the creatures, planets, vehicles 
 and other content the player encounters over the course of a game. Players can also upload their 
 creations to Spore. com to be viewed by the public at the Sporepedia website.
  
  Phases
  
  There is a difficulty selector to each stage, allowing players to choose the difficulty for 
 each part of the game. Spore defaults to the easiest level. The first four phases of the game, 
 if the player minimally uses the editors, will take 6-15 hours to complete. Note that there is 
 no time limit for any stage: the player may stay in a single stage as long as they wish, and progress 
 to the next stage when ready.
  
  Abiogenesis
  
  The game opens using the scientific concept of panspermia. A meteor plummets toward a planet and 
 into an ocean. One meteor fragment, now a geode, splits open, revealing a tiny organism.
  
  Cell
  The Cell phase. The monstrously large creatures in the background will come to the foreground 
 as the player's organism slowly grows and evolves.
  
  The first phase of existence, the cell phase, is sometimes referred to as the tide pool, cellular, 
 or microbial phase. The player guides simple microbes around in a 3D environment on a single 2D 
 plane, reminiscent of flow, where it must deal with fluid dynamics and predators, while eating 
 weaker microbes or plants. The player may choose whether the creature is a herbivore or a carnivore 
 prior to starting the phase. Once the microbe has eaten several pieces of food, the player can 
 enter an editor in which they can modify the appearance, shape, and abilities of the microbe by 
 spending "DNA points". A player may choose to remove a part, which will refund the full price. 
 Parts are aquired by seeking out out special "golden shields" from meteor fragments and other organisms, 
 which provide new parts to use in the editor, such as spikes, mouths or propulsory mechanisms. 
 If the creature dies, the player restarts from wherever it died.
  
  The phase consists of five stages, which are halved themselves; every half-stage, the creature 
 grows larger. As the microbe grows, objects that are in the background move to the foreground, 
 which can mean being eaten by a microbe that had previously been swimming in the background.
  
  The cell's eating habits in the Cell Stage directly influence its diet in the Creature stage, 
 and only mouths appropriate to the diet established in the Cell stage will become available in 
 the Creature stage (However, it is possible to keep the cell-stage mouth opposite what is available 
 in the creature stage, thus allowing a player to truely be omnivorous even if the game gives him/her 
 herbaceous or carnivorous staus. If that cell-stage mouth is removed, though, it cannot be regained) . 
 The ocean floor becomes more prominent as the player progresses, and once the player decides to 
 progress to the next stage, the creature editor appears, prompting the user to add legs before 
 the shift to land.
  
  Creature
  The player's creature encounters an "epic creature"a giant-sized version of another user's content.
 
  
  The creature phase is similar to the cell phase, but with several important differences. Principally, 
 the environment is now truly 3D. Other creatures will inhabit the world, and most of them will 
 have been created by other players. Creatures will automatically be introduced into the environment 
 to maintain a balanced ecosystem. If the player creates a bigger, tougher creature, the predators 
 that are downloaded will likewise be stronger than average.
  
  In this stage, the basic goal is the same: earn DNA points, reproduce, and avoid being eaten by 
 predators. One main difference is that, instead of being found mixed throughout the environment, 
 members of a species - including the player's species - congregate at 'nests'.
  
  Another difference introduced is the social aspect, allowing a player to earn DNA points through 
 peaceful interraction. Socialization is the nonviolent alternative to consuming creatures for DNA, 
 as befriending other creatures earns DNA points, allows access to their nests for resting, and 
 allows a member of that species to join a pack headed by the player.
  
  Every time the player interacts with a creature, the game will create a quest depending on what 
 stance is used. If the player is in a social stance, it will give them the goal of befriending 
 a certain number of that species. If they are in combat stance, the goal will be to kill a certain 
 number of that species, and therefore, render that species extinct. If the player's creature kills 
 off or befriends a species, the creature will be able to heal at their nest.
  
  Creatures have stats for Abilities, Attack, and Social, using a numeric rating system. Adding specific 
 body parts grants the ability to perform actions, such as "Call" and "Jump". Creatures can be given 
 a name, description and tags. Body parts can be found during gameplay, which add that part to the 
 editor for future use. These come from preying upon/befriending alpha creatures or finding bones 
 of dead creatures. The only body part a creature requires is a mouth (or it will starve to death) . 
 If a creature has no feet, it will slide across the ground with the lower section of the torso, 
 in a similar fashion to a slug or worm. Creatures also may have a limited ability to fly: gliding. 
 A creature's ability to stay aloft is dependent on two factors: the jumping ability (how high in 
 the air) and gliding ability (how slow the descent is and how many times the creature can flap 
 its wings) . Also, a creature may have the ability to sneak, sprint, charge or spit poison.
  
  This stage will evolve the creature's social behavior, as the creature may make friends and 
 form a herd or pack. Will Wright referred to this as a simplified version of the friend-making 
 mini-game in The Sims. This mini-game is implemented by mimicking the other creature's behavior 
 such as singing or dancing until their level of friendship with the player's creature rises. Creatures 
 may also make friends with other species. The player may also encounter spaceships from other players 
 from this phase onward, which may abduct the player or other creatures. The evolutionary goal of 
 the creature phase is to increase the creature's brain capacity, which is done by gaining DNA points. 
 Once the creature becomes intelligent, the player may progress to the tribal phase.
  
  The creature phase has night and day cycles, with very short nights. There are also weather effects 
 such as short rainstorms. Additionally, meteor showers will randomly take place with comets raining 
 down from the sky and UFOs will sometimes visit the planet and abduct creatures (both of these 
 will frighten the NPCs, making socialization impossible) .
  
  Tribal
  
  After the player's species evolves its brain far enough, it enters the tribal phase. Physical development 
 ceases, as does the player's exclusive control over an individual creature, as the game focuses 
 on the birth of division of labor for the species. The player is given a hut, a group of fully 
 evolved creatures, as well as two of six possible "super powers", unlocked depending on the species' 
 behavior in the previous phases.
  
  This stage begins with a cutscene parodying 2001: A Space Odyssey. In this phase, the game is similar 
 to an RTS (real-time strategy game) . The player may give the tribe tools such as weapons, musical 
 instruments, and healing or fishing implements. Food now replaces "DNA points" as the player's 
 currency, which the player can spend on structures and additional tribe members, or use to appease 
 other tribes. Creatures also gain the option to wear clothes, the editing of which replaces the 
 Creature Editor in the 'Tribal Editor'. If creatures of a different species were added to the player's 
 pack in the Creature phase, they are now used as pets. Additional creatures may be domesticated 
 in the Tribal phase, which provide eggs for food. Contact with other tribes of the same species, 
 or even different species, can take place in this phase, and creatures also learn to speak. Their 
 language is dependent on the type of mouth they possess; primate-type mouths, for instance, result 
 in Simlish. Creatures, as with The Sims, also "speak" with icons embedded in word balloons.
  
  Tribe members are assigned roles such as fishing, gathering, or hunting. The creatures' behaviors 
 are affected by the way the player utilizes them. If a player uses them aggressively, their autonomic 
 behavior will reflect that; conversely, if the player uses them peacefully, allying other tribes, 
 their behavior will be more kind. Even their idle behavior will reflect this; warlike tribal members 
 will practice combat while docile members will practice instruments and throw parties.
  
  There are five other tribes along with the player's, which can either be destroyed or befriended. 
 For every tribe befriended or destroyed, a piece of a totem pole is built, which may increase the 
 population limit of the player's tribe. When the totem pole has five pieces, the player may move 
 forward to the Civilization phase.
  
  Civilization
  The Civilization phase focuses on the player developing many cities and colonies.
  
  The goal 
 in the civilization phase is to gain control of the entire planet, and it is left to the player 
 to decide whether to conquer it militarily, economically, or religiously. When entering the phase, 
 the player's tribal camp is now a city. Players now have two new editors: the building and vehicle 
 editors. The player can build four buildings (City Hall, House, Factory, and Entertainment) and 
 up to 9 vehicles (Religious, economic, and military in sea, land and air) . To earn income, players 
 can capture spice gysers, conduct trade, or arrange buildings (see below) .
  
  In constructing vehicles and buildings, as with most real-time strategy games, there is a capacity 
 limit; building houses will increase the cap, and constructing various buildings adjacent to one 
 another will provide a productivity bonus or deficit: for example, building an entertainment centre 
 next to a house will provide happiness, but a factory will decrease happiness and increase production. 
 Like Civilization III and IV, the player's territory is marked with a colored border that increases 
 as the player gains more power through militarism or influence. The main unit of currency is "Sporebucks".
 
  
  Instead of military conquest, players with a Religious trait construct special missionary units 
 that convert other cities via propaganda. Likewise, Economic players communicate solely by trade 
 and have no weapons. Players also have access to superweapons, each of which have devastating effects 
 on other rival civilizations. Players can also form alliances with a rival civilization, and when 
 the entire world has been conquered by both factions, the rival faction will join the player's.
 
  
  When the player has conquered or allied with all the civilizations on the planet and decides to 
 move on to the Space Phase, the UFO editor appears. At this point players are allowed to view the 
 planet from space.
  
  Space
  In the Space phase, the player has access to a galactic map for interstellar travel.
  
  The 
 space phase provides new goals and paths to follow as the player begins to spread through the galaxy.
 
  
  The player may now terraform and colonize neighboring uninhabitable planets with special tools 
 (water tool, volcano tool, etc) . Although these tools start off limited and very expensive, the 
 player can obtain infinite versions. Terraforming tools include a heat ray which can create more 
 favorable conditions on, for example, an ice planet. Left unchecked this can cause oceans to rise, 
 then eventually to evaporate and transform the world into a desert planet, followed by a molten 
 rock in space. These tools may also be used as weapons, sucking out the atmosphere or altering 
 the temperature of a planet in order to kill the inhabitants without a pitched battle. The ultimate 
 terraforming tool is a technology called the Staff of Life, dubbed the 'Genesis device' prior to 
 the game's release, which instantly transforms a dead world into a habitable one, although it is 
 limited to 42 uses.
  
  The player may cause ice comets to crash into a planet to create water, or force volcanoes to erupt 
 to increase atmosphere. [42] Players may build colonies on the surface of an inhospitable planet 
 once they gain the ability to create bubbled cities, similar in function to self-sustaining arcologies. 
 When establishing colonies on alien worlds, players have to take care of them as they would any 
 other city and keep morale up.
  
  The player may also abduct creatures and transport them to other planets to test a planet's habitability 
 (During earlier phases of the game, it is possible to see other creatures on the planet being abducted 
 for this or other purposes.) The player may utilize various tools such as fireworks to interact 
 with primitive lifeforms, or place a monolith (in the style of 2001: A Space Odyssey) on a planet, 
 triggering evolution of intelligence. On some worlds, the player may also find strange "artifacts" 
 with functions varying from terraform coloring tools to treasures which can be sold for a relatively 
 large price. Artifacts can be present on lifeless worlds and inhabited worlds, although taking 
 them from planets occupied by sentient beings will anger them.
  
  There are more than 50,000 planets in the game's galaxy (including Earth and the Solar System) .
 
  
  Players can make contact with other civilizations, called 'empires', most of which are created 
 by other players. Intelligent species can be found, and when the UFO visits that world, they may 
 impress the beings with fireworks or a 'happy ray', attack them with weapons, or cast crop circles. 
 The player may beam down a holographic image of his/her creature to interact more directly with 
 an alien species. A user-created civilization's AI reacts depending on its behavior and personality, 
 both of which are based on the play-style of its user. The player can unite or conquer the galaxy 
 by creating a federation or sparking an interstellar war. As a show of great force, the player 
 may even completely destroy a planet (similar to the capabilities of the Death Star from Star Wars) , 
 which may bring retribution from that species and its allies. The player is sometimes called upon 
 to fight off an invasion of their home planet, colony, or an ally's planet, from space pirates, 
 environmental collapse, or attack from enemies.
  
  EA has stated that there will be a storyline and 'secret ending' which can be found within the 
 Space stage, and that 'only the most hardcore gamers' will get to it, which is the previously mentioned 
 Staff of Life in the middle of the galaxy guarded by a hostile race of Cybernetic aliens known 
 as The Grox, who are extremely difficult to befriend and even harder to defeat.
  
  Sandbox
  
  The space phase is sometimes referred to as a sandbox, because the player eventually 
 gains near-complete control of everything, though in the initial stages of the Space phase, the 
 player inevitably must interact with other civilizations as in previous stages. It has been mentioned 
 that the space phase works on two axes: a horizontal axis (the ability to interact with many planets 
 in a variety of different ways) and a vertical axis (the ability to revisit different phases of 
 gameplay) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidamei
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, I played all the way into Space segment. Game began to crash and never recovered. This was 
 even after a complete un-install including Spore Registry settings. Watch for tech support to give 
 you the "Level Three Tech support will be calling you in fourty-eight hours" I'm afraid there won't 
 be a call coming.... not in fourty-eight hours or the next three years. This is a real prime example 
 of how a big company can swindle legitimate customers and get away with it scott free. It really 
 amazes me how they can get away with this... I wonder if anyone else has been through this? It really 
 was a pretty game until it got to the Space segment (before the crashes) The saddest part of this 
 being that the tech support did absolutely nothing to try to fix these issues. Even with all the 
 current patches applied the crashes rendered the game useless to play once I reached Space segment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pathosfire
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  DRM is an issue. It will lock down your software anytime any of the above happens. Why? Because 
 it thinks you have a different computer if you so much as plug in a different monitor. But if you 
 have decided to proceed despite that...
  
  Spore is unstable. Multiple users are reported a random crash to desktop issue. In the three weeks 
 I have owned this game, I have experienced this twice. First, the official patch corrupted my game, 
 which couldn't be fixed with a simple reinstallation, so I had to delete all my user data and start 
 over.
  
  Game ran fine until a week later when, after reinstalling my printer driver, the game decided to 
 randomly crash to desktop at startup. Many other users are reporting this same issue! They report 
 it as a seemingly random occurance. Other games with SecuRom have reported similar issues. (Just 
 in case you're wondering if it's user errror, my computer's drivers are updated and it can easily 
 run every other game on the market.)
  
  So, you're not worried about technical issues. Walla! you're ready to play a pretty game with no 
 substance. That's right, while it is a great concept for a game, they forgot one thing, there is 
 nothing to do! It's literally like it was designed for three year olds to play. Five stages with 
 overly simplistic gameplay.
  
  Cell stage - Eat or be eaten
  
  Creature stage - Attack or befriend, also, find parts (glowy skeletons on the ground)
  
  Tribal 
 stage - Attack or befriend enemies, also, get food
  
  Civilzation stage - Attack, befriend, or buyout enemies, also, gather resources
  
  Space stage 
 - Be attacked be pirates every two minutes while you try to explore the universe. Did I mention 
 you'll have to fly home every two minutes to defend against pirates?
  
  Just save yourself some disappointment, and wait for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Spore may well be the most hyped computer game of this generation. Allowing you the opportunity 
 to guide a species through its own evolution from cell to spacefarer, previews of Will Wright's 
 new (est) masterpiece promised a "Sim-Everything" that would reshape the gaming world.
  
  It didn't turn out that way.
  
  Spore winds up being five separate games in one, and they only 
 tenuously jive together as a whole.
  
  Cell Stage:
  
  When your adorable little protozoan alien first squirms out of its errant metiorite, the fight 
 for survival begins. You steer your critter around the primordial soup, basically eating anything 
 that's smaller than you. Now and then, you'll pick up some genetic material that lets you tack 
 some new pieces onto the cell, allowing you to attack and defend yourself better, move quicker, 
 and live longer. 
  
  It's a simple stage, and it doesn't last more than 15 minutes. Unlike most reviewers, I actually 
 kind of enjoyed it in a relaxing fl0w sort of way. But it is almost entirely brainless, and for 
 some reason controls very poorly. There were times when, inexplicably, I steered my cell into a 
 bit of food for 30 seconds, and it just refused to eat it. Wish I could tell you why.
  
  Creature Stage:
  
  Once you're master of the pond, it's time to spontaneously sprout legs (Darwin 
 would have a lot to say about this game's take on his theory...) and crawl on to land. This was 
 actually my favorite part of the entire experience, because this is the only part of the game in 
 which your creature changes appreciably. Most other reviewers seem to dislike this part, but I 
 think it's the one I'll play most.
  
  As you stumble from your nest, you begin to meet other new species, and may regard them on friendly 
 terms, or try to eradicate them. As these interactions progress, you begin to amass a stockpile 
 of body parts, and accumulate the genetic currency necessary to add them to your creature. By going 
 back to your nest, you can spawn the next generation of your species, accessing a brililantly-designed 
 Creature Creator that lets you tweak your organism in any way conceivable. 
  
  Find that you're having trouble making friends because your Glaarbax can't sing? Perhaps a new 
 mouth will help. Struggling to take out the nest of Sneebleworfs that keep ambushing you? Try the 
 new poison spitter with the better damage rating. 
  
  Through this process, you really do get to watch your creature evolve from generation to generation. 
 Because the editor is so powerful, it is actually possible to completely re-design your organism 
 in the span of one generation. But I liked the feel of having my creature change gradually, so 
 I deliberately limited myself in how many changes I was willing to make each time.
  
  To be fair, this stage does get repetitive. You're limited to a small number of interactions, and 
 there really isn't much to do other than fight and make friends. But the reward of watching my 
 species grow and change was worth it for me.
  
  Tribal Stage:
  
  Once youre creature reaches full sentience, it's time to start making tools and trying your hand 
 at basic social structure. Unfortunately, the Tribal Stage is pretty much exactly the same as the 
 Creature Stage, except the creatures now live in huts and carry weapons. At this point in the game, 
 evolution is no more, and you permanently lose the option to change the appearance of your creature.
 
  
  Considering that evolving my creature was my favorite part of the last stage, Tribal just feels 
 a little... primitive.
  
  Civilization Stage:
  
  So you've destroyed or befriended the other tribes, and your species has become the dominant force 
 on the planet. Time to take it over for real. This stage begins promisingly, givng you the option 
 to design all of your buildings and vehicles from scratch (the user creation tools are honestly 
 incredible) . But then you're plunked down in a city, and treated to the simplest real-time strategy 
 game you've ever played. 
  
  Sure, you could screw around trying to make friends with neighboring cities. But this requires 
 a whole lot of gruntwork and tedium. It's easier to simply build a ton of units (of which there 
 are three -- air, land, and sea) and storm the enemy. You won't lose. 
  
  The game seems to know how simple this stage is, and eventually enacts a mercy rule by granting 
 you a giant nuke that basically finishes the level for you. 
  
  My biggest problem with the Civ Stage is that all the prior work you put into creating your species 
 seems wasted at this point. You're now operating at the vehicular level. The identity of your creature 
 seems entirely irrelevant (with the exception of a few special abilities that you won't use much) . 
 And this fact only becomes more pointed in the...
  
  Space Stage:
  
  In disagreement with most other reviewers, I think that this is where the game completely derails. 
 It starts awkwardly enough, when my little creatures hop on-board their spaceship despite the fact 
 that they're still carrying the axes and spears leftover from the Tribal Stage. And it doesn't 
 get better.
  
  After four stages of user-friendliness bordering on bottle-feeding, the game suddenly goes full-tilt 
 crazy. You're thrown into a galaxy with a gazillion unmarked star systems, and one tiny little 
 ship. This game, which was previously limited to the choices of "attack" or "make nice" suddenly 
 throws you to the wolves with alliances, wars, terraforming, trade agreements, weaponry, spice 
 mining, etc. I cosider myself a seasoned gamer, but I was overwhelmed. 
  
  My species completely lost its identity at this point -- in fact, I hardly saw them except to serve 
 as talking heads during dialogue. I raised it to be war-like, but there is absolutely no way to 
 follow that track at the Space level (not at the outset, at any rate) . Despite raising entire armies 
 in the last stage, you can't send a fleet to war. You just fly your one ship to the target planet, 
 and try to kill everything on your own. Eventually, some of the friendly races will add their ships 
 to your "fleet," but this just means you're going solo with two or three wingmen, and you'll still 
 be outnumbered ten to one on the planet surface if you decide to fight.
  
  It doesn't help that combat is excruciatingly difficult to control. It's not like a real-time strategy 
 game where you select your target and let them fight. You need to keep manually targeting the enemy 
 and firing with the mouse button. Unfortunately, the enemy ships move very fast, and get tangled 
 up with your own allies. Even worse, your weapons can't hit them if they move to a different altitude, 
 so you additionally have to futz with the mouse wheel to try and stay on their level. Did anybody 
 at Maxis actually play this thing?
  
  Since war was impossible, my band of evil insectoid carnivores was forced to enter an incongruous 
 stage of diplomacy, taking odd jobs from pig aliens and zealous galactic teddy bears in order to 
 raise the absolutely astronimical amounts of cash necessary to progress through this stage. Apparently, 
 you can't fart in space without spending fifty grand. The game keeps urging me to colonize five 
 new planets, but I could barely scrape together enough money to colonize one.
  
  I tried to save money, but every nine seconds, one of my planets was under attack by some alien 
 that got ticked off at me for failing a mission earlier on. So I have to hightail it across the 
 galaxy to fight off the enemy by myself, since all the armies I built in the Civilization stage 
 are apparently no longer operating. I was given the option to calm the aggressor with a bribe, 
 but the amount requested was nearly all my savings, and I quickly saw this becoming a problem.
 
  
  Meanwhile, my enemy had no trouble spreading its empire across half the map, meaning I couldn't 
 fly from planet to planet without getting attacked by their little ships. I was perpetually damaged, 
 forcing me to spend massive sums of money on repairs every time I reached a friendly star system. 
 If the game allowed save-states, I might have gone back to an earlier point and played my cards 
 differently. But that wasn't an option, and I was stuck with my lot.
  
  In the end, I found the Space Stage to be little more than a frustrating re-imagining of Freelancer 
 -- another game that promised to give you the universe, but succeeded only in offering an endless 
 number of menial tasks and iffy rewards. Spore attempts to apply the Grand Theft Auto notion of 
 open-world gameplay, but it runs into the same problems. There are really only a few different 
 mission types, and you encounter them over and over and over....
  
  User Content:
  
  Whatever Spore lacks in gameplay, it delivers wholly in its ability to spur imagination. The creation 
 tools for organisms, buildings, and vehicles are absolutely top-notch. Granted, most of the creatures 
 move the same basic way, and their animations are all clearly variations on the same theme... but 
 with current technology, this is pretty remarkable. The novelty of seeing your own creations take 
 over the world is powerful, and does a good job of distracting from the bare-bones game used to 
 support it. Much like the Sims, I suspect that my interest in Spore will quickly "evolve" to abandoning 
 the game itself, and just messing around with creating new things and turning them loose for a 
 few battles here and there.
  
  Once you've played through the stages naturally, they each become unlockable without having to 
 play through the prior levels. This takes some of the bloom off the rose if you're like me and 
 enjoyed the Creature Stage, because it's far more expedient to just build your creature from all 
 the available parts rather than wasting time collecting them in-game.
  
  By registering your game, your content is uploaded to central servers and becomes available to 
 other players. While the game is for one player, the creatures you encounter are often the brainchildren 
 of other players. I was sad to see that most of the species I encountered were Maxis-made, but 
 there were a few user-designed critters running around now and then.
  
  It is easy to imagine a spectacular after-market for expnansion packs (Maxis is the unabashed master 
 of milking a franchise without sacrificing quality) , and I hope that some interesting ideas come 
 down the pipe to give my creatures something to do other than collect plants for other aliens. 
 
  
  Summary:
  
  I can't justify anything more than a mediocre score for this game. It reaches so far, but doesn't 
 quite grab onto anything solid. There are too many missed opportunities. Instead of the Tribal 
 stage being a rehash of Creature, it should have let my species discover and develop agriculture 
 and basic technology, allowing me to make choices that truly resonate into future development. 
 Instead of the Civ stage being a scaled-back strategy game, it should have been an intergalactic 
 game of Sim City that allowed my creatures to evolve from the stone age to the space age, developing 
 cultural traits that reverberate into the Space Stage. And instead of the Space Stage being a disjointed 
 web of tedious missions, it really should have been a Massively Multiplayer network of players 
 making wars and alliances.
  
  Spore has the basics in place for something special, but little more. I hate to think I spent $50 
 on the groundwork for a later expansion pack, but that's exactly what I did. I have nothing but 
 respect for Will Wright, who is one of the uncontested geniuses of this medium. But Spore is -- 
 despite its lengthy development time -- an undercooked tech demo struggling to find a greater purpose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Spore was an amazing adventure for me. The funny thing is, that it was not the game play that I 
 was lost in for hours on end, it was the customization. The ability to create things with near 
 endless variation and creativity, kept me up many hours of the night. What happened after the creation 
 part wore off, I then jumped into the game to see how it matched up to an unparalleled amount of 
 customization with your character (s) .
  
  The game play is pretty simple through out. The first two stages are something you haven't really 
 seen before, but it they are very thin from a game play point-of-view, so you're not really gaining 
 or losing anything by playing them. The tribal stage is straight forward and offers a little bit 
 more of a rewarding experience. The Civ stage was by far the most enjoyable for me. It was fast 
 paced and your creations actually were affected by how much gear you put on them, unlike the space 
 stage where everything is cosmetic. 
  
  In the space stage, I found a lot of enjoyment, but only for about 8-hours. Once you capture or 
 take over dozens of planetary systems, all through out the galaxy, it becomes very tedious to manage 
 them all. Lastly, once you find ways to make an endless supply of money, you can just destroy any 
 nation and take over their planet with little to no risk. Once it became a simple 'rinse and repeat' 
 situation, I lost interest and then I quit playing the game.
  
  Bottom-line: It is worth the money, but it will not hold your attention for months, unless you're 
 horribly addicted to the creation side of the program. The game play itself is decent, but it did 
 not set any new standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaran
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  As everyone else I was hyped and so happy that this game were hitting the stores! When I got the 
 game it looked so cool and so much fun.
  
  So after getting home from work and after another tedious game installation I started the game 
 and it was then I realized that Maxis were the developers of the game. I gotta admit I got a little 
 worried when I saw the Maxis logo, I get the feeling that Maxis are just a big money-sucking gamedeveloper-bat. 
 Just look at The Sims series, is that a world record in expansions? And they just add one feature 
 per expansion and still manages to hype it and sell them in masses.
  But let's focus on the game!
  
  First thing in the game is the cell era in which you sim around 
 in what to appears to be a pool filled with nasty strange looking animals, some trying to eat you 
 and some just trying to survive. And now you gotta join one of their side, either be a flesh-eating 
 predator or a grass-eating wimp. As you may understand I chosed the flesh-eating terrifying awesome 
 predator! Did I just overdo the explanation?
  You swim around in that pool of strange creatures forever, well it feels like forever simply because 
 you have to do the same thing over and over and over and over again. It kinda beats all the fun 
 out of the cell era, so after going through a long boring era you start the next era which at first 
 looks like it's going to be way different from the cell era with lots and lots of possibilities.
 
  But it's not, at first glance it may seem really fun and have depth but this game is all about 
 doing the same thing over and over again. It doesn't really matter what era you are playing, it's 
 besicly the same all the time.
  
  The game is developed around the creature editor and not the other way around, which it should 
 have been in my opinion.
  They hype up the creature editor and the gameplay to be so cool and fun, and it is, the first 10 
 minutes. And every new era gets boring after 10min. The only really interesting thing in the game 
 is the creature editor, but that's it.
  
  I'm way dissapointed with Spore and wished I never bought it to discover the truth behind all the 
 hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I waited for ever for this game and it is outstanding even better than I  
 yes this is the first game I have played online it is worth a 9.5 without the online connection 
 with it its a ten and one of you strange guys here on game spot said something about mini games 
 but there are none in spore are you talking about the creators in the create  
 please answer me. anyway they are not making one for wii the only thing I doe not like is the small 
 amount of creature parts for example there are no normal mouths that a person would have. I am just 
 going to put a few random punctuation please add me as a spore friend my username is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrik02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  How did Spore get so popular anyway? I mean everyone knew about it like a year before it was released 
 and there was so much hype over it... well deserved hype.
  
  Spore is a really fun game. Yes, it might be lacking in the story department and some parts of 
 the game might be a little short, but the bottom line is that Spore is fun, even after many hours 
 of game play.
  
  The game doesn't exactly shine with great graphics, but in return there is so much variety as the 
 worlds you can explore are huge and colorful. Plus, the creature/spaceship/building creator allows 
 you to do so much different (or you can just choose someone else's creation from the net) .
  
  The only disappointing thing in Spore is the music and sound (I think they should have gotten 
 more lively music, though it probably wouldn't have fit into the game) . Also, as many have mentioned 
 before, some parts of the game are too short, while some are too long (personally I don't really 
 like the Tribe Stage) .
  
  So, the conclusion: 8,5 points for a fun game, that I definitely recommend to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murphman4343
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Spore is... Well, it's the game that has been the topic of much debate.
  
  People have called it garbage
  
  People have called it the epitome of video games
  
  People 
 have called it sacrilegious
  
  
  But what it is, is... Well, it's a fun game.
  
  
  People say that the phases are short and boring and easy...
  
  
  Well, that's not necessarily 
 true. Although the stages are a little on the short side (especially the civilization stage) , the 
 main point of the game is the Space Stage, and that's where it truly shines. Get through the first 
 4 hours or so of mediocre game play, and prepare to be rewarded with one of the most in depth, 
 ginormus levels ever seen.
  
  
  The editors are pretty fun too, but I think they've been covered enough.
  
  
  Overall, a 
 very fun and addicting game that's pleasing to the eyes, and a boatload of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog1687
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Spore, a very unique game from the mind of genius behind the much better game "The Sims" Will Wright. 
 I can say Spore is nothing like that and is an extremely weak game but not completely horrible.
 
  
  Story: Spore doesn't really have a story per se. The story is about the organism you create going 
 through the evolutionary chain and control the entire universe through cell, creature, tribal, 
 civilization and galactic stages. (7)
  
  Music and Sound: While playing I just listened to my iPod because the music was nothing more than 
 ambient music. The sounds are similar to the Simlish of the Sims except far more annoying with 
 high pitch squeals coming from your creatures you though were males. (Quite annoying) (3)
  
  Gameplay: Overall the game is fun to advance through stages and watch YOUR creature evolve. The 
 customization of you creatures is truly phenomenal and obviously the best part of the game. The 
 5 stages by themselves are extremely weak and can become very annoying, Some stages take 10 minutes 
 other 2 hours. Some of the stages are stupid in what they give you like for example in the civilization 
 stage after about 5 of the 10 other countries you need to take over I was given something which 
 made me control all the others (-.-) very stupid and sucked the fun out of it. (8)
  
  Graphics: I'VE SEEN BETTER GRAPHICS ON THE WII! The graphics are childish and the scenery is covered 
 by same tree and there isn't much detail. (3)
  
  Game Length: Unless you spend a lot of time in the creature and galactic stages an average run 
 time is about 8 hours. Not very long but enough. (6)
  
  Replay Value: Once I was done with Spore I was done with it, no need to ever go back, maybe sometimes 
 to make more stuff that's about it. (5)
  
  Final Note: At one point of time I said to my friend my favorite games for the PC, Console and 
 handheld were Spore, Resident Evil 4 and The World Ends With You, I now want to take off Spore 
 from that list and chuck it to the bottom of that list. I don't recommend this game unless you 
 truly want it. If you do good luck and don't be upset with what you get.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 5.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off with my own history of this game. I was excited for Spore since 2005. From the 
 first day Spore gameplay was revealed at E3, I was having nerdgasms just thinking about Spore. 
 Everything about it seemed epic - you got to lead your own species through 3 billion years of evolution 
 and go from a single-celled organism to a galaxy-wide interstellar empire. It seemed like it would 
 truly be a "massively singleplayer game," a creative version of Pacman, Runescape, Civilization 
 IV, and X3 combined into one mega-product encompassing all of gaming put together.
  
  Unfortunately, Spore didn't wind up the mother of all games. It ended up a simplified spinoff of 
 a few different genres with innovative but imperfect creator tools that remained entertaining for 
 a little over a week. The creature stage just consists of eating or impressing rival species, the 
 tribal stage is just a basic point-and-click RTS with no micromanagement or skill necessary, the 
 civilization phase isn't even worth playing, and the space stage gives you access to just one controllable 
 spaceship against the rest of the known universe. You can't travel to different galaxies or universes, 
 although trust me - a couple of million solar systems is more than enough to occupy you for a long 
 time, considering you have enough patience to play the space stage for hours on end and do the 
 same thing over and over.
  
  Perhaps I was expecting too much. This game does have its merits - as I said, the creature creator 
 tool is fun and accessible - thing is, this tool can be bought separately for $40 less than the 
 game itself, and contains the vast majority of what makes Spore decent. Seeing the world grow around 
 you as you grow from a bacterium into an elephant-sized sentient being is a pretty remarkable experience, 
 as well as guiding your empire across the galaxy on a star map that does great at simulating actually 
 star clusters.
  
  The graphics are decent. Needless to say, this game can run on lower end machines. Spore features 
 a cartoony style that both masks the game's graphical deficiencies and gives the game a special 
 atmosphere. However, it should have been the user's decision as to whether his or her world was 
 bubbly or realistic, not Will Wright's. It's a real disappointment for people looking to create 
 darker, more realistic creatures.
  
  At least this game has an ending... technically. Not going to spoil it here, but it at least provided 
 closure and allowed me to stop playing Spore like it was crack cocaine. My final word: This game 
 is alright, but don't go into it expecting an awesome experience. Your time with Spore will only 
 turn out decent if you have the creative energies to make it decent. Spend lots of time with the 
 creators - they'll be your only true source of fulfillment here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alma996
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Okay. So my friend got spore and I liked it so I got it. It was really fun. For about 3 days. I 
 played from cellular stage to space and it was horrible. The cellular stage was short but addicting 
 and then it goes to the creatures. Your in that stage for like an hour but it gets really boring 
 after about 20 minutes. And I don't even know how long it would be with hard. So then off to the 
 tribal stage. this is the second to worst stage. You need to be friends with every tribe or this 
 stage is 10x harder than it should be. Even on easy, the other tribes get more members way faster 
 than you so your battling 10 guys when you have 5 and in that time if they hate you they try to 
 attack you so you lose even more people. With making friends, you play a couple of instruments 
 and you win. The next is civilization. This is the easiest stage ever. Just make about 7 members 
 and attack the other groups and you win. On space. This is the worst stage. It's boring from the 
 moment you start. There isn't any action. Just attacking the other planets and the aliens but it 
 takes a little while to find the tribes. Get this game when it lowers to like $20-$25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  I still remember the day I saw my first Spore ad. I remember the simple premise of the game just 
 reaching inside me and shouting "THIS will be a game worthy of your time, money and loyalty!" I 
 remember getting excited as I investigated deeper into its game play, graphics, design, ingenuity, 
 originality. I remember being shocked at the initial reviews, but since the value of the game is 
 affected significantly by the experience of playing the game, I tried to block them out, convincing 
 myself that while they might not have liked it, I was sure to get lost in rapture.
  Perhaps I should have listened to what people were saying.
  
  Spore was a RESOUNDING disappointment. 
 It's highly original, it's impressive in its scope and reach, but unfortunately, that's where it 
 stops. The idea is fantastic, but slumps in its presentation. Upon installing it on my machine, 
 I got right down to creating my very own single celled carnivorous organism (which I named after 
 my girlfriend) . The game play, as you've all heard constantly, is pretty much exactly like Fl0w. 
 Just without the beautiful music, the tranquil setting, the original premise and the downright 
 addictiveness of Fl0w. Okay, the single cell stage is just a tossed aside mini-game. I can dig 
 that, it's not like there was a lot they could have done here. Okay, time to head to land.
  
  The first thing I noticed once I'd dragged my newly formed body from the blue ocean depths, 
 was that while the world of Spore is rich in colour, my mini-map looked like an 1980s TV with a 
 broken antenna, all fuzzy reception with the occasional glimpse of recognisable features to keep 
 my interest. The game still had bugs. Fine mistakes happen. I do notice that there still isn't 
 a fix for this problem however.
  
  Spore's game play is incredibly simple. Fulfil certain requirements and you'll progress. Destroy 
 or befriend other nests/tribes/civilisations and you'll progress. The game remains the same throughout, 
 each time getting a little more complicated. The game itself seems almost grudgingly nailed onto 
 a truly fantastic designing tool. It's overly simple in some respects and annoyingly difficult 
 in others. Spore is a game that deals in black and white, which is a difficult thing to pull off 
 when you're emulating other games. Being a pacifist is incredibly difficult, as other races will 
 have you jumping through hoops and desperately trying to juggle multiple enemies at once. Normally 
 this would be a challenge, but in Spore it fails to inspire and entertain. And isn't that the purpose 
 of games? Carnivores on the other hand, are just depressingly easy. It's too easy to just wipe 
 out your opposition, especially when death doesn't really come with consequences. The further you 
 progress up the evolutionary chain, the more there is to manage. The tribal stage grants you access 
 to primitive weaponry, but tactics seem piecemeal as everything just dissolves into a click fest 
 anyway. In the Civilisation stage, you send vehicles over the world to either manipulate, subjugate 
 or placate any and everyone you encounter. As a carnivore, game play is overly simple in the Socialist 
 Republic of Tankrushistan. Designing the vehicles was fun, right up to the point I realised that 
 all those cannons, rocket launchers and weird and exotic weapons I gleefully slapped onto my bristling 
 behemoth were all for show. They don't actually work. Every vehicle has a generic attack that looks 
 more like an artillery shell than a blazing torrent of death and destruction. For the megalomaniac 
 in all of this, this was a resounding disappointment.
  
  Keeping your people happy is as simple as dropping down buildings in the right spot and then forgetting 
 about it. Creating defences for your city becomes a chore once you realise there's no shortcut, 
 and yes, you have to set up EACH AND EVERY TURRENT in a predesigned space. For the herbivore and 
 omnivore, the situation is a little more difficult, especially since there are other civilisations 
 that have no interest in being friends with you. I'm actually quite intrigued, because the disposition 
 of everyone in this game seems to be restricted to Black, White and Grey. There's no way for a 
 peaceful nation to crush their merciless oppressors and declare a rein of peace. It's a good thing 
 that this game isn't multiplayer because every peace loving hippy will soon find themselves crying 
 and crushed under the boot heels of the countless sadistic, mindless tyrants that populate all 
 multiplayer servers.
  
  And now for the space age. This is my favourite. This is my loathsome adversary. This is the most 
 tedious, annoying and frustrating part of Spore. You have to micromanage EVERYTHING. Apparently 
 it's impossible to send transmissions in space, you must be in orbit of the actual planet to hear 
 anything. And it's impossible for your civilisation to create more than one spaceship, the one 
 you're in. But if you die, then you'll be reborn in a heartbeat. You want a fleet? Be friendly 
 and ask your allies for their ships to follow you. But you only get one from each ally, and they 
 will be significantly inferior to your own flying monstrosity. If you're an evil bastard, then 
 no fleet for you it seems. If you have allies, then you will receive constant calls for help, because 
 apparently they are completely incapable of doing anything for themselves, even chasing down little 
 diseased bunny rabbits that threaten their way of life is beyond them. To make matters worse, everyone 
 in your own empire is a big girly blouse, complaining and begging for your attention every five 
 minutes. Tedium ad infinitum, it doesn't stop.
  There are some interesting parts in the Space age however. Again the design system is engaging 
 and entertaining, and it's really cool to be able to manipulate your own planets. It's enough to 
 wear eccentric clothes, grow a beard and change your name to Slarty Bartfast as you turn oceans 
 green, the land red and the sky a nice purple, then drop down a couple of meteors and turn the 
 own place into a volcanic monstrosity. Creating entire ecosystems is enough to pacify even the 
 most advanced of God complexes.
  
  The music in Spore is well suited for the game, though you'll lose nothing if you decide to listen 
 to your own music. Sometimes the creature's sound effects are incredibly annoying and you'll occasionally 
 wish to dish out volatile destruction to the perpetrators of those sounds. Simple and cheery, just 
 like the game itself. The sounds of war are almost non-existent in the middle of a full on engagement 
 between nations. There's nothing here to get your adrenaline pumping or to get you psyched up for 
 the next conquest. Spore keeps it's sicken cheerfulness even as you reduce the neighbouring cities 
 to burnt out rubble and march over their remains. Apparently genocide is a cheery thing, as we 
 exterminate other civilisations for domination of a planet and eventually the universe. Most of 
 the options to create your own anthems will be glossed over by most players as, with a lot of the 
 features in Spore, there's simply nothing to make me care about it.
  
  The graphics are acceptable, considering the mood that's set in the game. You're going to spend 
 most of your time in the next two stages zoomed out, so you're not going to be appreciating anything. 
 In fact, if this game had been released several years back, I still wouldn't be that impressed 
 (especially with currently unfixed mini-map issues and some very horrible clipping problems) There's 
 simply not much to say here. You're not going to be watching in awed silence as you take in the 
 scenery at any point of this game. Everything seems overly cartoony, and not in a very good way. 
 Especially for the depth and the scope that the game seems determined to present.
  
  So all in all, Spore is a fantastic design tool. It's artful, creative, and easy to use. User content 
 allows for almost endless experiences, but in the later stages, you'll never get to see it due 
 to need to be zoomed out all the way. There's also no continuity between any of the stages, so 
 there's no reason to care about any of your so called allies. As a game, it falls flat on it's 
 face, crying tears for all the other, better games it tried to emulate. It's those 4 pens in 1 
 that stop working after the first week. And then you start to notice that when you want blue, you 
 get red, the green nip gets stuck coming out and whenever you try to write with the black, it just 
 pops back inside its casing. Designers, both creative and lewd will have hours of enjoyment grinding 
 out a plethora of creatures, buildings and vehicles. But for the gamers, it's time to square our 
 shoulders, shake off the disappointment and look for a better future.
  That or grudgingly give in to overwhelming evidence that in video games, maybe scepticism is the 
 best route, and to celebrate those times where we are pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diglow1
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a classic example of a really cool concept that didn't really translate into a full game. 
 I can just see the board meetings: 'Maxis: We have this really cool idea that we can sell, but 
 the game is blah. Marketing Dept: 'Brilliant, we'll get right on hyping this game up so we sell 
 a ton before people realize'
  
  The mini games are fun but really should be free flash games online. It's impossible to lose, at 
 least I haven't yet and it has zero replay value unless you want to do the exact same thing over 
 again, only with a different looking main guy.
  
  I though the very first stage, when you are cellular level organism, was the most engaging. It 
 great to level up and grow so you can eat the dudes that used to be huge and used to eat you, but 
 the whole stage can be done in 29 minutes. 
  
  The space stage is what really killed the game for me. As the end game, I expect a fairly sophisticated 
 stage, instead just tedium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimsooth
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  While promised a layered, near "4 games in one" experience, what you really end up with is "3 mini-games 
 + 1 actual game" The three mini-games, which you're quickly rushed through, are a canvas for the 
 real game "space conquest". 
  
  I was looking forward to spending a lot of time in each stage of life, apart from amoebid, and 
 maybe eventually getting to the /space/ sandbox. I desired to run around for an extended period 
 of time as a semi-intelligent animal, fighting for territory and evolving to better fit the environment. 
 I figured that should be good for nearly a million years of gameplay, which may be the case - but 
 it takes about 30 minutes.
  
  The entire game felt as though I was rushed to bang out some general creature ideas, fast enough 
 so as not to notice how little was actually occurring, just to get me to the space portion of the 
 game. Since the space aspect wasn't at all what I was most interested in, the game was a flop for 
 me.
  
  The building and creature customization were rather interesting, and 70% of the 8 hours I played 
 for were probably constructing different buildings and units. Which I thought would be in use for 
 a long time, rather than 20 minutes. 40+ minutes to create, 5 minutes of use, obsolete in 15.
 
  
  This game isn't worth much more than the CD it's printed on, and I have no desire to play it any 
 longer.
  
  Maybe my expectations after the hype could never be met, all I know is they weren't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullbird11
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I may as well get to the point...
  
  Spore if a hard game to describe. It's one of those games you can't wait to get, but get bored 
 with it after about 4 hours. the game is very repetitive. For example, In the second stage (Creature 
 Stage) , you must establish relationships, good or bad, with creatures around you. You will be doing 
 this for about 2 hours.
  On the sound side, there is not a lot to say. there is some music, but the lack of music is something 
 that you may or may not like; so mp3s at the ready. But on the flip side, sound effects in Spore 
 are brilliant! you will know when there in a creature is around you. Why? Because you will hear 
 a load roar behind you! I recommend have 5.1 surround sound!
  As I said before, the game is very repetitive. The gameplay is varied and definitely new, but nothing 
 that will make your eyes pop out...
  
  So, my conclusion. A game that I feel could be and should be improved on. I feel they did'nt hit 
 the spot the first time, but I would really be interested in seeing what happens to the franchise 
 in the future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyz
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Spore has been touted as the next revolutionary game from Sims creator Will Wright. It is revolutionary 
 but it fails to live up to its potential.
  
  The most fun and greatest depth to the game comes from the creation tools which you can spend hour 
 and hours on designing creatures, buildings, ships, etc. The creation tools are really awesome 
 but if you want great game play then this may not be the right game for you.
  
  You start off as a single cell creature and evolve through stages as you complete various goals 
 within each stage. You move from single cell to land creature eventually up to a civilization and 
 then culminating with a space faring race.
  
  The single cell missions are very simplistic but the stages gain a little more complexity as you 
 evolve. Unfortunately they gain far too little complexity. I found each stage past the land creature 
 stage to be far too brief. I enjoyed each stage but I wanted more meat to the missions and more 
 ability to expand.
  
  The final space faring stage is ridiculous. This part of the game is just derivative of so many 
 space colonization games. I found it to be very annoying and hard to keep up with all the demands 
 placed upon my species by the neighboring civilizations.
  
  The worst part of it is that you go from not enough depth in the previous stages to the final stage 
 where it's just overwhelming. It's not that it's complex, it just keeps you too darned busy.
  
  The previous stages will have you staying up way too late as you'll be unwilling to turn the 
 game off. A few hours into the space stage and you'll be wanting to return the game.
  
  All in all, it seems like this was rushed to market and isn't the quality product that I had hoped 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azzer_007
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Spore, when it comes down to it, is a set of 5 "mini-games" tacked on to eachother very loosely, 
 and the mini-games seem to just be an excuse to show off the editors (creator editor, vehicle editor, 
 building editor etc.) . If you'd already bought the seperate Spore Creature Creator, you basically 
 have 90% of any valuable gameplay already. The mini-games are all seperate to eachother (they don't 
 "flow in to" one another, you complete one mini-game, get a results screen, and then start the 
 next mini-game) , and they are as follows;
  
  The first stage, the cell stage, starts really well, and seems to promise a fantastic game coming 
 up. It feels like you are going to genuinely evolve your creature, see it mutate based on your 
 decisions, and because of the way the different "phases" in the cell stage work, it also feels 
 like you are seeing the other creatures around you grow and evolve too... something that was promised 
 (or at least implied?) in the early days before Spore was out - this concept of a living breathing 
 universe where you actually watch life evolving.
  
  However, from the second stage onwards, you quickly realise this isn't the case at all, and there 
 is no evolution - of other creatures, or of your own creature. Every time you go to "upgrade" your 
 creature, you aren't evolving it at all... instead, you're just given a list of more and more 'body 
 parts' that you've unlocked so far (each with very primitive non-stackable stats attached) , and 
 you can re-design the creature from the ground up each and every time - a whole new creature every 
 single build if you like, with no resemblance to your last 'evolution', and no downsides or limits 
 in doing this. There's no sense of evolution here - it might as well be an RPG with a paperdoll 
 and inventory system where you pick and choose which weapons and armour to equip your character 
 with able to change it at any time - it's just done in a very nice/clever way (and it IS clever, 
 the editor - and the procedural animation system is clever - but all they are are a fancy inventory 
 system, not an evolution system) .
  
  You also realise none of the other creatures are evolving. You aren't living in this universe evolving 
 alongside other creatures - instead every 'species' has a small nest of a handful of creatures 
 you can choose to befriend or kill, and once that nest is befriended/dead, you will never need 
 see that creaure again anywhere else. You won't see it evolved in later stages, you won't see it 
 expand or grow, or anything else. It's a very simple almost pacman like game in this respect.
 
  
  The third stage removes your ability to edit your creature anymore - whatever your creature looked 
 like by the end of the second stage, that's it. This stage is a very quick, short lived stage where 
 you control a handful of creatures, which you must equip with rudimentary ("tribal") weapons, and 
 destroy 4 or 5 other tribes (which are just freshly random generated/loaded from the online sporepedia 
 server creatures) .
  
  The fourth stage is one of the most simplistic strategy games you will ever play - I have played 
 more advanced strategy games depth and enjoyment wise back in the Spectrum days. This game mode 
 feels like it was the most rushed of all of them, and was actually the least fun to play. You get 
 to see the vehicle editors and building editors, and while some people will love playing with all 
 the different editors, I was just so disappointed about the game itself I couldn't be bothered 
 designing anything fancy looking anymore (though I did have a play to test them all out in function) . 
 I'd seen the editors and just wanted to play a game at this point, frustrated that the cell stage 
 was genuinely the only fun I'd had.
  
  The fifth stage can become a very long and drawn out stage, and while it does have more depth than 
 any of the previous stages, that doesn't mean it has enough depth to support the burden of Spore 
 - it doesn't. Some may enjoy this very simplistic "conquer the universe" vaguely strategy style 
 game, others will be bored silly by it. I was definitely bored silly at this point.
  
  I got to the fifth stage in 4 hours, played that stage for a few hours, and put Spore back on the 
 shelf never to be played again. It went from most promising looking game of the year, to disappointment 
 of the year. A real shame it couldn't live up to expectations. I consider the entire of Spore to 
 just be a "tech demo" showing off the clever editors, not a game, and any claims of 'evolution' 
 to mean 'modern GUI for a paperdoll/inventory system'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Those are the best ways to describe this game. You could literally pick this game up and play it 
 until you died, constantly running into new species, designing new creatures, and just immersing 
 yourself if your own universe. The creature creator gives you unprecedented freedom, and the space 
 game seems to go on forever. Even after you have "beaten" the space game, you probably have only 
 visited maybe 10% of the galaxy. At most you might have hit 50% if you really just went to town 
 exploring. These two features give this game an endless replay-ability factor.
  
  And yet once I had beaten the space side, I did not find myself starting a new game. It was addictive 
 while I was playing, but I just wasn't really hooked by it the way Civilization or Starcraft hooks 
 me. Part of this might be that the Tribal and Civ stages in Spore took me all of 15 seconds to 
 beat. Honestly the strategy in these games was so simple my dog could have beaten them. And he 
 is very old and blind.
  
  I did dip back into the Creature stage. The creature creator might be one of the funnest parts 
 of this whole game. Creating these little guys and testing them out in a quasi-real environment. 
 This hooked me more than anything. The space stage definitely also appealed to me, but at some 
 point the vastness actually detracts from it all. At some point you can't really micro-manage that 
 big of an empire, and so you find yourself just exploring. Which is fun, and dropping animals from 
 30,000 feet is always a good time, but eventually it wore thin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnage_Dragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying that this game is nothing like I expected. It is so much better. When I 
 first entered the galaxy of spore, I felt a little confused and sort of like I couldn't create 
 a good creature or vehicle or anything. But I soon got used to the creators and was making short, 
 tall, creepy, cute, fat, skinny and any other creatures you can think of. It gets really easy, 
 really fast. The gameplay is pretty nice, too. Pretty dull in the cell stage, but is fun in every 
 other stage. The game is like a bunch of genres in one. The creature stage is, well, I'm not sure. 
 The tribal and and civilization stages are obviously RTS's. The space stage is a little of everything. 
 Still, where the game really shines on is the creators and sporepedia, where you can veiw every 
 creation ever made by other spore players. In short, spore is one of the most revolutionary games 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  nice to experiment in creating your own creature... fun, fun and more fun. every time you can change 
 you tribe and make it more amazing. this will make more fun if you create in your own style and 
 try to compete with developer creature.. you will find this game soooo good if you like to do some 
 experiment. fill free to modify the creature to make it look cool, cute, and even funny look. many 
 thing is new and many thing can be interesting to be learn in this games. Some of that are common 
 but if you put freely, you can find it unbelievable interesting.. i play it for a short time but 
 feel addicted to it now.. some funny way to play and sometime need simple strategic to achieve 
 objective.. for the conclusion this game you need to try and play. i think you may like it and 
 may be you will fell for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakomel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is very cool cause' you can create your own cute creatures or horrible one's or ugly 
 one's, okay I think you got it already! You will create your own monster and create his personality 
 and pick the monster you created and choose the actions and make the monster real! This game has 
 a real action software and has a 3D or 2D or a real world graphics. This game is I think my top 
 6 game. You can let your monsters fight each other, and I think you can own a planet. Good thing I 
 am a Gamespot member to find thi9s game. Spore let's you have super dooper extra fun a kid, a baby, a 
 teenager or an adult has ever played before! There lot's of cool stuff here like UFO's, planets and 
 other great and cool stuff you have ever seen in one game, this game has the best missions or objectives 
 a person could ask for. Thank you to who ever created this game and most of all, thanks to gamespot! this 
 game is very awesome!
  
  Mel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wackywillpop
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  When you start up spore you would have to pick one of the many planets for your creature to live 
 on then you pick its diet (herbivore or carnivore) then you name your planet and the game starts.
 
  
  It starts off as a 2D game as you play your cell as feeds on the diet your picked for it as it 
 gets DNA you can evolve your creature by adding new parts on it depending on how much DNA you have 
 once you collected enough DNA you can add legs and leave the water.
  
  After the cell stage you go to creature stage where you start walking on land (if you added legs 
 no one said you had to ^_^) here you befriend or make enemies the creature stage is the longest 
 stage and my favorite each creature on the creature stage has even been made by some one around 
 the world, maxis or you theres even a epic creature which is way bigger then yours.
  
  Once your done on creature stage you go to tribal stage make sure you got your creature the way 
 you want it cuz once you go to this stage you creature will stay the way it is anyway the game 
 has turned into a RTS (real time strategy) where you build huts for weapons, instruments, healing 
 and gathering buildings the healing i never use gathering gets you more food for your tribe which 
 is also your money on this stage weapons are weapons to kill and instruments make friends to finish 
 this stage you must kill or befriend or both all the other tribes.
  
  Next is there civilization stage which is another RTS and hear you don't use your creatures anymore 
 you use vehicles of course you can make them thats land, sea, and air to beat this stage you must 
 destroy or turn them over or trade all the cites the money has now been changed into spice (don't 
 ask) that sums up this sage.
  
  The last stage is the space stage where you make a space ship and able to fly to 1000+ planets 
 each with its own creatures you get alot of tools on this stage which will make this review even 
 longer so find out your self to finish this last stage.... i don't know am still playing it here 
 i think it just goes on.
  
  well thats my review and you problly didn't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shermans_HUD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Taking the player and putting them in the place of God, Spore allows you to create a creature and 
 help it evolve from a small cell that emerged from an asteroid to a planet jumping space pirate, 
 equipped with lasers and a horrible personality complex.
  Spore begins by selecting a planet on which to start life. The entrance screen begins off with 
 an asteroid flying faster than a bullet, slamming into the planet of choice and releasing micro 
 organisms throughout the water. You start out as a small organism, about the size of a penny, and 
 have to choose which way you will survive; eating other organisms or gnawing your way through a 
 cloud of algae. 
  We chose a carnivore lifestyle of course. So we move on with eating every creature we can in sight. 
 Larger creatures will try to eat you, but with every smaller organism you eat, the more upgrades 
 and add-ons you can choose from, which in turn causes you to "evolve"; get far enough and you will 
 get the choice to move onto dry land or stay in the water and continue to find even more parts.
 
  Once on dry land, you assume the Creature Stage. While on land, you establish a nest, spawn more 
 little you's, and wander the land looking for food. Once on land as well, you begin the next phases 
 of your creature stage, which include collecting more evolution parts, allying with local creatures, 
 and/or devouring the competition. While in creature stage, your brain begins to evolve with each 
 ally you gain, and with each set of creatures you consume. This comes in the form of DNA points. 
 Once these add up enough, then your brain will evolve, along with the addition of more talents 
 and attack powers.
  Moving on from the creature stage, you enter the tribal stage. This was probably the harder part 
 of the game, since you transition from a 3rd person view to an RTS view. More people can be added 
 to your tribe, and the need for more support arises. To survive this part, you must ally with local 
 tribes, or destroy them, allowing you to progress on. Your troops along with your leader will begin 
 to tire and grow hungry, so hunting and fishing become top priority.
  Once you conquer or ally with the tribes, then the Civilization stage starts. You begin this stage 
 with designing a City Hall. Once City hall is complete, it is placed inside your first city. Yet, 
 you will notice one other thing that has begun to bubble up from the underground. Spice Geysers 
 are your primary source of income in this stage; kind of like oil for us. You need to create mines 
 at each of these geysers to collect and convert it into money. But, your "allies" from the tribal 
 stage are no more, as each city tries to take control of each geyser to increase their profits, 
 and create an army they can use to take over opposing cities and forces. The primary goal of Civilization 
 is to conquer the 12 cities on the planet, and make an army as big as you can.
  Finally, after much pain and suffering, comes the Space Stage. You start off with creating your 
 own space vessel, and begin to travel to other planets within your galaxy; either allying with 
 the local crowds or destroying the planet like the Death Star did to Alderann. Income has changed 
 as well, with donations from the planets inhabitants and the mining of space gems and ore. 
  Controlling each part of this game did pose a small challenge for people. You have the option to 
 use your mouse, or even use your arrow keys to move your creatures, but when it got to the RTS 
 side, it became familiar; kind of like playing Starcraft or Command and Conquer. 
  The main reason people wanted this game was the sheer fact of customization. I mean, who doesn't 
 want to create their own versions of Pokmon, or even their own version of Ryuk from Death Note. 
 The great part is the integration of the Creature Creator, released this summer, and the main game 
 itself. So anything you created on C. C. can be imported into Spore. Lucky us, huh?
  All in all, this game does what Will Wright has been hoping for, for the past 7 years. Maxis did 
 a great job on this game, and the expansion pack that includes more parts and accessories for your 
 creature is just around the corner, so don't worry about buying this and going through it once, 
 the possibilities are endless!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpened_Metal
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many waiting years for Spore's release yet only to be let down by it's seemingly 
 unfinished game play. Spore is fun but... only for so long. The game is divided into stages. Each 
 stage is a play upon another genre at only scratches the surface of them... each stage will suck 
 you into curiosity only to feel disappointed when you complete that stage. 
  
  Spore's first stage reminds me of an over-the-top flash game which immerses you into it's simplistic 
 yet creative nature. Unfortunately the cell stage is shorter than you would expect it to be and 
 once you sprout legs and reach land the game begins it's downward spiral. 
  
  The next stage is reminiscent of an MMORPG only much more dumbed down although Spore throws in 
 some of it's own unique flavor. How you "evolve" your character in this stage doesn't matter though 
 and neither does the other creatures that you ally with. Both won't matter as soon as you reach 
 the next stage of the game.
  
  Spore's next area is an RTS, similar yet different in many ways to the next stage. You will find 
 it easy and quick to defeat or ally with the surrounding species that are as advanced as yours. 
 There could have been a lot more done here and you will be left wondering what could have been 
 with this area of the game.
  
  The next genre Spore introduces is an RTS. Although the game's developers are intentionally keeping 
 the game mechanics simple, this area of the game seems very unpolished and the AI is horrible. 
 Again, once you finish this stage what you have done won't matter much in the next and final stage.
 
  
  The final stage is the space stage and also where I gave up on Spore soon into playing this area. 
 You find yourself getting tired of using your mouse wheel and clicking and even though this part 
 of Spore is the most polished, it is also the most annoying.
  
  With all bad criticism aside, you can tell a lot of time and effort went into Spore's atmosphere 
 and personality but not enough went into the game mechanics itself. I won't describe how unique 
 and intuitive the "construct your own creature" piece of the game play is as I'm sure you have 
 already heard about it. My only gripe is it begins to get old as you progress further on, especially 
 once you approach vehicles and buildings. Spore's developers make up for this though with a GIGANTIC 
 online catalog to choose from instead of creating a piece yourself. Spore can be enjoyed by a casual 
 gamer but can be hated by a more hardcore gamer. Whether you like Spore or not depends on how simplistic 
 you may like your gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Spore is one of the latest games from Maxis, and through hype, has been proclaimed as Maxis' next 
 masterpiece and stuff like that. Well, now Spore's finally here- so we can finally tell whether 
 or not it's lived up to the said hype. The answer? Yes and no.
  
  Yes, the game's editing tools are outstanding... But then again, no, the gameplay just plain can't 
 stand on its own two legs. While Spore does have it's moments, it feels like the whole game is 
 ultimately a missed opportunity in many respects.
  
  In Spore, you get to guide a creature from it's lowly beginnings as a cell, all the way into the 
 cosmos of space. Spore's gameplay is split into five segments, each with a large variety of gameplay.
 
  
  When you first start the game, you have to play through each phase in order to unlock them, starting 
 with the cell phase. The Cell Phase is definitely a good start for the game- if only because of 
 how utterly cute the cells are. The gameplay of the cell phase is simple: you just swim around 
 looking for food, depending on whether your a carnivore, omnivore, or a herbivore. If you've played 
 games like FloW, or even Pac-man, you'll already be roughly familiar with how this phase works.
 
  
  Once you've eaten enough food and grown enough- your creature grows a brain, and so begins the 
 creature phase. The creature phase is arguably the best phase in the game because it's editor and 
 gameplay mesh so well. The creature phase plays like an RPG of sorts in that you can roam the land 
 and meet the other creatures of the land. Then you get to chose whether you want to eat them- or 
 befriend them.
  
  The creature phase does get relatively repetitive as time goes on, but the fact that your creature 
 can be constantly evolved to gain new abilities, makes this much less of a problem. Its just unfortunate 
 that it's all downhill from the creature phase.
  
  After the creature phase comes the tribal phase, which is essentially an incredibly simplistic 
 RTS. Your main goal is to grow your tribe, harvest food from local animals and plants, and deal 
 with the other tribes that pop up. Just like in the creature phase, you can choose if you want 
 to befriend the other tribes or destroy them.
  
  The tribal phase is ultimately relatively enjoyable while it lasts, but the extreme simplicity 
 starts to get in the way here. You may enjoy the combat and/or the diplomatic musical mini-game 
 on your first go through, but it's not nearly endearing enough to make it worth playing through 
 more than once.
  
  Then there's the civilization phase, which is an upgrade from the tribal phase from a gameplay 
 standpoint. In the civilization phase, you must unite all of the cities that pop up throughout 
 your planet, either by force, religion, or economic means. What means you end up using heavily 
 depends upon how you played the game in the previous phases, which is a nice touch.
  
  The civilization phase is better than the tribal phase with gameplay, due to an effective diplomacy 
 system and the different tactics you can use to gain more cities. But it's still not quite enough 
 to warrant more than one playthrough of the phase. It's also unfortunate that by this phase, your 
 creature has simply become a decoration in that all the editing you did on it earlier, no longer 
 has much meaning by this phase. (Though as I have already said, how you played with it does matter)
 
  
  And finally there's the space phase, which was slated as being the game's best phase. Opinions 
 on the space phase may vary, but for me, this could not be farther from the truth. All in all, 
 the Space phase is probably the most disappointing part of the entire game.
  
  After designing your own spaceship (and going through the tutorial if you want) , you are let loose 
 to meet other space empires and build new colonies for your empire.
  
  This could have easily been Spore's best phase, if it were not for a number of major issues. For 
 starters, the quests you can recieve from other empires don't have much variation, and thus get 
 repetitive very quickly.
  
  The biggest problem with the space phase however, is that it just plain feels clunky and un-refined 
 all around, especially compared to all four of the previous stages, which had much more polish. 
 Navigating from star system to star system is fine and dandy, but the problems all arise as soon 
 as you enter the atmosphere of a planet.
  
  For starters, the camera set-up is far from ideal. It wouldn't be such a big problem if they had 
 set it so that the camera stayed behind your ship- zoomed out enough so you'd get a good view of 
 your surroundings and targets. Instead however, we get a camera that requires constant adjustment 
 in order to get a good view of what's going on, or even just where your trying to go.
  
  Apart from the gameplay phases, the best part of Spore is unquestionably it's editors, specifically 
 the creature editor of course. The creature editor is undoubtedly the best of the editors since 
 it's the most versatile and capalbe of all of them. The vehicle editors are also well done, though 
 they aren't nearly as ersatile as the creature editor. As a whole however, every editor is incredibly 
 robust and intuitive to use- so most people should be able to make just about any creature or vehicle 
 they can imagine in a flash
  
  Graphically, Spore is nicely flexible for older machines, and still manages to look very good from 
 several standpoints. From a purely technical standpoint, Spore has an adequate ammount of detail 
 and has a charming look all about it. The most impressive part of the graphics is unquestionably 
 the animation, which does a generally surprisingly good job of animating whatever creature you 
 create. Yeah yeah, clipping is sometimes rampant, but that is a minor issue in a game as charming 
 as this one. 
  
  Spore's charm is also shown through it's sound design. The sounds made by the creatures in the 
 game is all very entertaining- from the cell phase all the way to the space phase.
  
  All-in-all, Spore is not a bad game by any means, it's just a disappointing one. Casual gamers 
 will undoubtedly be able to enjoy the game very thoroughly while hardcore gamers may find the game 
 lacking in lasting value. Whatever the case, Spore also makes for an excellent gateway game- especially 
 since it can be run on a wide variety of computers.
  
  Pros: 
  -Decent variety of gameplay. 
  -Outstanding editors. 
  -Great graphics. 
  -An adorable sense 
 of charm that stays relatively constant throughout the game.
  
  Cons: 
  -In all five phases, the gameplay is very simplistic. 
  -The Space phase is disappointingly clunky 
 and repetitive.
  
  Recommendable for: Spore is not only a great game for casual gamers, but also makes for an excellent 
 gateway game. As a whole however, Spore's lasting value is questionable at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fracturemaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  In Spore your goal is to advance in the multiple stages of evolution. You start out as a humble 
 microbe, gathering what is either remnants of a fallen microbe or some sea veggies. Eventually 
 you get bigger and bigger until you hit land. The more you eat the more you grow, and this is true 
 right through too the creature stage, but here you can make some friends and if your smart enough, 
 you'll build a pack and begin to rule the land, other than some ridiculous epic creatures (i managed 
 to kill one with a pack of rogue avers) . The creature stage is probably either best or second best 
 to the space stage.
  The tribal stage is a spore rts, which makes company of heroes look old and gritty (oh wait...) 
 and it is extremely fun and rather challenging if your in a hot spot. I had 9 guys and i was under 
 constant siege by my sisters creation who had 12. (tip before moving on: use fish, fish=good) . Now 
 the civ stage, this stage is fun, there isn't much at all except building creator though, but i 
 just like building loads and loads of my military choppers, then destroying cities with ease. Ah 
 the space stage, so much to do, simply put I'm not even going to try to explain this stage, but 
 advice: don't quit in 10 minutes like my brother, hes a moron who should die for proclaiming that 
 it suck because he traveled to 1 planet and gave up. One more thing as soon as you can, go to a 
 creature stage planet, and use your laser (hours of entertainment) All in all this is a must for 
 smart people, dumb people, old people and young people, and especially you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Spore is one of the most anticipated pc games this year. From the people who made the Sims, Spore 
 is a game in the same nature where you take the power of god. I thought this game was quite good, 
 but it still lacked in areas
  
  Pros.
  make your own species and evolve it over time
  different style levels
  choose your own pathway
  how creative you can get with effort
  sporepedia
 
  BEING GOD MUAHAHAHAHAHA 
  
  Cons
  invisible animals
  glitch in tribal stage where it locks up but is fixed with driver update
  sound goes occasionally
 
  levels are quite easy to beat
  no real replay value except in space age
  the DRM
  
  
  i managed to play through to space age within a few days on normal but something wouldnt allow 
 me to save so no point of me restarting space age everyday. the levels really lacked alot. things 
 that i suggest would have made it better in tribal stage for example is to add age of empires elements 
 to it like build, mine, grow, etc with more types of missions rather than making friend or foe for 
 the entire level. The same applies to space and civilization stage where all it was, you had to 
 choose to make friends or enemies. the glitches and lack of play in it really let it down. the 
 space expansion coming soon should add more missions in it and hopefully the wii version will be 
 just as good if not better than the pc version.
  
  and if there were to be a sequel i suggest EA create like a tree type structure gameplay were like 
 in cell stage if you swim around a certain distance, you evolve underwater rather than land and 
 make different types of styled levels which are effected based on what you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falxmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  You'll blow on through the cell stage, but then it gets a little more advanced. The creature stage, 
 you get your land legs. The hardest part is becoming allies with other nests. All in all, creature 
 stage is easy. The Tribe Stage is complicated, and the food will be short. But if you can befriend 
 alot of nations, then you'll prosper with food. Two glitches notice in the Tribe Stage: Non-Movement 
 right after the tutorial, and the rare glitch of not putting the food on the food table, just moving 
 around. Tribal Stage really bumps up the competition. The great Civilization. Its your choice, 
 make an aggresive military nation, a prosperus economic nation, or a social religous nation. After 
 you divide and conquer this, the galaxy is your for the taking. The Space Stage, one word describes 
 it. AWESOME!!! Global Domination has taken place, and you are in control of your own planet. But, 
 what about the other planets? Befriend or Conquer? Defend or Attack? The choice is yours!
  
  My Rating: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Spore / PC / Strategy-Sim / 6.4
  
  Let's ditch all the talk about the obvious stuff that makes this game a bad buy, and see Spore 
 for what it is. Not being able to install it how many times you want and having securerom crap 
 is obviously bad. Is the game good otherwise?
  
  This game let's you use Darwin's evolutionary theory and make your own species and follow it to 
 world domination. Except for that this is really a fun game that I recommend to creative people. 
 There is a total of 5 phases. 
  
  You begin at the cell stage where you choose to be veggie or meatie, then you just control your 
 spore and eat until you grow and finish this part. 
  The second part is the creature phase which can be both tedious and simple fun. You choose to either 
 kill all other creatures or make friends with them  the most fun being exterminating. During both 
 the creature and cell phase, you can mate and thus changing your appearance and abilities with 
 DNA-points. This is what makes the game fun.
  
  After that your race will gain a working brain and you enter the tribe phase. This is very simple 
 faint RTS-based part of the game. You collect food and buy kids for the food and then they grow 
 and you can kill all other tribes (or make friends with them) .
  You now control a country on your planet and it's time to conquer all of the planet (time for Civilization 
 phase) . You get to contstruct your buildings and vehicles. Then it's time to exterminate (or make 
 friends with) the rest of the earth. This is probably the deepest of all parts but is to simple 
 to be really fun. Before you know it's over and you're in space phase.
  
  Space phase is pretty cool first but is really pretty boring. All you do is deleivering herbs and 
 abducting races from other planets and ultimately you kill everyone. However I thought is was to 
 boring to continue playing at this point. And for all I've heard  you get attacked all the time.
 
  
  All other races in the game is created by others or by Maxis. That is  if you are connected online. 
 The game also has very low requirements and that is bad for us that has decent rigs.
  
  All in all this game is too easy and misses out on the depth, playing on hard mode doesen't make 
 anything better either. I think it would be a rather superb game for kids though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  It amazed me when i read about how long it took this game to be developed, and then after finally 
 getting it and playing it, I understood. The time alone in making a game of this caliber would 
 be baffling, and to get out such a nicely working version of such an in depth game is really impressive.
 
  
  All the hype this game held made me worry, I have not often had high expectations for any game 
 and had them met, but in this case they have been met and slightly exceeded.
  
  It's just plain fun, for anyone, no matter what genre of game you like. I'm not sure yet about 
 the replay value as I have not quite finished it yet, and generally I won't review until i do finish 
 a game, but this one is easy to rate based on its simplicity to play.
  
  With all the varying levels of customization in the game I imagine it will be fun to play more 
 than once, and having seen every stage at depth, the varying degrees of difficulty and different 
 types of game play keep it fresh and entertaining.
  
  Another surprisingly good game that was worth the money, and I don't say that very often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Spore is definitely an impressive game. From the very beginning, it takes up all efforts to impress 
 you, and does a good job. The interface is neat, the graphics is nice, and the controls are responsive 
 and easy to learn. 
  
  I guess most of you already know about this game. The concept is simple -- grow your single celled 
 species and make them a full fledged living being; and hereby dominate the earth and space. 
  
  Well, that is where the game fails miserably; the dominance establishing part. The game moves 
 you and your animal through 5 stages. While the first 2 stages are very nice and innovative, the 
 latter ones are overly simplified and boring variants of your regular RTS scenarios. 
  
  You design your animal, give him/her parts and get bonus. Then you go out making friends or foes, 
 and establishing some foothold on earth. After the second stage, the game gives you an RTS situation 
 where you have to build an army, collect resources, make alliance or enmity with rival tribes, 
 and emerge out as the winner. 
  
  It's not the problem that the tried and tested formula of RTS is there in this game. The problem 
 is, even a 6 year old would find the later stages of Spore boring. You will have to spend a lot 
 of time designing war vehicles, which is kind of boring because the part options are very limited. 
 Also, it is always easier attacking the opponents than trying to take them over peacefully. In 
 fact, peaceful take over is so tough that I gave up after trying for 30 minutes or so 
  
  I give the game a 6 rating for its innovative idea, nice sounds and good graphics. However, the 
 actual gameplay needed a lot more polishing and more content (which I am sure will come in the 
 form of expansion packs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwaanME
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Spore was presented as an instant classic. A huge game which had something to offer for everybody. 
 While some of it's parts are a lot of fun (the creators) , the actual game play lacks depth and 
 becomes boring quickly. The first stage, despite being important since you can earn important upgrades 
 useful in later stages, is incredibly boring. All you do is swim around, eat and fight. In order 
 to 'grow' you need to find a female and create offspring. Apparently nobody at EA has any knowledge 
 about one celled lifeforms. Because then they would have known that there are no 'male' and 'female' 
 one celled lifeforms but that they split themselves in two. The creator editor allows you to add 
 spikes, fins and other body parts but they don't make a big difference. In fact at the end of the 
 stage I didn't any more powerful than before, just bigger.
  The second stage, the creature stage, is much more promising. The creature editor is without a 
 doubt the most interesting part of the game. However I was very disappointed with the fact that 
 a lot of body parts have no practical use. There's no need to add a nose, an ear or many of the 
 parts other then for show. I was also disappointed by the fact that it doesn't make a difference 
 how many beaks, claws, feet, etcetera you add to your creature. The game only looks at the strongest 
 part. Game play in the second stage is fun for a while, but the lack of depth makes it boring after 
 a while. All you can do is pick up new body parts, kill other creatures or befriend other creatures. 
 None of this is very challenging and there isn't a lot to see either. Though the graphics are nice 
 they are not 'breathtaking', in fact everything looks rather basic.
  The third stage, the tribal stage, is somewhat fun but also lacks depth. With more options to choose 
 from and a better interface this could have been an interesting stage. However unlike other modern 
 RTS games you cannot build your base the way you would like. In stead you have a number of 'empty' 
 spaces where you can put your huts. The number of weapons is extremely limited, and there is no 
 research tree or training facility. 
  The next stage is the city stage. Again this stage show some promise, but very quickly I realised 
 it is as shallow as the previous stages. There is no way to group and select your vehicles in an 
 easy way. It doesn't matter what your buildings look like, which parts you use and how you position 
 them (rotate them) in your city. Adding shrubbery and fountains makes almost no difference and 
 you can easily win this stage without bothering. The same goes for the national tune you can compose, 
 it just isn't worth spending your time creating it because you don't need it. If you want to play 
 an exciting RTS game then there are better games out there. 
  The last stage is also a mixed bag. There is a lot you can do but none of it is very interesting. 
 We've all seen this before. The controls are also slightly awkward, navigation is a pain (in stead 
 of selecting your destination from a list or just being able to click on it, you have to click 
 on a nearby object in order to get closer to your destination) and combat is very limited. If you 
 want to play an interesting space exploration/combat game you should try Sins of a solar empire 
 or one of the old Homeworld games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  These past couple years if you didn't know what Spore was people thought you were crazy. For a 
 game to get this much hype, it must be a big thing. And in some ways it is, in others not.
  All life began as single celled organisms, then they evolved and moved onto land. Spore is the 
 video game take on evolution and biology. You start with creating a cell and swimming around the 
 ocean, doing what an organism does: eat and try to survive. Then you grow legs and begin living 
 on land. Once you reach a certain point your intelligence grows enough that you become a civilized 
 race, and then move into the final stage of the game - space exploration - from there.
  
  Gameplay 5- For the first few hours of the game Spore can be a lot of fun, from watching your cell 
 swim, eat, and attack to building your armies and dominating the galaxy. But the experience can 
 also quickly grow stale, as there is more to the customizing of your creatures than actual gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics 7- The visuals are colorful and a unique style. On max settings the game looks great.
 
  
  Sound 6- Monster squeaks, growls, snorts, roars, etc and some music.
  
  Fun factor 5- While Spore has its good moments, you can also get an idea of how simple and shallow 
 the game feels. I felt that certain things were lacking, and knowing EA they probably held back 
 on those things on purpose. And to no surprise, the game has only been out for little over a month, 
 and Spore is already getting its first add-on in November. Let the "EA milking" begin.
  
  Replay Value 1
  
  My biggest issues with the game come from the publisher itself, not the least 
 of which is the undisclosed DRM software that is techically malware and requires a hard drive format 
 to remove. It is supposed to prevent piracy, however those that did pirate the game can get it 
 without the DRM, so it's us legit purchasers that suffer. EA could at least have stated on the 
 box "SecurROM is part of installation". 
  
  This is the first game I have ever thrown in the trash. After a couple months the DRM corrupted 
 my computer enough everything else was starting to suffer, and I had to do a complete computer 
 wipe. Im never touching anything with the EA logo on it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobiba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I think that i don't exaggerating when i am saying: this is one of the most creative games of EA 
 ever.
  When i saw spore in the first time i thought: "Hey, that's a stupid name".
  But when i played it in my friend's PC... WOW!, i was amazed, all of the options, all of the different 
 kinds of game-play, just an amazing game.
  
  The game begins when they tell you to chose a character and after you develop a little (by eating 
 DNA) you can change him and improve his speed, you can decide if you want that he will be vegetarian 
 or a meat eater and much more.
  After a few development's the creature will rise to the land and start his group life, once more 
 you can change him by getting DNA and improve him.
  When you pass the group stage, you become responsible at a tribe (and there the game become more 
 complicated)
  you can actually communicate with other tribes and make alliances (which effect the continence of 
 the game) .
  After the tribal stage you become a civilization and if you can guess you go a ton of new option's, you 
 can decide how every thing will look like and make a lot of new friends and ally's.
  Lest but most important it is the space stage!.
  It is the longest level but yet the most interesting 
 level, it brings out the best of the game but this one you will have to find out your self (i don't 
 wan't to ruin the surprise) .
  In conclusion, spore is a great game with a lot of surprising new feature's.
  
  In conclusion 
 this game if for strategic game lovers and for them it is the best game that got out in the last 
 ten years (and probably in the next ten years) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoEmber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game was designed for the non-gamers. It a better version of the Sims and it covers all genus. 
 I recommend this game to children and adults of all ages because this is the type of game that 
 just never gets old. One of the purposes of this game was that you could play the game for 70 years 
 and never find a plant thats the same. The strage this is that everyone thinks that this game is 
 just about making a little guy on a plant and walking around but the true is it's a WHOLE lot more.
 
  
  A down site to this game is that the end is really disappointing because it's one of those games 
 that don't really have an ending. The creator does get a bit teddios after a while and creator 
 stage could be alot bigger. But when you get to the center of the universe you'll see what I mean. 
 
  
  If you want a good game that is for filling I recommended trying Stalker clear sky or one of the 
 Final Fantasy's those are games that give you a great satisfaction after completion.
  
  Thanks for reading. Psycho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Reviews
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game, is reveloutinary to the gaming industrie. It revelotinised the way we think of strategy. 
 Same with sims. So here we go. This roller coaster has it ups and downs, turns and twists, left 
 and right, good and evil, right and wrong. Just like any roller coaster, The pure enjoyment of 
 playing it is you create it. Want war! you can get it! want party animals! that to can be acomplished. 
 There is no wrong way to play with spore, unless you don't know what it is. I got to admit No one 
 can say this game s. c. s you know what that word is. The eveloutinary path's are creative. Will 
 wright did a great job with it. The anthom creator is just time to spend makeing a good one. So 
 more or less want one from an expert use the sporepedia (trust me on this) look up star wars anthom 
 you can get it. The great thing is you get to share it with the world. Want to have fame be a pro 
 send your creatures and videos to The_reviews@hotmail. com. pictures into slide shows, videos on 
 to youtube. So if you want a name make one up i will keep track of them. So we go back.
  -------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: 100/100
  Style: strategy, 
 simulator
  glitches: 10/100
  Bugs: not alot
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Stay tuned Canada, usa, uk, austrailia, 
 nethrlands etc for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boater
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  (Summary at the bottom if you don't want to read this word jumble)
  This game blew my mind, and not in a good way. Having waited probably 3 years or so since it's 
 initial announcements, I expected something a bit more fun than this. Let me clarify this point 
 - I expected to still be having fun after the creature phase.
  The game certainly gives you lots of room to make your own creations, especially in the early phases. 
 They offer a good amount of parts and let you place them virtually anywhere you like (with an exception, 
 more on this later) . Different parts also conferred different bonuses; whether it is towards a 
 certain attribute or towards skills in the creature phase. Sure, it's cool maxing out stats. But 
 you know what would make it more interesting and maybe more challenging? If it ACTUALLY mattered 
 where you put stuff. Interestingly, the cell phase is the only portion of the game where part placement 
 actually mattered a little bit (mainly where you decided to put spikes if you chose to do so) , 
 however everything else didn't matter. So what if you decide to put spikes on the back of your 
 neck with no possibility of actually executing a frontal attack, as long as they give you that 
 strike bonus, who cares... right? I understand that not everyone is an engineering genius and that 
 this game was made with everyone in mind, but it would've been nice to see that your well thought 
 out layout of this biological war machine actually had an advantage over some lump with limbs that 
 a 7 year old made.
  To ding the design portion, I'd just like to say that making the vehicles (land, sea or air) were 
 a bit bland, mainly because they ARE war vehicles, yet you are given about 12 weapon designs and 
 since you don't need to earn any of the points to get better designs, you usually just end up using 
 3 of those because they're the best. Not that it matters whether or not you chose the rocket launcher 
 or the "planet destroyer" cannon... no, it'll end up being that your vehicle will fire a blue blob. 
 Yes, very disappointing indeed. I also want to note that at this point of the game, I was pretty 
 anxious of seeing the next stage and I'd done plenty of designing so I didn't bother even painting 
 most of my stuff anymore. The design aspect of the game began losing its shine when many of the 
 vehicle parts were being recycled.
  To take a step back, there's a little phase called the tribal phase between creature and civilization 
 phase. It's pretty short and extremely disappointing. Because I play plenty of RTS, this phase 
 seemed overly simplified. I know the games not really meant to be an RTS, but it was a boring part 
 of the game with very few upgrades.
  Space phase was where I stopped. I did some of the starter missions, but it seemed vast and unending. 
 It sets you off on these quests delivering things and gathering other stuff or meeting new civilizations. 
 Of course you get to design your space ship, which by the way recycles weapons and many other vehicle 
 parts. Big issue.. maybe it was just me and my roommate, but we could NOT get more than a single 
 thruster in the rear of the spaceship. The Maxis samples had dual thruster designs, but we found 
 it impossible without having them face perpendicular to the intended direction of the spacecraft. 
 Another bad thing about the spaceship design was that you had to put a lot of the parts in the 
 center line, leaving you with limited options in how you designed your ship. Anyways, I was so 
 bored with the game at this point that I really can't comment any more on the galactic phase.
 
  
  Summary:
  -Tidepool phase and Creature phase were definitely my fav parts; lots of designs and some of it 
 actually mattered. However, I hated the "nest" idea in creature phase. Again too simple.
  -Tribal phase was almost a complete waste of time
  -Civilization phase had perhaps even more 
 underwhelmingly simplified battle
  -Space... barely started it. Seemed boring.
  
  =Overall: Combine the design flaws with overly-simple gameplay and poor AI and you get a game that 
 you'll have fun with for maybe up to 10 hours. Beyond that, good luck.
  
  Agree or disagree, send me your comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russosteve
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Overall the game was fun, but it rapidly became REALLY easy. Far too easy to be fun. At the space 
 stage (the best parts really are the creature and the space stages) it starts out tough and becomes 
 easy so fast that it becomes boring. I haven't been able to bring myself to finish the game yet 
 as the micromanagement becomes annoying. I'm glad I played it, but I totally wish it had been $20.
 
  
  Also.. don't believe the hype. There is no science to the game at all.
  
  So the 'cell' (really microbial) stage is fun, but there should have been more parts. You basically 
 swim around a pool and hunt/get hunted.
  
  Next is the creature stage where you develop your creature into a more sophisticated being, interacting 
 with or killing other species.
  
  Then the tribal stage, which is pretty lame. You basically do the same thing you did in the creature 
 stage but on a much smaller scale and with less ability to change your being.
  
  The civ stage is really just something to get over with as quick as possible. Just lame.
  
 
  The space stage starts out pretty fun. You're exploring, interacting, etc. Then you're empire 
 grows large and your colonies don't seem to have any management. You have to go and transport spice 
 around to make $ (not automated) , you have to go and fight off invader, you have to go and deal 
 with outbreaks. In between all that you are SLOWLY moving closer to the center of the galaxy.
 
  
  A final comment: There are few consequences that matter in this game. AS you develop the actions 
 you make give you different bonuses in the space stage, but once you're in space you can behave 
 however is convenient. If you die at any point in the entire game you are simply restarted somewhere 
 nearby with no losses of any sort.
  
  There are many things I think need to be improved with this game to make it better, mainly adding 
 complexity to the other stage, reducing micromangement in the space stage and increasing difficulty. 
 Just start playing on hard, it really won't take you any longer to figure things out than it would 
 to get to the space stage on medium and realize that you breezed through the game.
  
  A comparison: the game feels a lot like a more graphical space rangers 2 in many ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, I was slightly disappointed simply because it didn't hold my attention for more than 
 25 hours of game play, but you can't ask for many more than that unless it's a full blown RPG.
 
  
  This game will blow your mind just from its enormity. You know those videos in science class that 
 zoomed out from an atom to the galaxy and back again? Well imagine that as a game. You start out 
 as a single celled organism and your main goal is to control the universe. Sounds like quite a 
 game right? Eh... sort of.
  
  The Game:
  The first stage will last all of 15 minutes as you play Pac-man in a puddle with other organisms 
 as the ghosts, and just like the arcade, some are hostile while others will flee from you at first 
 glance. Each time you mate with another of your race you can choose to use points you've collected 
 to add new features to your cell. Once you grow large enough from eating you will grow a brain.
 
  
  This begins the second stage that apparently tries to imitate the RPG point of view you would see 
 in something like World of Warcraft. This "Creature" stage is where you will decide whether you 
 are a peace loving do-gooder or a blood thirsty savage (or something in between) . You will spend 
 this time allying or eliminating other creatures around your area for the sole purpose that it 
 gets you one step closer to flying a space ship. Again, you can mate with others of your race to 
 alter your creatures appearance.
  
  Once you're brain has fully grown you will enter the "Tribe" stage. Your creature can no longer 
 be altered and you will start playing a really cheap version of the original Warcraft. Once you 
 have neutralized the rival tribes you will go on to the "Civilization" stage which is not much 
 different except that you now have vehicles, bases, collect spice, and when you're done you own 
 your planet.
  
  After you own your planet you launch into space to explore the final frontier. "Final" because 
 this is the stage in which you will quit the game, because this game will never quit you. Your 
 goal here is to collect badges. 250 badges earns you the title of "The Omnipotent" and then the 
 game keeps going... it's likely you won't.
  
  All in all: I enjoyed my 25 hours of play time very much. I made it to the center of the universe 
 without beating the ruthless (ly annoying) Grox empire and that is where my ship sits today. I have 
 no urge to play any more, but I will not deny that it was an engaging experience that I recommend 
 for anyone else willing to play. However, $50 seems like too high of a price. If you can find a 
 way to play it for less, say at a friends house or if it were on sale, I would highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordtorka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The first two stages of this game were pretty good, going from being just a cell to growing legs 
 and turning into a kick ass pack animal stage where you get to go around and kill other species 
 and evolve some more into an even cooler creature, it even started leading it into how awesome 
 it was promised to be... but then in stage three it turned into a horribly less than generic RTS 
 with very few options. once you hit the third stage you cant even evolve further, so hopefully 
 your race is what you wanted by then.
  
  After the unbelievably boring RTS stage you hit the space stage, which isnt bad at first. Its pretty 
 fun going around and exploring and toying around with all the planet developing things.. but after 
 a point it gets pretty repetitive...
  
  So to sum the whole game up... If you've played the creature creator, you've already played the 
 best part 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider318
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The main appeal of the game is the high ammount of creativity that is included in creature creator. the 
 thought of trying to make a game out of it is a good idea, but it forgot something. instead off 
 a thrill ride in each stage its more of a struggle to get the most DNA points. So the whole game 
 turns into nothing but a challenge to evolve to the next stage and the stage after that is the 
 same thing!! The game would have turned out better if there were minigames in each stage rather 
 than the usual "befriend them, take over that, eat, befriend them, take over, etc. the game is 
 fun if you have a creative mind, but the same thrill would come from creature creator. i still 
 havent gotten past the space stage because the grox wont stop attacking my colony. but im sure 
 the ending is unrewarding and then you realize youve wasted away your life. but overall its an entertaining 
 game, but i reccomend creature creator instead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmoroz
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Pros: nice graphics, fun to play with creature creator, fun to look at different species shapes 
 and behavior.
  
  Cons: boring gameplay, shallow simulation, annoying and poorly explained interface.
  
  The 
 gameplay requires very few hard decisions; most things are quite automatic once you figured out 
 how the game works (or read a walkthrough) . At the same time, it does require a lot of repetitive 
 and boring actions - remind me of MMORPGs in that sense. And if you expected this to be a strategy 
 game, then you will be REALLY disappointed.
  
  The quality of simulation is very low. The evolution of the species is very simplistic and have 
 nothing exciting beyond the visual appeal. Your historical choices affect only a couple numeric 
 sliders, like aggressiveness, etc. Even games from that do not focus on simulation do a much better 
 job: e. g., the evolution of a nation in Civilization 1-4 is a lot more interesting to watch.
  
  Interface is often annoying, given that the game targets casual gamers. I was trying to help 
 my friend figure things out, and the in-game explanations are very confusing, and often it's hard 
 to say what you're supposed to do without reading the walkthroughs. The various markings, icons, 
 etc are not explained at all.
  
  
  Here's an example of how you spend your time in the last, most complex stage of the game. You fly 
 your spaceship to different planets getting trivial missions (go get stuff, bring it here, etc.) . 
 As you do that, your home planet is constantly attacked and planetary defenses are totally insufficient 
 (the maximum you can build is 8 turrets per city, which got destroyed within a minute on an easy 
 mode) . So you constantly fly back to fight against a bunch of alien ships using the most annoying 
 real-time combat I've seen in ages. Of course, later, you will unlock more powerful turrets, but 
 it takes 5-10 hours of playing in the space stage alone to unlock them.
  
  You can also terraform planets and put your colonies there, but after you figure out how to do 
 it, it's just as repetitive as missions.
  
  Overall, this game is only worth buying for the graphics, not for the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master207
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game it could have been one of the greatest game
  but its short and gets boring around stage the fourth stage.
  By then it gets all hectic you 
 don't know what is happening and the world is way to big. Espically at the space stage.
  Anyways the graphics are good the game is fun up to stage four. The concept is good not there i 
 recommend the 1st three stages the most but i still recommend the other two.
  Also the character implaced objects and other creatures
  was genius they knew what they were 
 doing but couldent get it there. Even though they didnt get it there if anyone can get it there 
 it would be them.
  It has high replay volubility and its fun for the whole family. The creatures are cute well most 
 of them are.
  Its also amazing that your create EVERYTHING in the game. And thats the end of the review
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brazem
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  While I, like the rest of you, looked forward to spore as a game that had over "100 hours of game 
 play," I was sorely disappointed with its short 8 or 9 hour run. Obviously I could've kept going 
 until I owned the entire universe, but that would've just been redundant. stages are in a bit of 
 a freytag's pyramid (i think that's the name) with the exposition in cell stage, rising action 
 in creature, climax at the tribal, but then it starts to go into falling action in civilization 
 and finally a uneventful conclusion with space age. 
  
  The entire overlying problem of the game is that it is targeted at the brand new audience of "Somtimes 
 gamers" (I hate that phrase so much  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bOse92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  So here we are folks with the Spore review , Spore is a well anticipated game of 2008 and it has 
 to be cause it's wonderful .
  The great gameplay features and the large custom creature creator let's u create the creature u 
 ever dreamed at , and ofcourse to play with it along the other species .
  Spore starts with the Cell Phase where u are a small molecule , u can chose to be carnivore or 
 erbivore , u grow and then when u are big enough u can grow up some legs and walk on the land with 
 the other evolved creatures . After Cell Phase you evolve to creature stage , u are now an evolved 
 creature that can walk and comunicate with other ones .
  U're mission now is to evolve by creating "friends" or attacking the enemies that cannot be charmed 
 with u're lovely voice or dance . Afer this u evolve at the 3rd stage also called Tribal Stage 
 where u and u're fella team creatures work as a team now and u must either capture other Tribes 
 or make Friends as before.
  After this you evolve at Civilization stage , now you command a civilization , u can make alies 
 and controll other cities or just destroy them by u'reself , u can create u're own buildings , 
 cars , planes , and ships ,
  Finally we evolved to Space Stage , now u're main mission is to become the KING OF THE UNIVERSE 
 by controlling important powerful civilisations , u now can create u're own spaceship and start 
 travelling from planet to planet in search of life .
  
  Thank you for reading , enjoy this great game .HF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: core5
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a great game with a strong foundation as far as features go. Unfortunately, there just 
 isn't enough there for people who want a civilization or Galactic Civilizations replacement. When 
 you buy Spore, you get a little of everything but not much of any (one) thing.
  
  The game actually has a good learing curve for new gamers, especially for those around 8 to 13 
 years old. Really, Spore is probably a good game to play before hitting something like Civilization 
 or Gal. Civ. that are a lot more in depth but take a lot more time to complete. You have the beginning 
 stage of an Arcade game kind of like PacMan. The next stage is more of a 3D adventure game where 
 you run around attacking or befriending the native creatures. The third stage is the tribal stage 
 which moves more toward basic strategy and conquest. The Fourth stage takes the strategy a little 
 further by making you manage all your cities in addition to handling all the competing NPCs. The 
 final stage, which is basically an open world RPG/strategy genre is in space with hundreds, if 
 not, thousands of planets and starsystems to explore and colonize.
  
  On paper this sounds like a winning combo because, conceivably you get to ease into the final, 
 most difficult stage of space strategy. The letdown comes when you realized that there's not much 
 to do once you've grabbed about 10 starsystems and have 10million credits racked up. You do have 
 a wide variety of options, like trying to pit two factions against each other so you can reap the 
 benefits; or maybe start a war with the Grox (which is kind of like trying to fight the U. S. from 
 Madagascar) It ends up being like a "sandbox" in that you can try things that you imagined on your 
 own, which is cool that the game is open like that, but you'll probably be disappointed when it 
 fails due to the rather dumb galactic A. I., or the fact that the game doesn't include something 
 you need to get it done.
  
  All in all, you can spend as much time as you want with Spore, and there's a lot to try for 100+ 
 hours. Acheivements add to the sense of satisfaction you get for completing tough objectives in 
 each stage. 
  
  The game editor lets you edit and share you creations with other people. The content sharing system 
 obviously had a lot of time put into it and is probably the crowning achievment of Spore. If you 
 make a creature, vehicle or building, you can opt to share it with the Spore community. Your creation 
 is then indexed as available for download by other players. It's kind of a mix between centralized 
 and distributed computing for content. The cool thing is that the game will automatically download 
 content from people and user groups (Maxis and PCGamer for example) and throw it into you game 
 whenever it's needed to populate an area or world. So you never know quite what you'll come across. 
 Some people's creation are really well done or just hilarious... Just yesterday I found a race of 
 Grampas migrating in wheelchairs in my creature stage. So you can make almost anything if you put 
 in the time. Also, if you're just in a hurry and don't want to design your own buildings or vehicles 
 you can just hop on the community menu and grab something that looks cool to save time.
  
  In conclusion, I think Spore will get better as people add to it. I believe there is also a mod 
 community forming to add new stuff to Spore like items and construction components. If Maxis and 
 EA decide that Spore is successful enough, I think the next logical step would be to release an 
 expansion pack to boost the game's appeal. Right now, there's just not enough to do to keep most 
 experienced gamers' attention for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvov
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game that is a nice change from most of the games out there. I would consider 
 this very "family friendly" -- no bloody zombies, no bad language, no shooting cops or carjackings, 
 no multiplayer military battles. If you want all that, you will not like this game. 
  It is up to you to make the most of the game. Yes, you can "zip" through it and be bored. Or.... 
 you can take the time to explore, create creatures / vehicles / buildings, and really see how good 
 the game is. The "Creature Creator" (which includes buildings and vehicles) is a blast to use. 
 Seeing your friends creatures show up in your game is neat. 
  You can "go back" as many times as you want to try out a different "evolution". You can stay in 
 one "stage" for as long as you want exploring and discovering, and going back to the Creature Creator 
 to change your creation. 
  I still find this game fun to play after a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  
  Cell Stage was fun in a Pac-manish sort of way.
  
  Creature Stage I liked, though they could've added more activities to do.
  As it currently plays 
 out you roam the land - attack other creatures and eat said creatures or make friends with said 
 creatures. Occasionally you'll be interuppted and told to migrate which has you moving from one 
 nest to the next.
  It can last a fairly long time if you want to roam the land and unlock extra parts to put on your 
 creature before you advance to the tribal stage and become incapable of further morphing your creature.
 
  
  I wasn't a big fan of the Tribal stage, though it wasn't BAD.
  I'm just not all too terrific with RTS games.
  You gather food from plants or nearby animals 
 which is the currency for EVERYTHING you do in this stage.
  Apparently you make buildings out of food. Yeah. A bit odd.
  You can then choose to destroy the 
 opposing tribes with tools such as stone axes or make friends with instruments like maraca's. Making 
 friends has the advantage of having someone from their tribe occasionally drop some food off for 
 you, so you could probably get away with taking a tribe member or two off food gathering, but they 
 don't seem to help you if you're attacked which kind of sucks.
  As you make friends or destroy dudes you get the weapons and instruments they used to further improve 
 your ability to either kill dudes or make friends - you also gain an extra tribe member that you 
 can recruit to make you kill dudes or make friends faster.
  
  Civilization Stage I kind of rushed through.
  I was disapointed with it, kind of.
  I read in 
 previews that the inspiration for this stage was the Civ games so I was all like HELLS YEAH, A 
 TURNED BASED STRATEGY... It's not Turned Based. It's probably closer to Rise of Nations rather 
 then Civilization.
  It's just more RTS - replace your tribe members with vehicles you create, food gathering with spice 
 gathering and crappy huts with buildings you create - I s'pose you could create more crappy huts 
 if you really wanted too.
  Theres three ways to go about taking over the globe.
  Send over your hotdog shaped tanks or whatever and blow them to hell.
  Send over some sort of 
 religious propaganda vehicle and wait for them to like.. Convert, I guess.
  And Economic, which I haven't explored at all but I assume ends with you buying them out. 
  
 
  Space Stage is where i kind of opens up and becomes incredibly awesome.
  I don't know what game to compare it too.
  Galactic Civ? One of those 4X games I've never played.
 
  Theres quite a lot to do.
  If you get to the center of the universe theres an ending here, but I've yet to do that.
  You 
 meet and befriend other races created by fellow players, or blow them to hell.
  You can colonize planets which often requires you to terraform it and make it inhabitable as to 
 maximize your Spice gathering, so you can sell said Spice and make some MAJOR SPORE BUCKS.
  You can use said MAJOR SPORE BUCKS to buy various upgrades which make befriending, terraforming 
 and blowing stuff up easier. The galaxy IS HUGE. I'm not sure how big, but Will Wrights claims 
 that it'd take 70 years or something to fully explore seem pretty plausible, but so long as it 
 continues to teem with new content it would not be a dull ride.
  
  Your enjoyment of Spore will most likely come from how much you enjoy either creating things or 
 seeing what comes out of other peoples warped minds. I for one am very much into this. I love exploring. 
 I like creating.
  And because of that I love Spore. I know I made it sound kind of medicore up until the Space Stage, 
 I don't mean too. The other phases have their moments - they're just either not long enough, don't 
 have enough to do in them, aren't based on a genre that appeals to me or sometimes a mixture of 
 the three - but as a whole the game is marvelous and easy to recommend and it's kind of sad that 
 Spores getting such a bad deal in many corners of the gaming community. A lot of folk are complaining 
 that it's not "Sim" enough. That it's too "casual", "simple" whatever, though I've never seen anything 
 in the years prior to Spores release that it'd be anything BUT simple or casual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeskin79
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Well after running around from a cell to space age i can tell you this game was overrated. The 
 people tha enjoy this game are the those that enjoy messing around with details like designing 
 houses or adding body-part. Those are fun for 2 seconds and then you want some gameplay. Well as 
 a cell you do nothing but eat. When you evolve you run around killing other species for the very 
 simplified missions you get. Tribes got almost no options att all as charm or kill other tribesmen 
 for points n get new tools to charm or kill other tribes. At space age you have the same but att 
 a massive scale. Alot of planets to visit but still the same boring missions and options. Typical 
 of todays games to think eyecandy is enough. Can't say i'm surpised i was expecting this from EA 
 with it's none imagintive game construction. Just when you think the gameindustry is about to make 
 something good you get disapointed. This game doesn't belong at the top but with money you can 
 buy a place at the top. Yes thats right they do buy a nice rank and they give good reviews to their 
 own games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999realthings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Spore sounds very ambitious back then, the thought of you being god and controlling every small 
 detail of life. From the time your cell first ate it's first meal to time you conquer an empire, 
 Spore feels very alive with it's single-multiplayer community and the millions of creatures in 
 your universe waiting to be explored. The graphics of Spore is incredible along with great animation 
 for the creatures movement. The highlight of Spore however is watching your creature grow and interacting 
 with other creatures. The cell stage is very simple but yet very entertaining to play over and 
 over again. The creature stage is the best stage to interact with your creature, explore the island, 
 kill or befriend other creature of just fly around. The tribal stage is very fun to sent your creatures 
 to gather or make them start a war with other tribes. Civilization stage make your creature feels 
 almighty in your little cozy city and awesome cars. The space stage is full of possibility where 
 another planet is just your play toy. The creator is very user-friend where the limits is your 
 imagination and DNA points and complexity meter. Spore however even have a special hidden ending 
 for those hardcore gamers who play games to beat it. 
  Overall, Spore is a superb game and very addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  Following a creature from single cell through to galatic exploration is a huge scope- big enough 
 to either go down as one of history's great games... or disappointemnts. Set over 5 distant evoultionary 
 stages, Spore changes player with creating a controlling a race of creatures spawned from your 
 very imagination, taking over first tidal pond and eventually the galaxy. I could waffle on all 
 day about the history of the game, Will Wright's obession into making sandbox style games and the 
 merging of the causal and core game market in the previous Maxis games, The Sims and The Sims 2 
 but really, all we need is that the Creature Creaor that Wright has made for Spore is an absolute 
 marve; Creating a beastie frim your imagination using the available parts is a wonder esperience 
 and seeing the creature being animated in a naturalistic fashion is enjoyable. As for creating 
 other junk. Stage one single organism is very boring and dull. Stage 2 is very intersting and it 
 stays simple. Stage 3 and 4 are very similar. stage 5 is where it really shines where you can take 
 over the galaxy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentencer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Although this game had great potential to be incredibly awesome, it just feels as if it was rushed 
 too quickly at the end. Now I love Will Wright's work on solving the "god complex" of gamers worldwide, 
 and the success shows. I particularly enjoyed the fact that Spore is an innovative and creative 
 game that is amazingly versatile. However, the civilization stage lacks some real substance, and 
 didn't seem as intriguing or satisfying as the previous stages. And the space stage, in and of 
 itself, is probably the most confusing and detrimental part of this game. Not only is the space 
 stage rather erratic and aimless, but it really never brings closure to the player (or not that 
 I have found) . I conquered the entire known galaxy (that took several hours... and by several I 
 mean several dozen) and I didn't even get a small congratulations message saying that I killed 
 all other known intelligent life! 
  Overall, Spore is a very good game, but I would rather play from cell to tribal stages only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St33lblad3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Well after waiting for three years for this game to come out I finally get it at 12:00am on the 
 first day of its release at my local Wal*Mart.
  
  Spore is a very creative game and a very huge one at the same time. You make your creature and 
 evolve him until civilization stage, then you get to make their homes, factorys, vehicles, and 
 entertainment. Then theres the space stage which is the best of them all IMO. But heres where the 
 game tends to fall apart also, the space stage is incredibility hard for you to reach the center 
 of the galaxy and for you to even take over 20+ planets and manage them all by your self. I had 
 to use cheats to get to the center of the galaxy because I wanted to see the ending so badly. Another 
 thing that bugged me is no multiplayer part. I understand why they didn't put multiplayer in the 
 game but they should have at least put in a coop mode or something, it would of had made the game 
 way more interesting to play. The content in this game is really amazing though, one of my favorite 
 thing about Spore is the player created content.
  
  Well if you like single player games with lots of content to download and like to create things 
 your self I suggest you pick this one up.
  
  Gameplay - Mixed
  Graphics - Pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elhan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  But it does not live up to the hype, which hinted at a much more technically complex game. It could 
 not possibly have done so, though, so this is not so much a critique of as it as it is a reminder 
 to be moderate in your demands. In fact, it's simple. Very simple. Which is both its most favourable 
 element, and its Achilles' Heel. It's a lot of fun seeing how your cell is going to turn out, but 
 by the city stage it's pretty much a given. I'm a bit disappointed that it isn't possible to create 
 more humanoid being. Hopefully future expansions, if there are any, will broaden options available 
 to the player. At any rate, buy it anyway, it's fun, even if not highly replayable or intricate. 
 To give you an idea, it's a mixture of Packman, the Sims, Populous and Civilization, and it definitely 
 feels that way. That much of the hype it lived up to. Unfortunately, it isn't quite Black and White 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobpolean1st
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  It started off great. Evolving your critter from cell stage to space the first time is quite engaging. 
 But once you reach space stage and go through the trouble of building your empire and getting to 
 the center of the galaxy, it becomes the same old same old. If you're looking for a sandbox game, 
 this would be the game for you. If you're driven to accomplish more than badges for say... killing 
 x number of empires or creating x number of critters... then you will sadly grow bored, as I did, 
 after a few weeks of playing. There is a lack of depth to this game that will put off hardcore 
 gamers. But those who enjoy the Sims or Pogo might find it entertaining once they get past the 
 frustration of Space stage (frustrating possibly to non-hardcore gamers) . Perhaps an expansion 
 will provide more depth. Until then, I might tinker around a bit with it but for now I'll be looking 
 for something to hold me over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatchen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I, like many of those out there have been waiting for spore since it was pretty much announced. 
 I desperately looked for all the videos to date and when the time came, downloaded the creature 
 creator demo. As soon as it hit stores I went and grabbed a copy. My reactions? 
  
  Spore is a hard game to review as a whole and so I will review it one stage at a time:
  
  Cell 
 Stage: (8/10)
  I very much enjoyed the cell stage. It would have to be the most simple but charming part of the 
 game. I never got bored of this stage. It had great sounds and graphics and everything seemed to 
 just work. 
  When my creature first emerged you had to eat all you could while avoiding other dangerous cells. 
 You could get back at some of those larger cells as soon as your cell grew larger than them. It 
 was a nice start to this ambitious game. The only complain I have for the Cell Stage is that it 
 was too short lived. I wish I had the choice to just continue to play it, keep getting more points 
 and keep growing; even though I can go to the creature stage. I know you sort of can but you just 
 stop gaining points.
  
  Creature Stage: (8/10)
  I enjoyed this stage almost as much as the cell stage. I was fond of how you had to collect your 
 evolutionary parts by being friendly, aggressive, or just scavenging them off of the bones of dead 
 creatures. This ends up shaping your creature since it is hard to find all the parts unless you 
 spend some time looking for them. The world around my creature was full of plants and other life. 
 This made the world seem real enough. It was also complimented with amusing sounds and music. I 
 found that by the time the creature reaches sentience I was ready to move on, not out of boredom, 
 but the time was just right. I found that I didn't want to stay in the creature stage any longer, 
 unlike the cell stage.
  
  Tribal Stage: (8/10)
  The tribal stage was just as good as the cell stage. I was very pleased when I found that I could 
 add a few items of clothing to my character. I will admit that the stage had very simple as you 
 could either attack another trip or make friends with them by playing music, but in this case it 
 just worked. I was ,however, disappointed with how short the stage was and wished it flowed more 
 smoothly into the civilization stage. 
  
  Civilization stage: (7.5/10)
  I found that the charm of the game started wearing down at this stage. It started becoming less 
 personal. I did hold in high esteem the building and vehicle creators, but they were not as interesting 
 as the creature creators. I was almost able to suit up my creature with other items and clothing 
 but it was more so to make your creature fancy instead of having any affect on their social, combat, 
 or health statistics. I do admit that taking a civilization over via combat, religion, or economically 
 but it was too simple. I would have enjoyed sending some troops along with those vehicles or building 
 new cities. Here I though would be nice to be able to start from tribal, transition your technology 
 to civilization stage with the compliment of the combat, religion, or economic bonuses. 
  
  Space stage: (7/10)
  This was my least favorite stage simply because it was too simple and in 
 many cases annoying. I enjoyed making colonies, destroying cities, and trading spice (the only 
 item, besides rare items, that can be traded for money) . I was very annoyed that my colonies could 
 not produce their own ships to defend themselves while every other civilization out there could. 
 They could also send large fleets to destroy my planets and all I could do was bring my rust bucket 
 over and attempt to defend my planet. If they were to remove this problem it would make this stage 
 incredible. My other disappointment was when I kept getting different calls for help from my allies 
 or their planets started destabilizing when I was trying to do something of importance. When I 
 went to the middle of the galaxy I had all sorts of cries for help but had to ignore. My last qualms 
 with this stage would be the ending. To tell you the truth I didn't realize I was even done. I 
 won't tell what happened, but once I was finished, There was no credits, no "THE END" or "CONGRATULATIONS, 
 YOU WIN!", it just continued. It left me feeling abit incomplete and gypped.
  
  All in all the game was well made and quiet neat since it was the first of it's kind. Though, In 
 my opinion, I believe that the tribal and civilization stage should have been more transitional 
 (since I am a sucker for the age of empires and empire earth) they seemed to suit their purposes 
 well enough. I would also like to see a longer cell stage and a more obvious ending to the game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neobrio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Spore is great. Its like 4 games in one. The cell stage is like "feeding frenzy" on the arcade 
 (because you eat smaller creatures and try to avoid bigger ones) . Creature stage is like any third 
 person shooter, (without guns of course) the camera follows you around and you befriend or attack 
 other species to increase your brain capacity.
  Tribal stage and Civilization stage are quite similar. (Not drastically) . They're very similar 
 to the Civilization Games. Finally the space stage. Thousands upon thousands of planets to visit 
 which, apparently will take 70 years to do. The space stage also has a "mass effect.. y" feel. Of 
 course a main point to make about this game is that quite a few pcs will be able to run it quite 
 well. However for those who have (a) good Graphics card (s) will be disappointed to learn that there 
 is no Anti-Aliasing. Hopefully a patch will come out to enable it but... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobster-man44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  When I first got Spore, the first thing that I did was throw it in to my computer. The instalation 
 was going great until I got to the DRM. Despite that, the game was highly adictive and fun, but 
 there are a few things lacking in this game that I wish were there. 
  The first stage was when you are a micro organizm trying to evolve so he can get on land. The second 
 is when to do get that opprotunity and try to gain intelligance. The third is when you become natives, 
 which was very exciting. The fourth is when you concour your planet and become civilized. The fith 
 is the space stage. All you do is fly around in a little spaceship and try to get to the center 
 of the universe. 
  
  there is noting after that. That is what bugs me. It's just you and your little spaceship for the 
 rest of the game. It Sucks. I think that there should have been more, like becoming a god, or go 
 back to different stages.
  
  overall this was a fun game. I recomend it (despite the DRM) . I give it an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NomadicKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game Spore. I had been a fan from the start when watching the youtube videos 
 of its beta stages. I had very high expectations for it, and I feel that may have been what ruined 
 it for me. I did enjoy the game and would give it a thumbs up, but i think the game simply set 
 the bar to high for itself. It portrayed its self as the ultimate creative outlet, and in many 
 ways it is, but its only aesthetically pleasing over time. The decisions you make in one phase 
 seem to only mildly translate to the next, and completely impractical designs seem just as competitive 
 as more thought out ones. Some of you may be wondering what that means, well an example would be 
 the number of arms. I thought that it would be logical for the number of arms to help out in the 
 tribal phase thinking that if a creature had two different sets of arms it would be able to hold 
 two weapons, such as spears. I was disappointed when i found that this wasn't the case and most 
 creature phase decisions didn't translate well. I found the game to be lacking until the space 
 phase. This was most pleasing phase because of the extreme control available, however i felt after 
 a time it gets very repetitive since terraforming feels so mechanical rather than natural. It was 
 a great game but i feel it didn't live up to its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johntonx
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, i'm honestly imagined that it would be great, a innovative and legendary 
 game. But the first impression were a mistake.
  
  The game is more a collection of five games (or more) , whit each one acting on each other, so i 
 make five reviews.
  
  The first stage is the cell phase. To me, this stage is the better, second only by the space stage. 
 This stage have a child style, but is very fun. The graphics are very well made, and the gameplay 
 is very intuitive. I gave it a 7.
  
  The second stage (creature phase) is the worst of all. The play is repetitive, shallow, very bad 
 made, and to finish, very very short. I gave it a 4.
  
  The tribal phase have the same error the creature phase. Very shallow and repetitive. In this stage 
 you have to search for food, and destroy or make an alliance with the other tribes. However, it's 
 very fun to see the other ones being extinct in favor of you rising. I gave it a 6.
  
  The civilization stage keeps the legacy of its ancestors. Shallow gameplay and very short. Your 
 civilization jump from the stone spears to the robots and tanks! Why?! If the start of civilizations 
 was like the real history, perhaps this stage would be less short. For this all I gave a 5.
  
  The space stage is the best of all. Combining great and intuitive controls for your spacecraft, 
 you can make interstellar travels, colonize new systems, establish communication with other galactic 
 empires, and the better, create your very own planet, with customized ecosystem. And for the first 
 time, the game isn't short.
  I gave it a 8.
  
  General considerations: The sounds of the game are very nice, but there are not to much roars, 
 and animal sounds. The creator is the most fantastic i've ever seen in a game. Not even The Sims 
 2 have so nice creator. The visuals are wonderful, but have, of course, some errors. (8)
  
  Final Considerations: I don't think this game is bad, but i think this game requires more work 
 on it. The idea is fantastic, but the execution not. Because of this, the game can't get a Higher 
 "grade". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Of_Ireland
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is new, exciting, and all around brilliant. Between the gameplay, to the graphics, to 
 the always fun Creture Creator. I could play pore for hours, or even days on end. First of all 
 the gameplay. I could play for a full 3 days non-stop and I wouldn't be done yet, or I'd find something 
 new, or I'd like to try a different strategy or something new, and the game let's me. And, once 
 I finished the game, I just started a new one with a new creature, new parts, or maybe even a new 
 galaxy! Also, if I wanted to, I could start from any stage I want. My favorite is the creature 
 stage, so I personaly usually start there. Second, the variety. There are litterally millions of 
 different creatures, spaceships, vehicles, and even planets you can build and customize. You can 
 mix&match max&match whatever you want. It's endless! Third and final, the originality. How many 
 games have you played where you control and evolve an entire species? You are literaly God in this 
 game. It is great. Nice job on the game Maxis! I'm looking forward to either Spore 2, or another 
 revolutionary game. Keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Spore is a game that was destined to have an inconceivable amount of expectations placed on its 
 shoulders. After all, Will Wright wanted it to be "SimEverything" and the determination to reach 
 that is certainly evident in the game. However, it's also hard to forget that this is just a game, 
 and with that comes the responsibility to deliver an entertaining package.
  
  There are five phases of evolutionary progression - cell, creature, tribe, civilisation and space 
 - that the player is taken through on the path to becoming the most dominant race in the galaxy. 
 Each of these phases play quite separately to each other, however, the actions performed in one 
 stage will have ramifications for the later stages. For example, playing as an aggressive, carnivorous 
 creature will earn you certain destructive abilities in the following tribal, civilisation and 
 space phases.
  
  The master stroke of Spore is the ability to shape and manipulate every part of your species' appearance, 
 as well as the buildings and vehicles of the later phases. This leads to the mind blowing number 
 of combinations available to the player as well as the efficient and streamlined Sporepedia - Spore's 
 online content sharing portal. The fact that you can encounter a creature in your own game world 
 that was made by someone else is fascinating and you really get a buzz out of seeing new and interesting 
 creations from other people. Also, if you grow tired of spending time creating something new, then 
 Sporepedia also acts as a giant repository of creations that you can 'drag-and-drop' into your 
 own game universe.
  
  Another impressive quality of Spore is its ability to make you stop and appreciate the scale of 
 things outside of our own daily lives through its quasi-educational use of academic concepts such 
 as panspermia, predator/prey dynamics, and how forces like religion and commerce can shape the 
 development of societies. While it is no Encyclopaedia Britannica, it certainly goes to show that 
 games can potentially be a source of inspiration and curiosity rather than the usual stereotypical 
 gaming monikers.
  
  Getting off the moral high-horse and back to Sporepedia, the idea of sharing content is all well 
 and good, but it merely serves as a window for observation, not in-game interaction with other 
 players. How a multiplayer aspect could be integrated should be left to the experts, but it is 
 certainly a huge avenue of possibility if executed well.
  
  This leads us to the overall gameplay aspect of Spore. As mentioned previously, the various phases 
 play as separate entities in the game, and unfortunately, they are rather shallow when considered 
 individually. The cell stage is merely a cute adaptation of Pac-Man where the goal is to eat without 
 being eaten. Creature stage is reasonably fleshed out, with the emphasis on growing your creature 
 and interacting with other species. Tribal stage is essentially a dumbed down RTS with a rather 
 short-lived timespan, and Civilisation is a rough emulation of the game series of the same name.
 
  
  The main problem with Spore is that it places too much emphasis on hurrying the player into the 
 vast (it would literally take a lifetime to explore and colonise all the planets in the galaxy) 
 expanses of Space without giving enough game-time to develop a close connection with the species 
 the player has brought up. Spore would benefit from a much slower and gradual progression to advanced 
 sentient lifeform with each phase requiring more game time overall. Ideally the space stage should 
 have been the grand finale to a long and eventful progression where the entire galaxy becomes your 
 own playground to explore.
  
  With the inevitable cash-cow expansions looming on the horizon we can only hope this title will 
 evolve into a more advanced entity in the future. As it stands, Spore is a unique package with 
 many great features that make it superbly enjoyable. It's just a shame that the whole is greater 
 than the sum of its parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyancy
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I won't re-hash the other reviews. I eagerly awaited this game. My biggest gripe is that you spend 
 all this time nurturing and evolving your creature only to have the 'bond' completely broken half 
 through.
  
  I loved cell and especially creature levels. You carefully design your creatures and characteristics 
 and it's fun. Your develop a personality. Then you reach tribe level and the connection is broken 
 whether you like it or not. By Civilization and then Space stage you don't even actually interact 
 with your creation any more and instead just vehicles, that let's face it, anyone could be driving/piloting. 
 
  
  IMHO that's what was the biggest let down. I spent a lot of time on my creature and did feel sort 
 of a bond with him only to have it rendered irrelevant halfway through the game.
  
  So the game is decent, but could have easily been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZookGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Spore is not a bad game, it's more than a Sims ripoff which it may look like especially because 
 it has the words 'From the Creator of the Sims' on the box. It's just barely made the mark of being 
 called 'overhyped' but just because it's nearly overhyped doesn't make it revolutionary. Spore 
 is just like guiding a Sim from ape to the future. Any decision you make can affect whatever will 
 happen in the future, for instance if you extinct a species in the Creature phase they may have 
 had a really useful in the Tribe phase which they would let you have, that I believe, is extremely 
 effective and makes you think. The controls may be a little loose, but there better than games 
 like say, Zelda II the Adventure of Link, but it doesn't make the game more frustrating.
  
  Though Spore looks OK for younger players, the difficulty is extremely had in the second phase 
 if your a carnivore. You can either make friends out of animals or lunch out of animals. And since 
 most of the time you have to retreat out of battle they will come back stronger, and more ticked 
 off.
  
  Spore is not a bad game at all it's a superb game but it doesn't quite reach the 'amazing' that 
 it was when we saw screenshots and played with the Creature Creator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trazish
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Ok, to put it plainly, the run through the game, if you just RUN through it, can have some bad 
 impressions. But, if you look past that, there is so much to play in this game. There are so many 
 different gaming branches you could go down, I keep playing a different way every time i start 
 a new game. When you can play as any THING that you want, I call that an impressive game. I have 
 made a candy-cane monster for goodness sakes. And you know what?, I still have fun. I have seen 
 robots, dragons, mermaids, dogs, cats, plants, fish, insects, mythical or all sorts, and ect. That 
 is the best way to put it. This game is ect.
  
  I don't understand why some people have a problem with this game. They say this or that, but who 
 cares. I love it, and I hope anyone reading this review will agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoano
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a very open ended game! The cell stage is real eay and short. The creature stage takes 
 a little while to complete but it is still easy. Now in the tribal stage it becomes a little more 
 difficult and longer, it requires more thinking and strategy. Then the civilization stage is way 
 more fun, strategic, and longer. Finally you build your spaceship and take off into space. The 
 space stage is really easy since you have a lot of good weapons.... It might not be as fun as the 
 civilization stage but still its fun. After a while this game gets boring... REAL  
 A real fun thing to do is create new spaceships, new vechiles, new boats, and much more!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 If you like evolution games then this is right. I hope that the expansion packs won't be as ridiculus 
 as this game!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imperialguard
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  The game sucked. Sure it's a little fun, but after about 6 hours you will be bored stiff. All you 
 do basically is create your creature in the creature creator.... that was the only good thing and 
 that got old too, because you progress through the ages. Once you hit space stage, it gets much 
 more interesting- until a few hours have passed. Then all you begin to do is ward off pirates and 
 get slaughtered by the Grox on the way to the center of the galaxy. I got extremely bored and do 
 not recommend anyone buying this. I am very tolerant of games but this was the most absolutely 
 SHALLOW thing i have ever heard of. You start off in the cell stage, which was actually kind of 
 funny. After that you go through the creature stage (getting slaughtered for a few hours) . Then, 
 the tribe stage (slaughtering everyone else) . THen the civilization stage (slaughtering everyone 
 else with vehicles) . THen the space stage (slaughtering everyone else with a spaceship of your 
 creation until the Grox finds you) . After all that, you make some allies in the space stage, lots 
 of enemies, then hope to God after a few years you will be able to miraculously make it to the 
 center of the galaxy. That's the whole story (i'd say in a nutshell, but honestly thats all i can 
 say) . DONT BUY IT! The best thing about it was the creature creator, and, consideirng you cant 
 PLAY that, it gets old FAST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakhalf-life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Spore has received a lot of hype over the 3 years. Especially since the presentation at GDC 2005. 
 But about that hype... The presesntation was a very rough 'demo' that only will could operate. 
 It wasnt a full game. and the hype has ruined the game completly! But aside from that, it is Great 
 selling game! Now on to the review. Spore is where you lead a species through evolution passing 
 5 stages.  and Space- The bulk of the game. Indivisualy: 
  
  Cell is a simple yet amazingly fun arcade game. I created new files just to play it! its cute, 
 fun, and has no downgrades. 
  
  Creature is a more complex, action/adventure game where you now control a creature in a 3d enviorment. The 
 creature editor is amazing! You can make anything you can think of! Although it does have quite 
 a few bugs and is repetitive.
  
  Now Tribal is not very amazing... Its a simple RTS game that is very bland and repetitive. Gather 
 food, Ally or conquer a tribe, rinse and repeat. Plus some lackluster bugs here.
  
  Civilization is a much more and complex RTS game. You use only vehicles as units sadly. And you 
 can make only 1 land, air, and sea vehicle per city type. Not many bugs here but is still quite 
 easy.
  
  Here we are at space which is the biggest and best part of the game. You are now Pushed into a 
 huge galaxy consisting of 500,000 stars and 4 billion planets. every single one visitable. There 
 are also rare galactic formations like Wormholes, binary systems, and proto stars (Or Acerton disk) . 
 You now encounter other advanced alien civilizations that will either want to barrage you with 
 goods and presents or rip your face off and destroy you. Here is where harcore games (Like myself) 
 would like to play. There is a lot of destruction happening. Space is also very complex. with various ( 
 But repetitive) missions. Sadly this stage which is actually the best stage is brought down... 
 It is extremly repetitive in both combat and ... well everything else. Its so frusturating as pirates 
 and other aliens attack your city every 10 fu -- ing mins (FIXED: Update fixed this so theres a longer 
 gap) . Also how in the world do you get to the center of the galaxy! you got the damn grox which 
 holds a massive ammount of star systems (1,000 to be exact which is... 1/500 of the galaxy) . Despite 
 this there are still plenty to keep you busy. There is a bunch of tools anywhere from the Abduction 
 beam to the feared planet buster (Protip- Breaks galactic code :P) . I give this game a 8.5 because 
 its still an amazing game that has never been done before. Look past the gameplay and look at the 
 game itself and what lengths Maxis went to make it. I hope this review helps you determine if you 
 want spore or not. Excuse some grammar problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fax87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I got this game the first day it came out and it was pretty much what I expected. The 
 idea was great, create your own creature, play with it in a virtual world, as it evolves from a 
 cell to a space faring organism. The creature creator and other assorted creators were great. With 
 all of that said, it gets worse from there... I played once through, cell to creature on HARD, 
 and I started to get bored after that. Sure it was all cute and nice, but the gameplay was repitive 
 and simple. I beat the game on hard, and it still wasn't tha bad... I was pretty much lulled to 
 sleep by how repetitive it was... It was boring to say the least, so I went right back to playing 
 my other games such as Age of Empires.... So my conclusion is, it wasn't all that great... But 
 that still matters nothing b/c EA dosen't care, they have my money..... What a waste of 50 bucks.....
 
  
  -Shadow
  
  If you want to find me on AOE my username is General Greg... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenear1send
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Waited 3 years and am extremely disappointed. When the game first came out it was perceived to 
 be an evolution simulator. Now playing the game, you dress up a doll, stick some weapons on it, 
 and try to make everything extinct. Interesting... Not at all what i expected. Also, your creature 
 is the only one who evolves, everyone else's creatures just sit there, no evolution...
  
  Another thing i don't like about this game was that when i first started, i chose hard mode, because 
 it was rumored that this game is extremely easy. And easy it was! Even in hard mode. Another thing.. 
 The fact that you cant lose, you die, you come back -no penalty (or is there, if there is a penalty 
 it must be really small for i have never noticed it.) Also, you cant breed and increase populations, 
 its generally set at about 3-6 members of your animal pack (creature mode) .
  
  The only good part about the game is that you can interact with other's creations. That is really 
 cool, but otherwise, its just a game to blow some time. Not an epic like i wished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbicon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  I can't beleve all the bad reviews out there. This is a fun game I really like it. It is a shame 
 it has limited installs but thats not a reason not to buy the game. 
  
  Cell: Cell is not the best stage but its ok you make your sell useing a varity of parts and swim 
 around eating blobs of meat or vegie balls depending on weather your carnivor or herbivor. You 
 can also apply both mouths or get an omnivor mouth to eat both. This stage is charllenging and 
 farly fun but not great
  
  7/10
  
  Creature: creature is one of the best stages altough the gameplay is rather repetitive (kill creatures 
 or befrend them) but gettin a look at the world up close is awsome. I loved running around the 
 planet finding creatures and plants.
  
  9/10
  
  Tribe: Tribe really isn't that great. Its fun if you plan on wiping out all the tribes but if you 
 want to befrenid them its way to easy. I recomend carnivor and kill for this stage
  
  good 6/10 bad 8/10
  
  Civilization: I was not very excited to reach this stage I just wanted 
 to get to space but once I got going with it I found it the second best stage in the whole game. 
 You go around fighting or befriending other cities you can by them destroy them or convert them 
 theres alot more to this stage than that but you will really like it. 
  
  9/10 
  
  Space: Space is the best part of spore. Its endless and amazing theres so many missons to do so 
 much to see and the fact that you can edit your ship any time is great. If you liked the exploration 
 and pack features of creature you will be happy to know they carry over here. 
  
  10/10
  
  Overall: Get this game its amazing. There is much more to it than I coverd here and i'm sure 
 theres more to come. Humor me, go buy it.
  
  10/10 
  
  Note: sorry for any spelling errors.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridleydx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING. I can't believe why people are posting bad about. I have been playing game 
 since the N64 was launched and born a few months before that. Ya, I am OBSESSED WITH GAMES. Now 
 spore is great, and will be doing the review on my current game which I just went to space with. 
 So, I will be updating the review after some experience. I have play the game repeating.
  
  
  Cell: That asteroid scene was a great start, but the cell stage is awesome. I start as carnivore 
 and chomp some meat bits, and kill cells until I got money to put herbivore mouths as fins. I then 
 was omnivorous, then I put real fins on top til I took of both the jaw and filter for the omnivorous 
 mouth. I then suck everything that fits in my jaws. I ended up being close to carnivore, but still 
 in omnivore. This phrase is short, but great. I did wish for a deeper phrase though. Eating meat 
 is easier in this phrase.
  
  10/10
  
  
  Creature: I made my cells eyes on the enlarged omnivore mouth and made a short body and long neck 
 and tail. My proto-creatures struck land, and are ready for the tied 2nd favorite phrase. CREATURE. 
 This phrase is LONG. I went attacking and socializing creatures. I was still in adaptable. There 
 many objects to interact with like rocks, sticks, spice, epics, creature, ufos, crashed ufos, and 
 asteroid showers. You also migrate 2 times. I stayed a little later to get all parts, and be a 
 predator. I then extinct LOTS of creatures. In the end. I made a short semi-humanoid beaked Lizardman. 
 The only problem is repetitiveness. Being mean is very easy in this phrase.
  
  
  10/10
  
  
  Tribe: This phrase is my least favorite tied with cell. Unlike cell, however. This phrase 
 is too deep. Not much. Just a little. I like the way the tribe members interact. I destroyed 3 
 tribes and befriend 2. In this phrase making friends is easy, while crushing is hard. I did end 
 up aggressive though. This phrase is great, but where are the hut editors. WHERE ARE THEY? WHERE 
 THE FU*KING $HIT ARE THEY?! Well, they are absent, and so are the tool editor. That is the reason 
 this phase isn't thrid best or second least instead of tied with cell. Like cell. These mistakes 
 would not ruin the gameplay in anyway. The beginning is funny though.
  
  10/10
  
  
  Civilization: My 2nd favorite and most chaotic phrase. I LIKE THAT. The beginning is so funny. 
 What about nuke pies. Why they didn't thought of that. I was military. I then destroy and kill 
 all the tribes and got a religious vehicle. Then, I discard it for sporebucks. I made high tech 
 vehicles that uber in attack. I destroyed religious cities. I then destroy the only economic city 
 to get their powers of peace. I then bought most of the miltary nations and destroyed one HUGE 
 miltary nation. I was ended up as a almost economic miltary. This phrase is awesome.
  
  10/10
  
  Space: This stage is long and fun if you use a cheat or mod involving spice. This stage 
 using a tiny bit of each stage. The stage does awesome and the gameplay is original. But, you can 
 get attacked too often. Mods fix that and patches too. You can do a lot of things like terraforming, 
 colonizing, war-mongering, forming alliance, battling a monster-race of furry little elves (Grox) , 
 exploring planets, saving the environment, and more. The Grox can be a handful though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roket_Noob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I first learned about Spore about 2 years ago, on this very site. I was excited to see it but NOT 
 excited to see it delayed like 2 years. So now its out, and people say it sucks (mostly users) 
 but i think (like many others) It is an amazing game.
  
  Word to the people who HAVE played this game, go to the end of the review to see my score.
  
 
  Ok heres the lowdown;
  
  You start out on the first of five stages (the cell stage) as a tiny cell. You can mate to enter 
 the cell creator to add on new parts like spikes, or mouths. Differernt mouths will change if you 
 are a carnivore, herbivore or both. This is very important. You find new parts and eventually grow 
 legs and become a creature.
  
  This is where it gets fun. It is almost like cell stage, only with some differences:
  
  1. 
 It is a 3D environment (aren't you lucky)
  
  2. You have other nestmates that will help you 
  
  3. You can now befriend other creatures, 
 if you are a diplomat or some thing
  
  4. Finally, new parts and creature molding
  Note: There are 100+ parts you can find everywhere
  so keeep a look out
  
  So anyways you 
 walk around, befriend people, attack people, edit your creature, collect food, yada yada yada
 
  
  This is getting to be a long review, so lets speed thru these next 2.
  
  Tribal Stage: Plays as an RTS game (you move a whole tribe) your money is food. Collect food to 
 get more $$$.
  Go to war with tribes or befriend them with your cute little horns or your axe of death if you 
 wish.
  
  Civilization ( Civ) :
  Fairly simple. If you have ever played civilization you will get the idea, only you are awarded 
 with, not 1, not 2, but 8 new creators! This is really the place to get your creativity on. Anyways, your 
 main source of money is spice, so attack those little red things, K? You can now capture cities 
 instead of burning them to the ground. You build your money and cities to get bombs and airplanes. 
 once you capture every city (kudos to the ICBM bomb) you now rule the world and move to space stage.
 
  
  Space Stage: The moment we've all been waiting for, this is... THE SPACE STAAAGGEEEEE. When you 
 start out in the space stage, you first build you spaceship. then, you have to do a tedious little 
 minigame where you learn how to fly. BORING. After you do that, you do, well, whatever. You can 
 befriend other empires or attack them. My advice is to befrien them first, so they don't blow up 
 your cities till you can blow up theirs. Your main objective (whether you know it or not) is to 
 get to the center of the galaxy. This is probably the funnest stage in the game. Have fun! lol
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Ok, the review:
  
  Spore is a great game. It seems that almost no one at gamespot knows that. Just 'cause its rated 
 E doesn't mean its boring and cheap. Just 'cause its rated M doesn't mean its good. Make no mistake, 
 i'm a BIG Halo player and that doesnt mean i can't like spore.
  
  AAAAH! i still havent written the REVIEW!
  
  Ok: I give spore a very high 9 because it is creative, 
 ambitious, and fun. The remaining points detracting from a 10 is that they should make it even 
 more challenging on the hardcore players in the 2nd version
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmiedeaner
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I watched this game for years, excited about its release. I thought the general idea was so great, 
 and there was a ton of opportunity here. However, when I was finally able to play the finished 
 product, I found myself wishing I could get my money back after only a few hours of play. This 
 game is a huge disappointment. It is clear that the developers spent all of their time on the creation 
 tools and cute little noises and animations, but almost entirely ignored gameplay. GAMES are about 
 GAMEplay. This game is essentially an ok 2-D game, combined with a bad third-person action game, 
 two terribly dull stages of RTS, and slow, drawn out, and repetitive space sim. I'm sorry to say 
 this because I loved the original creative idea by Will, but this games sucks. The game would have 
 been much more fun if the type of creature you made had a larger effect on what the creature could 
 do. Besides the basic choice of carnivore vs. herbivore (and herbivore is almost sinfully boring 
 by the way) and the fact that taller herbivores can reach taller food sources, the character creation 
 is basically just for making your creature look cool. The 2-D stage is really the only time when 
 the placement of the parts on a creature really affect how well it can fight other creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeweapon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Spore can dissappoint you as much as it can amaze you. The creature creation is a touch of genius. 
 Killing other random creations is sweet even if those giant creatures are really annoying. 
  
  At the point when you reach the tribal stage, you end up with a poor settlers type game that 
 is poorly rendered. Its is at this point when the people who came on for the ride because of the 
 creature creation- step off. 
  The city stage is irrelevant.
  
  The UFO stage is brilliant, just to fly to planets change them with the great looking tools you 
 can acheive and truly get on the nerves of other species.
  
  Sims got to a point where it didn't know what to DO with itself. This game goes down a similar 
 route: you've made something, you've messed around with it... now what? At least in the Sims, when 
 you get bored, you can burn the people to death or drown them. This game lacks a degree of detail 
 in the middle stages, and it takes a good while to get your hands on the tools to tear planets 
 apart.... so when you go into a rage, you'll be dropping bombs on citys or launching the inhabitants 
 across the planet.
  
  Part of me wishes the game stopped at a tribal stage which basically turns the game into..... the 
 Sims with creatures! But it doesn't.... at that stage in the games development, too many ideas 
 got involved.
  
  .... none the less.... cool game, its unique, you must play it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Well spore is a mixture of a weird sims game with creatures instead of people, a RTS but still 
 like sims, then another RTS like sims, then it becomes a massive game of running around or killing/exploding 
 stuff. 
  
  Il review this game by stages instead of my normal good and bad and summary.
  
  1st stage/ mini creature stage:
  
  Well this is basically a mini game instead of a real 
 game. its like a part of the game where its like ok, we dont know how to start that game well so 
 well make this weird game to start it of. when i played it, i made the DNA bar full, and i learnt 
 that it makes no diff if you make it 1 bar or full.
  
  2nd stage/ creature stage:
  
  The game eally starts here. you create your creator from scratch. the custmizations are not much 
 when you start but once you get the parts, the choices get huge, massive. here you get to know 
 your enviroment, know about other groups and how to interact with them. aggressive or friendly.
 
  
  3rd stage/villiage stage:
  
  This part gets into the rts part, well its not really a rts but it has the same controlls and stuff. 
 you have to basically the same things. but you need to play music instead of dancing or singing 
 or any other things you do to make friends (friendly) or attcking is basically the same, but you 
 attack with flamming torches instead or fists.
  
  4th stage/city stage:
  
  the game really becomes the same thing as the villlage stage basically but you have to make a big 
 city and caputre a massive planet either hostial or friendly. also you can now make ships, cars/floting 
 cars and planes. 
  
  5th stage/ space POWER!!!
  
  The game really shines at this point i reckon, the map is massive, you spend about half the game 
 time in he space stage anyway. all planets are differnt because of colour but also in arctecually. 
 its all basically the same, but wit a differnt colour, which you can change.
  
  So basically spore is a buch of alright games (besides the first game which is crap,) all mashed 
 together. Spore was not an amazing game but it is a great way how they mashed those game together 
 and made it pretty good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Spore suffers because of his much more successful older brother, The Sims. Even though this is 
 quite the monstrous sibling to compare to, it's still the fact.
  
  First Spore's strong points: Spore succeeds in creating a certain charming atmosphere that gamers 
 should not ignore. From start to the finish, the game is incredibly 'cute', not in a chibi-way, 
 but in a 'I want to be friends with you" kind of way. From the cell stage, to the creature, then 
 the tribal, and civilization, the game was pretty good. In fact, I felt safe with Spore because 
 it was so pretty in presentation. It was solid in design and the creature creator (spore's greatest 
 accomplishment) was simply remarkable.
  
  At the end of civilization, however, was spore's ugly pimple. I'm sorry but no one told me that 
 70% of the game was space stage. In short, all the stages mentioned previously were... well.. short. 
 And those were the best parts of the game.
  
  Spore is by no means a bad game. But it is a mere decoration device in comparison to game like 
 the Sims. The space age gets tedious and boring after a short while, and the other stages are beaten 
 quickly. Let's just say, a friend of mine came over for a couple hours one day and reached the 
 space stage in that same day. It was then that I advised him that he needn't play any further. 
 He was easily convinced.
  
  Spore is a great quick play, and for that reason deserves some credit. The creature creator is 
 also GREAT fun, and I made some silly evolutions. However, Spore's flaws are rather glaring. In 
 short, a space game [kinda] disguised as an evolution game?.. Kind of confused here, but Spore 
 deserves the credit it gets for its charm.
  
  Other than that, Spore is easily forgotten. I'd say its worth playing for a short while, but definitely 
 not worth buying. Find a friend who's got it already, b/c you can beat it at his house in a day.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThresholdRPG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Billed as a "massively single player online game", Spore is the latest creation from computer game 
 guru Will Wright ("Sim City", "The Sims", and more) . How did Mr. Wright do? This review of Spore 
 seeks to answer that question. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  The open ended gameplay, the enormous variety of options, the opportunities to express one's creativity 
 through creation or storytelling, and the sheer fun and joy you get from playing Spore are all 
 major reasons this is such an excellent game. The potential for replayability is great, while the 
 potential to keep playing a single game is equally great. It has been estimated by some that conquering 
 the entire galaxy would take 2 years of daily play. I do not doubt it. You can spend tens if not 
 hundreds of hours in your own tiny little corner of the galaxy without venturing through a single 
 wormhole or even getting more than a couple navigation hops away from your home planet.
  
  The game is not perfect, but no game is. It was originally scheduled for release 1 or 2 years ago, 
 but fortunately Mr. Wright has enough clout that he was able to hold off the suits at EA and make 
 sure the game was not released until it was done.
  
  Speaking of which, it is important to note that the game is virtually bug free. In many hours of 
 play I experienced only one crash, and I have no idea if that was actually associated with the 
 game itself. Other than that, it is a great example to other PC game developers of how to release 
 a finished product.
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  Please read my full review here:
  
  http://www. brighthub. com/video-games/pc/reviews/7667. aspx 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbose22
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  This game was eagerly anticipated since 2006 for the apparent flexibility that the user was granted.
 
  
  However, once the game plays out, it feels more like a bunch of packed together mini games than 
 a full scale release. 
  
  Undoubtedly the most satisfying experience in the game is creating your creature, do to the robust 
 creature creation tools and the joy of watching them progress, gain clothes, and bring alive their 
 personalities. However, playing out the creature stage was far too repetitive, along with the tribal 
 stage which was beyond monotonous, and the civilization stage has redeeming qualities, but ultimately 
 is too shallow as well.
  
  The final space stage is meant to be the most enjoyable, and is definitely the longest (the others 
 can be finished VERY quickly) . This stage too is too repetitive, and while the free aiming controls 
 are amusing, the space stage definitely won't keep most hardcore gamers interested for more than 
 a couple of hours at most.
  
  
  The biggest problem in the game is the lack of flexibility which seemed to have been promised earlier 
 on. The game is very linear, and refuses to be the open ended experience that many had expected. 
 While there's nothing wrong with a linear game, Spore lacks a definitive reason to want to continue 
 "evolving". 
  
  
  Furthermore, this game is marred by DRM, while not affecting this review, is an atrocious piece 
 of software.
  
  Overall, Spore's game play never really grows past the complexity of the cell stage (arguably the 
 most fun) , and isn't really worth the pickup until an expansion pack comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The very notion of being able to create a creature from the beginning of the cell stage to the 
 end of the space stage was a very intriguing one. And i must admit that i had my doubts as to whether 
 such a game can be created that allows you to literary control the weave of life.
  
  But to the credit of its developers spore can be classified as a game that archived its goal. But 
 it offers very little of it. 
  
  Out of the several stages of life on spore, The first few provide very little entertainment. In 
 fact you probably could finish the initial stages within a few hours. However the uniqueness of 
 the game will probably encourage you to try it out one more time from the beginning.
  
  The graphics look decent but nothing flashy, and the sound isn't bad either. The game play offers 
 something unique but very little of it was there to be offered. Clearly the games comes up short 
 in terms of the content provided. It could have been a lot more better and probably would have 
 gotten better reviews if the game had more to offer especially in the earlier stages.
  
  all in all Spore is the kind of game that deserves a try out. But its not the kind of game that 
 you'll be still playing for months to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The bottom line is that this game only gives you a taste of what Spore should have been and then 
 ultimately leaves you disappointed with boring game play.
  
  If the game had expanded and been centered more around the crature stages and wasn't so quick to 
 evolve into grander less interesting stages it would certainly be more fun.
  
  Once you get past the Tribe stage which lasts all of about an hour or two max in real life life 
 the space stages just feels tacked on. I dont feel like my character anymore and have all but lost 
 the feeling that I'm even a character in tha game at all. Instead I'm just this little floating 
 ship icon that keeps doing the same thing over and over.
  
  I expected that there would be a lot more involvement with other players and that the game was 
 really about the incredible levels of creature creation and to see how the creature would look 
 as it evolved into your 'end state' entity.
  
  Instead you are able to completely change the entire look and almost purpose of the creature and 
 almost any time instead of setting up your creature and seeing it evolve to that stage.
  
  It's also a shame that the only 'class' differences are based on what you eat. It also seems that 
 although the choices that are available for customization do offer many visible choices their actual 
 ussage in the world and their effects all seem to be pretty much the same as each other leading 
 to really a cosmetic choice rather then a use based one.
  
  All I can say is that I'm glad I did't pay for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdcjb100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The game spore i got the day it came out instantly it was fun. when starting in the cell stage 
 it is much like ur just born it is a quest for survival.
  
  The first three stages i did feel were a bit to short but as you advance to the fourth stage things 
 become a bit longer. When you first arrive in the space age there are so many planets it is physically 
 impossible to get out of the galaxy you can not even see the edges.
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 10
  Replay 10
  Story 8
  Difficulty Moderate but becomes harder
  
  The game is most 
 origional in the creature and other creature modes. There are so many possible combinations and 
 anything in your imagination can come to life. I think the creating my just be better than playing.
 
  
  As for bugs i saw few if any. Only one time did it lock up and i had to restart the game. Every 
 once in a while the spore server goes down for repair and makes it frustrating if you are wanting 
 to upload creations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbro8521
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is really cool the first time you play through, however it quickly becomes apparent that 
 the game is just leading you to the RTS endgame. You start out playing a more complex version of 
 PacMan, then it evolves into an RPG. Once you complete the second stage you go onto a more complex 
 RPG/RTS, followed by a very basic RTS where all you can do is tank rush. The next stage is The 
 full scale RTS (space stage) . You must lead you're civilization amongst the stars. The game gets 
 a little repetative after about the third playthrough but the final stage is usually worth the 
 time put in. A fair warning to all is that you MUST HAVE INTERNET TO PLAY!!!! I had to lug my pc 
 to a friends house to register it which after 4 years of waiting took another 2 days. I might be 
 out of line, but I lowered the score a point for not clearly labeling INTERNET CONNECTION REQUIRED. 
 Even so, it's a great game and I highly suggest playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamerdude26
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Life, both beautiful and haunting all at once. Throughout human existence we have changed, depending 
 on your thoughts on evolution, and been molded to be able to better fit our environment. We have 
 also changed our environment to better suit us. Although spore started it's life several years 
 ago, the process of evolution seemed to completely pass it by but in the end we still have something, 
 that like life, is both beautiful and haunting, both at the same time.
  Spore was originally announced a few years ago with the premise of being a life simulator. You 
 would create a creature and watch as it evolves based on the way you created it and have a completely 
 unique experience every play through. It was also supposed to be a way to showcase new procedural 
 generation techniques that would completely change the way games are made. In my mind it succeeded 
 at one and totally failed at the other.
  Lets start with the good. The technology behind the game is amazing. Procedural generation has 
 came along with in the past few years. if you search the net you can find a first person shooter, complete 
 with self shadowing and all the next gen staples, in a file the size of only a few kilobytes. For 
 those of you that don't know, procedural generation is when everything in the game is generated 
 on the fly through a set of rules that create whatever you've set it to. This lowers system requirements 
 and keeps the game looking great. With spore they used it to create all of the game worlds and 
 most importantly, the way your creature animates. Depending on how you create your creature it 
 will move and react in a way that only your creature will do. So if you have a very creative mind 
 you can create some very unique things, but the complete opposite can be said for those who are 
 not creative. Which can drastically effect your experience. It's very disappointing though, that 
 the changes are only cosmetic.
  There's a constant theme that runes throughout the entire game, and that is that everything you 
 make, no matter how cool or crazy it is, won't actually do anything different than any other person's 
 creature. It may walk differently or dance differently, but that's about it. The buildings that 
 you create may look cool but once you realize that they don't do anything different than the thousands 
 of other factories, you lose interest because your creativity is really getting you nowhere. The 
 reason for that is because everything is based on stats. If your creature has a horn on his head 
 it wont attack "with" the horn, it will attack with it's attack points. It may bump it's head forward 
 but that's pretty much the same animation everyone gets.
  It also sucks that after the second stage of the game you don't have any more control over how 
 your creature changes other than the clothes in can wear. It all turns into an overly simplified 
 rts game that even a two your old can master given enough time. You take some unites to get food, 
 use the other to fight or sing, and your good to go. The AI seems intent on letting you win as well 
 because never, in any stage of the game is it hard to win. It will simply take more or less time 
 depending on your difficulty setting. I understand that this is supposed to be a casual game but 
 casual doesn't always have to mean super easy.
  The fourth stage is pretty much the same as the third except now you don't even see your creatures 
 anymore. Now you get to create vehicles and buildings with a similar creator that you use for the 
 creatures. It's cool to create them but they rely on stats just like everything else in the game 
 so now matter where you put the thrusters on your plain or the motor on your boat your always going 
 to come to the same result. If you want you can zoom in on your cities and see your creatures either 
 praising your name in the town square or rallying together the people to get what they want out 
 of you. It's cool to look at but it doesn't really effect game play. You take over the other people 
 on the planet by either religion, war, or economic, but you do the same thing for all of them. 
 Go to the other persons city and click take over. I don't know about you, but all of this sounds, 
 and plays, like a children s game. 
  The fifth stage is where you get to go into space, which is both the most satisfying and most disappointing 
 of all of the stages. It's cool being able to zoom out and see the whole universe, but getting 
 their is another story. You get to meet other creatures but only through a series of menus. You 
 get them to like you through fetch quests until they will let you trade with them, which is just 
 as tedious as it sounds. I hate that you don't have complete control over your space ship and it's 
 just a point and click affair. After the second stage everything just feels extremely cold. It's 
 like a beautiful girl with a nice body but no brains to speak of. The tools are all their but their 
 not being put to good use.
  Spore wasn't the game I, or anyone else, expected. We though this would be a totally 1 on 1 experience 
 evolving your creatures through time. Instead it's all about stats and no matter how cool your 
 creation looks none of it matters in the end. Maybe if your new to gaming and want to try a simplified 
 version of all of these types of game play then I'd recommend it. I'd also recommend just buying 
 an RTS game like command and conquer or a civilization game like Civilizations or an MMO like LOTRO. 
 You'll have a much deeper experience and have a better time then spore leads you to believe you 
 will.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is disappointing. This could have been so much more than what it is. The game 
 does have great features and you can play it over and over, just to see what wacky creations you 
 need to tame, impress, battle and ultimately conquer.
  The creation tools are by far the best tools that have ever been implemented within a game, for 
 creation of not just creatures, but buildings and vehicles.
  Sharing of user content is really very cool and well implemented and the sporepedia is awesome 
 to the max.
  This is where the revolution ends. The game play is overly simplistic, from the organism phase 
 which does play out like Flow, it is far too easy to impress or eat your rivals. Like wise in destroying 
 other civilizations and tribes. These all play out like 'lite' versions of more established games.
 
  In the space phase the game comes into it's own with many opportunities to explore, conquer and 
 'quest' but this never feels like you are working towards much at all...
  The penalties for death in Spore are non-existent, which is disappointing, there seems to be no 
 incentive to preserve your creature or race. A 30 minute non-evolve period might have been sufficient 
 to make this a bit more challenging.
  If the Sims 3 could build on some of those creation tools we just might have a great game, as it 
 is spore is good but leaves a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakro13
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Alright ladies and gents, here we go. First off, this game should have, and could have very easily 
 been a ton better. The game is just too quick, and a little less innovative than I personally expected. 
 Now, for the goods. The creation part of the game is very in-depth and easy to use. Id have to 
 say it was also my favorite part of the game. The cell phase of the game was also very fun. The 
 sporepedia was a very good idea, and shouldve been worked with longer, but was definitly a nice 
 addition. The graphics were not bad at all, and the framerate was rather pleasing. The controls 
 on the game were also easy to learn and use within a half hour of playing. I also liked how the 
 game was split into stages. The final stage is probably the best of those stages though. It was 
 most in-depth and fun, to me. On that note, we move to the bads. One bad thing about the game was, 
 that it was wayyyyy too short. It seemed like it took only 10 minutes to pass each stage of the 
 game. Although the final stage can last a long time. The player community was just not that organized 
 and rather hard to find certain creations. The biggest turn off is the SecuRom problem. For those 
 of you who dont know what that is, it is a separate program from Spore that is downloaded onto 
 your computer when you install the game, and cannot be deleted. It also only allows for the game 
 to be installed a maximum of 3 times total. This is an absolutely disgusting idea, not matter what 
 it does to prevent pirates from stealing the software. It is stupid and wrong to put into a game, 
 WITHOUT telling you its there. On that note, the game is definitly not bad, and should be checked 
 out, its a fun and interesting game to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It is a growing trend in gaming lately to send a game off unfinished or untested. It's one of those 
 things that is patched on release day, or on release week.
  
  Spore conforms to this trend.
  
  Upon installing the game, a patch was downloaded. Whatever 
 makes the game run better, right? There can be no objections to this, and then the game rewards 
 you by taking two minutes to start up on an Intel Q6600, 4 Gigs of RAM and nVidia 9800 GTX system.
 
  
  Well Spore consists of galaxies and star systems. It makes sense for such a load time! And then 
 you see the loading bar appear as you enter the world.
  
  Spore has no excuse for its unstable and poor architecture. While for many complaints are laden 
 with "It doesn't let me create what I want?" I choose to ignore those and focus on the issue at 
 hand. Consistency and stability.
  
  Spore does not have these. 
  
  Assume that you created what you wanted, and were making a creature so beautifully detailed you 
 would be delighted to feature him on Discovery Channel's "The Future is Wild" or "Alien Planet". 
 
  
  Spore would comply with your wishes normally... if only it did not freeze on you during character 
 creation, and worse revert your auto-save ALL the way back to the creature era after you had feverishly 
 worked for all the parts of your species' anatomy. Save more often? That's not my problem. If a 
 game is broken don't blame the gamer. 
  
  EA continues with its lackluster trackrecord and one should not be purchasing the obvious expansion 
 which should be titled Spore: Milkmachine Age until they publish games that are actually completed 
 and should be out on release day.
  
  6.5- get this out of my computer, please and swipe it on the dog hair covered floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Goh
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I will say it as it is, seeing as to how there is so much obfuscation of what Spore really is and 
 the number of fake user reviews that are posted here.
  
  Which makes me wonder how much EA is paying Gamespot to give such an undeserved glowing review 
 for such a load of c____.
  
  Digital Rights Managerment? I mean, c'mon, this is a rip-off plain and simple. I get the rights 
 to rent a game after I paid for it. 
  
  Now, if Spore is really good, I might have entertained buying it and actually playing it for hours 
 on end, like Sims, but well, Will Wright has lost completely lost his marbles. And so has EA.
 
  
  Cell Stage
  This game is divided into 5 parts, the first part you are a cell, which is probably the best part 
 of the game, your design actually has a large impact on your success, you are offered the chance 
 to become a herbivore, carnivore or omnivore. What they don't tell you is that this choice is the 
 only one which makes any impact on later stages whatsoever. They might as well include a "nutivore" 
 for playing this sorry excuse of a game.
  
  Creature/Tribal stages
  You progress on to become a creature, now you resemble the creature from before, but at any point 
 you can redesign your creature completely, so it makes no difference what you did before, or what 
 you do now, you can always change it later. Now on this stage all you have to do is click to fight, 
 click to move and click to eat. So you could put your eyes on the back of your knees and your mouth 
 in your groin, it wouldn't make a difference to the success or viability of your creation. This 
 is when you start to realize that this game isn't about evolution or life at all, it's about intelligent 
 design, your creatures do not evolve, you just advance a level, then redesign them.
  
  City Stage
  As you progress in time your creatures are now in cities and you merely control vehicles, 
 the personal touch is now gone completely, the only time you see the things you spent hours designing 
 is if you zoom in on a city. You start to wonder what the point of it all was, and why you had 
 to advance to this boring technological phase, surely the essence of the game was life, now all 
 we have are ships, planes, cars.... has this now become an RTS? My other nagging disappointments 
 at this stage were due to the depth or lack thereof of the game. Despite your creatures being sentient 
 they don't do anything, YOU do everything, they do not seem alive at all let alone sentient beings. 
 They do not interact with their environment or other creatures at all, this game just becomes you 
 sending vehicles to conquer cities full of other creatures which are too small for you to see. 
 Your creatures are just puppets, well, your vehicles are just puppets at this point. 
  
  Space Stage
  The space stage is just baffling. I mean it's obvious there were trying to encompass 
 the entire scope of a life form from start to finish, but somewhere along the line they forgot 
 about the life form. Everything you have done up until now has lumped you into one of 3 general 
 categories. It makes you wonder what the whole point of the painstaking design was, whether to 
 buy the dancing legs or the sprinting legs, how many mouths to have and where to place them, or 
 whether to have stalk eyes or cats eyes, nope none of that matters, you are either warlike, religious 
 or economical. Simply getting to the space age is not satisfying enough because the game is so 
 easy, the satisfaction from games like this is to actually see your designs work and be successful, 
 but the truth is that almost anything works in this game and at city level or beyond, success is 
 purely down to how you play it, with none of the previous designing having the slightest impact. 
 At this point the game is a kind of a bad RTS where you design most of the content, the only problem 
 with that is that the buildings and spacecraft are all the same, you are only designing the appearance. 
 So really it's a bad RTS with the same content for everyone anyway. Speaking of designing things, 
 terra-forming and seeding planets is quite fun, but after a while you realize this is totally shallow 
 too. All creatures require the same atmosphere and climate, all creatures can thrive on any type 
 of terrain. Makes you wonder why they put in so many terrain altering tools. Creating a whole planet 
 can be fun, but not if all you are doing is cosmetically changing it. The same applies to the customizable 
 buildings, why bother? unless you're into design I guess. Making a tiny factory with no doors is 
 not going to affect it's productivity. Making a house with no roof is not going to affect your 
 citizens happiness. Eventually if you want to complete the game you have to grind spice which you 
 sell for money and conquer, seed or buy planets, which are constantly having to be rescued from 
 random ecological disasters such as diseased animals which need destroying, or random invasions 
 which have to be fought off. Random events are always annoying, in a game that took this long and 
 was hyped so much I'd expect better. Why can't we have an ecological disaster of your own making, 
 such as placing an aquatic animal on a dry planet, and you need to create more water or encourage 
 the creature to adapt. This would obviously require the ecosystems to actually be alive in some 
 way, which they just aren't, not even at a very basic level, they are just static representations 
 of what the game should have been. IMO the space stage is totally worthless, it's like a mini-game 
 you would get on your cell-phone, actually nearly all stages are like mini-games, but the space 
 stage is the most shallow and pointless. If the creators had focused on the planet stages, gave 
 them more depth, gave the creatures some AI, made the creatures interact with the planet each other 
 and the environment, this would actually be an interesting game.
  
  Conclusion
  What it actually is, is a design tool, with some shallow mini games attached to it. Waste of time. 
 Watching paint dry is so much more fun.
  
  Ok if you wanted a game about life and evolution, this isn't it. 
  If you wanted a game where 
 you can design things, this is it.
  
  Overall -999999999999/10
  
  First time I am giving a game a negative score. Which Spore fully deserves.
  
  DRM kills it 
 for me. 
  
  Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilouuuu2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the resume of what Spore is. It is an ambitious game, but that is not deep enough. 
 
  
  The concept of Spore is an amazing one. Follow a race from individual cell stage until they become 
 a galactic empire. The problem is that you think it is something really complex and full of possible 
 paths to go through all those million of years in the game. Sadly Spore is pretty straightforward 
 and simplistic.
  
  The game is divided in many mini games which are OK, but too simple for experienced gamers. 
 
  
  Now let's check where this game comes from. It is from Will Wright the creator of The Sims series, 
 and that makes it a bit more disappointing because The Sims is supposed to be casual, but in the 
 end it is a much more complex and deep simulation than Spore. But also that brings up hope. The 
 Sims is known for having lost of expansion packs that add to the game. Will most likely will continue 
 the trend with this one and I really think that Spore may become a much better game with expansions. 
 
  
  All expansions will most likely add new textures and body parts for our beloved creatures, as well 
 as new planets, new car and house parts. But what interests me the most is the enhancements to 
 the gameplay.
  
  Each stage can become a much better game. 
  
  There's not much to add to the cell stage, because it is really the most perfect, the most simplistic, 
 but that was supposed to be simplistic. 
  
  The creature stage should become more sandbox, with missions beside the main one where you should 
 conquer other species. 
  
  Tribal stage should also be more sandbox and watching life in your surroundings, not just all the 
 tribe standing there and the savage creatures just standing all the time in the same place waiting 
 for you to attack them. Those stages should have more of the freedom and interaction like The Sims.
 
  
  Civilizations stage definitely should be more complex like, er... Sid Meier's Civilization! I understand 
 that they want the game to be casual, but a bit more variation in the units and tactics can't harm.
 
  
  Space stage is quite good, but it needs more balance on the difficulty level, something that will 
 surely be corrected in patches and Expansion Packs.
  
  I haven't mentioned the creators and I must say that they are almost perfect. It is amazing to 
 be able to create stuff in 3d in real time in a game and it is indeed very easy! 
  
  Spore is really a genius game, but one that will need expansion packs to really show all the ambitious 
 design and to not be just a toy with a game thrown in like a excuse to show your creations, but 
 a deep and entertaining game with amazing creative tools, which is what Spore should be in the 
 first place. The score is a big part thanks to the creators, another part for the potential of 
 the game and a small part to the stages. Anyway the best stages are cell stage, because it is so 
 pac-man like simplistic, creature stage because you get to play with your creation and space stage 
 which is a great space sand box. But it must be said that Spore is really unique and you won't 
 find a similar experience with any other game.
  
  Highly recommended, but you will have a much better experience if you wait for the Expansion Packs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  If ever there was a bigger game, I haven't known it. Maybe in the hardcore world Halo 3 got a little 
 bit more hype, but never before has a game attracted so much media attention, with any and every 
 media outlet running something. This game feels like it has been in development since the start 
 of life itself and reviews have been insanely mixed. I don't mean like they gave it average scores 
 but some give it a 10, others a zero. For a while I was tempted not to give it a score, but that 
 would go against VG protocol. Enjoy the review!
  
  System: PC
  
  Type: Sandox / RTS / Space Explorer / Action
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  
 
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10
  
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  
  As games go, Spore is very ambitious in it's scope, taking you from the dawn of life right past 
 modern day and into a galactic civilization whilst still including a new approach to game design. 
 It includes a piece of sophisticated model creator software, a real time simulation of player activity 
 on four million planets and basically 5 games to play through. Even Civ doesn't do half of that. 
 So, definitely full marks for effort, the four million planet statistic alone is quite impressive.
 
  
  The game is, as you probably know, split in to 5 distinct stages. The cell stage, the creature 
 stage, the tribal stage, the civilization stage and the galactic stage. I could give individual 
 reviews for each of these stages, but this would miss the point of the game completely and this 
 review would become very negative very quickly. That is because, with the exception of the galactic 
 stage, which I will come to, all of the stages are very repetitive and simple. You would not be 
 very surprised to find any of them, perhaps with less graphical flair, on an online game site. 
 I did, in an earlier post, give some details about the first 3 stages, so I won't explain them. 
 However, for the uninitiated the Civilization stage is a real time strategy game. However, it is 
 very simple with a very limited number of strategies (3) . Even these three strategies are just 
 different names for the same task. Instead of shooting a town, you buy it out, but this is still 
 done with tanks going over to it. It is quite fun sending tanks around with air and naval support, 
 but it is not very challenging or at all thought provoking.
  
  
  Then you design your spaceship and the galaxy is your oyster, well sort of. When you first take 
 off, you will see your set of tools with loads of empty boxes for other stuff. And there is some 
 really cool stuff there, there is teraforming equipment, teleportation stuff, weapons, and with 
 four million planets and an internet of generated content, where can they go wrong? Then you are 
 told to do some fedex mission, they're not great fun, but they do allow you to advance, collect 
 more money, buy more stuff to do cool stuff with and add some direction to it. That's fine.
  
  
  You meet other Civilization's, and in the same way as it is good in the earlier stages, 
 it is awesome to be engaging in diplomatic relations with yours and others creations. It is a thing 
 I will end up touching on again and again, but seeing other peoples stuff in your game is, for 
 the most part, a treat. However, then they start demanding tributes. If the game is Civ 4, well 
 that is the point; defending your nation, however, it can be tiresome. In Spore it is worse than 
 tiresome, prepare for a rant.
  
  Another race demanded tribute from me. Anyone who has ever taken a history lesson will know, appeasement 
 is not the answer. So naturally, I declined. Next thing, about 4 races have declared war on me. 
 Fine, if I had a number of units to control, but no, you have ONE SHIP. If you want to defend your 
 planet, you will have to fly that single ship all the way back there. They will attack with maybe 
 four ships, WHICH CAN REGENERATE HEALTH. Finally, I destroyed them using a tactic of  
 On the plus side they dropped some things worth money. However in one instance, and I make no exaggeration, 
 the absolute second I had finished picking stuff up, my planet came under attack again. Once again 
 I defeated them, this time, I thought I might attack them. So I went to one of their (many) planets. 
 About 4 ships again attack and slowly I beat them. Except this time, more keep coming. So you ignore 
 them and attack their cities, their turrets shoot you, their ships shoot you and at the same time, 
 they have launched ANOTHER attack on your home planet. Who thought that was fun?!
  
  Rant over, but it is unacceptable game design. Or lack of. Even if the ships that are attacking 
 me are works of art from someone with too much time, it is unacceptable. The space stage has an 
 imperial ton of potential, but it is all wasted on some lame diplomatic model which expects you 
 to control a galaxy with one ship.
  
  
  The gameplay isn't without its moments. Everyone will remember the first time an asteroid field 
 collides with your planet in the creature stage, and later when you meet an epic creature, watching 
 it destroy everything that gets in its path including the animals that were killing you. Watching 
 your enemies run in fright is awesome. Then, finally, being able to take down the epic creatures 
 in the Civilization stage. When you first play through, and you don't have a clue what is happening, 
 it feels like I imagine what a creature would feel. "What is going on?" This is a great feeling.
 
  
  
  Visually, the game looks great. The worlds are really interesting, if a little stereotypical of 
 retro sci-fi with their vibrant colours. Obviously, the most visually impressive element is how 
 it can simulate how all these creatures walk, attack and even do the Stomp! There are the occasional 
 graphic errors, but for a game generating so much animation on the fly based on what the user does, 
 these are easily overlooked.
  
  
  The game includes sun rises and it is really interesting to see how you emerge from being a creature, 
 where days and nights span out in immeasurable lengths, to the Galactic age, where you can whiz 
 between the two and see where the day and night end. This gives you a sense of evolution and linkage 
 between the different mini-games. Another example of this linkage is looking at the history of 
 your creature. It is a pleasure seeing how your tiny little creature evolved into some three legged 
 behemoth that you ended up with. Despite this, the mini games can feel a little detached. This 
 is largely due to the fact that what you do has little effect on the next stage. If you are a herbivore 
 in the first stage, peace might be the best option in the stages following. Whereas carnivores 
 will be forced to attack. However, that is basically it. What would be really interesting is to 
 see if you could have scavenger creatures, stealthy creatures etc. It isn't that the game doesn't 
 build these features in, but you can't progress through these strategies.
  
  
  For example, in the tribal stage, it is true that you can run up and steal the other camps food. 
 But, to advance to the next stage, you must either wipe them out or ally with them, thus making 
 it a tribal only feature for gathering food rather than an actual strategy. What if, to win, you 
 merely had to outlast the others, as is the case in real life. It is really easy to see how this 
 could be expanded in to both the stages below it and above it. For example, if you were fast in 
 the cell stage, maybe in the creature stage it was easier to steal food from dead animals and run 
 off before the rightful owner came and attacked you. Another thing that would benefit this is a 
 bit of emergent evolution. Instead of, "You have chosen X route, that gives you this special power".
 
  
  The game is very polished, as I mentioned, the creature animations from a technical perspective 
 at least, are hugely impressive. The audio in this game is also equally well done. The sounds are 
 very believable, even if the munching on the dead animals sound is a little disturbing at first. 
 The music is both dramatic and clichd when you evolve.
  
  
  Spore, in addition to the main game, includes a host of editors. These are, as expected, great 
 fun to mess around with. Finally, being able to paint individual parts of something that the creature 
 creator was just crying out for. This is, if I am honest, where most of the fun is coming from. 
 If you enjoyed the creature creator, I would recommend this game, the other editors are fun and 
 it is great to be able to try out all your different creatures, vehicles and buildings in an actual 
 environment. The game also includes a few other editors, including the national anthem editor, 
 which felt a little tacked on and cramped within a clustered window for one stage. I would have 
 liked a flag designer.
  
  However this is far from a serious problem, the biggest problems with this game are the individual 
 stages. No single stage is, in a word, fun. That is a pretty serious accusation to be making, and 
 it isn't entirely true. But they are only as fun as simple addictive mini-games can be. They are 
 easy to play, but they offer little in mental stimulation, except the space stage. However, for 
 reasons stated above, someone messed that up.
  
  
  Obviously this game will be milked by EA, so hopefully they will fix all of the stages. What do 
 they each need, well the first 4, depth. Just add some more strategies, or at least the potential 
 for more. The space stage, just fix it. Don't make the AI annoying, if you have to, get rid of 
 it. At least let me build space ships to defend my home planet. Let me explore the galaxy in peace.
 
  
  
  In conclusion, you must think carefully about this game. On the one hand, the editors are great 
 fun, you will almost certainly not be left dead in the water with this title and it is definitely 
 not without its moments. In this review, I have somewhat stuck to the negative aspects of it, but 
 this isn't because they are the dominating aspects when you are playing, but this game was hyped 
 so much, it is just a huge disappointment. There are some moments that you wish you had captured 
 by camera, like when you lead your pack in to battle against a stronger species and bring it down. 
 And the sense of ever zooming out to get to a grander scale is fantastic, but the unification of 
 the stages is often missing and there is a huge amount of lost potential with this incredible game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Spore has a lot of potential to be being this PC game of the year, it's competitors being Crysis 
 Warhead and STALKER: CS. And in my opinion it really has a lot of advantages over these other 2 
 games: first one is play time, you can really squeeze a few good hours out of it, compared to warhead, 
 and second you don't need a really high PC and it doesn't have that many bugs, like Stalker. But 
 enough comparison, let's get to the review :lol: This game tries to emulate the entire life cycle 
 of certain creatures, you begin the game right from the cell stage and then evolve to creature, 
 tribe, civilization and finally space age, the game getting even bigger and bigger and more complex 
 with every evolution stage you reach. In cell and creature stage you mostly work alone trying to 
 be friends with other races, or killing them, but starting from tribal stage the game takes an 
 RTS feel, which will appeal to most players... I certainly liked it, and I can tell you I'm no 
 big RTS fan :D The creatures themselves are extremely customizable, there are only very small micro-details 
 that you can't control, but on the rest of their looks and attributes you have a lot of control. 
 The game also throws some very funny cut scenes and moments from time to time which can also be 
 very fun to watch and will give you a few laughs, while some of them are kind of cliche but still 
 enjoyable. I'll let you discover the rest of the game now :P 
  Overall I think it's game that deserves to be played by anyone who has a fairly modern PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  At first I thought to myself why buy this game...? It looks to Childish! Well then I said "Well 
 I cant judge a game that I have not tried." So I went to Best Buy because I had $100 that I wanted 
 to spend... So I go over to the game section and pick it up. At first I thought I shoved my money 
 down the crapper. So I got home and installed it. Well I got it all set up.
  
  The Game: Well I started the game up and it was the start of the journey. I started on the planet 
 of my choice and I thought I would just start as a normal creature or something, but I was wrong 
 and it turns out I had to start out on a cell stage. At first I thought I would get bored, but 
 I was wrong... IT WAS AWSOME.
  You go through the cell stage where you choose if your carnivor where you eat other cells or creatures 
 later in the game or Herbivore where you eat plants. Then you move on to the Creature Stage where 
 you try to survive as a creature in the big world you chose interaction with other creatures by 
 allying with them or eating them. Usually if your carnivor you choose to eat them. You also evolve 
 by changing your creature the way he eats, moves, interacts, and fights (also effects looks) . Then 
 you grow smarter and move to the Tribal stage where you build a tribe and fight other tribes. You 
 get different costumes for the tribe too! Then onto Civilization where your either Military, Religon, 
 or Economic Empires. You get to build tanks, boats, fighter planes, and last spaceships. which 
 leaves you with the last stage space ship where you explore other planets and do what you want.
 
  
  Goods: Creature Customization, fun stages, good city customization, well almost everything in the 
 game is good and worth the money.
  
  Bads: Well didnt notice really anything bad other than after you finish the 5-6 worlds you have 
 to delete your others.
  
  Conclusion: Good solid simulation/stage game it was worth the money and it answered my question 
 why buy the game? ITS TO COOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perds
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  this game was all in all fun
  
  i bought it cause a friend told me it was fun and i did enjoy it myself.
  
  this game was fun 
 for about 20 hours and then it became repetative. everybody ive talked to has liked a different 
 part of the time line, cell - space age. 
  
  as the cell creature you go around eating meat or algea, pretty straight foward. you also get to 
 change your creature a little, but it dosnt matter cause yuo do that in the creature stage anyways. 
 
  
  in the creature stage you have fun finding new parts to evolve with and consistantly upgrading 
 your creature. game play is a little like an rpg. you get a couple attacks and a couple of friendly 
 greating moves. after making friends and eating enemies your advance to tribal.
  
  i hated tribal
  all i did was make a bunch of friends and went to civilization. it was very short 
 and you dont get to change your creature at all. just put a little clothing on them and your done.
 
  
  in civilization you move around faster, create trade routes and buy other colonizations. doesnt 
 take to long to go to space age
  
  wow in the space age everything changes.
  you go from running the whole city, to flying a space ship. back to rpg but now with more attacks 
 and other cool stuff like happy rays :) space age seems to go forever as your always getting achievments 
 (not 360 achievments) but in game achievments to advance your spaceship. when you get bored of 
 space age, cause thats the only way it ends, you decide to start again, but in never seems to be 
 as much fun.
  
  so over all the game is fun but it dosnt end you get to space age and spend more time in space 
 age then you do for all the other stages and get bored, so it great the first time through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  I don't like this game. Sure, the idea is good, create your own species from a amoebe to a spaceflying 
 civilization, but I just think it could be worked out so much better. Now it's just like the sims, 
 only crossed with a mediocre RTS. And a bit kiddy, actually.
  
  I have played this for a little while, but became bored and luckily, I could sell it to another 
 person, I truly hope that he has some fun with it.
  
  Maybe it's just that I still did not finish GTA 4, and think this is so much more fun to play, 
 that I didn't give spore a fair chance. But a game has to earn my respect. It should grab me by 
 the moment I see the first screens of the game, and sadly, Spore didn't manage to "turn me on".
 
  
  So is there anything positive that I can say about this game? Well, for persons who would like 
 to create unique characters and objects, this could be fun for them. And in a way, the game's overall 
 design is undeniably charming.
  
  But ultimately, if the game's different chapters would reach the quality of civ 4 and command&conquer, 
 it would be a great game. Now it's just between fair and good.. And that's a shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedCanHurt
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  When I played Spore for the first time, I was pretty excited with what I thought was a hugely open-ended 
 game. Like most 'God games' to date, you can seemingly do anything in your own private world, as 
 long as you're willing to pay the price. However, my second play-through got different reactions.
 
  
  It's not that the game is linear as such, it just lacks the variety you would expect from something 
 that's supposed to allow you to create your own creatures, worlds and galaxies. Where it seemed 
 like you had a choice, you really didn't. In fact, where games like Black & White allowed you to 
 regularly switch between good, evil and inbetween depending on your mood, Spore seems to discourage 
 this sort of decision. And just like Black & White, it soon starts to get boring. Until the last 
 stage.
  
  This is what renewed my interest in the game once again. Just when you think it's nearly over, 
 you have a huge, truly open-ended, role-playing/strategy section where you literally can do absolutely 
 anything. While you probably could finish this part in a few hours, nobody would want to spend 
 less than ten at the galaxy stage, simply because there is too much to do. Finally, you get the 
 freeform God game you were wishing for throughout the rest of the game.
  
  The fact that it combines so many different genres will be Spores final downfall. You start off 
 playing as a cell, in what feels like an average online flash game, and thats no coincidence. Then 
 you go into a role-playing stage that sees you exploring, making friends and destroying enemies. 
 This is followed by an Age of Empires style strategy section, in which you have to bring your tribe 
 to power through either blood or diplomacy. Next is a Rise of Nations style civilization stage, 
 and then a real-time Master of Orion with a bit more role-playing thrown in for good luck.
  
  All in all, if you enjoy role-playing, real-time strategy and god games, you should enjoy Spore 
 - eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acc999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Here is my review for spore,
  
  On idea level this game is good. Like the person in video review says. There are many things combined 
 in to one game in spore and it sounds good.
  
  I played every stage of the game, i created creatures, star ships, buildings, vehicles.
  
  
 So I'm going to tell you about all. Creating creatures is the most fun part. You can make them 
 fat, slim or weird, what ever you like. With some practice you can make better looking creatures 
 in time. And it's also good to see them in game.
  
  1- Cell stage is simple and fun, eat or be eaten. Your creature starts herbivorous. You can upgrade 
 your creature with the points you collect and make it carnivorous or both.
  
  2- On Creature stage, your weird thing is on the land. Main thing on this stage is Get social with 
 other creatures or kill them and eat. Of course you can eat fruit or both. This stage is not fun 
 as cell stage. Once you interact with a few creatures you want to pass this level and go forward.
 
  
  3- Tribal Stage, you say to yourself omg is this evolution, look what i made, it doesn't look like 
 anything. In my firs game i didn't like my creature what it become and stared over again. I can 
 say that tribal stage is kinda boring. There are a few missing things on this stage. Not much but 
 a few.
  
  4- Civ Stage, is about conquer the world you live. You can do that with war or make trade roads 
 and expand with diplomacy. I'm sure you have seen better civ games. This is stage is not very bad 
 or not very good. Just a stage in game. 
  
  5- Space. Okay now you are a union on your world. You make a spaceship and start to explore the 
 galaxy. After a few boring things on early stages space stage looks fun at start. But after 4 5 
 hours of play its become boring. You find yourself zooming out and zooming in in every 4 mins. 
 Control panel of this stage is very week. You find yourself in a galactic war suddenly. War controls 
 are pretty weak. You see a lot of incoming calls around the galaxy but you can't simply reply them, 
 you have to be close to that location. Imagine that you want to evolve a planet life from T1 stage 
 to T2 but you are too much busy with trash jobs. You start to look like a person running around 
 15 desks randomly.
  
  
  After all my score to this game is 6.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't have enough to it's game play, I am not the first nor the last to say this.
 
  
  Before that, I will touch on an issue I recently noticed in game. This game can seriously attack 
 you with a case of random boughts of extremely ridiculous difficulty that is overall out of place.
 
  
  In an easy enough game this is almost hard to believe, and this extremely unfair and apparently 
 fairly common occurrence appears in the space stage. (you know, the stage worth playing) . I had 
 my youngest brother (9 yrs. old) sit down and start his own space faring race, only to hear him 
 cry out in frustration.
  
  After just starting his space stage the first race he met immediately demanded nearly quarter of 
 a million in game currency, at that point in his game he couldn't even really manage to buy much 
 other then the cheapest power ups. When he declined the race went to war with him, that race was 
 maybe 12 planets in size to my brothers two. When he attacked that race back, a second and third 
 race both went to war with him for 'breaking galactic code' or some odd thing. This is quite broken 
 really, there is no reason he should be hit up with something he literally can't overcome right 
 away.
  
  Aside from this I will admit that Cell stage can be agonizing, Creature stage should have been 
 more then just meet it & Eat it & move your nest and tribe and Civilization stages are REALLY hard 
 to die in. Tribe and Civilization stages are slightly excusable, this game isn't and RTS so we 
 can't expect anything amazing from them as all they are is a carry to space stage. 
  
  Creature stage honestly aggravates me with how tedious it gets, anything worth doing is either 
 not there or to insanely difficult compared to what surrounds it. For instance, the Achievement 
 'Epic Killer" (kill an epic creature in creature stage) requires you to down a monster that has 
 1000 health that will kill you instantly, there is only three ways know to do it, all involving 
 flying and using poison over and over for about an hour. I am sorry, I miss were this game deserves 
 to be anyone's obsession, you would need to be obsessed to spend an hour spitting purple acid at 
 a monster. Then you think about it and it is either this or you simply kill all the dumb as dirt 
 monster at their nests endlessly, which might as well be the same monsters because they all attack/act/react 
 exactly the same every time.
  
  But I will admit this game definitely put a smile on my face. Through it's many faults this game 
 is marvelously creative. It does lack in game play, but I think this game deserves a little credit, 
 I haven't played another game quite like this in a good long while, and while I am bored, I can't 
 seem to stop playing.
  
  I say this, if you liked creature creator or simply like the idea of the game, get it. It isn't 
 wasted cash. If you don't, avoid it, you wont get into the flow, it doesn't have the pull for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methodkiller335
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Spore is an enjoyable game that has more to offer than most games. The customization in the game 
 are right-on perfect and intuitive. You can make the most random **** monster and the game knows 
 how to make the creature move, dance, flip, punch, and disco. Making creatures is fun and entertaining, 
 for a while, hey you can make a monster that looks like a penis I mean there's like building and 
 vehicle customization... there not as fun. With the creature creator you can make videos and post 
 them on youtube. Beyond the customization, which is the game's biggest strong point, is the actual 
 game. You first start off as a cell and try to get your way out of the tide pool. Its like an old 
 school arcade game. You have the choice to be a carnivore, herbivore, or omnivore. A carnivore 
 eats other cells or meat, herbivores eat pieces of plants, and omnivores eat everything. If you 
 really want to finish the stage I say don't become a herbivore or you keep getting your ass kicked. 
 The second stage is the creature stage where you finally get on land. In this stage you go around 
 gathering DNA and body parts for your creature and than **** the alpha creature to attach those 
 body parts to your creature. To get body parts and DNA you can either socialize with other alpha 
 creatures or destroy their whole race so they never appear in the game ever again. Its kinda like 
 The Sims meets World of Warcraft, which doesn't work. After the creature stage is a parody of 2001: 
 A space Odyssey. Than the tribal stage is an RTS with annoying walking distance. The civilization 
 stage is kinda like a cheap ,what do you know, civilization game. Your main priority is to capture 
 all of the cities and capture spice, which is no way on earth a reference to dune. Okay good, now 
 that all that is out of the way: SPACE STAGE, which makes up more than 70% of the game's funnest. 
 There are more than 50,000 planets to count and so many solar systems to take over including one 
 solar system called sol, which is an exact duplicate of are solar sytem. It has Earth, Venus, Pluto: 
 wait that isn't a planet. You can do a lot of, well not a lot, but a lot of stuff in the space 
 stage: hell you can even go death star on a planet and totally destroy everything it once was. 
 Oh by the way: destroy earth. The space stage is where the customization really comes into the 
 game. All those species in your sporepedia are now everywhere. Which is great for me cuz now all 
 those Marios can now have babies and dance together. So if you haven't already nodiced the early 
 stages suck and maybe you should try harder on making the gameplay a little bit ummmm, HARDER!!!! 
 Otherwise the good in spore is you can make anything you want from a burger building to a Pikachu, 
 great audio and sound, and from every corner of your planet it is so charming, even when the cutest 
 wubble dies. So yeah, it's a Will Wright game. Its great, but not too great as in the term its 
 everything a Sim fan can want, plus casual and hardcore gamers will get a kick out of it. Its just 
 that the first 4 out of 5 levels aren't well, hard. The creature stage was sorta fun.
  
  Good points:
  Sound, graphics, customization, space stage.
  
  Bad points:
  Unfortunately 
 everything else.
  
  My last thought:
  Can't wait for the next 9 expansion packs like the sims get every 3 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game, I was kinda excited. It wasn't like any other game. I actually 
 saw my own creation evolve into space and the usage of my creativity rewards me.
  
  Spore is a decent game for first timers to the whole creation thing, but it does get boring and 
 repetitive after a while especially once you finished all stages.
  I find that the gameplay is only addicting the first time you play it. Play it again and you will 
 easily become bored.
  
  This is where Maxis failed to capture the attention of players. Their repetitive gameplay disappoints 
 the game as a whole. 
  
  Once you get into the Space Stage, you will realise how boring it is. Most of the time in the game 
 is the creations (well for me it took up 70% of my playing time in Spore) . The Creation tools are 
 what make Spore special compared to other games.
  
  You can create your own creature, either for cell stage or creature stage and dress them up. You 
 are also able to create your own Houses, Entertainment buildings and Factories.
  
  The others also include aircraft, vehicle and spaceship.
  There's a whole variety of creations 
 to be done.
  
  Sad thing is, what you've created in the Spore Creature Creator that was releases a few months 
 back is that you can't use that creature for your actual game. 
  
  You actually create your own along the way in the game and basically it ends up become something 
 random rather than planned.
  
  Spore may look good from the outside but it gets boring and repetitive very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valachi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Without question one of the more innovative games to be released in quite some time. The customization 
 of creatures and vehicles is fantastic and very addictive. I found myself spending lots of time 
 just creating new stuff and re-working some of my older designs. Initially, the gameplay is pretty 
 addictive and engaging. However, once you get to the space stage it doesn't take very long for 
 the action to become repetitive, tedious and eventually aggravating. All my games have come to 
 a point where I am constantly managing a few planets and fending off enemies. I certainly wouldn't 
 say i'm completely confident my skills aren't the reason for the frustration, but after several 
 games with differing approaches, I can be fairly sure. I would say the game is worth owning, but 
 not among my top picks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badzak
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  To make a long story short I just want to say think twice before buying this game. If you have 
 ADD or ADHD or anything that can cause you to get bored you will punch yourself in the face for 
 spending 50$ on this game. I Love the creation part of the game but I am not a person that would 
 create more then one creature for each level once that was done The game was done in fact i beat 
 in about 3 hours. Three hours of game-play is insulting to the gamers out there. Plus when you 
 have a game so hyped up like Spore you have to have something to back it up with like anything, 
 game-play that is even a little complex or maybe a choice to make the game more complex I had no 
 fun playing this game in fact it is the worst game I even finished as a avid gamer... that is a 
 big fricken deal. So if you like games targeted to ages 3-6 years old then take 50$ outta that 
 account and buy yourself a copy. If you think that an update will fix the problems, please name 
 one game update that changed game-play. Oh I guess i forgot about one thing that is prob more important, 
 bugs, ALOT of bugs fix that before you release the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilbert3k
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Spore for about 2 years and pre-ordered the game way in advance.
  
  I know it could never have lived up to the hype without curing cancer. But My god, it isnt 
 even a decent game.
  
  The first 4 stages are so simple they will bore almost anyone in nothing flat. It's easy to see 
 they have been left bare so they can sell us expansion packs later.
  
  Then you get to the space stage... And the bordem changes.
  
  You spend huge amounts of time 
 doing boring run here, run there quests to get enough money to set up a colony. But every 15min 
 or so you have to run home to defend your planet from pirates.
  
  Or your allies planets (What happened to thier ships?)
  Or your planets are having some disaster....
 
  
  Basically you will spend forever just trying to get a few colony's going. But have no fear all 
 it takes is time and you will gain super weapons. So you can't lose.
  
  My problems are as follows
  1. Boring game play
  2. Frustrating game play
  3. You can't lose. 
 Who wants to always win?
  
  Oh and lets not forget the SecureRom. I'd be more angry about that if I thought I would ever re-install 
 this steaming pile. Of course on the downside I can't even E-Bay the game because I have already 
 used up a install. And any buyer would have no idea how many were left.
  
  Oh and now I have SecurRom stuck on my computer, I am going to have to spend several hours removing 
 that spyware before my computer is back to normal.
  
  Just remember kids, when EA offers you a game just say NO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paveric
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Spore isn't half as good as it was supposed to be. One of the main attractions to the 
 game is the incredible freedom that was promised, but after playing through a couple times, I realized 
 that both play throughs were exactly the same. 
  The tribal and civilization phases were extremely sub par. There's no strategic element to winning 
 at all. Just send your troops in and win. 
  Honestly, the only really fun game-play aspects comes from the single cell phase, creating creatures 
 in the creature phase, and expanding your planetary repertoire in the space phase (as infuriating 
 as that can be) . 
  The game saver here is that the creature creation process really is what we were promised. You 
 really can make all sorts of cool stuff, and you get to see it walk and talk while you tolerate 
 mediocre game-play.
  Considering everything we were promised, this game totally sucks, but if you played this game without 
 having it built up for two years, it'd be alright. In fact, it would be downright charming. The 
 moral of the story is that we shouldn't believe everything we hear when it comes to media coverage 
 and previews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAZZER7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Really quite good I would say. It was never going to be a massively detailed PC-gamer only type 
 of game that the hardcore elite would like but it holds up well. Yes, the game was a little more 
 shallow than the hype was predicting but it is overall an enjoyable experience and the overall 
 package is what counts. Context people, context!
  
  The first stage is very very simple although surprisingly addictive. The evolving through stages 
 is quite good although I found the armor editor frustrating to use and the options limited. Some 
 of the other editors work very well especially the evolved creature creator.
  
  Hitting the great expanse of space is very good but again lacks the huge depth we was promised. 
 I have a feeling, as does everyone else that expansions will make this game and lets hope they 
 do. But like I said, its an enjoyable experience that is very different overall to anything I have 
 ever played, even if the individual stages have been.
  
  The graphics present wonderful artistic style and flair while keeping the overall system requirements 
 down. I absolutely love it when developers do this and they get the thumbs up each time from me. 
 In those terms, it's up there with World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Will Wright... A great game developer has done it again with Spore, an evolution simulator along 
 with the ability to choose what your species evolve into. Starting from the cell stage to the the 
 outer rims of your galaxy, the game is fun and can keep you entertained but the only problem is... 
 For how long? That's the one problem with this brilliant idea for a game.
  
  Most of Will Wright's games have been popular mostly for the games freedom. In The Sims you could 
 create a person, make their home, and watch 'em do whatever or set a path for their lifespan, ect. 
 SimCity allowed people to make entire cities which you could be the mayor and try and make the 
 biggest city of all time, make a citizen and see how he/she lives in the city, or play as god and 
 destroy the city just for your own amusement. Those are just some examples of his games that allow 
 so much freedom but in Spore the freedom was stripped away and turned into an objective based bore-fest... 
 Well, the more you play through it anyways.
  
  You start out as a cell, swimming for dear life trying to eat either segments of meat or segments 
 of plants becoming bigger and bigger the more you progress, along with being able to edit your 
 cell in the process. Eventually, you become a creature finally making it to land, where you either 
 become friends with other species or make them extinct, and of course being able to edit your creature 
 along the way (which can be rather glitchy and makes your imagination a bit limited) . Once your 
 species become sentient, you enter the tribe phase, where you can give your creatures outfits and 
 upgrade the tribe by getting food and using it as money. You'll eventually end up in the civilization 
 phase when you either become friends with other tribes or destroying them. But when you do end 
 up there, your species will be intelligent enough to make land, water, and air vehicles complete 
 with a city hall, house, entertainment facility, and factory but yet again in order to procede 
 to the next phase you either be mean or nice to other cities till you eventually take over the 
 world. Then you'll find your speicies making a spacecraft once you finish making it and as soon 
 as you know it your traveling around space before you know it (after you complete the tutorial that 
 is) . Though the space stage isn't completed by becoming friends or enemies with nearby aliens, 
 in fact you dont have to make any contact with alians whatsoever (though you'd probably want to 
 if your smart) . The main object is to get to the center of the galaxy.
  
  Space stage is probably the most interesting one because its not too objective based rather than 
 being more voluntary mission based. But the rest begin to get a bit old because your having to 
 do the same thing over and over again. Hopefully this won't be a problem in the future Spore games 
 because it's truely a great idea for a game, it just hasn't been done the way it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  "If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak."
  Sun Tzu. 
  
  You see, whenever anything becomes over-sized it usually takes away from its filling, whether the 
 filling in question is quality, density or something else. That's true for strawberries, large 
 empires and it is true for Spore. 
  
  Whenever you're trying to make a fresh game that includes everything, you're chancing that your 
 game will lack everything. That is one of Spore's main problems. Such hype has been created around 
 the game that the expectations of the public probably included some kind of limitless gameplay. 
 Psych... 
  
  This evolution "simulator" takes you from a single cell to a galactic civilization in several stages. 
 However, you don't hang around for too long in any of those stages. Each stage is rather shallow 
 with little room for strategy and very little micro-management, even in the galactic era. 
  
  The game feels very arcady, which is perhaps what the developers envisioned as is suggested 
 by the colorful and ironic nature of everything in the game. 
  
  Now that we've got the worst out of the way, it is time to honor what defines Spore: the highly 
 original concept with the ultimate customization being its foundation. The longest time brought 
 in the game by the players will probably be spent creating things such as creatures buildings or 
 space ships. The creation engine is so simple in use and yet so diverse and effective in execution. 
 Endless combination can be achieved with just a few parts. Creatures that come off the creator 
 feel alive no matter how they look. In case the creator isn't enough for you, there is plenty of 
 content on the internet to download as well as the ability to share your own.
  
  The game's originality is not just in its content creator. Everything you do and see seems like 
 something you've never done before in any other game, or is at least disguised in a whole new package. 
 The gameplay includes Role-Playing elements, strategy and First-Person exploration. The time line 
 that defines your race based on your decisions throughout the game is one brilliant example of 
 the concept.
  
  The graphics do not let the players down either. In a game of this caliber, countless effects and 
 details are present, from the background of the universe to colorful planets. Considering that 
 the game actually gives players the possibility to change the shape and color of almost everything, 
 everyone is thus given a chance to participate in the way the game looks.
  
  Spore is not for everyone, despite its "Everyone" rating and its user friendliness. If you can't 
 get enough of creating interesting things to play around with, similar to the Sims games, then 
 this game is for you. Anybody looking for real depth, however, might end up smashing their heads 
 against the ceramic floor. Hype and a good game editor alone do not carry the game very far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I found Spore to be "fun" and a game that would be suitable for all ages and genders. It is unique 
 in many features and gives you everything from kill everything you see, to negotiate a partnership 
 and be friends.
  I found the Space age to be the hardest to win. The earlier stages are much easier and almost no 
 brainer for the experienced gamer.
  After the first game, in fact, maybe even before the first game ended, I found the game to be a 
 bit tedious and redundant.
  
  The music and sound effects were interesting.
  I haven't played any on-line or interactive games, nor have I dove into the builder (or whatever 
 it's called) . I'm sure some people will spend HOURS just designing creatures and structures. I 
 am artistically challenged, so I always selected pre-fab items.
  
  Overall I am pleased with the quality and thought that went into the game, but the gameplay doesn't 
 hold me for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luukkas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  2005 --  Spore is announced by EA Games and Maxis. After some videos of the alpha stage, the game 
 community became very exited about this game. The idea was amazing. Create your universe, make 
 everything you want playing trough 5 modes that represent all the phases os life, cellular, creature, 
 tribal, civilization and space. 2008 -- Spore, after three years of waiting, is finally released. 
 When I bought it, I was specting everything that was to be. Surprise. It not was. And know what:
 
  
  ~~~Review~~
  
  GRAPHICS [8.0] : Ok, Spore graphics are fine, but isn't a amazing thing. It's cartoon style, well 
 made, but with not much details.
  
  GAMEPLAY [8.5] : The gameplay of spore is good. After choosing a planet you will start the CELL 
 phase, but isn't so exiting, just fun and well made. The CREATURE stage is one of my favorites, 
 because you have a better contact with your creature. The problem is that this stage it's much 
 simple. It's a "be friend or "enemy" stage, but the creature creator it's a very good experience. 
 The TRIBAL stage for me wasn't so good, because it's a copy from the creature stage (the "be friend 
 or enemy") and it doesn't have much options, just 3 weapons or 3 instruments. CIVILIZATION stage 
 is like a simple strategy game, and I like it, because introduce more features, like religion and 
 the "buy city function". Your mission here is the same that the others, make friends or destroy 
 cities. The SPACE stage for me is the best part of the game, because is the more complex and (logic) 
 the most BIG part of the game, but trough the time can be very boring (just a little for me) .
 
  
  SOUND [8.5] : The sounds of Spore are well made, with good soundtrack, that can change depending 
 the situation (in war for example) and there is sounds like roars, strange speaking and others.
 
  
  REPLAY [8.0] : Like I said before, one of the problems with Spore is it replaybility, because the 
 game it's much simple, and can bore very fast after 5 times played, so, I will give it a 8.0 on 
 this.
  
  VALUE [8.5] : Ok, let's go to the end of this. Spore is a good game, recommend it, but is too much 
 simple, the stages are very similar and it wasn't what everyone expected. EA said that Spore will 
 have expansions, but I am afraid if this will be like the THE SIMS series (thousands of expansions 
 that are a **** People with great creative will give a 10 on this and people who are old fans, 
 but the true it's that Spore isn't perfect. Just another fun and entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatFlat
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game would be fun , if you could of stay in the first stage as long as you want. Grow to be 
 a monster and eat everything in the way.. lol But no you cant, sucks.. To many limits. If gotten 
 a choice to stay in sea and grow as big as a whale that would be fun. This game should be like 
 the Sims , no stages. As you evolve you grow.. The space stage is the worst. All you do is fly 
 around and do errands . The creating but is fun. Too much hype for notting . EA you striked out.. This 
 game would be fun , if you could of stay in the first stage as long as you want. Grow to be a monster 
 and eat everything in the way.. lol But no you cant, sucks.. To many limits. If gotten a choice 
 to stay in sea and grow as big as a whale that would be fun. This game should be like the Sims 
 , no stages. As you evolve you grow.. The space stage is the worst. All you do is fly around and 
 do errands . The creating but is fun. Too much hype for notting . EA you striked out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  The cell stage is the best, believe me. Great vision of beneath the sea life and development. As 
 you advance on the timetable things get worse. Second stage is also fun with building up a creature 
 and roaming around with it, not being a kid however, I got bored with all that stuff pretty soon. 
 Third stage was too short and too simple - no challenge at all once you played and mastered games 
 like Warcraft or similar. Civilisation stage is a little fun, though pretty simple too and - finally 
 - space age confused me completely. Space could have been the best part of the game - it has got 
 - surprisingly - a lot of RPG features and looks vast and promising. But after a few hours of space 
 wondering you're not into the game completely - it's boring, repeatitive and other races are sometimes 
 complety unlogical in their behaviour. So what is Spore? 5 mini-games that could get some good 
 notes separately but their separate gameplay takes too short to enjoy them like that. Playing them 
 queued one after another doesn't make that much fun either. EA Games made a lot of fuss about this 
 game and let's praise their marketing department. Developing a good game takes definitely more 
 than just marketing.
  Don't get this game if you're over 20 years old unless you're a real Sim series lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc200020
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Will Wright has done well with this. To it is a mix of RPG with a little Sims in a Galactic Civ 
 2 pot with a little evolution on top.
  One of the best games i have ever played, i have never had a dull moment, Seeing spaceships in 
 creature. These novel moments that stand out keep it from getting boring. Once you get to tribal 
 it loses some of its novelty, playing a striped down version of Civilasation may be fun, but not 
 enough creativity in it. The outfitting option is a total bore for those who don't find mutch fun 
 in a Giant Fez. But the Civilisation stage is one of the best. It returns the idea of almost all 
 from the players, only the flora are made by Maxis. I find that the multiple was to victory in the 
 stages make the game more interesting. I find one of the best stages as space. That is because i 
 find busyness simulators to be some of the best. I have also found that that moment when you first 
 see a Grox on the 2-way is the strangest moment in the game. However i should imply that Maxis has 
 been annoyng saying that you can not ally with the Grox in their manual when you can. I have played 
 through until i couldn't play anymore and this means that it is the best game i have played in 
 months, I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes gameing, it has a little of everything, 
 that is what i like to see in a game. A little of everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Do-R-Die
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  When first playing this game I had many "o snap!" moments, especially with the visuals. There are 
 not many games where you can look up at the sky and see a perfectly detailed moon revolving around 
 your planet. I also enjoyed roaming the landscape in the creature, tribal, and civilization stages; 
 unleashing my wrath on any who opposed me. However, being a fan of the first three stages (especially 
 tribal stage) I found these stages incredibly short and lacking needed depth as compared to the 
 space stage. It did not take much time before i lost interest with space and just continued playing 
 the other stages. I also found it ridiculous that my creature evolved for a cell to a land animal, 
 excluding an aquatic/amphibious stage. With just a little more attention to every stage, this game 
 could have been one for the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  [Intro]
  Don't get me wrong... I do like this game. But after playing it 5 times... its kinda boring.
  
 
  [Gameplay] 8/10
  Maxis has made an extremely innovative gameplay. You literally start from a small cell and grow 
 your way into a large colony. There is a lacks of customization in the beginning and does not let 
 you change much about your organism in the end. But this is not really the big issue of this game. 
 The big issue I think is the stages go by too fast. If your a fast player, you could probably finish 
 a stage in 30 minutes or less. Also when you try to gain DNA the progress bar also progresses so 
 you have a big limit to what you can do to your creature. Also its get kinda boring after you play 
 it many times.
  
  [Graphics] 9/10
  The graphics of this game are good. The creatures all look a tad odd and making one that looks 
 normal is almost virtually impossible. But in some ways that kinda cool.
  
  [Plotline] na/10
  There's not really a story to this game... so I'll skip this section
  
  
 [Sound] 8/10
  The game has interesting music. Its smoothing and pleasing.
  
  [Value] 8/10
  The game is pretty much worth it. I'd suggest you buy it and try it out! You'll 
 probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draxxsjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is something. I agree with most of the reviewers out there. If this game were pulled 
 apart and reviewed stage by stage, the score would be rather low. I think in order to enjoy this 
 game fully one must take into account ALL the stages and the novel creature and building/craft 
 features that the game does so well.
  
  I think this game is very approachable for many people. It caters to the creative, unbelieving, 
 technological-impaired, and thrill-seekers. But hardcore gamers should avoid at all costs. You 
 will be disappointed. This game is EASY. Even on HARD difficulty, this game struggles to provide 
 a challenge. 
  
  The fun is in the innovation, animation, and imagination. I've seen creatures ranging from General 
 Grievous from Star Wars, to giant genitals (you can ban creatures from your game by the way) , to 
 wickedly awesome, to just plain silly.
  
  I am an adult, and I rather enjoy spore. I think that this is a game that appeals to many age groups. 
 I would have no problem letting my child play this game, and I would recommend it to many adults 
 just looking for a casual game to relieve some stress and experience something fun.
  
  Does this game have it's problems? What game doesn't. But so far I have experienced no crashes, 
 bugs, freezes, or anything along the technical problems I generally experience with other games. 
 *COUGH-MASS-EFFECT-COUGH* Many will put this game down because it's a water-downed version of an 
 RTS or space-X4 game, but I don't think they are looking at the big picture. 
  
  Does this game leave you wanting more? If you are a more-than-casual-gamer, then yes. But is it 
 fun? You bet. Have at it and start making some creatures for me to see in my game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  [Intro]
  Don't get me wrong... I do like this game. But after playing it 5 times... its kinda boring.
  
 
  [Gameplay] 8/10
  Maxis has made an extremely innovative gameplay. You literally start from a small cell and grow 
 your way into a large colony. There is a lacks of customization in the beginning and does not let 
 you change much about your organism in the end. But this is not really the big issue of this game. 
 The big issue I think is the stages go by too fast. If your a fast player, you could probably finish 
 a stage in 30 minutes or less. Also when you try to gain DNA the progress bar also progresses so 
 you have a big limit to what you can do to your creature. Also its get kinda boring after you play 
 it many times.
  
  [Graphics] 9/10
  The graphics of this game are good. The creatures all look a tad odd and making one that looks 
 normal is almost virtually impossible. But in some ways that kinda cool.
  
  [Plotline] na/10
  There's not really a story to this game... so I'll skip this section
  
  
 [Sound] 8/10
  The game has interesting music. Its smoothing and pleasing.
  
  [Value] 8/10
  The game is pretty much worth it. I'd suggest you buy it and try it out! You'll 
 probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game remidd of the Sims, is total new concept. I see why this game took a long time to come 
 out, but not with out issues. This game is like combine several style but fall on short each area. 
 Fact is gameplay value is actually pretty short and replace is limited, yes you can had thousands 
 of way customize your character but still you will ended up same type of short mission, only thing 
 that keep you going is completed those extra mission in space age, but is kinda meaningness, but 
 biggest fallshort is no multiplayer, only thing online is you can download more content such as 
 custom color, skin etc. For 50 bucks might be a a go but since as a DRM you need to think twice, 
 since you can only install 3 times in the game, uninstaller count a installation ! and fact is 
 you don't online play 50 bucks is over price. Also the other problem face this game is that you 
 only has one game slot per mission, which mean you can't go back reload you favorite moment because 
 you aleady been save. You would need to save that in a tool but is frusted to do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwillyy
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Although the install said to upgrade my video driver with my three year old RADEON 850 series I 
 had no problem with playing the game. Good graphics, but was really disappointed in the game as 
 a whole. Don't know why they included a spore creator as you can't use your creation in the game. 
 Just what you create from the cell and into the creature stage. The evolution stops and it gets 
 really boring and extremely repetitious. Then the space stage......... what a joke. Almost fell 
 asleep playing with the silly spaceship. And what is this create on item and have to use it in 
 both the civilization and space stage. You can select a different house for example but are unable 
 to use a different one in each village. Why create them anyway as it just prolongs the game. This 
 is not a very challenging game for a hardcore gamer. Better for the pre-school crowd. 
  
  EA should scrap this game and start over making the evolution of the creature you make extend into 
 the future and not by putting masks and some dumb hats on your creation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: z_eratul
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  i didn't really have much hope on this game since it was released by maxis and they are the ones 
 who gave the world The Sims. Surprisingly though this game was quite an unexpected fun even.
  
  Starting from the cell stage the game totally gives you as much free control as possible and 
 the type of game keeps changing throughout. The fun can never end.
  
  Just like Sims though, there is no speech, well no intelligible speech anyway and i felt that was 
 a bit of a downer. They could have had some real speech after the evolution. But that's just me.
 
  
  The game is not graphic intensive at all. Although you would need a fairly recent graphic card for 
 a decent gameplay resolution. Some of the rendering of the flora is quite detailed and rather interesting 
 to look at up close. The imagination on all the different creatures is tremendous with so many 
 different species around the whole galaxy.
  
  All in all an absolutely fun ride, i was glued to this one for four days straight and it still 
 continues once you have completely evolved and for those looking for some action, you will definitely 
 be getting some gun blasting action! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  spore is the long awaited game from maxis and EA and the question everybody askes is "is this worth 
 the wait" the answer is yes but that does not mean that it doesent have glitches. but will talk 
 about about that later lets talk about the stages. the game has five stages that get more complex 
 as you go along. the cell stage is probaly the easiest thing to do. all you do is eat food while 
 avoiding bigger fish thats it its so easy. The creature stage you can make allies or enemies with 
 your nest neigbhors and thats it and you eat food if you wounded. in the trible stage you have 
 a tribe and you also go make friends or allies and its like a RTS game and is really fun. the civilization 
 stage loses most of the fun you still make aliies or enemys you built more things like vehicles 
 and buildings abd trie and take over the planet which is ok. the space stage is boring it may sound 
 cool but when you are trying to do a mission that says go to this planet in this star system its 
 hard to find the system but the missions are easy if you actually find it. the issues are this 
 game is in love with crashes it crashes not everytime but it gets super annoying. the gameplay 
 is easy and requires no skill at all. the graphics are pretty good and dosent require much system 
 requirments long story short its and ok game with issues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Why don't people like it so much. Yes, it is way over hyped, but does not suck. 
 Every single stage is fun in its own way.
  (Get ready for a looonng review...)
  
  Cell: This is the most basic stage, but it is very addicting. You eat food in the water and avoid 
 being eaten by the bigger creatures. This stage only lasts about 30 minutes. 8/10
  
  Creature: This stage is fun for while. You have your own nest and you run around the overworld 
 making friends or killing off the neighbors. The gameplay is simple but it loses its addictiveness 
 halfway through. 7.5/10
  
  Tribal: Probably the worst stage just because it is sooooooooooooooo basic. You gather food... 
 weee. Or you conquer the neighbors. Not much else. 7/10
  
  Civilization: This is my favorite stage. It is basically the tribal stage on steroids. More stuff 
 to do like diplomatic relations. There are 3 ways to conquer the world... Money, religious, or 
 military. Very fun and offers lots of replay value. 9.5/10
  
  Space: Not huge a fan of this one. REALLLLLY deep. Eventually gets a bit confusing for people who 
 are not used to RTS's or Space exploration games. So many planets to explore offer lots of play 
 on value...
  9/10 Creature creator: Not a stage but a big part of the game. The tools to create your beings 
 are great and deep. If you are lazy you could just use Sporeopedia. Basically it is just the creatures 
 other people create.
  The same thing applies to the vehicle, and building creator which aren't as fun.
  This game is 
 great... buy it, should keep you occupied... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I need to say first that I love this game. It keeps me enthralled most of the time, especially 
 with the animations and sounds, even if the gameplay is sometimes stale. That aside, Spore really 
 grows on you. The first two stages are my personal favorites, being able to explore the world around 
 you is very exciting and varies enough to keep you enthralled throughout these stages. The third 
 stage is probably my least favorite, as it was conceptually boring to me. The civilization stage 
 gave me enough customization tools to keep me happy, and the warfare was somewhat fun, so I have 
 no complaints about the fourth stage. However, the space stage does have its flaws. The long wait 
 times when traveling to another galaxy aren't very fun, and the exploration aspect is slightly 
 lost (except if you are hovering over a planet) . I did enjoy the space stage however overall, but 
 it didn't add much reward throughout. Overall, I feel Spore's issues aren't great enough to call 
 it a failure, but it does have flaws. Even so, I advise everyone who is thinking of buying this 
 game to read up on it extensively before buying it to decide if it really is something you want 
 to get. If you don't do this, you may be disappointed, and it may not give off the same charm to 
 all people. 
  
  - Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theR34p3R
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Spore, you must have been living underneath a pretty heavy rock if you haven't heard of this game. 
 Will Wright promised us all so much with Spore. Multiple games in one, control your own evolution 
 with your own homemade critter. 
  
  7 Years... s-e-v-e-n years, Spore was in development... it has RPG-like gameplay like Diablo, Adventure-like 
 gameplay like World of Warcraft, strategic gameplay like Command and Conquer... WELL, WHERE THE 
 HELL IS ALL THAT GAMEPLAY ?!?!?!
  
  Yes... it is made by Maxis, but owned and controlled by EA! I'm sure the Spore we all own today 
 is NOT the Spore Will Wright and friends wanted it to be. No doubt EA made them rip out most of 
 it so it can be used later in a dozen expansions.
  
  All those promises that were made, are hollow in the end it seems. The game feels like a collection 
 of glorified editors and is that what we pay for ??? Yes, it appears it is. But enough ranting 
 for now... this is a review, not a game bashing article.
  
  So...
  
  Cellphase is in my opinion the most fun. You swim in a primordial soup/sea with lots of other newcomers 
 to life. You eat, you grow and gain DNA points. You have sex, you edit your little cell, add bodyparts 
 and continue.
  
  Next, you evolve... you give your little guy some legs and you go on to land. Basicly, the fun 
 starts to drop right in this phase and it becomes more of a drag. You and your kin made a nest... 
 now it is your decision to make friends with the other nests (and ofcourse the creatures in it) 
 around you, or make enemies and eat them. As you go about with your creation, you can dig up skeletons 
 to gain new body parts, or simply fullfil some rather ridiculously easy goals. 
  
  Goals like, befriend 3 more of Creature X or kill 2 more of Creature Y. Completing these childish 
 goals can boast some new body parts as well. After a little while, your nest migrates to a new 
 location and you are meant to seek them out. Having done these things often enough...
  
  You evolve again. This time your brain had become so large, you can begin a tribe, hence the Tribal 
 Phase. A rather boring phase. You gather food, either by gathering fruid or hunting animals. That 
 food is your currency. Your tribe however, is not the only one in the world. You can befriend another 
 tribe or massacre it. There is no challenge to it at all. 
  
  The editor in this phase allows you to "dress" your people. The items you place on them have stats, 
 but they are insignificant. They don't realy provide you with any advantages or disadvantages. 
 Add to that, that in order to play this phase efficiently, you will likely have your camera zoomed 
 out and thus are unable to realy notice their "clothes". Once all other tribes are your friends 
 or have been murdered... you advance to the next phase...
  
  Civilisation. You start in the editor by creating your Townhall and a vehicle. Next to the Creature 
 Editor, you can build some interesting structures and vehicles. Depending on how you played in 
 the previous phases, your civilisation will be Economical, Military or Religious. What ever it 
 is... they all play the same way. Now this is supposed to be the "Command and Conquer" phase. The 
 only thing this phase has (barely) in comming with C&C is that hey are both strategy. 
  
  The gameplay is so easy it is a joke, it has no depth of play what so ever. 1 Kind of land vehicle 
 (1 kind for each civ type) , 1 kind of ship and 1 kind of airplane. No matter how different you 
 manage to creating something in the editor, it makes no difference when it comes to the gameplay. 
 You can make a landvehicle with 8 catterpillartracks and 12 gunbarrels... it will have only 1 kind 
 of attack and only 1 projectile. Hoorah for 7 years of development !!!
  
  Your goal is to unify the world under your banner. A 5 year old could pull it off in this game. 
 You either buy, destroy or convert the other cities... and thats it. After you've pulled it off... 
 you go to the final phase.
  
  Space phase. You guessed it... you start with an editor. You get to build your own spaceship this 
 time!!! How cool is that ???!!! Well... it is quite lame that no matter how many guns and rockets 
 you mount on that thing, IT WILL NOT MAKE A DIFFERENCE when it comes to fire power or what you 
 can fire. 
  
  Funniest thing of all... you're the ONLY one of your entire race who has a ship. It will even take 
 some missions before you can get a second ship to follow you in your "fleet". The only practical 
 thing they serve is backup in a fight. They get in the way when you want to beam something off 
 a planet, and the item/plant/creaturee drops back down to the planet. You can't realy controll 
 them either.
  
  The Space Phase is the final one... and it will take load of time (too much) to accomplish the 
 ultimate goal: get to the center of the galaxy. Far easier said than done. I have not counted all 
 the planets yet, but I sure do believe there is 500.000 of them. Wormholes are also present... 
 but wtf... you'd better keep playing this phase, because once you've gone through a series of wormholes, 
 I wish you good luck in finding your way back home. Unless you're a shaman, you'll have to let 
 yourself be blow out of the stars in order to return home. 
  
  Getting past those Grox that own the perimiter around the center of the galaxy is a major pain 
 in the rear. As you will find out. Your movement across space gets impaired as you get closer to 
 the center, so finding a passage through might take while. Most likely, none of the ships in your 
 "fleet" will live to see you make it to the center.
  
  Funfactor: 6,5
  Gameplay: 7
  Sound: 8
  (Re) play value: 4
  
  This game could have been so much, but it is a fluke. 7 Years 
 of dev for this ? Those upcomming expansions had better make up for this disappointment. This game 
 is nothing more than a glorified collection of editors. Is it worth the money ? NO ! If you realy 
 wanna buy this, wait until you find it in the budget bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Spore, as everyone knows is the latest game from EA. Now so is Spore as good as any of the other 
 Maxis EA games? Well, yes and no. Yes this game is better than say sim city. The sheer level of 
 creative ability combined with the gameplay solves that problems, but the sims...
  
  I've never been a fan of the sims, but that still hasn't stopped me from buying them. Admitadely 
 my sims 2 review would probably be higher these days (Say about 8, it still loses because out on 
 9 as I can still do everything in it and have more fun, but is a good game nonetheless (also I 
 like the review so I'm keeping it) ) but all the same i never really got into it.
  
  However alot of people like it. Because of what you can do in it, ie. destroy/flourish people's 
 lives. This is why I like spore. You can destroy/flourish/be a tosser about creatures lives. Which 
 is spore's selling point. It allows you to make any creature, building or vehichle you want. Anything 
 in your mind at all, and it can be done. How awesome is that?
  
  You can make 40 legged monstrosities, A tyranisourous Zebra, elf, james bond, your mum, whatever 
 floats your boat. Go for it. The sheer level of this stuff is intense. As far as the gameplay goes. 
 Well lets be honest, alot of it is like other games.
  
  The creature stage is a bit of a MMORGP, tribal is like old school medieval fighting games and 
 civilisation stage is alot like a command and conquer style stratergy game.
  
  But now we go back to the sims argument. I would much rather play a game where I see my creatures 
 that I made from a teeny tiny cell and grow into mighty nation take over the galaxy than some brown 
 headed numpty and his crew of angsty 18-21 year olds.
  
  And I love how simple it is. Do you remeber those times when games wouldn't have 800 bagillion 
 buttons to press? Do you remember when all the controls were move? Do you remember command and 
 conquer when the combat was simple? Not every unit had a special ability? Weren't those days great? 
 This is such a simple game. It reminds me why I like games so much. You sit down. You make a creature, 
 and you play a game. Any holes in the story line you fill it yourself. And it's always new. Every 
 hill has a new creature. Because the game always brings them in from online, every second of the 
 game is new. Remember thos days when one new simple game, would entertain us for years? More importantly, 
 do you love to create? If yes, then this is for you.
  
  More than all of this infact. This game has soul. It has something about it, a human aspect. It 
 lives sort of, because I've never seen the same thing twice. And it is thrown about alot. But something, 
 just something in this game has soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veritys
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for a very long time like everyone else. I even was part of the 
 "Spore Union" on this site and tracked every detail I could about the game. I was very excited 
 to say the least. Once the game finally game out I picked up a few copies so my Wife and I could 
 play the game at the same time. While waiting for it to install I felt like a kid again, hoping 
 for something revolutionary, and addicting.
  
  Once fired up into the cell stage I noted that the graphics has a fun colorful vibe to them. I 
 already knew what to expect, and comforted my wife who kept getting chomped on next to me. I knew 
 this was suppose to be a silly intro into the game, and had fun with it anyhow. This stage was 
 short enough so you didn't get overly bored with it.
  
  Once I climbed onto land I was excited to see the controls were from a third person perspective, 
 but yet you directly controlled the movement of your creature. You even have little simple hotbars 
 to attack and do various actions. From here after eating things and watching them run away in fear 
 gave me a very satisfied feeling. I looked over at my wife and she was doing her best to make as 
 many friends as possible, grazing on flowers. So we both were having a fun time at this point. 
 Once you find some new parts, and learned to use the mating call things even got more fun. Molding 
 your creature is obviously the biggest selling point of the game. And one we all got plenty of 
 time to mess around with pre-launch.
  
  So you keep all this up, eating, running around, sticking parts on yourself and "evolving" into 
 bigger and smarter copies of yourself. I enjoyed exploring the landscape, and making sure that 
 each ability had the max stats. Soon though things started to change and this area ended. Sure 
 you can stick around and make sure you find all the parts, and eliminate the other species. But 
 I had enough to satisfy, so I moved on.
  
  Up next was the tribal stage, It was a point and click resource gathering, conquer all scenario. 
 I liked it, it was simple but allowed you to further customize your creatures. And allowed you 
 to attack other tribes and take over the world. I also liked the weird epic type creatures mulling 
 about also. Although taking them out pretty much only gave you a ton of food and no other cool 
 items.
  
  This stage was over fast however, and after killing the other handful of tribes I was once again 
 at the end of the road. But I had enjoyed everything so far so I was happy to puch the forward 
 button.
  
  Then the game started to "suck" and I don't really know any other way to put it. You end up playing 
 a craptastic RTS "light" that has absolutely no AI and no strategy to it. The only perk to this 
 part was creating your buildings and vehicles. But once done with that the game pretty much took 
 all the charm and tossed it into the trash. No more editing your creatures, no more body parts, 
 outfits or personality. It pretty much becomes the most lackluster RTS style game you have every 
 played. 
  
  I blasted through this as quickly as possible, because the entire reason I wanted spore was to 
 create creatures and mess around with them. The entire game I had been tweaking and raising my 
 creatures, only to have them transformed into mindless ants that swarm in and out of your cities 
 for no particular reason.
  
  After I smited everyone else on that map by military brute force it was time for the final stage. 
 One that seemed to hold a glimmer of hope the bring back the charm of the earlier stages.
  
  SPACE...
  
  I honestly did not do enough research, or pay close enough attention on the 
 development of this game. If I honestly knew at the end I would be forced into a boring, lite version 
 of a space exploration game I would of NEVER wasted my money. From the trade show videos, demos 
 etc I has this false presumption that I was going to hand raise and design creature after creature 
 taking over each world by hand. Once they got smart enough, possibly shooting out in space and 
 taking over yet another planet, evolving and spreading my wacky creations. No, I get to pick up 
 space missions, fly from planet to planet and suck up animals or shoot them with a lazer. Sure 
 you can terraform, and spread your ant like creations you so long ago forgot. But the Space stage 
 is just to disconnected from the core stages of the game it just doesn't fit.
  
  I forgot where I read it, if it was the gamespot review or another user but whoever said the game 
 feels more like a handful of minigames rather then a full title was spot on.
  
  I liked the first 3 stages, and felt the RTS and Space stages just take a huge step away from what 
 I expected. And with the creature creater being the flagship selling tool, it amazes me how pointless 
 it beomes a few hours in!
  
  I regret buying the game, and now have two copies on the shelf!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Drop the words 'evolution' or 'creationism' into a conversation and depending on the audience, 
 there's a good chance that sparks and Bibles may fly. For a game that allegedly showcases evolution 
 in all its glory, it's ironic that Spore is essentially an intelligent design simulator. Nurturing 
 an organism from a primitive planarian to a galactic wayfaring civilization with the power to blow 
 up worlds sounds like epic stuff, but how does it all pan out?
  
  Spore is divided into five discrete stages that fit together in one giant evolutionary timeline. 
 The Cell stage is a 21st Century remake of Pac-Man: gobbling food while watching out for predators, 
 some of which are so large their eyes don't even fit on the screen. Munching your way through plants 
 or protists (vegetarianism is at your discretion) you earn 'DNA points' which are then used to 
 add elements to your cell, like ramming spikes or flagellae. Eat enough and you'll earn the ability 
 to add legs to your creature, leaving the perils of the sea for open air and sunshine. Hooray!
 
  
  Or at least, it should be good. The Cell stage is great fun for the whole hour it takes to complete, 
 but once on land the fun quickly dries up like week-old primordial soup. In the Creature stage, 
 interacting with other creatures allows you progress. You can befriend them with singing and dancing 
 abilities, or chew them up and feed on their carcasses. Sounds great, right? What if I were to 
 tell you that in the previous sentence, I just described the entire Creature phase? Walk up to 
 a creature. Click the mouse a few times. You've earned some DNA. Walk up to another creature that's 
 it. That's the whole game. There is little in the way of exploration or depth, which is a wasted 
 opportunity.
  
  Luckily, the editing tools in Spore are so wonderful the game's many flaws pale in comparison. 
 Using the creature creator, your options are nigh infinite. If you want your creature to be an 
 eyeball on a stick, or a monkey that can still walk upright with its head up its own arse, so be 
 it. Further on in the game new editors allow building, vehicle and spaceship creation. Suddenly 
 my life has a new purpose: to recreate every Thunderbird in Spore's vehicle editor. The editors 
 are so simple to use that your grandparents could operate them, yet powerful enough for intelligent 
 designers to spend hours tweaking their creations.
  
  Spore has been billed as a 'massively single-player online game' for the reason that as you play, 
 the game downloads other players' creations into your game and vice versa. Better yet, you can 
 maintain a Friends List or subscribe to Sporecasts of thematically similar creatures. This is one 
 of the game's strongest assets and a feature that will ensure gamers will be playing Spore for 
 years to come. 
  
  It is also in this feature that Spore offers perhaps the clearest evidence yet that God doesn't 
 exist: if God was responsible for creating all living things, why did he make them so damn boring? 
 I've seen everything from two-headed mountain trolls to inevitable giant penis monsters inhabiting 
 my worlds. The best God could manage was the platypus, although those things are pretty hilarious.
 
  
  Moving from Spore's Creature to Tribal stage, things don't improve much: I would say "poor-man's 
 Age of Empires", but that's giving it too much credit. It is dull and needlessly repetitive. After 
 befriending nearby tribes, the game moves to a Civilisation stage that is more of the same: whether 
 seeking a military victory or religious, conquering enemy cities is a simple case of shooting something 
 coloured at buildings and repeating ad infinitum until you have conquered the world. Don't get 
 me wrong; your eight-year old siblings are going to be rapt with Spore's early stages, but anyone 
 used to playing Civilization IV on Deity is not going to have a good time. Alternatively, if you 
 have no idea what the previous sentence meant, you're going to love it.
  
  As I fabricated my spaceship and prepared to blast off into the heavens, I had all but given up 
 on Spore as the saviour of PC gaming. After five minutes of zooming around the cosmos it became 
 apparent that all the rubbish stages that came before were a mere tutorial for the Space stage. 
 Here, Spore changes into a genuinely epic game of trading, colonising and war with alien races. 
 It's one of the most pleasant surprises a game has offered in years.
  
  The size of the galaxy you can explore in Spore is so large, words barely do it justice. Leave 
 your home planet and explore the surrounding solar system. Move further out and the solar systems 
 fade into vast arrays of hundreds of stars. Further still, the stars gather into the arms of a 
 huge cosmic spiral that surely no one could ever fully explore. In a way, that's what makes it 
 so exciting.
  
  When many of these planets and systems are packed with the creations of other players, suddenly 
 Spore delivers on its promise. The variety of missions and rarities to discover is impressive, 
 the sense of scale bordering on frightening. You can buy missiles that cleave planets in two, Death 
 Star style. You can plant spice mines on every planet you reach and stamp your mark on space like 
 an intergalactic Starbucks. It's absolutely bloody amazing to the extent where I want to take back 
 all the mean things I said about the Tribal stage. It doesn't change the fact that the Tribal and 
 Civilisation stages are monotonous, but it makes them a little more tolerable.
  
  Taken individually the various stages of Spore are largely forgettable, but somehow they manage 
 to coalesce into an impressive package. This is thanks to the greatest suite of editing tools known 
 to man, an incredible last stage and a vibrant online community. While it's true to say that Spore 
 is lacking in several aspects, as a tool for biological dicking around and a space faring romp 
 it verges on genius. The future of gaming is here: not quite the way you expected it, but essential 
 nevertheless.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusOfLycea
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I've noticed that the majority of reviews for this game don't review the game itself, but the system 
 that EA uses to combat piracy in this game. That's all well and good to point out, but in a game 
 review, priority should be given to the -game-, not the packaging of it.
  
  That being said, this is one of the most incredible games I've played in a while, and is definitely 
 worth getting if you're looking to loose a few days or weeks.
  
  The gameplay is amazing; each stage of life is its own type of game, but they are tied together 
 enough to make it feel like one progressing story. At the same time, each section is engaging and 
 very worth a replay.
  
  The graphics are good for what they need to be, and there is a plethora of sound effects the make 
 the game come to life.
  
  As far as engaging experiences go, this has been the best one I've had in a long time. You could 
 let a bias against DRM hold you back (which I believe is a bit foolish since the 3-per-lifetime 
 installation business will be dealt with in an upcoming patch) . You could also be disappointed 
 that this game isn't the pinnacle of gaming technology and that it actually has faults (I find 
 some people are surprised by the fact it isn't perfect) . Or, like me, you can give it a shot and 
 come out loving every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Dammmmmn! This game is so much fun I can't stop playing, but I just get absolved in the make it 
 yourself games. Maxis out did themselves by makeing this game; I hope they dont abuse it like with 
 the SIMS, remaking the game over and over by slightly changing the game but still end up being 
 the same. I love playing through all the different options of life and seeing it evolve through 
 time. For fight now, this game is absolutly awsome and has lived up to everyone of my expectations 
 except graphics.
  
  Graphics this game could be way better but I guess they are OK for the type of game. I feel sorry 
 for the people who have been waiting for this game for seven years, Maxis should not have released 
 so much info that early. As for me, I learned about only 6 months ago so my butterflies were only 
 stirring for a little bit.
  
  See your creatures in the game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggsett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Now Spore is a combinations of a eat and climb the foodtree at the start then there is an creature 
 RPG
  then it comes to a sort of stoneage RTS then a modern RTS
  and the very last thing we all rushed for the first time we played, SPACE. Now, graphics are higher 
 than average but not perfect (I'm talking about default graphics)
  The game is a set of mini games and ends in a BIG space Sandbox. You will be happy when you understands 
 that you can skip all the other phaces AFTER you have gotten through the phace before it.
  
  You start as a cell, you eat to grow basically that's what you do. You can choose between what 
 you eat like meat everything and fruits.
  
  In the creature stage you can customise alot more, not when you're entering the stage but after 
 you have umm.. let's call it multiplied :) The game offers roleplaying not alot but some freedom, 
 incredible creation tools, and best of all, FUN. You will love this game for some time but don't 
 expect great things like awesome modes cause it don't get much fun until the Space age. I will 
 not revel more about the stages cause I will not spoil anything.
  
  I'm Saggsett hope you enjoyed my Review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim22x7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing as much as my schedule allows since it came out. Blazed through the first stages 
 on day one. The space stage is where i began to run into trouble. The pace can get very hectic 
 and it gets hard to stop playing because there is something new to do every few minutes. 
  
  The balance between income and monetary demands is a little off in the space stage. I quickly 
 find myself at war with several nations simply because i could not pay them off. Being at war with 
 another nation is not advisable as they can launch attacks at several of your planets at once. 
 
  
  The cell stage is fun, it would have been nice to carry over my hard won taser buds into the creature 
 stage as something more than "charm level 1" I found it difficult to get enough DNA to make a cell 
 that was as complicated as some of the ones i was fighting. 
  
  The creature stage... I frequently find myself surprised at how much my creature changes from about 
 mid way to the final product. My first creation went from being a green frog like creature to a 
 blue and white avian.
  
  The tribal stage, not much there I think the controls or help need a bit of tweaking because i 
 couldn't manage to gift other tribes into becoming friendly enough that i could succesfully ally 
 them. In the end i usually slaughtered them outright and with some frustrated anger. 
  
  The civ stage, I find myself in the editor a lot. If you stick to your guns (whatever you start 
 out as, military, economic, or religous) you can blast through in under an hour. Which will net 
 you an achievement or badge... something like that. 
  
  None or these earlier stages are particularly hard. It did annoy me somewhat having to learn a 
 slightly different camera routine between the different stages. There were some other things that 
 annoyed me the help functions need a little more work, like i said before. It would also be nice 
 if the pace in the space stage was a little slower especially in easy mode. Just an extra minute 
 of down time between the random events would go along way to making it easier to save, repair, 
 trade or run a mission. Or even get back to the home planet to effect repairs and purchases of 
 hard to find equipment. 
  
  Despite the focus on the negative aspects the game is still well worth the cost if you enjoyed 
 playing SimCity, The Sims, or any number of Will Wright's other games. Rated nine out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qalnut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Cell stage:
  It's eat or get eaten, and getting eaten is a lot less productive. As you consume food, be it plants, 
 meat, or both, you'll increase in size. For every major size increase, you'll experience a "zooming 
 out" effect as you move to a higher level in the tide pool and compete with more advanced creatures. 
 There are a handful of parts to unlock in this stage that range from weapons to new types of movement 
 mechanisms. The visuals in this stage are quite neat. As a small cell, you'll be very translucent. 
 As you get larger, you'll become more opaque and the textures that you choose will become more 
 prominent. The single largest problem with this stage is simply a lack of variety. From what I 
 can tell, every time you play through it, you'll be up against the exact same set of creatures. 
 This severely diminishes the replay value of this stage. Furthermore, you are quite limited in 
 what kind of cells you can create, as the cell editor is primarily 2D, and cell parts are few and 
 far between. Another slightly more minor issue is that you never see larger versions of cells you 
 competed against in earlier levels. This creates the illusion that you're the only cell evolving, 
 which sort of detracts from the overall feel of the stage. Once you've reached the highest level 
 in the tide pool, you'll stop collecting DNA.
  Stage score: 7/10
  
  It seems like there's a stage missing after you're done being a cell. You jump instantly from a 
 microscopic organism, complete with microscopic defense and movement mechanisms, to a large walking 
 creature, capable of living on land. The overall impression I get of Spore is that it's incomplete, 
 and this is a perfect example. Early gameplay videos showed what appeared to be an aquatic stage, 
 with macroscopic (but still underwater) plants. It seems like this stage was completely removed 
 from the game, to be replaced with an entirely unrealistic jump from micro to macro. An aquatic 
 stage would have perfectly bridged the cell and creature stages. 
  
  Creature stage:
  After magically sprouting legs, you'll take to the land and develop a small nest of creatures. 
 During this stage, your goal is to interact with other creatures on the continent and collect parts 
 that you can use to evolve. Impressing (through song, dance, and posturing) or killing off other 
 creatures will earn you DNA. DNA is used to purchase parts for your creature that you have discovered 
 by examining skeletons that you'll find around the island. As you progress, you'll be able to invite 
 others to join your pack to fight or perform alongside you. Gameplay in this stage is very freeform. 
 There are more than enough creature parts to ensure that you can do whatever you want with your 
 creature. The only limitation you'll encounter involves the type of mouths available for you to 
 find. If you played the cell stage as a carnivore, you'll only be able to find carnivore mouths 
 in the creature stage, with the same applying to herbivores and omnivores. This can be more than 
 a tad annoying, especially if you exit the cell stage completely oblivious to this restriction. 
 
  
  Interaction with other creatures is entirely based on stats provided by the parts you choose for 
 your creature. There are three classes of stats-attack, social, and general. Some parts have an 
 emphasis on one set or another. This leads to a very balanced system. You could, in theory, have 
 a creature that was both socially and combatively adept, but this would require large amounts of 
 DNA-more than you'll come across in a reasonable time frame. 
  Stage score: 9/10
  
  Tribe stage:
  Once your brain has grown to an appropriate size, you'll be given one last opportunity 
 to evolve your creature before you form a tribe. After this point, you'll gain the ability to dress 
 your creature in various types of clothing. The tribal stage is centered around winning over other 
 tribes on your continent. You'll now take control of a group of creatures, as the game starts to 
 take on elements of a basic RTS game. You'll have to manage which creatures will collect food, 
 and which will fight/make friends. 
  
  Despite what you may expect, this stage is really not very fun. It consists of first obtaining 
 food by assigning your creatures to harvest fruit bushes and trees, or domesticating animals. Food 
 is used to keep your tribe members alive and to buy tools. The stage is basically a repeated loop 
 of actions until you manage to get established. It goes a little something like this: gather food, 
 buy a tool shed, get attacked, run out of food buying new tribe members, repeat. To win over another 
 tribe socially, you'll eventually have to invest in every social tool (instruments) . You'll then 
 have to use the overly clunky equip system to equip equal numbers of your tribal members with each 
 instrument. Then, if you want to be effective, you'll have to move your entire population across 
 the map to your rival tribe, leaving your village wide open for wild animals to steal your food, 
 or for another tribe to attack. Should you decide to take a military approach in achieving continental 
 dominance, you'll need to invest in all of your military tools (weapons) , and clumsily equip whatever 
 percentage you deem most effective of your tribe with each type of weapon. Each weapon does something 
 a bit different, so you'll have to juggle them around (using the clumsy equip system, by the way) 
 until you come up with something effective. You then have to send your entire population to your 
 enemy's base to kill them and destroy their buildings, once again leaving your village wide open 
 for creatures to steal your food. The next step is to hope your creatures are strong enough to 
 kill the enemies, because otherwise you're going to start that loop I mentioned a while ago all 
 over again. 
  
  This stage suffers from trying to be both an RTS and a freeform adventure game like the creature 
 stage. Neither element is able to effectively shine through. You end up with a poorly done RTS 
 with clunky map navigation, clunky unit selection, clunky tool assignment, and just overall clunky 
 gameplay. 
  Stage score: 5/10
  
  Civilization stage:
  Imagine the tribe stage with vehicles. That's pretty much what this stage is. However, there's 
 a catch. Depending on how you played the earlier stages, you start off with a single type of unit. 
 It's a land vehicle, and it will either be religious, economic, or military. You can't change the 
 specialization of your main city. If you conquer another city, you can choose to have that city 
 use its prior specialization, or switch it over to the specialization you defeated it with. What 
 really sucks about this is that not all specializations are created equal. In theory, they probably 
 are. In reality, it's quite possible that you'll get stuck with one you don't like, or just can't 
 figure out. Economic involves sending trade vehicles back and forth across trade routes until you 
 have the option to buy out the enemy city. Religious involves lightly armed vehicles being used 
 to convert a city by pretty much just sitting there for an indeterminate amount of time and military 
 involves sending wave after wave of vehicle to their death against powerful defense turrets. If 
 you're a coastal city, you'll be able to use naval units. After you have captured a certain amount 
 of cities, you gain access to air units which make things go much, much faster. 
  
  In addition to the vehicle game, you've also got to build your cities. This is basically a puzzle 
 in which you arrange factories, entertainment buildings, and houses in a pattern which results 
 in the highest amount of happiness and income as possible. 
  
  Up until this point, the creators have been pretty rock solid. However, the civilization stage 
 creators really just suck. The building creator isn't bad, but it's very time consuming. There's 
 no way to easily align objects, and so if you're going for symmetry, you'll be going for a long, 
 long time. The textures are pretty lousy, too-especially until you get used to how they work. If 
 you use any of the preset color/texture combos, you're probably going to be in for quite a disappointment 
 (unless you like completely unrealistic looking buildings) . The vehicle editor gave me so much 
 grief that I eventually just gave up and started slopping pieces together. The parts available 
 are a hodgepodge of mismatched shapes that require significant amounts of manipulation and effort 
 if you want something neat looking. Granted, it's quite a task to make a freeform editor like this, 
 but some of the shapes are just bizarre. When you go to stretch them, they don't stretch-they morph 
 into something different. Pieces don't mesh with each other very well, creating sloppy effects 
 and messy colorations. Furthermore, if you want to create land, naval, and air vehicles that all 
 look somewhat similar, you may as well just give up now. The piece sets are so different that creating 
 things with similar design principles across creators is a nightmare. And then there are the "tools." 
 In order for your vehicle to be effective at what it does, you need to include a bunch of tools 
 on it. In other words, after you just spent an hour making an awesome vehicle, you have to cover 
 it with gigantic pipe organs and loud speakers or it won't be able to convert other cities before 
 it's destroyed by defenders. 
  Stage score: 5/10
  
  Space stage:
  And finally we have the space stage. After you manage to take over your planet, you can build a 
 space ship and start developing a galactic presence. Gameplay is even more freeform than in the 
 creature stage, and it's incredibly immersive. Your end goal is to reach the center of the galaxy, 
 although it's by no means a requirement. Working up to that, you'll be earning badges for completing 
 various tasks which result in the unlocking of tools that you can purchase for your space ship. 
 
  
  This stage revolves around colonies. Colonies allow you to produce Spice, which is sold for Sporebucks. 
 Obtaining colonies can be done in a variety of ways. Despite how fun this stage is, there are still 
 signs of incompletion. The war system, for example, is pretty shallow. I've yet to find out how 
 to get my own empire to attack other systems. For the most part, if you want to capture a system, 
 you have to do it yourself. You can pay an ally to attack a system for you, but they'll capture 
 it in the name of their empire-not yours. You can't fight alongside them, either, as you'll undo 
 their efforts by effectively capturing the city from them and then from your enemy. The system 
 of economic capture is even less complete-feeling. You make an alliance with someone, ask for a 
 trade route, and wait until they offer to sell their system to you. 
  
  In fact, the only sections of the space stage that really feel complete are terraforming and missions. 
 Terraforming involves using tools to make uninhabitable worlds habitable, and then introducing 
 ecosystems. The system is quite simple once you get used to it, but it still requires a certain 
 amount of practice before you're quick enough to avoid any potential mistakes. Missions are a fun 
 way to earn the trust of other empires, and can also provide a steady cash flow until you get your 
 spice colonies established. There's a wide array of missions ranging from destroying the defenses 
 of a planet, to eradicating a specific creature from an ecosystem, to terraforming a planet for 
 another empire. 
  
  Although very open-ended, the difficulty and frustration involved in reaching the center of the 
 galaxy is rather off-putting. It ends up creating a goal-less feel, which gets boring pretty quick 
 once you've gotten a majority of the badges. 
  Stage score: 8/10
  
  Overall:
  Spore is a good, solid game. If it weren't for some pretty obvious design flaws, it could have 
 easily been an amazing game. The fact that the release date was pushed back repeatedly and that 
 production time dragged on forever leaves no excuse for an incomplete gameplay experience. The 
 Cell and Creature stages are fun, but are limited by their simplicity. The RTS stages were designed 
 with the ultra-casual gamer in mind, and so ended up being incredibly hollow and really just not 
 fun to play more than once or twice. The actions in these stages are very limited, and get monotonous 
 very quickly. The Space stage was well done, but there's really no goal once you've unlocked all 
 the tools you want. The "quest" to the center of the galaxy was poorly executed, for reasons I 
 won't mention as to avoid spoilers. This is the stage that the entire game leads up to, but it 
 still doesn't feel complete. There's just not enough content to keep the player interested for 
 extended periods of time. 
  
  EA has discussed expansion packs, and I really hope they're smart about what they include in them. 
 I'd much rather have new mechanics introduced, such as more end-game goals for the Space stage 
 or an Aquatic stage to follow the Cell stage than a mess of new vehicle parts and planet colors. 
 Hopefully we can look forward to a more complete Spore in the near future.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the war around spore (and other ea games) drm. They give you 5 installs on 5 
 differents comp (unless you change the motherboard) , something that you will probably never use 
 in the future. Since 1998, I had 3 computers and God know that I don't play 1998-2000 games anymore 
 and Ganesh know that I will not be playing spore in 1 year like I am still playing the Sims 1-2 
 once in a while. EA will probably release a patch in a year or 2 to diseable securom like take-2 
 did with Bioshock.
  
  Spore is hard to classified as a genre (strategy, casual?) it can certainly be put in the section 
 : "game for your mom". This game is lacking depth and frankly, the hardcore gamer will find this 
 game horrible.
  
  Of course, to make the review more accurate, I will broke the gameplay section in 5, to cover the 
 differents phases...
  
  1: You start as a fresh cell. The gameplay here is minimal and will remind you one of these cheap 
 flash game or wallpaper of the late 90. Frankly, if you die more than once in that bathtub, you 
 don't deserve to call yourself a gamer and should be punch. This insipid phase last a good 30 min.
 
  
  2: The second phase is the creature stage. There your creature is finally having legs (if you want) 
 and you will have the pleasure to make some friends or start hunting everyone... This phase is 
 relatively long, boring and stupid. The combat is about as interesting than watching pokemon fight 
 on a gameboy color and making friend by singing, dancing or whatever is stupid.
  
  3: Tribal phase. Finally your useless creature is now civilized and will have it's own village 
 along with other creatures. You can convert the other to your civilization with military or dance, 
 but all but one will declare war on your, so the dance is painfully useless this time. The combat 
 is also pretty boring and there is an issue with the difficulty curve that is like running into 
 a 1 foot paper wall
  
  4: civilization: That phase remind me a dumbed down version of supreme commander. You build your 
 horrible city, pretend you are having fun and you take the other towns. Of course you can do it 
 peacefully or not and 95% of the humanity will choose to wage war against everyone because peace/religion 
 is boring and long.
  
  5: Space: This one is probably the most interesting (or maybe the rest is so insipid that your 
 mind will accept anything at that point) Although it's the kind of phase that never finish and 
 got some grind quest  la World of Warcraft. After 1-2 hours you will press alt-f4 faster than 
 Oprah can eat a cake. The concept is good, but it miss something. Ho yeah depth!
  
  The creatue editor is the best thing out of the box, but not worthy of a 50$ for sure...
  
 
  
  Sound: insipid with an absent music (?) . Creatures noises are annoying.
  
  graphic: Good enought, but not enought option for those with stronger machine.
  
  value: 50$ 
 for 20 hours is still better than 50% of the game these day, but I don't think it will be 20 fun 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powrbyalienware
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games I've ever played. The game is not the deepest or most technically 
 advanced, but it has the raw fun needed to get one playing for hours on end. The root of this game's 
 fun is it's customization ability. There are limitless ways one can make and evolve their characters. 
 This game never gets old. There is always a new way to try, a new road to take.
  So why do I give this game an 8.5? Well, it's not too good at being a piece of software. Every 
 so often (I'd say every 10-15 hours of play) the game will crash and quit. I usually lose about 
 90 minutes of progress here. This is the only real fault of this game, but it makes me give this 
 game an 8.5 as opposed to a 9.5.
  This game breaks some new ground technically. The creature editors are more advanced than the Sims 
 by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  For a game thats been in development for several years it turned out to be quite ho-hum. The first 
 stage had me feeling like I was playing Pac-man without walls, the second stage I felt like I was 
 playing Simon-says. The list goes on, each evolutionary stage is a watered down mini-game of a 
 different genre. It really does get boring fast and that is quite disappointing since I was hoping 
 for more from the man who brought us the endless Sims world.
  
  However the worst is the DRM protection used in this title, you get 3 activations and after that 
 you have to call a toll line and beg EA for more and they state "handled on a case by case basis" 
 so they might just say no and give you no reason. Worse is that an activation can be burnt if you 
 do minor changes to hardware such as a videocard and heaven forbid you decide to revisit this game 
 in years to come so for you system tinkers who like to swap gear into and out of your Pc OR for 
 those retrogamers who enjoy picking up an old title be warned this game is more akin to a high 
 priced limited life rental than a game you will be able to enjoy years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: issanity
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  At the beginning stages, it is quite easy and entertaining. It goes pretty quickly to get to space 
 stage. Once there the game just begins. You begin to setup alliances, begin trade routes and get 
 your badges. Teraform planets take over planets or form alliances that are up to the player. That 
 is the great thing about Spore; you do what you want to do. You play how you want to play. You 
 build your universe. Set up colonies on planets and mine the planets for resources. The game is 
 just brilliant and beautiful.
  
  You make your creature and world the way you want. There is also talk of bringing in multiplayer 
 options in future expansions such as going into other players galaxies, setting up alliances with 
 them, or attempting to take them over for yourself.
  
  Then they're doing expansions over the next 5 years expanding everything, and adding more content.
 
  
  Great game 10/10 all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queen_rocks
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  First, I've waited for this game since it was announced. The thought of playing as a "god" was 
 just great. When the creature creator was released, I played the demo and even eventually bought 
 the full version. I couldn't wait for the full game to be released.
  
  So, as for Spore, first I thought it was fun, but not as much as I thought it would be. The first 
 stage in the ocean is fun one time or two, but as it's always the same thing eat/defend yourself/attack/eat.... 
 it gets boring in no time.
  Then the creature stage. I had a lot of fun in that stage for the first 2/3 creatures I did, but 
 it's just so repetitive that it gets annoying. The tribal stage is like a cheap, easy RTS with 
 no substance at all, kill your enemy, or play music to entertain them... WTF? The civilization 
 stage ain't much better.
  The first time I played it, I was an economic civilization, and within no time, I had only enemies 
 and I couldn't trade with anyone, therefore, couldn't conquer any city. Eventually, after spending 
 a lot of spore money on "gifts" I was able to make an ally, buy one of it's military cities, and 
 then I simply whipped the other cities with my military units. What's the point of being economic, 
 when the only option is the military one?!?
  So I evolved to space age, and damn it gets boring in no time. I never actually finished it since 
 it's always the f*c*i*g same thing, You get a mission, you do it, a colony gets attacked, you defend 
 it, you get another mission, but first you have to defend another colony, then you do the mission.... 
 and frankly after 2-3 hours, I just had enough.
  
  So finally, I played maybe 18 hours, and now I feel like it was a total waste of time and money.
 
  The idea behind this game is great, but the way it's been realized, it just don't deliver the 
 hype it was supposed to. Every creature acts the same way, everything gets extremely predictable 
 when you play all 5 stages and the worst in all is that from my point of view, it has no re-playability 
 at all. Everything gets just so boring.
  
  That is why I give this game a 3.5/10 and I call it a "total letdown". It just failed to deliver 
 what it was supposed to and it's like there's to much stuff, but everything is too superficial. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endgamecutter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  spore is a bit too easy to get through the first 4 stages, making the space stage the main game. 
 the stats for certain pieces on creature phase was a bad idea, because it can stifle creativity, 
 and the concequence traits are unbalanced (mainly because money is so easy to come by) , but thats 
 just the bad of the game. the good side to spore is that theres just so much you can do with it. 
 people make all sorts of creature for you to meet, warfare is always fun if your stuff is ready 
 for it (basicly means in a swarm for all stages but cell and space, cell doesn't matter, and in 
 space you need to upgrade the hell out of your ship) and befriending is always a good idea. although 
 it has issues that could do with some work (the 5 spice capacity in space stage is a bit small 
 when my planet is producing 98 spice an hour, and money is just so easy to aquire) its still a 
 game i'd recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  With what to start ? Probably with the beginning... The game is amazing , just what I think , it 
 doesn't have to be true but with this game I discovered that even simple and somewhat childish 
 features - like building houses or mixing up parts to create some little living things - can be 
 more than that . This game offers you freedom and only with few directions lets you enjoy or cry 
 about your decisions and most of all gives you the "God-like" role. You and the creature , you 
 and the space , you and the little plants and animals that have to be placed on a first deserted 
 and melted rock planet in order to create a highly enjoyable place: D. I just love it ... and love 
 to blast planets: D ... and to earn badges :D ... and to travel to one system to another to find 
 artifacts , or just to terra sculpt ... this game is fun ... and addictive!!!
  
  Today - 21.09 I finally got to the center of the Galaxy ! Damn those Grox creatures ... they are 
 on to me :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil108
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : 8 / 10 
  Looks nice, but was disappointed with how the game seemed to limit FPS at 30.
  
  Gameplay: 
 4 / 10
  You ever stay up too late and see only infomercials ? Thats what i get from playing this game. 
 
  
  It tries ... to be ... a little bit ... 
  of everything ...
  that succedded 
  in the way of gaming in the past. 
  
  First its pacman (cell stage whatever its called)
  Then 
 its "The Sims" (creature stage) ,
  Then its Warcraft/starcraft/ meets age of empires (tribal stage) whatever. 
  It tries to take 
 a little slice off the pie of all 
  these great games and mix them into one big mash.
  Bleh... It doesnt work and fails miserably.
  If i want to playThe Sims" ill play the sims.
 
  If i want to play "age of empires" or any of the latest strategy game ill play that game. 
  
  Next they should have an "FPS" stage where your creature tries to defend against some other 
 creature. 
  Ohh wait thats counterstrike. 
  
  Either way. Bad game all around. IMO.. Give it a 6 at most a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to know where to start . So let's start at the very beginning there's a tiny little 
 creature, moving around in two dimensions. It's eating things. It's growing bigger. It's growing 
 extra bits. It's pretty cute. It's not doing much.
  Now, just to get the idea let's skip to the end. you're flying around in a UFO, in a universe containing 
 millions of stars, populated with uniquely created alien races and you're interfering and playing 
 with them in any way your enormo -- skulled alien space god mind can allow . It's the same game. 
 Getting from that tiny speck of life to that spaceship in a huge universe is both the whole story, 
 and only the beginning . It's a game with no end. It's really somewhat impressive, even if it doesn't 
 work. Which it may not. Isn't this exciting!
  Essentially, the core of the game is following that spore of life through its creation, going through 
 all the stages of existence. This means the game changes its genre several times in its history. 
 It starts with something resembling Pac Man becomes ac action game (when it goes 3D with you hunting 
 and running away) , then a social simulator (when you get a small tribe) , turns into a management 
 game (when you turn into a town) , a war game (when other towns start to war with yours) and finally 
 steps into space and becomes a play-box of everything you can imagine it's a special idea, but 
 a couple of features make it stand out even more. Firstly, it's not just following a pre generated 
 creature. As you develop you earn the ability to mutate and change your beast, altering all its 
 pieces in a seeming endless number ways. The game then looks at what you've made, and using Clever 
 Game Science, works out how it would move. secondly, as you do this the game's uploading your creature 
 online for everyone else to play against, and vice versa. It's a big idea, to say the least. The 
 very biggest. There's never been anything quite like this before, and no one knows what to make 
 it of . Finally a game where next generation means just that
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arvendragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game from beginning to finish. I still haven't completed the game, but everything 
 so far is great.
  
  During the Cell and Creature stages, you will be amazed at the easy-to-learn game, yet be surprised 
 at what you find and learn to enjoy the game. At the beginning, this is excellent.
  
  Next is the Tribal and Civilization stages. It is only here that this epic game truly suffers. 
 Tribal stage and Civilization stages are quite boring. There is not enough options. The Tribal 
 stage is mildly interesting, and is very fun to play with, but in Civilization, this game could 
 have been so much more. With only three vehicles, it can get boring quickly. There is next to no 
 resource management. All you do is run around with ONE vehicle, claiming spice geysers, and attack 
 cities while the AI does NOTHING! Then, once you conquer you continent, you finally realize that 
 all your land vehicles are USELESS! Without any way to transport them, you'll be stuck there. Luckily, 
 you'll be able to sell all your buildings in order to build houses. This stage would've been better 
 with more options, and at the very least they should have copied an excellent strategy game such 
 as Command and Conquer in some aspects.
  
  But, eventually, you get out of the hellhole that is the past two stages, and finally enter Space. 
 The Space stage is awesome, with so many planets to explore, so many awards, that you'll find yourself 
 just wandering from planet to planet. I find that just wandering from planet to planet randomly 
 destroying them is REALLY fun.
  
  However, Space is the last stage. It is, however, amazing and will last a VERY long time. The creators 
 are very in-depth and fun.
  
  In the end, this is an excellent game, through it has things that it should have, such as online 
 multiplayer, deeper content, etc., it is an EXCELLENT game. A must have for any strategy/RPG/Sim 
 fan.
  
  GL&HF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -carrots-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  cell phase-9.5/10
  here, you started as a single cell, the mission here is to become bigger by eating meat or plants. 
 depending on the type of food you eat, you can become carnivore, herbivore and omnivore. each food 
 you take, there's a DNA points earned, then that DNA points can become upgrades, like spike, electric 
 etc
  
  creature phase- 9.5/10
  creature phase is one of my favorite in spore. here we can design our animal physical appearance. 
 of course by getting DNA to have upgrades. we can have wing, horn, sharp teeth etc...
  
  tribal phase- 8/10
  tribal phase has the lowest because it is the easiest phase. but nevertheless, 
 it is still fun. tribal phase is critical because it can determine what type of civilization you 
 will do in the next phase, which will affect the space phase too. also the features in creature 
 stage will not be applicable anymore.
  
  civilization phase- 9/10
  here in civilization phase, your species becomes the superior of all, just like this world right 
 now which is the human. here the goal is, to ally with all nation or to conquer all. i gave it 
 9 because there are 3 choices to try. economic, military, religious. depending on what you did 
 in tribal phase.
  
  space phase- 10/10
  the space phase is my favorite phase. it has an ginormous map and so many thing to do. my favorite 
 part is the terraforming of planets. altough it lacks some sci-fi things it is still fun. 
  
  The genre of space phase is first person. the camera always follows wherever your ship goes. 
 and then shooting other ship is fun. Civ and tribal is RTS, creature, rpg, while cell is 2d rpg
 
  
  Other - 9.3/10
  The Building system is the most fun part of the game. we can build almost everything in this game 
 the only thing we can't build is the solar system itself and the trees. anyway, it is 10/10 because 
 it has very large and good amount of parts.
  
  Overall (gameplay) - 9.0/10
  ---------------------------------------------
  Music - (8.5/10)
  The background music is nice 
 to hear. not outstanding but nice in the ears.
  ----------------------------------------------
  Graphics - (9/10)
  ----------------------------------------------
 
  User Bump - (8/10)
  it is a very good game. and i really like it. but the crashes it made a bad impression for me.
 
  
  
  score - 8.5/10
  
  buy it or rent it?
  buy it. it is a must try game! even female or parents will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corelis
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, after deciding not to buy a new graphics card just to play this game, i hijacked my wife's 
 laptop and tried it out, for a while. and Although I found the game enjoyable thus far, it isn't 
 that type of game I find myself rushing home from work to spend hours playing. The exact thing 
 I fantasized doing after the announcement was made at GDC '05. 
  
  Perhaps I had to much expectation for this game with all the waiting and such or perhaps I have 
 simply too much action/rpg on the brain to find this very enjoyable.
  I REALLY WANT to enjoy this game, but it's lacking something, and in my opinion, that something 
 is F. U. N
  
  Perhaps it is each level is too short and leaves you wondering what the purpose was in the first 
 place. Perhaps that when you do start to excel at one stage, another stage is ready for you to 
 Learn the game all over again. 
  Perhaps the game simply not functioning when I installed it in my 2006 non-pci express computer 
 I haven't had the want for this game.
  
  All in all I give this game a 6.0 of 10.00 it's environments and creature creator are the only 
 thing I think that gets this game over mediocre 5.
  
  I really wanted this to get a 10.00 but with hype comes disappointment.
  
  ~core
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sejuhasz
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Scroll down for a summary.
  
  
  Spore is a somewhat fascinating game - In concept.
  
  Too bad concept doesn't equal completion, we've been waiting on Spore for I do believe 4 years 
 now. Spore isn't your typical game, you start off as a tiny little cell creature and evolve into 
 an entire race of galactic conquerors!
  
  The graphical qualities of Spore are very very nice, though I wish you could see further in the 
 creature stage and I think everything needs another coat of antialiasing, the sounds are charming 
 and well; it's just great, the graphics and the sounds; However the gameplay is... lackluster.
 
  
  The cell stage can be a lot of fun, it plays sort of like Pac Man, you're a unique creature with 
 one goal; eat. Eat like a starving Etheopian child at a Los Vegas buffet (Oh boy that was in bad 
 tastes.) anyway, the cell stage will bring a smile to your face, it's smooth, fast, awesome.
  
  Then you grow legs, into the creature phase, this is when things start sucking man meat, depending 
 on what your creature did in the cell stage you can choose to befriend or kill enemy creatures, 
 if you choose to befriend them you're forced to play Simon Says if you choose to kill them you're 
 forced to play what seems like level 4 World of Warcraft, this isn't too bad but after 2-3 hours 
 it just feels painful and boring.
  
  Once you've grown a large enough brain by defending or killing you form a tribe, at this stage 
 you're essentially playing Age of Empires - Only it sucks, and you only have 6 buuldings, and 4 
 kinds of units. This continues if you'd rather kill or befriend enemy tribes, there's really not 
 much to say about it, some of your creatures gather food, others dance and sing or maybe they pummel 
 your enemies into the dirt.
  
  Finally, once you've decided to deal with all 6 of the other tribes the game picks up again, you 
 get to build an entire city, create and customize the buildings, vehicles, everything, it now turns 
 into a very good Civilization clone, it's like Civilization without the turn based and micromanaging, 
 it's fun. You can choose to conqueror enemy cities via force, religion, or trade routes, it plays 
 well, doesn't last too long, and is extremely interesting, I loved this stage.
  
  After taking over or converting enemy cities your people discover the ability to go into space, 
 the game grinds to a halt here, you can probe creatures, terraform planets, take of enemy worlds, 
 but when it's all done there is really nothing left to do. It's like being given your FAVORITE 
 sandwich and you're half way done with munching it when some big fat man comes and steals your 
 other half, you were just getting to enjoy it, love it, and it's taken away from you, so you're 
 satisfied but that's all - You're only satisfied.
  
  That's what Spore is - A single run through, 11 hours-ish, expect no more.
  
  You disappointed 
 me, Maxis.
  
  Summary - Spore has ambition, if you love creating things Spore is the game for you, if you don't 
 - Then go play Halo 3 you snot nosed brat, if you were expecting deep gameplay from Spore, you're 
 wrong, stats are the only thing that matters, anatomy has no impact on the game, Spore is really 
 just 5 very very watered down other games. 6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  With online play the game is better than if they'd kept it single player. However, Spore gets really 
 monotonous after you hit the space faring portion. The ideas and concept up to that point are brilliant 
 and I had a load of fun. The minute I got to Space faring it felt like I was doing deliveries and 
 easily destroying anything in my path. To sum it up:
  
  Graphics: 9.5 - Even for being cartooney the designers did a great job on giving the "awe" factor 
 right from the start.
  
  Sound: 9 - The music gets old after awhile but the sound quality and humor that the races present 
 during your travels is great.
  
  Difficulty: 5 - This is one of two factors that killed the game for me. It is not difficult at 
 all. Single player is easy however if you meet someone who in multiplayer who feels like annihilating 
 you early on.. you're dead.
  
  Gameplay: 5 - This is the other portion that ruined the game for me. While the controls and UI 
 are easy to grasp it almost felt like the game was made for toddlers. The character/vehicle/building 
 creator are the only reason this got a 5 and not a 2-3. The creation system is remarkable and unlike 
 any game I've ever seen to date.
  
  Overall: 7.1/10 - I will probably dust this off once in awhile just to play everything up to the 
 space portion and then set it aside again. I was more impressed by what I saw in the 2006 convention 
 when the game was still in the works and was the only reason I played this game. In my opinion 
 a total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Initially, this game comes off as very charming and tricking you into thinking there may be depth.
 
  Well I'll spoil the surprise right here and now; there is no depth.
  The majority of the time, you get about 5 choices to make. No more than ten. And none really ever 
 pack a punch.
  
  Creature stage, you get maybe 3 options to attack.
  Or charm for that matter. The entire creature-tribal civilization stages seem geared towards propelling 
 you as quickly and as unnoticably as possible to the galactic stage.
  Move to this planet
  Move to that planet
  Stick this on that planet
  The scale is huge, but it's all basically the 
 same. Need more atmosphere? plop down an atmosphere generator.
  Then Plant tree and animals, walaa, you have the next 40 hours planned out ahead of you.
  
 
  Let's not forget the attacks by pirates or enemy nations on your planets/colonies every five seconds.
 
  These battles are just aggravating and boring.
  Chase two ships around and shoot them.
  Or take on a small armada. How do you take on an armada? You fly in circles and hold the attack 
 button, counting on the idiocy of the AI to miss you because it can't handle shooting at you whan 
 you move in a small circle.
  
  All in all, I'd say get the creature creator, not this game. Unlock all the parts and just build 
 until your bored, because the game built around the creator is just bland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qq151069
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Spore is a fun game. It is fun amassing large fleets to pummel your opponents. It is fun spreading 
 religious dogma to other cities. It is fun just being able to customize everything. However, it 
 doesn't have quite the kick nor the depth to be expected from other "Sim-XXXX" titles. And while 
 the tribal stage was fun, but it seemed more akin to an interlude than to an full-bonafide stage. 
 The Civilization stage is prone to "cheese" techniques. I have not yet reached the Space stage 
 so I cannot comment on that. But I do feel that the game is more of a creative canvas than a game 
 itself, and if that is what you are looking for, this is the game for you. Despite these deficiencies, 
 Spore still suffers from the dreaded "Just one more turn" effect. So... watch out... Time really 
 flies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStranger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  It pains me to write this review, but I have been following and talking up spore to my friends 
 for years now so when I got the game I wanted to love it. But the sad fact is while I do like it, 
 it is not the game I thought it would be.
  
  If your reading the review I'll spare you the details of each section of the game and get right 
 into critique.
  
  1. Cell - surprisingly fun, but much to short and with a limited selection of body parts. Not to 
 mention I haven't had the game pull in other users cells, I just see the same ones each time.
 
  
  2. Creature - my biggest complaint (and it will be repeated) is that abilities don't stack. You 
 want to spend all your DNA on spikes to create a harbinger of doom, have fun, it may look good 
 but it packs as much bite as that bunny with one lil horn on its forehead. This makes body parts 
 largely cosmetic and the creature much less diverse than they appear.
  
  3. Tribal - boring, but luckily it was neither long nor challenging, you can get through this in 
 an hour, the best part is the lullaby music that plays when a new creature is born into your tribe.
 
  
  4. Civilization - plays like a lightweight RTS, there can be a challenge if you let there. Again 
 the attributes of the parts on your vehicles don't stack, making it a pretty dress up game with 
 little variety.
  
  5. Space - I've seen it hailed as the reason for the game, the part everything else leads up to. 
 I won't say it isn't fun, after all I have sunk plenty of time into it, but it gets repetitive. 
 The missions you are given are largely the same. Exploration gets annoying since your planets are 
 constantly on the brink of disaster and you are the only one who can run back from across the galaxy 
 to kill a diseased animal.
  
  I am admittedly being harsh, it is a fun game, and my girlfriend who isn't a gamer is getting into 
 it (it is a good game to ease in with as it's elements are basic) I just hope that patches in the 
 future make parts stackable so that creatures/vehicles/spaceships become more dynamic and that 
 the cell stage is fleshed out with more parts and user created content.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  It was not until the middle of the Space age when I realized how addicted I am and how great this 
 game actually is.
  
  Up to that point I considered Spore as some childish Sims-like painting and building game; very 
 fun to go through once, but nothing challenging or worth remembering. 
  
  All the stages were too easy to even bother going into the details (if there are any) , so I was 
 expecting to go over the Space stage in the same manner and call it a day.
  
  Yes, but no. When I was wiped out by another race I was like "What the heck? How this could happen, 
 I created such a beautiful buildings and even painted them! And my creatures had all the eyes and 
 legs put in the right places! What's wrong with you, game?" 
  
  The thing is, that when you reach the Space age, you start a totally new game, and a darn good 
 one! This stage is a mixture of some strategic elements from Civilization with the great feeling 
 of freedom of Homeworld.
  
  It turned out that all other stages were only a warm-up for what was meant to be the real game 
 - the last stage!
  
  I am not going to go into details about the Space stage, as I am not going to do your work of finding 
 out how deep, diverse and addictive this game is. But let me tell you that: if you did played the 
 game, but didn't get to the Space age or haven't played at least 1/3 of it (and by looking at the 
 community score I bet half of you guys haven't) , and you think "OK, I gave this one a chance", 
 then think again! You actually haven't played the game, not even a small bit of it. 
  
  If that's the case with you - give it a try again and this time - give it some time. You can even 
 unlock the Space age with some cheats and play it straight ahead. Then come back here and fix your 
 darn score! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoness27
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Well, I'm going to keep this short & sweet, since I feel the game's strength and flaws have already 
 been written in detail in other reviews... The best part of this game is undoubtedly the creature 
 creator and the ability to design other stuff like vehicles and buildings I spend alot of time 
 designing creatures before the game's release and enjoyed it.... the actual game though, is so hugely 
 overhyped.
  For a game that's been in development for 8 years its a remarkable let-down in my humble opinion. 
 What exactly were the developers doing for 8 years? Far better games have been produced in a fraction 
 of that time.
  
  For many younger kids this game is sure to be a blast, and its fun anyone of any age for a while 
 if you like to create stuff, but the gameplay is just too damn shallow hook you in for that long. 
 Add on top of that the ridiculous anti-piracy software tacked on it, and its not really worth the 
 buy, especially if you're a gamer that likes depth in their gameplay. This is definately one of 
 the most overhyped up games ever like Too Human. Look elsewhere if you want depth in your gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I've read a lot of post written by people who are critically analyzing Spore. I believe when you 
 do that you miss the point. I compare Spore to a box of Legos. You don't give a kid a box of Legos 
 and say "Here is your objective and here's how to get there." What you do is you give the kid the 
 box and let him figure out what his objectives are. That's what you have to do with Spore. Do you 
 want to evolve something that is more or less realistic? Do you want to make a peaceful herbivore? 
 Do you want to wipe out all the tribes on the planet? Will you slowly expand your space empire 
 by carefully terraforming each planet you own to the max? Do you want to be Captain Kirk and set 
 off exploring the galaxy? 
  
  That's what I like about the game. You can play it so many ways depending on what you're in the 
 mood for. Sure there are some bugs and some things that would make it better. Sadly today, what 
 game comes out perfect? As long as you've got your imagination handy you can make your own goal 
 and go for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clipboarder
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  spore seemed to have had so much promise but instead of becoming the game of all games, the epic 
 master-piece of the creator of sim city and the sims, it turns out to be a sequence of shallow 
 time consuming mini-games and not the masterpiece it is marketed to be. sure the creator creator 
 is fun if you are 10 years old and have a lot of time to kill. yes, the graphics are great and 
 the social aspect of sharing creatures is a nice touch although not as innovative as many make 
 it out to be.
  
  i'm surprised that the gamespot reviews are fairly high, while other sites and stores have horrible 
 user ratings. besides the simplistic gameplay i'm quite shocked by the DRM from hell. i've given 
 up on windows due to it's nagging re-occuring DRM and i bet spore will prove equally if not more 
 annoying... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrobasinnu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Usually with a game like this I would get bored within about 5-8 hours of playing, but for some 
 reason I am playing it more and more as the game goes on.
  
  It's not your typical sim/strategy game. It has many elements that make up the game and make it 
 the way it should be.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing remotely mindblowing, but they aren't as bad as some games that have 
 come out recently. They are great for the creature stage, but other than that they are good.
  
  Obviously the space stage is a massive game on it's own, but creating your creature and influencing 
 everything up until then is pretty cool. It's not as though you were stuck with whatever the developers 
 set up as the basic race, but you've created an empire from a microscopic being and it only took 
 4-5 billion years! (aka about 2 hours)
  
  I have 3 races in the space stage (from cell level up, no shortcuts for me) and one I have a massive 
 empire of near 50 solar systems. It's very enjoyable to watch the game grow and knowing that there 
 are hundreds of millions more systems to explore and conquer.
  
  It seems as though EA is taking care of the game as the first patch was released today with a couple 
 very good improvements.
  
  Great game. I suspect I will be putting many more hours into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane_Swordman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, seriously now, Spore is one of the best games I've played, and I've played a lot of games. 
 Spore is easy, first, you make a simple cell in the cell stage, then it grows legs and becomes 
 a creature in the creature stage, then you gain fire and huts in the tribal stage, tribal is your 
 first form of sentence. After your humble beginnings to sentence in the tribal stage, you become 
 even smarter, in civilization stage, lastly, you build a spaceship and travel your spiral-galaxy 
 in space stage. So that's a summary of the stages, the graphics are simple, although requires some 
 pixel shading. You create the creatures, so it is extremely customizable, you design the creatures, 
 the outfits, the vehicles, and the buildings. The replayability is outstanding, as you can make 
 different creatures with different abilities, or disabilities, though... Disabilities are bad for 
 creatures. As a carnivore, you eat others, or as a herbivore, you eat plants, or to be an omnivore, 
 you eat EVERYTHING! I don't recommend the DS version, though, RIP-OFF! The PC version is highly 
 recommended, though. Sound is good, graphics are good, gameplay is good, and it is also fun because 
 you view the game from many prospectives, as you evolve. Truly worth the 8.5/10 I gave it. 
  
  Now It's Less addictive, and Short.
  
  After you play it... take a break form it. Then when 
 you decide to play it again, It's shiny and fun again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  While Spore is not an overly complex game, it manages to mix just enough of the right elements 
 at the right time to make it a very good game. Will it be a "classic"? Maybe it should be.
  
  Spore is played in five seperate "eras" or stages. The first is the cell stage. Here you have 
 very simple goals... grow and survive and evolve from very simple to just a bit more complex. Think 
 of the cell stage as a tutorial on the over-all game. While you are doing very simple tasks like 
 finding food, you are also learning how the creature creator works. Simple and effective.
  
  The second stage is the creature stage. Here your goals are similar to the cell stage but you 
 have added abilities and goals. One goal is to make friends or elimiante your competitors. The 
 other is to find more and more complex parts to move your creature along that evolutionary path. 
 Here to you get to choose how violent or non-violent you creature will be. You also choose more 
 of your basic appearence and abilities.
  
  The third stage is the tribal stage. Here you compete not as a one on one creature but a thinking 
 early civilization based upon choices you made in the previous two stage. You can be a warrior 
 tribe and go out and bash your nieghbors or you can make nice and be friends. Again, you have to 
 worry about food and here too your choices are varied. You can gather fruit or kill game or domesticate 
 the wild animals to provide eggs as food. You can even steal food from your nieghbors or they might 
 be convinced to give you food if you are friends. 
  
  The fourth is the civilization stage. Here again, choices you made in the previous stages reflects 
 you your choices and options in this stage. If you are more in to the non-violent approach, you 
 might not attack your enemy civilations with guns. Instead, you might send ships or vechiles to 
 their cities and trade with them. Or, you might send in religious units to convince them that you 
 are the best civ around so that they join you in your quest for global domination. But of course, 
 you can send in the tanks and blow then to dust. Global conquest is the ultimate goal and getting 
 there takes a lot of strategy.
  
  The fifth and final stage is the space stage. Here everything comes together. All those choices 
 made in the previous four stages come together to deterine your place in the galaxy.... and what 
 a big galaxy it is. You start with one planet and one space ship. From there, well, the sky is 
 the limit. You can explore new worlds; colonize planets; make new friends; terraform planets to 
 your taste; find relics; and many more things that will keep you busy for hours.
  
  On top of all this is the creation portion of the game. Here you have the most flexibility as you 
 will, in stages, be given the chance to make everything you need in the game... from you creatures 
 multitude of appearences to the details your spacecraft. Here Spore really out shines any game 
 out there today or ever for that matter. There has been no game that this author can think of that 
 has ever given so much freedom to what you can do.
  
  Will Spore be a classic? Who knows. All the elements are there. It is fun and it is creative. On 
 top of all that, it works out of the box. Very refreshing coming from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillsoriano
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  SPORE is a very innovative game talking about the part that make this THE FIRST GAME that lets 
 you fully build, modify and USE your very own and personalized characters in different instances. 
 I think thats the best part of the game, and of course, is a good emotion to see the ship you designed 
 interacting with the environment. About the "game play" (sincerely I was expecting something else) , 
 I can recognize that the actual proposal is really cool, but to make the game a 9.0, some element 
 is missing. Talking about the bad parts, the game turns a little monotonous when you have to travel 
 around the star systems SEEKING for every single task to keep advancing through the game. And why 
 not say, the part where you have to fight ALONE against another 5 bad ships until you can get allies 
 to help you.
  
  EA has to do something else to upgrade this cool game and make it more dynamic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delacroy
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  As youve heard before (or if you havent) the game is composed of five stages, each being a game 
 in its own, and each very much resembling other games. This was playing with fire. On one side 
 its something new in a game, on the other, youve seen it all before. 
  
  You may like one stage of the game, but you may not like the other. They are very much simplified, 
 i presume to keep costs down, and most importantly, to fuse it all together and make it fun for 
 kids. Which is ok. But it kinda kills it for us who like serious games.
  
  Ill use the civilization stage as an example. It is supposed to become more of a strategy game 
 at this point. Yet you can only have one type of land vehicle at a time. You would think that building 
 your city in this stage would be something engaging, with Maxis being the creator of SimCity, but 
 it isnt. You just design 4 (or was it 5? whatever) types of buildings, and place them on pre-set 
 possitions inside a circular wall.
  
  I found it to be boring. My sister, who is more a casual gamer than i am, found it fun.
  Basically, 
 the most fun both she and i had was the creating of things. Kind of like with The Sims, creating 
 them and their house is always more fun than watching them go on with their boring lives.
  
  Not to mention the horrible DRM that lets you install this game only 3 times... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icky27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  After spending two weeks with Spore and reading a great deal of what has been said about the game 
 I'm compelled to give my 2 cents just so that someone that would otherwise buy the game won't be 
 turned away, and another person that would trash the game doesn't buy it.
  
  First thing is first, the hype of this game was basically second to the second coming of Jesus, 
 and guess what, it's not Jesus, but it's a very good game if you look at it for what it is, not 
 for what you thought it was.
  
  Considering that the game is broken into 5 pieces, which you have undoubtably read about by now 
 so I won't go in depth on them.
  
  The big thing to take into consideration is that no of the 5 stages are as advanced or as complex 
 as the benchmark games of those types. For example it is true that the Tribal stage is an RTS, 
 but only on the most basic of levels, if you're looking for the next Starcraft, go play Starcraft, 
 this is not it. Same can be said with the Civilization part. Don't let the name fool you, it is 
 as far removed from Civilization 4 as you can get.
  
  But here is the key thing, just becasue they are simple doesn't make them bad. The point of Spore 
 isn't about beating those stages, they are designed so that you will beat those stages. The challenge 
 is in how much you want to challenge yourself. For example if you love to play as a military power, 
 you'll steamroll the computer in no time, but if you try to do it in a playstyle that isn't your 
 instinct then you'll have a little bit more of a challenge.
  
  But why should I change my playstyle for the game? Becasue it's not really a game as much as it's 
 a toy and the end goal of it is to create YOUR galaxy and YOUR empire the way you see fit. And 
 that is where the game becomes a cousin of "The Sims" in that you're creating your game as you 
 go. And getting back to playstyles, you change them because of how you want to play once you get 
 to space to give you different bonuses.
  
  So is this game/toy for you? That really depends on what you are looking for. If you like to buy 
 a game and rush to the end making sure to beat it, then this probably isn't a game for you, it's 
 just not that hardcore by any means. If you want something that you can play with and tinker with 
 in a more casual way with some gameplay elements then this will probably delight you.
  
  Additionally there is a lot of complaints that the game is too shallow. Personally I have to agree 
 and disagree all at the same time. It's shallow in that there aren't a million different skills 
 and techs, and other stuff to find/build. But it's deep when you start to look at the interconnectivity 
 of all of the elements. For example the first time I reached space I thought that I'd basically 
 build my empire and start to roll over other empires at my leasure. After getting routed back to 
 my home planet I reassed my gameplan. The second time into space I made friends with all of the 
 races around me and this gave me time to build without having to deal with constant attacks (many 
 on the forums complain about the constant attacks, done right you can avoid them) .
  
  It's a game that can be a lot of fun and it's a very different style of RTS (if you could even 
 call it that) . My advice read up on the critic reviews as this game appears to be very polarizing 
 in that people either Love it or Hate it, there isn't a lot of middle ground. As for me, I'm loving 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  If you take its parts individually the entertainment level of spore would rank somewhere between 
 dismal and mindnumbing. When you attach them together in a string of cause and effect, generational 
 steps, Spore inexplicably becomes this overly addicting entity that, like its many lifeforms defies 
 classification.
  
  With its clever concept and gameline that is coherent. Spore wins on more fronts than it looses. 
 However spore DOES have its chinks in its well developed armor.
  
  The control in the cell stage can and is difficult at time. It could be smoother... especially if 
 you're like my wife and like to use the arrow keys to move around vs. you mouse users. 
  
  The creature stage is pretty sound. couldn't find a whole lot of flaws here other than running 
 into invisible walls when walking up hills. The control in this stage can be a little frustrating 
 and confusing as well.
  
  The civilization stage, to me seemed really short. More could have been done to the Civ stage to 
 define the outcome and development of our critters. That and the wardrobe choices for our now "civilized" 
 creatures seemed a tad limited. I'm sure future patches and expansions will more than make up for 
 this though.
  
  The meat of the game is all about the space level. You can zip through the first 5 stages in about 
 an hour and a half if you don't bother to collect all the evolutionary parts. 
  
  Space is a little confusing to start off with... it took me three game restarts to get it down. 
 The effort put into figuring it out is worth it though. Space the final frontier and final stage 
 of the game is what makes Spore so addictive.
  
  The brains behind the SIMS have been at this long enough to know how to put out a great game. I'm 
 sure that they knew when they sent the game to market that there where some areas in the game that 
 were thinner than others.
  
  One thing that puzzles me... for those of us that coughed up the $10 for the creature creator, months 
 before the release... you would have thought that would have come with a coupon for $10 off the 
 game... anyone else notice that you have to basically throw the creator away after installing Spore, 
 the game?
  
  Will EA reward their loyal fans by compensating those of us who spent that $10 on a exclusive pack 
 of builder parts and skins? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xguild
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not a big fan of SIM type games but I couldn't help but be attracted to the description 
 of the gameplay in some of the reviews so despite the DRM (Digital Rights Management) system I 
 took a crack at this one and I'm glad I did, but not for the reasons you might think.
  
  This is in fact a great game, but only if you are a 4 year old! When I first loaded it up it immediatly 
 caught the attention of my 4 year old son and he was immediatly in my lap for what turned out to 
 be a long yet very fun evening of us playing the game together. Its both simple enough for a child 
 to play and understand, cute enough to make the violant bits tolerable as a parent and actually 
 quite enjoyable as a whole if for no other reason than to see some of the funny faces my little 
 boy made when we played.
  
  Certainly as an adult and gamer I found the game too be just too simple to be playable. It lacked 
 any level of strategy or emersion as its predictable interface holds your hand all the way through. 
 Its a sort of sand box experiance which is great the first time around but by my second go I was 
 pretty much done with the game, although certainly its going to be on my hardrive indefinitly as 
 I know if I unstall it the DRM is without question going to screw me.
  
  I don't recommend the game to real gamers, but if you have kids in the 4 to 10 year old category 
 this is actually a wonderful game for them to play with as it has very limited violance and a very 
 endearing sense of cuteness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogartcool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Okay well first of all... I don't know what people are talking about saying its a bad game. I think 
 its actually pretty good, sure somethings could of been better, but i know i will be playing this 
 game for a long time to come. This game is based on creativity and loads of options, not a combat 
 system, and people just have to get over that fact if they are going to get a good feeling out 
 of this game like I did. 
  
  I find fun in the first stage when your raising your creature from the little cell stage. Its cool 
 to see your creature evolve, and see how much more powerful you CAN get over other species.
  
  Overall i think this game was well put together, but if they come out with a sequel, their 
 combat system should be more detailed... maybe certain abilities for a certain species? but the 
 game designers took on a gigantic topic of evolution, and turned it into-what i think-a clever 
 game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NapalmEddie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  I've read a lot of post written by people who are critically analyzing Spore. I believe when you 
 do that you miss the point. I compare Spore to a box of Legos. You don't give a kid a box of Legos 
 and say "Here is your objective and here's how to get there." What you do is you give the kid the 
 box and let him figure out what his objectives are. That's what you have to do with Spore. Do you 
 want to evolve something that is more or less realistic? Do you want to make a peaceful herbivore? 
 Do you want to wipe out all the tribes on the planet? Will you slowly expand your space empire 
 by carefully terraforming each planet you own to the max? Do you want to be Captain Kirk and set 
 off exploring the galaxy? 
  
  That's what I like about the game. You can play it so many ways depending on what you're in the 
 mood for. Sure there are some bugs and some things that would make it better. Sadly today, what 
 game comes out perfect? As long as you've got your imagination handy you can make your own goal 
 and go for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banana_Twist
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  This is the most ridiculous community response for a game that I have ever seen. Let's start with 
 the DRM because that's what all you Cretans are up in arms about.
  
  So you only get to install the game on 3 computers, I have no idea why you'd need it on more than 
 3 computers simultaneously. Not to mention they are patching this soon so you can UNREGISTER a 
 key from a computer. So unless you want to have some sort of odd LAN party with one spore account 
 this should not be a problem. And that's another thing, when has a game with an online aspect EVER 
 let you register multiple accounts with one copy of the game? Never, this is how they determine 
 who is a paying customer. Onto the gameplay.
  
  Spore is never unfun. Sure it is less fun at times then others and more fun at other times entirely. 
 So if you you a lot of fun at the space and not as much earlier why is the game penalized for that. 
 An upward slope of entertainment is a bad thing? You don't go to movies and hope the ending sucks 
 so that you can enjoy the beginning more in retrospect. Why do this with a game? "Each stage lacks 
 depth." WHAT!?
  
  Stop compartmentalizing the game, the game gets increasingly complex with each stage. The choices 
 you make in each stage decide the gameplay elements of each stage thereafter culminating in 9 different 
 possible classes in the space stage. Picture it like an active creature creator. Imagine you were 
 playing an RPG and you wanted to be a Warrior, but instead of just picking it you had to play through 
 stages of your character's life; making choices that are deciding factors in the outcome and gaining 
 skills along the way. This is why the space stage is much deeper, because IT IS THE GAME.
  
  You all think you can change reality by being extremists, this is how the game is; stop trying 
 to influence a change and see if you can actually enjoy it. With all the hyped games that have 
 actually been crashing and burning lately (mercenaries2/force unleashed) it's an insult to your 
 own intelligence to sit here and moan about a game that makes it well above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueliquidplus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Spore, a galactic single player game that stretches across all of the milky way, but 
 is it everything they promised? Is it up to the hype?
  
  In one word yes and in another no.
  
  My personal review is after reaching space stage several 
 times.
  
  It all starts in the Cell Stage, and in this stage you have a 2D game play that almost never gets 
 old and is quite addictive in an Atari 2600 kinda way. You can start as an Herbivore or an Carnivore 
 in the Cell Stage and begin to eat your way to sentience, but you have to unlock parts along the 
 way to spend your DNA points on.
  A simple, easy, and fun 2D Game.
  
  Once you finish the Cell stage you enter the Creature stage, and this seems to be the most involved 
 you will be personally with your creature as you begin to unlock the parts that will allow you 
 to create the creature you've been dreaming of. After playing in EASY and HARD you get a bit involved 
 in finding the parts for your creature. Wings let you "glide", feet can let you dance or charge 
 or jump, and your hands are good for posing or removing a face or two.
  
  Once you finally reach the end of the Creature stage you've unlocked all the parts you want, or 
 you can continue hunting for them, you will advance from having a mere 3 team mates to a full RTS 
 style Tribal Mode.
  
  Tribal Mode is pretty run of the mill, but you can make some decisions. You can fish, harvest eggs 
 of domesticated creatures, find seaweed, kill creatures, or harvest fruit and all of these are 
 required to advance as your money in this stage is purely your food supply.
  
  Tribal mode can be difficult if you wanted to be a more industrious line as some creatures can 
 go against your decisions, but otherwise it can be pretty run of the mill with "Kill this" "Charm 
 that". Engaging but you want to get through it usually quickly.
  
  The Tribal mode ends when you've killed or allied with all of the other tribes and this takes you 
 into Civ mode which can be quite fun depending on what class you end up (Military, Economic, or 
 Religious) and also difficult depending on if you have it set on Easy or Hard.. Easy is super easy, 
 but hard can be idiotic with how fast the otherside attacks.
  
  Once you finish the Civilization Mode it takes you into Space which is the longest and last mode 
 of the game, and it can be pretty engaging but do not thing for a minute its easy.
  
  You can start out lucky and be near some economic races, or you can be unlucky and start next to 
 Religious (Followers of Spode) or Militaristic (Pay us or Die) as either of these will demand payment 
 and then attack if you fail to pay up.. kinda like the mob but on a galactic scale.
  
  The bottom line is that Spore can be very engaging, as the most detailed part is the editors. There 
 are several editors such as the Building, Vehicle, Creature, and Costume Editors and each one is 
 addictive in its own way.
  
  If you love (d) playing with legos, then you'll love building in the editors as you can spend hours 
 playing with a single building or spaceship to get it just how you want it.
  
  In the end, Spore delivers many different platforms and editors for you to play with to your hearts 
 content and the social part of the Spore. com website allows you to link up and rate creatures, 
 buildings, vehicles, or ships and comment on them or add them to your game to play with or against.
 
  
  ---
  Graphically, Looks great but do not be expecting Crysis.
  
  Sound/Music, Sounds are great as each creature can sound differently depending on the mouth you 
 put on it and the music is cool cause of the Music Editor for your cities.
  
  Game play, Addictive as you move around the different game modes.
  ---
  
  Minus a few things:
 
  The Flora Editor was promised to go with launch and was later pushed back to an unspecified date.
 
  The Sea Mode, for the creature evolution was also pushed back and is not included.
  
  Cell Mode: Doesn't show any of your creatures you made except for the Maxis Creatures.
  
  Creature 
 Mode: Even if you have wings you cannot fly up and grab food off branches you have to throw a stick 
 at it.
  
  Tribal Mode: No Issues.
  
  Civilization Mode: No Issues.
  
  Space Mode:
  Can be sucked into constant Pirate conflict, Eco Disasters, or get attacked by other 
 races.
  You only have your ship plus any ship you can get from your allies.
  
  Random Crashes:
  Game can and will randomly crash in the Space Mode.
  
  ---
  
  91 Hours 
 of game time, 6 species in space and lots of the universe to explore.
  
  Game is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of Simulations, nor i like to conquer the civilization or go through stone age to 
 space age.
  My first impression for SPORE was just like another Sim City clone, a little bit better.
  
 
  Ok, the Main Menu screen is very much self explanatory about the goals, which you will achieve 
 in SPORE.
  I selected a planet and started my life long journey as Cell. What? A 2D game, where you munch 
 on plants or meat (Depends on your choosing of Herbivore or Carnivore) to grow in size, as well 
 as try to escape from the other organisms larger or mightier then you. within 20 or so minutes, 
 you will get out of the water on land to make your nest and start to meet new life forms and grow 
 in size. Till now, your only source of addiction is how cute or funny these creatures are. Their 
 reactions, dance, joy and mating calls, all are exceptionally done, and push you to keep on playing 
 it for another few hours. 
  
  After 2-3 Hours of play, the real fun begins, where your brain grows larger and you discover fire, 
 immediately after that you are greeted with Tribal Age, where you are supposed to build Huts for 
 different tasks, like fishing, weapons & farming as well to conquer or Alley other tribes as well. 
 
  
  Tribal age is over in few hours of play, and you are leveled enough to be in Modern age, where 
 you can built all types of Vehicles & Buildings. You can conquer the other civilizations with Shear 
 force, Religion or by Allying them with Gifts & Cash. Modern age is where the Pure RTS formula 
 comes on its on, albeit simpler.
  
  Now, after conquering Modern Age, you are given the opportunity to Ride a Custom made Flying Saucer 
 and to far reaches of Space Where no one has gone before.
  
  As i stated before, I am no fan of Simulations, but Spore is so captivating, that I am stuck to 
 it. Every hour spent with it is an hour I rejoice over the accomplishment of my Creature, whether 
 its abducting aliens, Making a planet Inhabitable or Fighting the other Civ's.
  
  The Strongest point of Spore is , its Various Tools. You can use them endlessly to create new creatures, 
 vehicles & Buildings, it remain very fresh and funny.
  
  Also, Included is a sporepedia, an online directory with creations of other players, which you 
 can download for use in your own game.
  
  Overall, It is a must have for every family.
  
  That's it for now, Cause I am going for my next round of SPORE.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Youve heard all of the other stuff: how the creator is all this game is, stages are shallow, gameplay 
 mechanics, etc.
  
  I really dont see why so many people give spore a 6, unless you made your creature oh sooocute 
 and dont mind schlepping through the same 5 parts to put on your.
  
  If you get a kick out of playing with the creator, then good for you, and if you think $50 is a 
 small price to pay to spread your creations, and view others, then this is not the review for you.
 
  
  I played this game expecting something akin to Fable, with my choices shaping the future- or my 
 creature choices shaping my game. But this is not to be, because the creator is really something 
 seperate from the game.
  
  First big choice: herbivore or carnivore?
  
  why bother to worry; you can just change it in about 15 seconds. At any point in the game up to 
 the civilization stage, you can completely remake your creature- changing from winged carnivore 
 with spikes to a herbivore who shoots poision. Selling back parts is full price- so no worries 
 about that, and remaking is as simple as ckicking the mate button and going to the mating screen. 
 
  
  When I bought this game, even after its criticism of all of the stages, I thought that galactic 
 stage would make up for it. Sadly, though it is toted as the "real game" of spore- it seems like 
 nothing more than a wee bit of sandbox fun in terraforming planets, coupled with a gaming grind 
 that seems like I am playing a MMO, exploring random places by right clicking a lot, and getting 
 into fights where the controls are atrocious. 
  
  Overall the game really is pointless, as hard to beleive as it sounds. You can modify your creature, 
 but with no real depth to the changes in combat. You can make your vehicles look as cool as you 
 want, but they will have about the same statistics as a box on wheels. You can explore the depths 
 of space and millions of stars, about the same way you can watch any movie you want 40 times in 
 a row. This idea of pointlessness really doesnt hit you until you are playing the game, and beat 
 it the first time. This is why Spore has no replay value to me; I may have enjoyed the creature 
 creator 4 or 5 times, but the vehicle and house creators became tedious even as I was using them.
 
  
  Bottom line for me- a pretty hardcore gamer who enjoyed peggle, hated Oblivion, loves Company of 
 Heroes, and also plays Civ4- this game was really just a reminder that I have a lot of games that 
 do the stuff spore does, only better. Do yourself a favor and either buy AutoCad/Inventor to create 
 whatever you want, or pick from any game in any genre represented by spore, and chances are you 
 will have a better time.
  
  Oh, and the music was average, maybe a little better than I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Honestly... I dont see the point of playing SPORE, unless you plan on taking it to multi-player. 
 And for all the hype, and years of work, I just dont see the fruits of their labor.
  
  Graphics- Not bad, clean, easy on the eyes, but nothing ground breaking. In fact, nothing that 
 any good RTS (or whatever genre this is now) looks like today.
  
  Gameplay - Was I really that bored? Was it really that slow? It couldnt have been that easy? These 
 were all the things I kept saying to myself. But my final thought was, "Is this really it..." because 
 I kept waiting for the "wow" factor and it never came. In fact, I will admit I played right up 
 until I reached the [galactic] level and then quit. Just as I would get the controls down for one 
 level, they would flip flop them and it was a nightmare. Any RTS type game should not require you 
 to left click to move... or left click on one level then flip to another. The controls (IMHO) were 
 laid out terrible, and by no means intuitive. 
  
  Overall - I need to subtract an entire point just for keeping me on hold for so long and delivering 
 so little. Sorry, but it just wasnt up my alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game which has the elements of five different types of games, and while the reviewers 
 on this site trashed them, I am here to defend them. Spore is a game that along with evolution 
 gets progressively harder. There is a tremendous amount of replayability, so that you could recreate, 
 go about winning in a different method, etc. All of the creators are very simple to use, and there 
 are some stunning designs in the Sporepedia, or the collective data of all Spore users. The game 
 is very visually appealing and has tremendous sounds, almost as if the game knows when to play 
 music and when not to. There are also legitimately funny and cute times. The game is very easy 
 to grasp for anyone, only getting complex on the civ and space stages.
  
  Overall, this is a game that I can recommend to anyone without a single doubt, because the game 
 is so customizable. I think the only person who wouldn't like this game is someone who doesn't 
 believe in evolution... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  No need to talk about the game engine, graphics, sounds, gameplay, they already done that. You 
 all know that maxis always adds good gameplay, classy and shiny presentation, superbly designed 
 menus. User Friendly gameplay, easy controls, and bright graphics, never tiring your eyes.
  
  You always feel like in a candy shop when playing maxis games. But you realize soon enough 
 that there are no "main dishes" in a candy shop. And soon fed up from candies, you will go elsewhere 
 to eat something serious, without any memories of that shop that is maxis.
  
  Spore is the latest in their games that proves this point. You can create creatures, ships, spaceships, 
 structures, design them, edit them as u wish, you can even modify a planet. But for what?
  
  Well, if the simple fact that you just can edit anything in the game is not enough for you, 
 than forget the game. As all maxis games, there are no "purpose" or goal in spore. You just wonder 
 here and there. It is always a sight seeing of your own accomplishment.
  
  Many of you wonders "why a game like this has no Multiplayer? Why am I not satisfied just with 
 the single player? Why in all Maxis game I feel like there should be a multiplayer?"
  
  Here is the answer: Maxis started early with "social simulation" games. Sim City, Sims, endless 
 expansions, Sim Society, etc... In the begening, with limited internet, and no online play, it 
 was ok. But in 2008, Maxis still didn't realize that social simulation games are no longer needed 
 since people already simulate social life in MMORPGs.
  
  In short, the "why no multiplayer in spore" question is a paradox of Maxis trying to simulate an 
 "interactive-play" in an era when almost all games are interactive. They are good in innovation, 
 but they need renovation. they need to understand that they cannot persist with such games today.
 
  
  Blizzard could add a "Creator, Editor" in wow in less than a year, and break any game from maxis.
 
  
  EA always eager to earn the market earlier, without quiet finishing, leaving it for expansion, 
 will work fine for sports games but will not suit maxis which needs time.
  
  Well. must you buy spore? You may like it. Or not. Even if you are a big fan of it. It won't last 
 long. People already wait for its expansion, unsatisfied of his lacks.
  
  Spore is like a Sport car without wheels. Cool inside but nowhere to go.
  
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dluzh
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I loved the concept when the talk of the game started and was very eager to buy it when it came 
 out. What a disappointment. After several hours of play and going through all stages of "development" 
 I have a feeling that I played a number of separate games and not very good ones. The whole thing 
 has an arcade feeling to it and besides vast customisation options for your toons and cities, has 
 little to offer. One would be better off spending money on a well-developed strategy game rather 
 than on this weak attempt at "civilization" type gaming. Playing second time will be boring like 
 hell as lots of very repetitive actions required to progress in the game. The whole thing is an 
 attempt at mixing SIMs with strategy genre and both have been spoiled. I want my money back, please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak3111
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I mean everything i said in the little window thing. This game truly is amazing and innovative 
 etc. The space phase, it's too annoying. When Will Wright made the sims, he said the point of the 
 game to take care of your sims, as they cannot take care of themselves. When i was playing spore, 
 I was in the space stage when the cruel truth hit me: Will went back to his roots at the sims 1. 
 The "Fun" challenge of the sims 1, taking care of things that cant do so themselves. When im flying 
 my space ship, I get an alert: (your title here) We need help, We're being attacked!
  so u have to fly across the galaxy to stop aliens attacking ur planet because they r too retarded 
 to actually fight back like the other planets do when u fly by. I was flying in space, when an 
 unknown race says: U flew in our territory! THIS MEANS WAR!!!!!!!!!!!!
  So next thing i know, im simultaneously at war with 6 races, all attacking my planets who lack 
 the ability to defend themselves, as the turrets r as useless as throwing apples at a T-Rex. But! 
 before the space stage, the game is amazing. 
  However, despite all of its AMAZING early attributes, the game takes u to space stage and thats 
 the last impression u get from the game, which in my case was a bad one. U have to get spice to 
 get money. Thwe trade routes you set up give u no money whatsoever. they only pave the way so u 
 can buy THEIR SYSTEM. not the empire, the system. just the planet. so when i work for two hours 
 to get 1.5 million by selling spice, I just think WTF, all that for only this???
  Actually upon looking back it may just be pace of the game. The whole game u zip by, then u hit 
 the space stage, and u work for a long time for little result, that may be how the developers planned 
 it, but to me its like sticking a lead wall in front of a speeding minivan and then shooting the 
 van's burning remains.
  
  
  As I read on another review, this game has the Mass Effect effect. It's not too fun while ur playing, 
 but upon looking back, you realize its amazing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  OK When I first heard about Spore I was, Oh Yeah so what, but seeing reviews of it I decided to 
 dip my toe into the murky waters that is spore.
  
  Simple really, turn from a single cell into a world / galaxy dominating maniac or pacifist. 
 
  
  You start off playing as an amoeba and either eating your way through other amoeba or being a full 
 on veggie and eating everything green. Moving onto the land stage you have to sing dance or pose 
 your way to impress your fellow land beings. Or you could just simply annihilate them all. It goes 
 from Land to Tribal then onto Civilization then onto Galaxy Conquering.
  
  The Unique thing about Spore is the creature design, very fulfilling making a tiger like creature 
 that spits venom and is pink with bulbous eyes.....
  
  Get in there and get stuck in..... I am just at the civilisation stage and building buildings from 
 the ground up is time consuming to say the least.
  
  Enjoy your time slipping away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Spore its here at last, and I think it is the revolutionary game of the year.
  The fact of creating a unique living creature its just awesome, and assisting the entire evolution 
 process... for me its just great.
  
  I love all the parts of the game, the 1st one is quite funny... we are just a little cell... we must 
 eat to evolve, we must avoid being eaten by others, all this process is very well made. But I gotta 
 say, the last stage of the game, where you go and explore the Universe its by far my favourite. 
 So many places to go, so many other cultures to find... conquer planets, saving others... its just 
 awesome!! This is a very long process, and you never get tired. In my case I just want keeping 
 exploring and conquer as many planets I can. Of course, any once in awhile... I put a colony here 
 and then... but I like conquer by force.
  
  So... if U guys want something different, you must play Spore... you will stay addicted in no time. 
 
  Well done Will Wright, well done EA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Spore has been very highly anticipated for years. The developers over at EA games have been working 
 their asses off on this game, but i dont see where that all comes into the game, aside from the 
 customization factor, where everything in the entire game is made by you from scratch. Some places 
 exceed, while others fail. This game has many split decisions, as mine are in different categories.
 
  
  Customization/Creativity level.
  
  This game is all about customizing and creating your own character, weither it be on the cell level, 
 primal, or evolved and space level. The entire game you are always making your own species, and 
 you make it youself from top to bottom. Everything is your own, and it would hard for me to believe 
 that two species made by different people would ever be the same. There are millions of combinations, 
 and this game really is endlessly your own, just as it was expected to be. I give the creativity/customization 
 level a 9/10. The only thing i did not like is that you have to make EVERYTHING yourself, from 
 tribal outfits, to your tribe members structure, to your cars and vehicles all from scratch. You 
 can get lost for hours making these things, which can be debatable whether it is good or bad.
 
  
  Gameplay.
  
  The gameplay, is what mainly let me down. You have goals and things you need to do, most of which 
 are conquering other species around and either making them your ally or wiping them out. However, 
 the game soon enough will make you become bored at some points very quickly. Dont get me wrong, 
 the idea behind this game is genious, but in my opinion i dont think they took the right approach 
 in some areas. As i said before, most of the gameplay is very repitive. For all 5 stages of the 
 game, the sole objective is to make yourself and your species dominate. But after playing for a 
 while, you find yourself not wanting to do just that. You end up doing the same thing over and 
 over, weither in be in different stages or levels. You might have to try it for youself to understand 
 just what i mean. I give the gameplay a 7/10, which some people may say is very generous.
  
  Graphics.
  
  The graphics as well let me down just a bit. With all of the time and effort 
 that was put into this game, i expected the best. Maybe i had too high expectations, but didnt 
 we all? The graphics in this game are mediocre. Even with all the graphical setting turned up all 
 the way, the game still does not look impressing whatsoever, and still lags up and has major glitches 
 during cinematics especially, even though my computer has no trouble running it like this. The 
 thing i did like about the graphics was the zoom effect. In all of the stages besides the first, 
 you can zoom out extremely far to make the game look like an overhead rpg, or very far in to make 
 it look like a 3rd person game. In either of these or in between, there is no loading or glitches 
 and the textures are smooth the whole way. You wouldnt expect the game to zoom in as far as it 
 does and still look decent the whole time. Overall, i give the graphics a 6/10. Some times they 
 look better than others, but overall theyre not too great.
  
  Difficulty.
  
  This game for the most part was rediculously easy. Playing on the hardest setting was not too challenging, 
 and i never found myself not finishing things the first time i tried. Some levels are harder than 
 other, but overall its a bit too easy. I give the difficulty factor a 5/10.
  
  
  Note.
  
  This game is too easy to crack. It took me 5 minutes to download a version of the game, find 
 a crack and play. The only thing that does not work is if you crack the game with a cd-key gen 
 and crack, you cant use the online features. However, the online is very limited and the most you 
 can do is see other peoples creations and share your own. Pretty pointless.
  
  Overall.
  
  Like i said, im going to have to say overall the game is just ok. I was very dissapointed as 
 to how easily the game was beaten when i played it, and after finishing it, i personally do not 
 want to play it again. Most people i've talked to have said the same. I reccomend download it via 
 torrent or buy it if you have the money to spare, but its up to you. I couldnt stick to the game 
 after one time around, and i doubt most people can. I give Spore a 6.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK_Genghiskhan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a creative and unique game, but only the space phase is worth playing and mentioning. 
 And the space phase is fun at the beginning, but eventually you would find that you are repeating 
 the same tasks again and again in order to collect all the medals and even worse the ever occurring 
 pirate raiding and ecological disasters keep you from exploring and pursuing your goal.
  
  And the game keep crashing to the desktop from time to time, in case you don't save often, you 
 would lose all your progress and I cannot find any auto-save option. The zoom-in and zoom-out for 
 entering and leaving a planet and a solar system is the most irritating feature the game has, every 
 time you have to roll the mouse wheel several times to enter a solar system, roll the wheel several 
 times again to enter one of its planet, sell you stuff and roll your mouse wheel again several 
 times to leave it, and the game lags all the way.
  
  And there is no computer assisted automation at all, you have to collect all your resources and 
 sell it yourself, if not they would just stockpile there and hit its maximum limit and all the 
 production is halted. Establishing trade routes with some friendly empires is only a way to improve 
 mutual relationships and you may eventually purchase their solar systems with which you have a 
 trade route, it has nothing to do with exporting your stockpiled resources, you still have to sell 
 it yourself, sorry!
  
  And the most ridiculous thing is there can only be one and only one fleet (which is the one you 
 controls) in your huge galactic empire while your rivals can have several of them and often attacks 
 you from more than one fronts. You have to run there to defeat one and then quickly travel a long 
 way to defeat another and hope that the third one haven't conquered your planet yet while you are 
 still busying fighting the second one. What if you are having fun in the centre of the galaxy while 
 some aggressive rivals suddenly declare on you? Right, you have to travel all the way back to you 
 home to defeat them, you just can't call a second fleet to defend against them, and the defense 
 towers are made of crap as the game is and be blown with a few shots. So there is nothing to rely 
 on except your own spaceship.
  
  I have played for it for just one week and lend it to my friend. I believe I will become a robot 
 if I repeat these tasks again and again. My conclusion is there is no strategy at all in this game, 
 and its lack of depth and repetitive tasks easily force players to quit the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adammale
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played an RPG that asked you a bunch of questions at the beginning of the game to 
 determine your personalities and characteristics that will affect your whole adventure? The first 
 four stages of Spore are just like that, but instead of questions, Spore gives you mini games to 
 be completed. You begin with Cell Stage which plays like "Feeding Frenzy" (a Reflexive Arcade game) , 
 you keep eating smaller thing than you to grow up. You can attach your cell with different mouth 
 to determine its diet (filter, jaw, proboscis) , weapon to protect it from other cells (spike, poison, 
 electric) , movement parts to speed up your cell (flagella, cilia, jet) and different eyes (beady, 
 stalk, button) which is a must if you don't want your cell to live in the dark. What you eat will 
 determine either you are Herbivore (eating only green algae) , Carnivore (eating red cracked egg 
 shells) or Omnivore (eating both) that will open up special ability for each diet.
  
  After collecting enough DNA points, you move to Creature Stage, where your 2D cell grew legs and 
 surfaced to the land. You have to collect body parts hidden in skeletons scattered around you; 
 and by mating with your own species, you can modify your creature. Each body parts will affect 
 your social or combat action levels. Some of the body parts give you special movements like Jump, 
 Sprint, Sneak or Glide. You can interact with other species by either socializing with them using 
 social actions like Sing, Dance, Charm or Pose which plays like "Simon Says"; or combat them using 
 Strike, Charge, Spit and Bite. This is the last stage to modify your creature. The choices between 
 socializing and combating in this kiddie-RPG stage will determine either you are Predator, Adaptable 
 or Social in the later stage.
  
  When the DNA bar is full, you enter Tribal Stage. It's a larger scale of Creature Stage, instead 
 of controlling one creature, you are now controlling a tribe. You still need to either socialize 
 or attack the other species to go to the next stage. You can dress up your tribe using different 
 piece of clothes. After you befriend or eliminate other tribes, you will unlock different types 
 of buildings to put near your main hut. These buildings will give you special items to either socialize 
 or attack other tribes. The actions you take in this city-building stage will determine either 
 you are Agressive, Industrious, or Friendly in the fourth stage.
  
  Next, you move to Civilization Stage. Again, you are given two choices, either socializing with 
 the civilization or eliminate them. But now you are given land, air and water transports to play 
 with. You can also build housing, factory and entertainment center in each of your cities. To socialize, 
 you can open trade route or make alliance with other species and to attack, you just have to build 
 a large army of land, water or air units to conquer other cities. Your playing pattern in this 
 small-scale RTS will determine either you are Military, Economic, Religious.
  
  Finishing those early four stages will bring you to the real meat of the game, the ultimate destination, 
 the Space Stage. In this stage you control a spacecraft. The combination of the consequences of 
 your first four stage will finally determine either you are a Bard, Ecologist, Zealot, Diplomat, 
 Scientist, Trader, Shaman, Warrior, or Knight. Each of this class gives you special ability that 
 will help you in your space adventure. If you start the game at this stage, you will be a Wanderer 
 with no specialty ,so playing from the start has its advantage. In this space stage, the first 
 thing that will make you awe is the HUGE scope of the Spore galaxy (which shaped like our own Milky 
 Way, that also explains the Spore logo) . You begins with a homeworld planet, and by zooming out, 
 you can see the system you are in, complete with other planets that you can visit. Zoom out again, 
 and you can see the whole galaxy full with trillions star systems. If you can see it, you can go 
 there. And each star systems has their own planets, and you can enter them. Each of these planets 
 are uniquely different in term of atmosphere, ecosystem, species, and the stages they are currently 
 in.
  
  At first, you will start a mission given by your home planet, but after you make your first contact 
 with other space faring species, you will open access to a whole lot of missions. This stage plays 
 like "Space Rangers", my most favourite space game, but with more substances (You know how I really 
 love space games :) You can terraform a planet, colonize it, or you can attack other systems but 
 the last option is so not advisable because it is really an exhaustive campaign. But if you are 
 truly into the challenge, then why not, wage a war against a species and let them be extinct! You 
 can also abduct other species or plants from different planets, help other species from extinction 
 by a deadly virus, chase off pirate ships, make alliance with other species, open trade routes, 
 or collecting rare stuffs. There are a lot to do in Spore universe!
  
  For more updates on my Spore universe, check out http://adammale. blogspot. com/2008/09/spore-review-media-addict-rehab. html 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danh13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really one for computer games, I'm more of an Xbox person myself, but Spore is definitely 
 a game I could play for hours on end. The ridiculous amount of creativity you can use when playing 
 this game is amazing, I mean I could spend hours on end in the creature creator alone, let alone 
 the rest of the game. The first part of the game which is the 2D almost Pac-Man like adventure 
 is pretty fun, but the real fun is when you get on the surface. Playing as a creature on land and 
 increasing my brain power as I interact with other species can be quite the task, but it's a great 
 time to use some creativity in the creature creator. The tribal stage is also quite a good time 
 (a word to the wise: make friends with other tribes rather than fight them, it's so much easier) . 
 The civilization phase is almost too easy, but that's a good thing because then you get to the 
 space phase, which is by far the best part. Traveling from planet to planet making alliances and 
 enemies could be played for days almost. Overall Spore is a wonderful game and it was well worth 
 the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertykeys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a really interesting simulation game of evolution. You get to play in different stages 
 of a creature and basically do whatever you want. There are five stages, adequate graphics, and 
 weird controls, but it generally is a great game.
  
  Starting in cell stage, you make a simple creature and just swim around eating food. It's very 
 charming and interesting to see all the different creatures. Although it's simple, it is fun for 
 a time. Then it just gets old after you play the other stages.
  
  The next stage is creature stage. You get to make your creature as complex as you want as you walk 
 around on land. You can socialize with other creatures, kill them, or just run around. This stage 
 is my second favorite stage personally.
  
  The tribal stage comes when your creatures have made enough progress to advance. This stage is 
 a bit uninspired. It's basically like any civilization game where you try to take over or make 
 an alliance with different tribes. Pretty simple.
  
  The civilization stage is basically simple city management since you can place buildings and trying 
 to take over other cities. Not very different from tribal stage.
  
  After these four stages, Spore begins to shine. The space stage allows you to get a space ship 
 and go out into the universe. This stage allows you to visit other planets, colonize planets, go 
 on missions, fight pirates, earn badges, and loads of other things. The space stage is really what 
 makes Spore so unique. This is my favorite stage since it's so open and limitless.
  
  The graphics of Spore are pretty good, not to impressive, but it depends on what specs your computer 
 has.
  
  I don't like how the controls worked for each stage change. In each stage, different buttons do 
 different things. If Spore made all controls the same, things would be so simplified.
  
  Altogether, Spore is a game worth having. It's definitely similar to The Sims and The Sims 2, so 
 if you liked those games then this is the game for you. Small things like unoriginal stages (that 
 you can skip after you get through the whole game) and strange controls cripple Spore and keep 
 it from getting a perfect 10.
  
  Spore is a great game and very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinc55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start by saying: SPORE IS NOT A EXTRAORDINARY GAME. IT IS SUB-PAR. 
  lets break it down, shall we? 
  
  Layout (how easy it is to find stuff) good 
  Graphics: 
 Normal computers not made completely for gaming will have a hard time. i have a NEW hp pavilion 
 and the graphics were not good. 
  Excitement level: moderate. more or less excitement is only in the cell stage. 
  replay value: actual 
 game gets a 5. editors get an 8. the editors are fun. 
  Bugs/glitches/snags/problems: SPACE STAGE IS ONE BIG PROBLEM. sometimes you get a mission and it 
 (the game) wont ell you where to go when it should. sometimes it will sometimes it wont. cell stage 
 isn't all that great either, but that was expected. the space stage is also very hard and slow. 
 please don't buy unless you really need a PC game OR you are a casual gamer. casual games probably 
 get more out of spore... BUT TAHTS WHY THEY HAVE WII, WILL WRIGHT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: call4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Having played through Spore numerous times, had my fill of all the editors (except at least one 
 apparently, as I don't have that achievement) , reached the galactic core, found Earth, got the 
 final master badge. I've done a lot in the game. The most common criticism for the game is that 
 it's not very in-depth, that each stage is incredibly easy and doesn't have the depth of other 
 games in their respective genres. While it is true that the different phases are not very in-depth, 
 they do have their entertainment value. They're each fun, albeit short, to play. They're not meant 
 for the hardcore. If that's what you wanted, you're playing the wrong game. 
  
  Of course, after all the hype, I am a little disappointed with certain aspects, but love the game 
 as much as I thought I would for different reasons. I'm still hoping that Maxis will give it the 
 treatment they gave the Sims and add expansions (preferably patches) that will add content and 
 depth.
  
  The game is far from perfect, but perfectly enjoyable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qris_7
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I created a new organism. Designed my first cell, and instantly fell in love with it. I wandered 
 in the cell stage, unwilling to advance, because it was so beautiful. Not only the cell - the surroundings, 
 the music, the effects, the animations... The Creature stage also captivated me for a long time, 
 as I was toying with my creation and leading it through the world to become stronger and smarter. 
 In the tribal stage, I equipped my creatures with some masks and items that made them invincible, 
 and it felt great too, though I did not feel the urge to just wander through the world, like in 
 the two previous stages. And then came the Civilization phase - all that creating, customizing, 
 evolution apparently did not matter. It was just "who will manage to build more land vehicles - 
  sea vehicles -  ICBM -  The End". Super-boring.
  
  But the worst was yet to be unveiled. The space stage.
  
  Oh my god.
  
  Who designed that 
 thing? What is it all about? Why is this game totally ruined by this?
  
  This stage turned out to be even more boring than civilization. I mean, forcing upon you some lame 
 missions, like traveling to other galaxies just to observe something, or shoot one thing with a 
 laser? Another GALAXY? Come on. The interface is also totally awkward and unfriendly, even more 
 so after having the pleasure of playing the first stages, where everything was intuitive and felt 
 just like it should. The minute you advance to the space stage - all creativity of the previous 
 stages is long lost and forgotten.
  
  This game has numerous great elements. The sounds are perfect, the animation amazing, the interface 
 enjoyable - but with the space phase ALL of this IS LOST. The final phase kills the wonderful appeal 
 of the first phases - and nearly all of the game's undeniable charms die there as well.
  
  It is so sad, because this game could have been much more. It really hurts me, because its 
 like a good dream gone bad. I wish I had known that before  had SPORE been as mediocre as 
 the space stage from the beginning, I would have avoided a big disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I haven't bought a PC game in about a year and a 1/2 ya that's about right so I didn't realy car 
 about spore, but my firends kept pussing it on me so I caved and bought it. I finde it rather enjoyable 
 and that is saying somthing frome me, but the resone why is becuase it's simple fun. you first 
 start out at the cell stage swimming in the primordial soup, For any of you who have played flow, 
 the cell stage is just like that you eat and become large as you collect parts and DNA to become 
 more complex and create more. Though its eaten or be eaten in this dogy dog world for once you 
 evole frome the cell you move into the creature stage. The creature stage is one of my favorite 
 you have one nest and you can fight and allie with other spishys as you move through the game also 
 this is were craeating you creature come in hadndy for once you more and evole you can no longer 
 change it's body aperance. Nex it the tribal stage were it get repeditive colect, attack and befirend 
 tribes to moveon and be a civalitaion. At civalitaion welcome to the R. T. S valte that even the 
 best or worst R. T. S player can do take over the world by war or peace you chose. After the world 
 is yours you move onto space that final frontire, but if you whant to know about it go get the 
 game. Overal it's a fun play just to play game, and the music is amazing with the ocastra and funny 
 cut seance. It will alwas be fun and diffrent each time and you will lagh untill it hurts on the 
 smallest things I recomend this for people who just want to sit down and have agood time and take 
 a break from hard core gameing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have waited 3 years for this game. I tooked me only a couple of days before I was sick of it. 
 This could have been a revolution, I really hoped it would be, but it didn't make it right there, 
 even it's very close.
  
  
  The Good:
  Stunning editors with endless possibilites
  Evolution is fun
  
  The bad:
  Feels more like 5 minigames than 1 game
  All the "minigames" 
 isn't that fun
  Too simple
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The most positive thing about this game, is offcourse the editoers. With editors you can create 
 and develope your creature, cars, aircraft etc. It's really great about this game how you can create 
 and use your own stuff. But there is also much sad things to say about this game. This game is 
 just to simple and not very fun. The first stage is half fun, but you get sick of it fast. The 
 second stage feels more like World Of Warcraft, and after a while it's really more about getting 
 further in the game than having fun. The Civ stage is ok, but also very simple, and not to much 
 to do for those hardcore gamers. The space stage is repeating and is probably the biggest stage 
 in the game. But most of these "minigames" only offer half value of fun. 
  
  It is sad to see how this game has turn in to be during the last years. You only have to go back 
 to the first Spore video to see have many great features they have taking away. It looks like they 
 have turn the game much more childish, and it refer to what Will Wright just said, that he would 
 rather make a game that sells good than making good criticts. It really shows.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Well some may say that the graphics are good, but is it really? Yeah it's colorful 
 and funny, but you got to admit, this game could as well have been shipping in 2004.
  
  This game do have a great consept and a great idea, so I really hope it will be even better in 
 the future with expansions and that stuff. But right now, this game isn't right where it should 
 be. I'm sure it will sell very good, but for me wasn't buying this game the best thing I did this 
 year. But the game has good editoers posibilites, and it is therefore it gets so "good" score.
 
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Sound: 8
  Graphics: 6
  Value: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinoyray
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  At first, I wanted to try the game and actually buy it because of all the reviews and hype it is 
 getting. Now that I have it in my PC, I feel like I should've just saved the money for a better 
 game coming in a few months or maybe go out and watch a movie.
  
  I liked and loved the cell stage and creature stage. Developing your brain, getting DNA, discovering 
 parts for evolution, are those that I liked the most. 
  
  The Social system is kind of frustrating in the first place but once you get a hang of it and knows 
 what to do, making allies will be easy.
  
  However, when I completed my "brain" development and received all the DNA needed to start having 
 a tribe, regret kicks in. It became an RTS with new kind of species on it. Pretty much like Sid 
 Meier's Civilization where the only difference is that this time, you get to socialize with other 
 tribes or cities through singing, dancing, charm and posing. 
  
  The vehicles are refreshing as well but like I said, the only thing new in spore is the Cell stage. 
 It is even much more fun in the cell and creature stage rather than when you start having a tribe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tscourge
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  So many reviews... so I'll sum up:
  With the exception of the space stage, the game is fun if a bit childish and incomplete. You'll 
 breeze through it in four or five hours tops and you'll regret that the game gives you such a short 
 and shallow experience for each. And as soon as you're done evolving your creature, all the effort 
 you put into it becomes meaningless which is a shame. I've played it four times and reached the 
 space stage in all of them. Total time played: 16-18 hours.
  
  Creating your own structures is meaningless as they all ultimately do the same. Vehicles are not 
 that great either: It doesn't matter if your land vehicle is a bicycle with a nerf gun attached 
 to it or a monstrosity with a zillion cannons pointing in all directions. Ultimately the will sound 
 the same, move the same and worst of all - shoot the exact same looking catapult-like rock made 
 out of something bright. Very disappointing. The same is true for your sea, air and space vehicles.
 
  
  Finally, the space stage is such a huge leap in complexity that it might put you off. There's no 
 real story, the "quests" are very similar to MMO ones (go there, kill X amount of creatures, come 
 back) the economics are pretty basic and battles can be either impossible or a breeze (both on 
 the Easy difficulty) . In addition there's no real exploration involved. You just zoom around from 
 star to star making the 3D presentation of it both confusing and unnecessary.
  
  If you want a similar but much much deeper space exploration game (this one with an actual story) 
 - download The Ur-Quan Masters, the remake of the legendary Star Control II. It's free, it's deep 
 and it will occupy you for many many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archon_Rouge
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Having played through Spore numerous times, had my fill of all the editors (except at least one 
 apparently, as I don't have that achievement) , reached the galactic core, found Earth, got the 
 final master badge. I've done a lot in the game. The most common criticism for the game is that 
 it's not very in-depth, that each stage is incredibly easy and doesn't have the depth of other 
 games in their respective genres. While it is true that the different phases are not very in-depth, 
 they do have their entertainment value. They're each fun, albeit short, to play. They're not meant 
 for the hardcore. If that's what you wanted, you're playing the wrong game. 
  
  Of course, after all the hype, I am a little disappointed with certain aspects, but love the game 
 as much as I thought I would for different reasons. I'm still hoping that Maxis will give it the 
 treatment they gave the Sims and add expansions (preferably patches) that will add content and 
 depth.
  
  The game is far from perfect, but perfectly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrophant
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Whilst it may lack depth, it's still addictive. I don't play games to just to patronize it. I play 
 it to be entertained. Sure, parts of it are simplistic, but there is some good difficulty in it. 
 It's not that hard to click "hard". Hell, even running the Grox gauntlet on easy is a pain in the 
 ass, but well worth it, just to feel the accomplishment. Even harder to ally the cute little demonkin.
 
  
  The site reviewers have it right. Way better than the sum of it's parts. I havn't played a game 
 this addictive in a long time. IT may only take a few hours to get from point A to point Omnnipotence, 
 but if you crank up the difficulty, and then play all the way through, you get a sense of accomplishment 
 seeing your squishy little cell turn into Fluffy, Destroyer of Worlds.
  
  I reccomend it to anyone with a healthy grasp of imagination, a need of entertainment, and a want 
 to blast worlds of top hat wearing frog people with mustachios. Or flesh eating rabbits.
  
  Seriously, just quit patronizing, and ENJOY the game you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The start of the games sets the stage with great anticipation of depth and grandiosity that it 
 never quite delivers. The first two stages are fun and entertaining with lots of customizability. 
 There is a real sense of progress and continuity within and between these first two stages. The 
 tribal stage, on the other hand, is the shortest without any good reason. There is very little 
 customizability and depth in this stage. At this point the game feels like it is in a hurry to 
 get to the next stage. The civilization stage isn't much better. Spore gives a huge amount of creativity 
 with the buildings and vehicles but restricts the player highly in terms of gameplay. Every city 
 has to be completely dedicated to a specific production type (i. e. religious, military, trade, 
 etc.) . And the only way to gain the ability to new production types is to conquer a new city. This 
 stage also feels hurried and shallow. Spore doesn't seem to tie the tribal and civilization stages 
 together well. The ultimate goal of the game is to achieve the galactic stage. The game at this 
 point feels fun again. However, it becomes very tedious. There are constant struggles with little 
 time to explore and colonize in between them. Also, it seems strange that upgrades and new technologies 
 are a matter of simply achieving higher ranks as captain of the space ship that have to purchased. 
 It would make more sense to find newer technologies through exploration and contact with other 
 civilizations that would have to be purchased or gained through them.
  I get the feeling that the game may seem more complete through expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The creature creation tools are amazing, but the gameplay is extremely easy at some stages and 
 extremely frustrating at others.
  
  After playing the early phases of the game, I thought that the criticisms that the game was too 
 simple were justified. However, when I reached the space stage, I became extremely frustrated with 
 my home planet being constantly attacked by UFOs. This makes it almost impossible to accomplish 
 any objectives. As long as I stay on my planet, nobody attacks. However, as soon as I leave the 
 planet, UFOs attack and I have to drop my mission and return to the planet to battle the UFOs. 
 I rated the game as hard because of this problem, although the game is not exactly hard because 
 you constantly respawn with no penalty.
  
  However, I do not seem to be able to complete enough missions to advance. I cannot believe that 
 a game that was under development this long could have such frustrating gameplay. 
  
  Another problem is that there is only one save file for each game, so if you save after doing something 
 that you should not have done, you cannot go back to a previous save. How can they make such a 
 system on a game designed for the PC ???
  
  If this is supposed to be a game to bring casual gamers into PC gaming, I don't think it will succeed 
 due to the frustrating gameplay of the space stage. I am a dedicated PC gamer and completed COD4, 
 Mass Effect, Supreme Commander and many other games without the amount of frustration I am finding 
 in the space stage of this game, and I am playing on "easy" difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a very ambitious game and keeps you interested since the stages are so increasing different 
 that when the level changes you get a new change of pace. The first level starts out a little slow 
 but is it quite fun. The second stage is a very simplified rpg style game mode. The next two stages 
 are a simplified version of your standard rts. But the most fun is in the final "space" level. 
 
  The evolution simulation is pretty lame but if you can ignore that they call it evolution when 
 it is in fact creationism you will have a much better time playing the game. I originally bought 
 the game because I am an evolutionist and i thought a game about it would be fun, i was disappointed 
 on that factor.
  The organism creations system is one of the best toon creation engines that i have every witnessed. 
 You have full control over every part of the creature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bijutsu
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The concept of the game is interesting. Unfortunately it looks good on paper but wasn't delivered 
 very well. The first four stages seem so shallow and unrewarding, after that the space stage is 
 just so vast and deep in comparison it's kind of a turn off. 
  
  While I enjoy designing different creatures and vehicles/spaceships, my designs don't really effect 
 performance much at all and it just feels pointless to spend over an hour on a design when it barely 
 does anything at all in terms of game mechanics aside from just look aesthetically pleasing to 
 me.
  
  Overall, I wish they had balanced the game out more over all the different stages of the game. 
 In terms of deepness on scales of 1-10 the five stages seem to be: [1] [2] [2] [2] [25] I mean seriously. 
 It seems like they just threw some stuff in for the first four stages then spent the rest of their 
 time on the space stage, and even that doesn't really motivate me to explore the depths of space.
 
  
  As much fun as it was for a bit, in the end, I wish I hadn't spent my money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimGleaves
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I have the perfect metaphor for what Spore feels like.
  
  Imagine that somebody gives you a birthday present, and inside is a chess set. But it also comes 
 with a laser lathe that can be used to create your own pieces! You can create pieces in almost 
 any shape and color! Fantastic!
  
  Then you set up the board and learn that this particular chess set only uses pawns, knights, and 
 the king. The box and manual state "this game is deliberately simplified for casual players."
 
  
  THAT"s what playing spore feels like. Not much game here, but the editors are great.
  
  Now that I'm in the space stage I have difficulty imagining going back and replaying earlier 
 stages of the game. So I can make a purple omnivore quadruped?
  
  I can't really see the buildings or the spaceship I designed, although making them was pretty fun 
 for 10 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Many reviews are saying that the game has incredible depth. I just don't see it. I guess you could 
 spend hours with the creature and city planners, but I find that kind of tedius actually. I think 
 that I was looking for a more detailed game to cultivate an intergalactic empire starting from 
 a single cell creature. You can say that's what the game does, but some how, the game just feels 
 too cute. Of course that being said, it still is fun. I have spent about 6 hours playing it and 
 I'm on the space level now, by far the best part of the game. The quality is there, and I'm sure 
 it will be played by casual gamers for quite some time. I was imagining something far more detailed 
 and less cartoonish. Yeah, I know this is a Will Wright game, but after years of shameless PR hype, 
 I just expected ????... more? better. It's hard to describe what I was expecting. This doesn't quite 
 cut it. I can see me finishing this Space stage, and maybe giving it another run through in a couple 
 months, but I know it won't get much more play than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyotey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I've made two separate races at this point and I am very happy with the game. When I first tried 
 the game I was only sitting down to check it out. I didn't stand up for about 10 hours.
  
  Each stage of the game is like a build up to different aspects of a Real-time strategy (RTS) game. 
 The only thing I would have preferred to see added was the ability to research my own sciences. 
 As it stand though the game is hugely customizable, almost to a fault. I haven't tried out many 
 of the features as of yet even after playing all the way through to the space stage.
  
  The initial stage begins with a single celled organism. You move the animation through a morass 
 that gets larger and larger.
  
  The second stage begins as you grow legs and move out of the morass and onto land. This stage is 
 like an active form of Darwinism where the strong and adaptable survive.
  
  At the third stage your organism has achieved enough intelligence to run together as a tribe and 
 must compete with other tribe that have also gained intelligence.
  
  The fourth stage moves into a world domination type RTS game where your race has become dominant 
 and it is up to you to make the planet come under your control.
  
  The final stage has you entering the space age, complete with exploration of the surrounding galaxy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnz-hm
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  For sure one of the most addictive games of this year (until now at least) .
  
  Start as a bacteria. Grow to dominate the land. Evolve to conquest the world. Invent to explore 
 the space.
  
  All that is possible in Spore. Unique gameplay unites with old-school strategy as you evolve throughout 
 the game.
  
  Create your own species with funny characterized graphics. Keep evolving them since the bacterial 
 status, passing on to land conquest evolution, following through tribal states, civilized states 
 and finally to space exploration.
  
  Knowing that every single era you play, the gameplay and ways to control either your character 
 and/or civilization changes, differing from up-the-top third person view or just a standard third 
 person view to a RTS style of cameras and gameplay.
  
  Anyhow, it's a must have if you like inventive, immersive addicting games, many ways of play and 
 fun-as-hell way to create your own species surely makes this one of the top unique games of 2008.
 
  
  The Good:
  *Thousands of ways to create different species and vehicles, including boats, cars and spaceships, 
 factories and houses.
  *Awesome on-line sharing content (EA did it perfectly on this one) .
  *Unique variations of gameplay.
  *Highly addictive
  
  The Bad:
  *Bit outdated graphics.
 
  *Few movement bugs (sometimes only, but then again, which is the game that hasn't?) .
  *Very short! (Bu. I want more!)
  
  Overall is a pretty good game, I loved it and will remember 
 it for a long time, i know i said this already, but it got to be one of the funniest games I've 
 played this year.
  
  If you like either The Sims, inventive/innovative games, immersive and with a variety of cool details 
 then you shouldn't pass on the opportunity of getting yourself a copy of Spore. I got one. I LOVE 
 IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: degtr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  It's been a short time and I already love this game.
  
  All the evolutions and features make the game an excellent option; also you can control all the 
 steps of the different evolutions with the immense number of variables that change the outcome 
 of every step. Also it was very satisfying that with all this complex evolutions and different 
 game features, it is very easy to play, control, and in the design section also very easy to work 
 and do what ever you want.
  
  Another thing that was very interesting, apart from the idea that you can edit and design almost 
 everything between stages, body, armor, houses, vehicles and planets, is that in case you don't 
 like de design mode, you can also skip the design and select all this features from a good list 
 of options and save a lot of time, just dedicate your self to the playing, evolving, killing, escaping, 
 socializing, take revenge, kick the ass of all the ones that made your life hard and conquer all 
 the universe. 
  
  Great game, excellent job guys!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_true_jago
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Cell stage:
  Nice and fun, but gets boring quick. But still plenty of fun.
  
  Creature stage: Great gameplay. It was fun to try to be friends with some weird species, then obliterating 
 it when it rejected me. Great fun, but slightly long.
  
  Tribal stage: Ok, fun, but could use some work. All I had to do was take over 5 tribes. A bit too 
 short, but other than that it was still fun.
  
  Civilization stage: Fun to wage war on some idiot that says your head will look good over his mantelpiece. 
 I accidentally blew everything up with ICBMs. I thought it was a missile that only targeted one 
 Continent. Guess not. So my experience was cut short. Oh well, it was fun while it lasted.
  
  Space stage: Surprisingly, this is where it got weird. First of all, I couldn't travel more 
 than 5.00 whatever units of distance at one time. That got annoying, if I could travel 3 star systems 
 in 3 trips, why not travel 3 in one trip? Another thing is when I tried visiting my other profile's 
 planets, I couldn't travel unless I knew exactly what star system that profile was in. And if you 
 are in the creature stage, you can't do that.
  
  
  Overall: It was incredibly fun until it got to the space age. Then the complications arose. I give 
 it a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  I am fortunate that my freinds & me share our games , sincerly i was sceptic about Spore ultiill 
 i've seen it at one of my friends who was playing it for the 3rd time , he gaved me the disk ... cause 
 welll i was superbored of to much TF2 & other Valve multiplayer & evan to tired because of my summer 
 job ! 
  This game is relaxing with vibrant colors & sounds that are made to entertain a child ... in fact 
 this is game rated TEEN but man its so relaxing ... i have played the game 2 times ..1st as a carnivore 
 & 2nd as a herbivore ... starting from celullar stage ! Practacally you can consider this game a 
 blend between minigames/MMO's/RTS'& RPG's but unfortanatly they all feel quite not finished & thats 
 the reassons the game dosen't get a higher score than 8 thru out all of the reviews i mena most 
 of them ! Plus i have played it 2 times frpm start to finish but i see no reassons to play it again 
 & many ppl who boughtit played it only once .... this is a game dedicated to creative people & not 
 to hardcore gamers like my self but it is recomended evan to HARDCORE gamers sometimes just to 
 take a break from all the action of other games & have some mildly childish fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  So i've played this game for about 4 days now and i have to say im badly let down by the game. 
 In all the time that they spent building publicity they realy ought to have ironed out the faults 
 in this game and believe me, there are ALOT of faults.
  
  The reason i gave this game a 5.0 rating is just that reason. The game suffers from realy childish 
 mistakes. The camera is insufferable. At certain points you cant rotate it, like in combat in the 
 space age. You stab away at the attack buttons and you cant realy see who or what you're fighting 
 or where you're going. The camera also realy cripples the game when it comes to exploring. Some 
 things you just cant see so you waste alot of time running in circles.
  
  Another negative mark is for the gameplay which is curious and fun at first when you spend time 
 in the creator, making your own creature. However, the options are rather limited, as the creature 
 is exclusively a land based animal. Meaning, you cant make it fly or swim. 
  
  Later on, its a case of sheer grinding. Wandering arround looking for food... over and over and 
 over and over again. This is a serious shortfall for the game because its just utterly boring. 
 
  
  As you eventualy proceed to advanced ages, you realise their realy just missions that end REALY 
 QUICK... too quick, leaving you with a feeling that you've been cheated of your gaming time.
  
  The learning curve is quite polarised. At first its too easy, then in the space age, you're 
 suddenly dropped into the galaxy, which is bewilderingly chaotic and random. Making exploring a 
 ripe pain in the ars. You keep coming across other species which for some reason all want something 
 from you despite not even knowing you. 
  
  This makes the game excrutiatingly repetitive and just plain boring. 
  
  All in all, its a 
 rubbish attempt at a civilisation building game. It certainly feels like a kids game. 
  
  My advice and conclusion, if you realy want to expirience the game, play the demo and DONT pay 
 a cent for this game because its a waste of money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teepagorn
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I have waited this game to be released since it was announced. When the game hit the store, I went 
 out to buy one immediately. After I installed this so-called revolutionary game and have played 
 for 3-4 hours, I got bored with overall concept of the whole game.
  
  It's so disappointing. While the game itself looks so good and has every resources possible to 
 make it great, the basic concept is fun only for a 5 years old kid. 
  
  You have very limited choices in the way you want to play. Some stages, two, some, three. The creature 
 building has no impact whatsoever with the way you play. You'll find yourself sing to impress the 
 other creature, tribe, etc, over and over again if you're the peaceful type. You'll find yourself 
 kill the other creature, tribes, etc, over and over again if you're the war-loving type. 
  
  And there's no fun in killing or peace making. It's just like a repeating, repeating process. 
 More like working.
  
  The space age, I think, is the best stage of all five, because it offers us some nice graphic. 
 A lot of tools to play with (though they mostly are just for cosmetic reasons) 
  
  Will Wright loses his charm, badly, in this release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pegasusjf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  First, I think I should point out that I have played Civ 4 and many deep RTS and strategy games, 
 so I definitely am not a casual gamer.
  
  But I have rarely seen a game that is simply so immersive as this. It has its weak-points to be 
 sure, points I hope will be improved a bit over time (I bet this will get the same expansion treatment 
 as the Sims) , but the overall package. Man, sometimes you just have to let go and enjoy the experience.
 
  
  From my standpoint, the stage quality from first to last is this.
  
  Space - The sheer amount of things to do. Some have compared this part (with derision I might add) 
 to Star Control II, well this is far more than Star Control II, so much more to explore, so much 
 more exploration to be had and a much more interesting economy. I don't think this part will get 
 old for a long time.
  
  However, you might want to get a Space Attack Reducer Mod, or just plant a lot of Uber Turrets.
 
  
  Creature - This is a close second, and on another day I may rate this above Space. A game where 
 you continuously use the creature editor to improve your creature, the interactions with all the 
 other creatures. It has in it's own way almost as much exploration and replay value as space. Plus, 
 there is so much wonder in this part of the game, seeing the other planets in your solar system 
 rise above the horizon, seeing other peoples creations, and befriending them or hunting them.
 
  
  My only complaint is that I wished the evolution progress was longer, sometimes this game finishes 
 too fast.
  
  The above two stages, IMHO, are what make this game.
  
  Tribal - Yeah, it's a simple RTS, it could have more beef. But it still is a simple and pretty 
 enjoyable experience and you still see your creatures/tribals and other un-evolved creatures up 
 close. It could be better but it doesn't outweigh it's welcome, and part of the challenge is to 
 play this stage in a manner that allows whatever playstyles and bonuses you want for the civ/space 
 stages.
  
  Cell - Cute, simple game play, takes a half hour/45 minutes at most. It has its own challenge, 
 mainly getting the parts you want, and attacking/running from other cells. Not exactly a good game 
 in itself but as part of the entire package it is a good start.
  
  Civ - Yeah, it's here that I have the most issues. It commits one cardinal sin, it takes you away 
 from your creatures, and the civ game is as basic as the tribal game but without its charms. Sure, 
 it can be a challenge at first, getting your foothold and fighting off early enemies, but once 
 you get the fourth city, it's pretty much a cakewalk because by then you have more than enough 
 money to make a overpowering armada.
  
  Plus, you have little to no choice of the path you take. If you go religious or military you're 
 pretty much stuck in those paths, and economic is too easy, trade, buy rinse-repeat.
  
  This is by far Spore's weakest stage.
  
  Taken on its own, it's a overly simple civ game that 
 requires some more intricacies to make it more interesting. But as part of the whole, well, it's 
 fun at first and doesn't take too long, and it leads to the space stage, a much more superior game.
 
  
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable and fun, and as others have said it is more than the sum of 
 its parts. So forget your preconceptions gained from other games you've played, and come into this 
 game as you would a child, and wonder at the sheer beauty of the worlds that enfold before you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdbradley2003
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  After hearing about this game and seeing the reviews, I anxiously awaited this presumed instant 
 classic. After the lengthy install I was finally rewarded with the game, starting in the cell phase. 
 After about 3 hours, I was already bored to tears, but kept going, hoping for more. When the space 
 phase finally arrived, it help my interest for a long time, but finally lost it's luster. Here 
 are my experiences with this game:
  
  Cell phase - this had much more potential. Seeing some of the demo images of the cell phase, I 
 think it was dumbed down for release, like much of the game. The cell phase is, in my opinion, 
 the best part, but it is way too short. You can sail through this phase in less than 15 minutes, 
 unless you are playing around with it. Really, only 2 things you can do -- eat and survive. Yes, 
 you can fight other cells to get their traits, but most of the time you can't really use them until 
 you are nearly finished with cell phase.
  
  Creature phase - Can be challenging at times, and sometimes it's fun, but it boils down to 2 things 
 - either you socialize with other creatures or you kill them. There is the element of evolution, 
 which is gained via killing or socializing. After 1 or 2 plays on the creature phase, you get bored 
 with it.
  
  Tribal phase - by far the most monotonous. As with creature phase, you either kill or socialize 
 (in the form of an repetitively dull mini-game) to advance. Food is the only resource, and if this 
 had an element of any other real-time strategy game it might have been fun, but it doesn't. Just 
 fight or play the dumb mini-game.
  
  Civilization phase - after a few plays I found that this is more than it seemed at first, but not 
 by much. There are 3 ways to advance here -- convert other cities through religous vehicles, destroy 
 other cities with military vehicles, or trade with other cities until you can afford to purchase 
 them. After you reach a certain point, you can click the armageddon button, and capture/destroy 
 all cities.
  
  Space phase - admittedly, I'm not finished with this phase. It's an interesting phase, more of 
 an RPG element, with some portions of exploration built in. The terraforming of planets is a neat 
 concept, and takes some thought to get it right. There is trade, though this portion of the phase 
 is relatively monotonous and can get frustrating at times. After learning most of the aspects of 
 this phase, I got bored with it.
  
  I haven't completed the game yet, and I'm sure I will soon. But my overall impression is that once 
 I finish it, I'll be done with it. I'm pretty disappointed with the limited gameplay. There is 
 a huge potential for this game, but it seems that most the energy in the development of this game 
 was put into the creatures portion. They are fascinating to build, interesting to watch them grow 
 and evolve, but the mechanisms involved are boring and at times frustrating.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Man this game looked so cool in all the demos and previews I saw. I wish it had more to do with 
 the evolutionary and creature creating aspects but after the second stage you can't switch your 
 character anymore! The first stage (cell) is pretty dull and you'll just skip through it quickly. 
 The second stage (creature) is kinda cool and is mostly what I was expecting the game to be like. 
 This is where you'll decide your creatures final appearance using a pretty sweet creature creator, 
 as you work through the stage. The next (tribal) is also fun but, it starts turning into a dull, shallow 
 rts game at this point. Then comes civilization which is interesting and you get to create your 
 vehicles in this stage. Vehicle creation is pretty sweet too, as you can come up with some insane 
 looking vehicles. Only problem is they're so small when playing you can't really see them too well 
 anyway. Also at this stage all the other species created by other players are gone and its just 
 your species battling each other for control of the planet. Space stage is fun and the most deep 
 but it really has nothing to do with evolution and creature creation. It's a fun game i guess, 
 I don't hate it and my kid loves it so... I'm kind of disappointed though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  For two years now I've been waiting for Spore, struggling through delays, and when I finally get 
 my chance to play, I find an over simplified, clunky, and boring game that feels like you are playing 
 a long tutorial.
  
  Cell Stage: 7
  You go into this stage not expecting much, and that helps it. There isn't much wrong with this 
 stage because there isn't much you can get wrong. It has a good pace, the graphics are pretty good. 
 Zero replayability.
  
  Creature Stage: 5
  This is where the game starts going downhill. The creature editor is everything that was promised 
 and that's about it. The only thing you do in this stage is go around and eat and make friends. 
 That's it. Yes, you get to upgrade your creature, but even that feels dumbed down. The only thing 
 affecting your creatures abilities is parts, not where you put the parts, or how you set up your 
 creatures body plan or anything. For example, spikes ability allows you to charge, thats it, you 
 can put them anywhere you want, when you charge you basically ram the enemy with your head, it 
 makes no difference if your spikes are on your head or on your back. Bone plates give you armor 
 everywhere even though they only cover a small area, leg position or shape don't affect speed, 
 body mass doesn't affect health. It makes it almost to easy to make a creature. The replayability 
 is pretty bad because all creatures pretty much feel, act, and move the same speed.
  
  Tribal Stage: 3
  This stage plays like a really bad RTS game. The best part is buying armor for 
 your creatures and make them look all snazzy. You only gets one type of unit, a few different weapons, 
 and a few instruments and a fishing spear. The replayability is horrible because you get the same 
 buildings every time. You go around and hunt other animals, or pick fruit if that's your thing, 
 constantly and use the food to make more creatures and buildings... what? You attack other tribes 
 for more tech, or befreind them, if that's your thing, and it gets boring after the first successful 
 attack. It boils down to, get enough food to fill up your population, equip weapons, move said 
 population into enemy village, watch. There is no strategy at all. The AI is horrible, many times 
 units will just stand around doing nothing if they can't get close enough to the target, even though 
 there are plenty of other enemies.
  
  Civilization stage: 2
  This plays like an even worse RTS than the tribal stage. This is how it works, you get to design 
 a land vehicle, sea vehicle, and air vehicle. It is pretty cool until you realize, the number or 
 type of guns you put on a vehicle doesn't matter, all vehicles have the exact same shots, same 
 speeds, and same abilities. The only thing that distinguishes them is the type of terrain they 
 can go on. You also get to design buildings, which don't have to look anything like what their 
 supposed to do. You get to build a city with a heaping 3 types of buildings, though there are only 
 a few different ways to organize a city. The one resource spice can be gained by simply building 
 a building on the mine. All it takes is a click of the mouse to instantly build anything, so surprise 
 attacks are pointless because building an army takes seconds. You basically send your vehicles 
 around the world and capture cities and mines, or do what I did, and wait until you get a super 
 weapon and win instantly. Religion and Military are the two 'styles' that this mode has, although 
 they play the exact same, military shoots cannons that do damage, religious shoots music notes 
 that do damage. 
  
  Space: 4-6
  It really depends, sometimes this stage can be fun and sometimes really annoying. It almost feels 
 very linear, most of the time the only real way to advance is to do lame, linear missions for other 
 factions. The 'god' tools are fun but it all seems to be lacking a purpose, and it can be hard 
 to keep track of your colonies or other nations. 
  
  Even I am having trouble figuring out exactly what my biggest problem with spore is, but I think 
 it is that the flow of the game is very ubrupt, and the countinuation between stages is lacking. 
 For example, you can go half way through the creature stage as a four legged carnivore with blue 
 skin and spikes. Then, in one generation, change to a eight legged green herbivore with grass and 
 feathers. You never really get attached to the game, and the incredible shortness of each stage 
 doesn't help. Actions in one stage don't seem to affect the next, alliances go away as soon as 
 you enter another stage, how well you did in one stage doesn't affect the next, even in the civilization 
 phase how well you manage your "economy", if you can even call it that, or your military have no 
 effect. 
  
  Spore is like 5 really bad games rolled into one, 'ok' game, but the only thing that kept me going 
 was thinking about the next stage, or telling myself that the other stages made up for it, which 
 I shouldn't have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cor4101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Despite all the hate spilled towards the publishers of this game, it is phenomenal. The game is 
 exactly what I expected from the first buzz of its release to its actually release. Yes some things 
 are not 100%, I have never seen a launched game in the last 20 years that was perfect as is out 
 of the box. This is a great game for casual playing, absolutely tons of fun and hard to walk away 
 from. Currently the only consistent flaw I have found is the space stage, definitely requires some 
 work, overall enjoyable, just seems to not quite mesh with the rest of the game. 
  
  Stage:
  
  Cell stage, tons of fun, I thought this would be the weakest, by far one of the more 
 enjoyable.
  
  Creature stage, again fun addictive, i've played four ways, kill it all, kill none, kill some befriend 
 some and parts finder. any direction you want to go works
  
  Tribal, frustrating at first, tons of fun since the first time around, really feels like there 
 are many ways to play
  
  Civilization, city building, building editor is fun, vehicles can be whatever you want. 
  
 
  Space, the ships look great, the planets are all unique and space is a busy place. my frustration 
 comes here, too many people in space and not enough time to really dive deep and get rolling. Also 
 how you've played the other stages doesn't necessarily apply here, very odd. Still has tons of 
 fun and even more potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start, I've been following Maxis games since, oh, well it must of been since I was four, 
 starting with the original Simcity. Now with Maxis being owned by EA, and I being 14 years older, 
 as well as the gaming industries being light years ahead of where it was when I was a kid, my reaction 
 to this game is, well, mixed. I expected so much more, and there are some features of this game 
 that still show signs of being completely rushed. 
  
  Well, I might as well start with the pros:
  
  1) Its easy, but not pathetically so. I'm going 
 to point to Simcity Societies for a game that was pathetically easy. This game is easy enough for 
 anybody to play, however, it still had its challenges and its complexities. For example, in Spore, 
 especially in the Cell/Creature stage, everything you put on your creature had some sort of benefit/purpose. 
 Different types of hands/claws can affect your attack and your social abilities. Different mouths 
 affected how you sang/bite. And usually you sacrificed one for the other.
  
  2) Diversity. The massive amount of diversity of different creatures, buildings, plants, and vehicles 
 was nice to see. Seeing a mix of animals ranging from birds, to monkeys, to slugs all in the creature 
 stage was great. The cell stage to me had less variety, but still enough to see a wide swath of 
 creatures. 
  
  3) The Consequences. Seeing that your species special abilities in space are affected by how you 
 acted in the creature stage, or even the cell stage. It was a good, yet not very unique feature 
 of the game.
  
  4) Three paths to victory. Once again not unique, however it was a good feature to have a religious, 
 militaristic, and economic path to victory. Of course, this all depends on what you did during 
 the tribe part of your species.
  
  5) Spice. (The Game's resource) Because, if it was called such for why I think it was, honoring 
 the Dune series just gave it another point
  
  And now, the cons. 
  
  Civilization Stage:
  
  1) Its too simplistic. Honestly, having only three buildings (house, 
 factory, and entertainment) seems to make the civilization stage so much easier than it should. 
 For example, the game could of added levels, ranging from medieval to the information age, and 
 the battles varying from each. Like, merchants in medieval used caravans and wagons, militaristic 
 ones used cannons and siege weapons (plus an army) , religious ones used monks/crusades. 
  
  2) Lack of out of city structures. They could of added buildings like fortresses, bunkers, trade 
 stops, churches/temples, and things of that sort to help make your planet more diverse, instead 
 of just spice mines.
  
  3) Lack of resources/resource simplification. Another resource, like ore, to make the economy more 
 developed would of been nice to make the game more complex.
  
  Space Stage. Space stage is where the game really gets... poor. I was expecting so much more from 
 it...
  
  1) Pirate raids/enemy attacks/ecological disasters. Okay, this by far, ruined it. (Don't tell me 
 about the mod, I got it already, however, they should of realized this before releasing) . You basically 
 are told to respond to every attack, no matter what you're doing. Even after you beat off pirates, 
 you better not take too long exploring the galaxy because... oh look another attack, or ecological 
 disaster. And of course, you don't get paid one sporedollar for it. 
  
  2) One ship. Okay, I'm sure you all know about Star Trek. The Enterprise being the flagship for 
 the Federation and going out to boldly go blah blah blah. That's you. Now (goes along with the 
 first point) instead of being the flagship for your empire. You're the ONLY ship. You can't build 
 ships on your homeworld to add to your fleet, or build them to keep pirates at bay. 
  
  3) Enemy fleets. Once again, going along with points 1 and 2, the enemy fleets can be quite big. 
 An enemy fleet, aren't usually as armored or well armed as you, but, they usually have a lot more. 
 Also, when you're attacking an enemy planet, well then boom you're totally screwed because they 
 will have ships coming at you all the time. 
  
  4) Trading. Since you can only have one ship, you must manually get the spice harvested on your 
 colonies and sell them somewhere. Instead of having automated ships picking up spice and selling 
 it at the most expensive place in your empire/friendly empires, you must do it manually in between 
 pirate raids and ecological disasters. 
  
  5) Speed of enemy empires. Honestly, by the time you have maybe four systems, they have 20, and 
 they suck up all the ones around you. Space SHOULD be big, but of course, it seems where your planet 
 is, is basically the very popular part of the Galaxy or something. 
  
  6) The protection software. No offense, I bought the game, let me install it anytime I wish without 
 permission. If it was a simple process, like typing it the CD Key somewhere on EA's site, then 
 no big deal, but if I have to call EA, and suffer customer support, then yeah, you screwed up. 
 
  
  Anyway, that's my basic summary. I found that the Cell, creature, and the tribe stage was well 
 done, but, once you hit the tribal stage, the game gets much easier and less complex... until you 
 hit the space stage, which seems rushed and unfinished. Of course, this might have been intended 
 for the possible 1.5 million expansion packs to come, a very typical part of any successful EA 
 game, especially from any Maxis or Maxis inspired franchise. 
  
  Alone, this would of been a great game, and it is. However, the hype made a great game sound like 
 THE Game. The game that would literally set the standard for the games that come after it. However, 
 this is a case where the hype by both the previewers AND the developers didn't meet up. This is 
 different from Killzone, where it was called the Halo killer by people on Gamespot, even though 
 the developers never labeled it as such. Once again, Gamespot inflated my expectations, however 
 EA joined it, and they both let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharx75
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Spore's major ambition was the creation and design of your own creature. The game incorporates 
 a nice design system in that you can customize your creature (and later buildings and vehicles) 
 with a decent sized palette of parts and colors/skins and also having the ability to alter it's 
 size within a frame. While the creation allows for a great majority of freedom, it can be pretty 
 buggy at times when trying to place certain parts and the fact that the creature have to be symmetrical 
 is a detriment rather than a boon in most cases.
  
  The actual game is split into five different sections, each with slightly variant styles. The first 
 stage, where you begin as a simple celled organism, is very bland, in the sense that the only thing 
 you can really do is eat. The cell stage is also the part of the creation system with the fewest 
 amount of customization.
  
  Then your creature evolves legs and jumps out onto land to begin its trek into sentience. The creature 
 stage is one of the more fun aspects in that it plays out like an action game. You have your nest 
 where you can heal and breed (evolving new parts) . But since the point is to advance further along 
 in the evolutionary cycle, the goal is to gain enough DNA points, which are obtained through befriending 
 other creatures or killing them. If you befriend the other creatures you can add them to your pack 
 (party) with your pack size depending on how far along you are in the stage of the game.
  
  Next up is the tribal stage. Your creature can now no longer be edited in terms of body parts, 
 but clothing can now be designed (sort of) and worn. Progressing, this time, is by befriending 
 or dominating the other tribes that come to power. However, this stage is a very watered down RTS. 
 Food is the only resource that you have to worry about, but even then it's never so out of the 
 way to retrieve that you worry about anything bad happening.
  
  The fourth stage is when your tribe of creatures has advanced into the modern age. Again, the stage 
 is a very watered down RTS, but instead of having to look for food, you're looking for spices, 
 which are turned into Sporebucks. 3 of each vehicle (land/air/sea) can be designed/created for 
 your creature, granted you control a town of each type (military/religious/economic) . They all 
 serve the same purpose in trying to take control of the other civilizations in the world, which 
 is the goal of this stage, with the only real difference being the animations played during their 
 "attack."
  
  Once each city on your planet has been taken into custody, you can make the journey into the depths 
 of space in the final stage. The space stage is easily the best of the five stages, though. You 
 can still design the vehicles for your colonies on different planets (although you no longer have 
 direct control over them) . You can still design the buildings and outfits your creatures wear. 
 The only thing you have direct control over in this stage is the spaceship you use. As you're flying 
 around space you can come into contact with the other creatures of the universe (either the in-package 
 Maxis creatures, your other ones, or ones downloaded from the Sporepedia) . Once you contact the 
 new empires you can, once again, befriend, conquer or buy them. Befriending them doesn't get you 
 anywhere, really, except for opening trade routes, which are then used to buy the empires.
  
  The graphics are nice and artsy. They don't push the boundaries of your hardware in the slightest 
 but are easy on the eyes. The added feature of designing your own anthem in the fourth and fifth 
 stages are nice, as well, considering that the music doesn't grate at your ears.
  
  Spore is more or less designed to be around the user-generated content, which it is pretty successful 
 at. However in terms of an actual game, it's laughably easy, albeit very annoying at some points 
 and gets boring quite fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say that, but I think that Spore is boring. I feel like playing a six years old game. 
 I want to get involved in it, but I just can't. I made six planets, tried to give bio to my creatures, 
 and see how they compare, to eventually get them to meet each other in the space... I'm sad to 
 admit it, but my favorite part so far is... the cell part. Okay, some little details are nice, 
 such as seeing in black and white if you don't put eyes to your creature and little meteorites 
 showers from time to time... But what else? It's so repetitive, I would have said it's worth $20 
 maximum. I guess the expansion packs are gonna come. But seriously, being done with a game so fast? 
 A game needs gameplay. Sims were very simple at first, but there was this sort of randomness that 
 made it interesting. Spore isn't really random. So, yeah, seriously, wait till the price gets down 
 if you really want it, because for now, I'm really disappointed. Yeah. Too bad. I should have waited 
 before getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funk_
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Spore looks like a huge, open-ended game with a lot of replay value, whilst it's just a huge, open-ended 
 game that isn't that appealing after playing through every stage for the first time. It's true 
 that you make an unique creature, but when you enter the Tribal stage none of the creating or modifying 
 creatures follows in the latter stages. Because the stages are so simple it doesn't really make 
 you anticipated to play through all the stages again.
  
  In Spore you'll end up like a cell-esque creature, coming from a meteorite that smashed into your 
 little (literally) planet, in this stage you'll just gobble up creatures, depending on difficulty 
 you will just waste more time hitting other cell's for damage (at the easy difficulty, you'll hit 
 for 50% damage, at the hardest difficulty you'll just waste XX seconds killing the same creature, 
 and it's not even challenger, it's like playing bumpercarts in a puddle of water, followed by the 
 carts explode in a meaty facade of bite-size chunks.
  
  You can also either become a carnivore, herbivore and omnivore by adding the right mouths to your 
 creature.
  
  Along the way to the next stage, you can upgrade your cell with parts, these range from different 
 eyes, weapons (up to a tail that leaves a trail of poison behind, and a horn that makes an electric 
 currency around your cell's body) and you can ofcourse change the shape of your cell, after 15 
 minutes of fumbling around you'll get legs, and you can approach land, yay!
  
  In the second stage, you'll be your cell with legs, the poison tail and electric horns are useless 
 now, so you'll have to upgrade to new weapons (with DNA, the beginning currency to buy bodyparts, 
 gold and T's will be the latter currency in the game) and get a nice paintjob. In this stage you'll 
 get introduced into making allied nests, and killing other creatures (with optionally, allied creatures 
 you make) . 
  
  You can make allied nests by dancing and singing, with this your creature can become friendly, 
 with this you can get additional charm-upgrades in the form of new bodyparts, more charm means 
 incredibly ease into making new allies, having a creature with zero charm and a lot of fighting 
 expierence makes your creature 'evil' or something, creatures don't seem to like you that much 
 when you have six different horns attached to your face.
  
  After getting through the second stage, we get tribal stage, after this you don't get to physically 
 your natura character, only with outfits (and with outfits, I mean parts that don't fit with your 
 character, try finding a helm that fits your creatures head) that upgrade a few stats, in this 
 stage you'll be playing a very simple game of RTS, it's basically killing tribes, making friendly 
 tribes, and archieving huts for your tribe by killing other tribes, I don't know why people want 
 to get allies, they don't do anything back to you except that they bring food every once and now, 
 don't get me started about the overkill in food you get in Spore, next with the overdose of food 
 you've got, you've also got pet creatures that lay eggs, for all the herbivores out there.
  
  Next up is Civilization, with this you can make buildings, cars, planes and boats, this is 
 the funnest stage out of them all if you ask me, and I don't even like games like Civilization 
 IV, this is also a pretty simple and mind-numbing stage, it's basically raging over continents 
 with the overkill of machines you have, after a while you conquer the hell out of everything (and 
 again, combat wins, you either can kill somebody with a lot of ease, or wait 30 minutes to gather 
 enough gold to ally another city (and no, in the next stage you won't get help from other allied 
 nations in your next stage) .
  
  Woohoo, Space/Galaxy stage, and the last stage, you start to colonize other planets, but before 
 you can do that, you have to upgrade your spare ship, constantly buy fuel and get repairs done, 
 ally nations, do random missions because the same damn 'glowing-tail' creature starts spreading 
 viruses over your beloved planet. Your main adventure here will be gathering spice and colonizing 
 planets, it's just a lot of rinse and repeat before you can colonize planets, you have to make 
 sure the temperature is right, add a lot of this and that to the world, and after that you can 
 add a handful of your species on that planet, and after that everybody dies because some 'glowing-tail' 
 thing appeared out of nowhere.
  
  --
  All the stages are so incredible simple, going through them a second time would be just more of 
 the same, you might get a kick out of creating creatures and houses and vehicles (which is really 
 awesome 'n stuff) but the gameplay elements are just watered down, Maxis could do much better with 
 this game. After all that Spore is a solid game, I might get a crave to replay the adventure with 
 a new species after I forgot how dull the gameplay elements are.
  --
  
  Graphics:
  Charming, nice shading effects in the creature creator, the textures really come back when you 
 see the sun coming up behind your creature. The art design overall is just really impressive, Spore's 
 powersuit is mainly it's design, apart from the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  50-words give-or-take a few lines above. :-)
  
  Sound:
  Amazingly well, you are even able 
 to configure your own theme song.
  
  Overall:
  7/10 seeing Spore is a game that wants to be played again and again, I just think two plays will 
 be enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukdeaddog
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  In spore you start off as a simple cell swimming around the sea eating different food depending 
 on whether you are a carnivore, vegetarian or omnivore and you can only slightly alter the design 
 of the cell, although you have a full array of colours.
  This stage is less challenging but still fun.
  
  After a lot of eating you grow legs and become 
 a land creature which is in my opinion the best part of the game. At the beginning of this stage 
 you only have basic design features. In this stage rather than eat to progress, you eat to survive, 
 the way to progress is become friends with other creatures or wipe out their entire species which 
 would be odd if you chose to be a vegetarian. Through out this stage your brain will develop until 
 you make it to the tribal stage.
  
  During the tribal stage you control a whole tribe rather than one creature and you get the addition 
 of clothes which can look very odd on some creatures!
  You also get more sophisticated weaponry and you also get very basic huts.
  
  The next stage 
 is civilisation were you are even more intelligent so you build bigger and better buildings and 
 you take over entire civilisations .
  
  The final stage is the space stage were you are designing creatures and space ships and even planets 
 in this stage you do the same as the creature stage but on galactic proportions.
  
  This entire adventure mode should not take to long and you can create lots of save files on different 
 planets.
  
  To accompany al of this there is a creature creator which you can make creatures to share over 
 the internet.
  
  Overall spore is not very challenging but can keep you addicted for ages and the simple and brilliant 
 creature creator is the highlight of the game. 
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordVanil
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I have to give Maxis and EA credit; Spore is a gutsy game. It also needs no introduction. Spore 
 is well-known as 'the next big thing' in PC gaming and comes as probably the most highly anticipated 
 game of 2008. Conceptualized by Will Wright, the man who created The Sims, Spore is a game about... 
 life, really. Life is a broad thing and so is Spore by virtue of its design. It's also a flawed 
 game by virtue of its design, but most truly gutsy games are in some way. If Spore can be credited 
 with anything it's that there's nothing else quite like it.
  
  As stated above, Spore is about life, and namely the evolution of such. The game begins when a 
 meteorite smashes onto the surface of a planet, and from this meteorite is spawned life. The player 
 is a very small piece of that life and it is from there on in up to the players to become a much 
 bigger piece of life and, ultimately, the only life to speak of.
  
  Spore is a weird game because the game is separated into five distinct sessions of gameplay, each 
 representing a specific stage of the development of the player's own species. The game begins at 
 the Cell Stage where the player must steer their newly-spawned microscopic organism through the 
 primordial soup of their world, either scouring for plant matter as an Herbivore or hunting other 
 cells as a Carnivore. The goal is to grow larger and evolve methods to give you an edge over the 
 competition, like more cillia for faster movement, spines for defense or attack, poison spitters, 
 and so forth. The Cell Stage plays a lot like Pac-Man on steroids as you steer your little organism 
 with the mouse, frantically devouring bits of food while jetting away from larger predators.
  
  Once you reach the growth quota the game gives you, your organism grows legs and decides to 
 leave the ocean for dry land, which heralds the end of the Cell Stage and the beginning of the 
 Creature Stage. Here, Spore opens up a little bit and gives you a glimpse at the incredible power 
 of its user-friendly customization tools. You can literally create any sort of species you like. 
 Walking straw-men? Mustached frogs? Eight-legged monkies? It's all possible. I myself created a 
 race of bipedal crimson raptors and the first time I saw Spore animate them perfectly and naturally 
 I couldn't help but marvel at the technology at play.
  
  The Creature Stage wasn't as exciting as actually creating my creatures but it wasn't unentertaining 
 either. You make excursions from your home nest to either exterminate or make friends with the 
 nests of other species. For comparison's sake the Creature Stage plays like a very primitive MMO 
 and has the player mashing keys to execute either social or combat abilities. What abilities your 
 creature has is determined by how you decide to have it evolve. As you traverse the prehistoric 
 landscape of your planet you'll earn new parts which you can equip your species with via mating 
 with particularly lonely creatures. It's all very simple but it's charming, and collecting various 
 cool limbs and mouths and eyes you can experiment with is pretty compelling.
  
  Eventually though you'll inevitably meet another quota and Spore will propel you forth to the third 
 portion of the game: the Tribal Stage. At this point my aforementioned raptors learned how to start 
 fires and make tools and I was able to clothe them in various tribal vestments. Here, Spore changes 
 gears and becomes an extremely bare-bones RTS that has you plopping down very basic structures 
 in your village and either making friends with or burning rival villages. Unfortunately the Tribal 
 Stage loses the charm of the first two Stages and basically boils down to churning out more axemen 
 or gift-bearers than your opponents. Thankfully it also ends quickly.
  
  Once you've dealt with five other villages Spore enters the Civilization Stage. The goal now becomes 
 to dominate your planet by either bombing, converting, or buying out the cities of rival nations. 
 This is reminiscent of the Tribal Stage in that it's still functionally an RTS but some of the 
 charm of the first two Stages returns because you are given the ability to sculpt and design your 
 own structures and vehicles from the bottom-up. The tools are just as easy to use and strong as 
 they were for creating your original creature and if you enjoy that sort of thing you can very 
 easily lose hours just designing your own factories and gunships. Those same raptors that had just 
 recently discovered fire were now imperialistic industrialists, crushing rival nations with their 
 superior air power. Ultimately though the Civilization Stage is functionally as primitive as the 
 Tribal Stage: you can only have three different types of units at once and victory comes easily 
 by refining spice geysers you find for resources and dominating the cities of your foes.
  
  Which finally brings the player to the fifth, final, and meatiest portion Spore has to offer: the 
 Colonization Stage. Now the time comes to build a spacecraft and launch it into space where an 
 entire star cluster of exploration, trade, and warfare awaits. Here Spore changes gears again, 
 this time to morph into a space exploration game that sees the player zipping back and forth between 
 solar systems trading spice, completing missions, terraforming worlds, brokering trade agreements, 
 and conquering rival space empires. Those old raptors of mine had become quite the intergalactic 
 bully by this time.
  
  Like I said above; Spore is a weird game. Unfortunately it's also a shallow game. When your game 
 is actually five games in one each is bound to suffer for it, and Spore is no exception. The Colonization 
 Stage is reasonably substantial but getting there, creation tools aside, involves playing through 
 four other sub-par, albeit short, experiences. Spore is also incredibly easy because there doesn't 
 seem to be any way to truly 'lose' the game. When killed/destroyed/beaten back the player is just 
 able to respawn as a cell/creature/space ship at no cost. It was obviously a design choice meant 
 to cater towards casual players but it leaves people like me who've been playing games their whole 
 life a little out in the cold. There is never any tension to anything you do or see in Spore. Evolution 
 has never been so user-friendly.
  
  On the positive side, Spore's production values are excellent. The technology at play with regards 
 to the creatures themselves is pretty remarkable to behold. The game also scales well and will 
 run decently on even low-end systems without much of a hassle. Being such a customizable game a 
 very strong framework for player creativity had to be available in Spore and the game certainly 
 does do what it promises to do in this regard.
  
  Spore's innovative online capabilities are also worth noting. While the game boasts no true multiplayer 
 to speak of it does connect to an online database called the 'Sporepedia'. The Sporepedia functions 
 to store the appearances and details of every other creature, structure, and vehicle built by everyone 
 else playing Spore anywhere in the world and uploads them into your own game, which means that 
 the tribes you'll be crushing will actually be the tribes of other Real players. It's nifty and 
 is bound to provide Spore with some desperately-needed longevity.
  
  Spore is an innovative title. The sense of guiding your very own species from the soup of life 
 to the farthest stars is an inherently charming one. It's a shame that it's also an inherently 
 shallow one. And really, it's to be expected with a game as broad and different as Spore. It may 
 not be a particularly great game but it is both an important and impressive one.
  
  Anyone looking for a deep, long-lived game should look elsewhere, but if you're willing to try 
 something different merely out of obervence of its differences then Spore is worth having around. 
 It's a gutsy game.
  
  The Good: Truly innovative, inherently charming, Sporepedia
  
  The Bad: Shallow gameplay, way too easy
  
  ~V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mouser123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the most self-creative game ever made... you can design almost ANYTHING! this 
 game is intense! well worth the wait (was creating stuff in creature creator for a month) excellent 
 excellent excellent! would recommend this to anyone who liked Sims or other Maxis created games...
 
  
  Impressive game play elements, not much of a storyline though, very good scientifically... i got 
 highly addicted to this game straight away, so be warned... i was playing for about 8 hours straight 
 first time i loaded it up....
  
  lots of freedom throughout the game... you can chose to be a herbivore, omnivore or carnivore... 
 you can chose to be peaceful or a warmonger... religious, economic or militaristic and all of this 
 effects how your creature develops and what bonus' it gets at space stage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlas120
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Spore is a game that is very addictive. The most addictive tool in SPore is the creation tools 
 of course. I've already made several games just to made several different looking creatures already. 
 Even if you are not great at creativity or art, you still can make an interesting creation because 
 of how easy the tools are to use.
  
  SPore also creates an interesting experience at each level (Although somewhat easy through the 
 first three stages) . By far the space stage is the most interesting stage, but also the hardest. 
 With an extreme amount of planets and possible other races to meet in space (Thanks to the auto 
 content downlaod from Sporepedia.) 
  
  The biggest gamebreaking bug is spore is the "Ocean creature" bug... In which you're nest ends 
 up in the middle of the ocean and you are unable to go to land to meet other creatures.
  
  But the overall gameplay, replayability, and innovativeness of Spore give the game an 8.5 from 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Im sure Spore would fare very well as a kiddie-game. It's very simple and making your creature 
 does add some fun indeed, the gameplay in all levels is however extremely flat. You'll easily finish 
 the entire game in around 8 hours, and for a full priced game that has no multiplayer, I find it 
 strange.
  
  When you start off Spore, you're small speck in a big pool, trying to find smaller specks to eat, 
 or possibly some green vegetables if you're a herbivore. You'll also have to avoid some of the 
 bigger things in the pool, dying doesn't seem to affect the game at all though. All in all an unrewarding 
 experience that's over pretty fast. Once you've eaten enough you'll develop legs and get up on 
 land, once there you'll... eat vegetables or hunt other beings if you're a carnivore. It's also 
 possible to impress the other creatures and ally yourself to them. All in all a pretty unrewarding 
 and boring experience, battles are almost like mmorpg ones, you just spam skillbuttons whenever 
 the cooldown is over. Or if you want to ally yourself with the beasts you'll just have to watch 
 the same animations over and over in order to either, charm, sing, dance or pose to impress them.
 
  
  Once you've befriended or eaten enough you'll develop once again, this time you enter the tribal 
 stage. Which is a little like Settlers. You'll have to find food from either trees, or hunting 
 down creatures running about, or fishing. This food you can use to either get new babies for your 
 tribe, whom eventually will grow up and become a new member. You will also be able to build some 
 nine or so buildings, all adding some equipment for your creatures. Some equipment make you better 
 at gathering food, some are better to impress enemy tribes, and the others are used for just killing 
 the enemies completely.
  
  This stage was probably the most fun, but as with the other stages it was way to easy. Once you 
 complete this stage you enter civilizationmode, and this will push you into a simplistic rts-mode. 
 This mode was rather tedious, and didn't contain much strategy. You did get to design your own 
 buildings and vehicles though, which is alway enjoyable.
  
  All in all, no mode is very complex, they're all very simple, by design I'm pretty sure. Personally 
 I like more indepth games, but as I said, kids or people not into depth will enjoy this I'm sure.
 
  
  The games graphics are cartoony and nice, the animations are fluent, and probably the games greatest 
 achievement, considering that you made all the creatures yourself. The online component is sort 
 of fun, but doesn't add much to your game.
  
  Can't complain about the sound either, and at a later stage you even get to compose your own themesong.
 
  
  All in all, Spore is a game that gives you the opportunity to make your own creation. It doesn't 
 let you play a very advanced game with it, and for me the appeal of making creatures wears out 
 pretty fast, and the gameplay is far to simplistic for me as well.
  
  I'm sure alot of people will enjoy it for a longer time though, and I guess you won't know until 
 you tried it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I've been playing games ever since i remember (more then 15 years) but i've never had such trouble 
 deciding whether i like this game or not. Because every user review i've read so far is true. Just 
 looking from different perspective. 
  
  1. Graphics - Nice and colorful. The game can even run into a on-board graphics card although at 
 low details.
  
  2. Technical issues - Another EA stupid piracy prevention system. The only one affected are the 
 players who had really bought the game. I don't see the point in doing such a system. The only 
 thing they need to do is to require your CD key to create your SPORE account. As with WoW. The 
 people who pirate woudn't buy the game no matter how many protection tools they put on it. They 
 will still wait for the cracked version. Stupid EA...
  
  3. Story - From Cell to Space. They are no actual story.
  
  4. Gameplay - This is the most 
 controversial part of the whole game. If you take all the stages separately they are a little more 
 then a funny games from a beginner programmer. Apart from the space stage the gameplay of all of 
 them can be put into any browser based game. STill all of them are very addicting. 
  
  Cell stage is simple and funny but too short. 
  In the creature stage you will have to hunt other 
 species inhabiting your planet or ally with them. But as the best parts you find will always be 
 the same you will most likely end up with the same creature (or very similar) and he will most 
 likely looks like abomination.
  The only 2 characteristics which will move to the next stage is your feet speed and health. 
 
  
  3. Tribal stage - very short too. This time it is actually faster to ally with the tribes then 
 attack them. You can't customize your creature anymore. You can put some masks and clothes but 
 they give bonuses only for this stage and are only cosmetics on the future stages.
  
  4. Most annoying for me so far. If you play as economic nation you could have big troubles at this 
 one. You can't attack directly and you can be attacked...
  
  5. Most of the time you will play in this stage. If you didn't get bored ofc. They are only a few 
 missions you can do and in most time you will have to go around and defend your planets (at least 
 until you can afford to place Uber Bots on them) . After that the game gets easier but still it 
 is repetitive. You have so little time to think for this though as you will rarely have even a 
 spare minute to about what to do as you will always be on a mission or collecting your spice or 
 defending. 
  
  Still Spore is one GREAT game. I've been playing it from 1 week almost non stop. I highly recommend 
 everyone to play this game. It expected it to be something more though but still a few tweaks can 
 make it even better. Like actually some PENALTIES for dying.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffduwg7575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Hell the concept is a amazing, but in the video from the Galactic Edition they admit to having 
 a bare bone prototype of the game for the 2005 GDC. The game looked amazing, there were a ton of 
 features that made the game interesting in Creature phase but they are absent from this copy. Basically 
 Cell Phase is fun and quick, a needed part in the game just for consistency that's about it. Creature 
 phase gets a little boring. Going around be befriending a person or killing them off completely 
 doing nothing but unlocking more body parts. Tribal phase is the game thing pretty much. Collecting 
 food and making more of us just to ether be friend or kill of a neighboring tribe. That's as far 
 as I've gotten cause I'm stuck in tribal trying to kill of the last tribe of 6 you need to take 
 down. I have high hopes for the rest of the game but was really looking forward to the creature 
 phase being the most turning point of the rest. I do recommend this game but also beware this game 
 is in need for a patch or 8 and probably some much needed fan input into the next ep. Like the 
 DRM for instance. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wswedin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is great, been playing it three days non-stop, a little burnt out though. Doubt this 
 game will lose replay value as much as some games I have in the future. 
  
  That said... the problems. Only a few.
  
  Tribal is too short, same with civilization, hoping 
 for expansions that add onto those.
  
  Space is great and all... but you have major issues with spending 90% of your time defending your 
 worlds if not more, and keeping them repaired, then you do "exploring".
  
  For bragging about the exploring in space age, it is fun, it is fun to war with other civilizations, 
 or ally with them... but the sheer amount of attacks, and rebuilding of every thing is frustrating.
 
  
  I recommend this game for everyone, you don't even have to play the actual game part, you can just 
 hang around in the editors (which can be quite fun) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saysmark
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The cell stage is my favorite by far. It's got some awesome gameplay and the visual effects are 
 great. If you haven't tried this yet, try taking away the eyes of your cell to make it more challenging 
 but also to make it feel more real. The only problems I have with the cell stage is that the CPU 
 cells are always the same even on different planets, the stage is over very quickly, and there 
 aren't many evolutionary options. And speaking of evolution, I would have preferred if there wasn't 
 so much user control over how your species looks. I think a better solution would be if it was 
 like a timed survival mode and if you survive as the species you are it would generate several 
 possible evolutionary changes and you picked one and tried to survive again. And if you failed, 
 you would go back to a step in evolution and either have to try your luck on the same evolutionary 
 line or pick a different one that might be more adapted to you. Maybe it's unreasonable to expect 
 Maxis to pretty much map out millions or billions of changes just to make a more realistic game, 
 but if they're going to sell Spore as evolution that's what they should give us. This isn't so 
 much evolution as Pimp My Species.
  
  The creature stage is also pretty interesting. It has the same problems as the cell stage except 
 it's not too short, but it also has the problem of pretty much forcing you into designing creatures 
 that look like an abomination. They give values to certain body parts which makes it so that by 
 the end of the creature stage you're likely to have the same sort of features every time. Of course 
 at the end you can always just go back into the creature creator and completely revamp your species 
 to be any way you want, but that has an effect on how your species will be in the tribal stage. 
 Instead of focusing the tribal stage on technological concepts it's pretty much just a simple game 
 of gathering food and either playing music for the neighbors to get them to ally with you or attacking 
 them in a much more boring version of the same sort of fighting you got in the creature stage.
 
  
  The civilization stage isn't any better. It's just zoomed out one more step and now instead of 
 having any connection to what your species actually is you only relate to what your city's 4 buildings 
 look like and what your car, boat, and plane look like.
  
  And the space stage isn't bad per se, but it's not nearly as interesting as you'd hope for being 
 the end of the game. It just makes you wonder why you're playing a mediocre space simulator when 
 you bought a game that was supposed to be about evolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrodgers2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I won't go too deeply in to the gameplay, since others have described it well. The Cell stage is 
 charming the first time, after that I skip it. Same with the creature and tribal stages. The Civ 
 stage takes about 5 minutes, but it is cute. The Space stage is *very* cool, but actual kind of 
 hard, and it does get repetitive. So does Civ IV, though.
  
  However, this game is clearly designed for multiple expansion packs, just like the Sims. If you 
 remember, that game was kind of sparse in the first release, but now people have higher expectations. 
 The spore expansions will provide new options, things to do, types of planets, you name it. In 
 10 years, this will be in the pantheon of all time greatest games, and no one will remember how 
 limited it was on release.
  
  As it is, it's still a refreshing change from all the same-old same-old games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otacon6669
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Maxis has grown a reputation of making very few games, which are fantastic, when they did nothing 
 but expand on sims 2 for 3 years, you'd expect a punch out of spore, but this is not so. Spore 
 is of course a charming and innovative game, but maxis has promised more than they can achieve, 
 the whole game is very easy to use and extremely customizable, at the same time they skimped out 
 on the good parts.
  
  Cell Stage: A short, boring, 10 minute aspect of the game, but necessary nonetheless
  
  Creature 
 Stage: This stage bothered me, the repetitiveness was irritating and the entire time it felt like 
 spore was trying to be an RPG, although the content is all well and good, frankly... it's boring.
 
  
  Tribe Stage: An extremely fun aspect that was only another 5 minutes longer than the cell stage, 
 the idea was great, if only maxis had expanded on it.
  
  Civ Stage: An RTS stage of the game which lasts a good time and is where you will spend the most 
 time creating, with all the buildings and vehicles, the best stage so far.
  
  Space Stage: Although i have yet to get through the space stage, i love it, the whole concept is 
 unique and fun to play, and the amount of time it is taking is refreshing compared to the rest 
 of the game, looking forward to completing it.
  
  All in all, spore is great, but lacks some key aspects of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a game in that the goal is to develop your creature throuh 5 stages of the evolutionary 
 cycle, each of these stages has it's chalanges that you must overcome if you are to succeed.
  
  When you first start a new game you will start off in the cell phase which begings with a cutsceen 
 were an metiorite approaches your chosen planet and chashes, metior shards will spread and land 
 in the water and there you appear. You are a small cell either herbivor or carnivor, that must 
 eat to get bigger and evolve, you will encounter bigger cells and the calls which were threatening 
 you become small. As you play through this stage you will aquire parts which you may use to custimize 
 your cell to defend yourself against other cells, these parts are aquired from metior shards in 
 the water or by killing other cells.
  
  The cell stage will be over quickly in about 10 minutes which is a good thing because it is pretty 
 much over before it becomes boring. After the cell stage it is time to add legs to your cell and 
 go to land, this is the creature stage were you controle a single member of your species however 
 you are not alone, other species exist on the land also of which you can either make them extinct 
 by killing them off, or you can make them your allies. Interacting with other species will fill 
 your progress bar quicker. You can collect parts on the land from either bones of dead creatures 
 or from killing or allieing with alpha creatures and you can use these in the creature creator 
 to improve the appilities of your creature. You may also encounter other events such as spaceships 
 flying around your planet abducting other creatures, epic creatures or other large creatures which 
 you may ally to get the advantage against your foes.
  
  After you fill your progress bar for the creature phase you will be introduced to another cut-sceen 
 showing your species lighting fire using a stick, the next stage is the tribal stage. The difference 
 between the tribal and creature stage is that you are no longer controling a single member of your 
 species, instead you are controling a small tribe of your species. Your tribe must ally or conquer 
 other tribes to advance your own. As you ally or defeat other tribes your progress bar will fill, 
 as it fills your tribe will gain totam peices and your tribe will become stronger. You can no longer 
 modify your species however you can custemise outfits for your tribe.
  
  Depending on weather you defeated or allied the other tribes will dicide your specialty in the 
 civilisation stage, either economic, religious or militaristic. In the civilisation stage you must 
 build cities that can make ypu a profit so you can create vehicles so that you can conquer, convert 
 or buy out other cities depending on your specialty. As you aquire other cities from other nations 
 you may aquire the other two specialties and you will be able to create vehicles from those specialties. 
 As you aquire more cities you will also be able to create air vehicles.
  
  After you take over the planet you will then be able to explore your star system and beyond, the 
 space stage has no direct goals. You may want to take other empires by force, you may want to ally 
 them or you may want to colonise other star systems, that choice is pretty much up to you. You 
 may want to take on missions from other empires to get spore bucks and improve your galactic ranking. 
 Spore bucks allow you to purchace new tools and upgrade the ones you have for your space ship.
 
  
  The creature creator that was released back a few months ago is available in the game, you also 
 have vehicle and building creators to show off your creativity, they are exeptionally easy to use 
 and you don't really need to think what you want to make, you can just add parts as you go and 
 doing that can get you the same amaizing results as if you thought about what you want to make.
 
  
  All in all spore is a game worth getting if you havent got it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Man_UK
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is really enjoyable until you get to the space stage. The four stages before the space 
 stage are quite simple to accomplish (I was using easy difficulty) as it is creating your character 
 in stages 1 to 3 and the fourth stage is your fully created creature taking over the world you 
 live on.
  
  All the above leads up to what seems to be the main part of the game; the space stage. the universe 
 is vast, plenty of solar sytems which contain 1 or more planets. This stage I found nigh on impossible. 
 You need plenty of money to buy stuff and eventually you get attacked left right and centre by 
 other beings before you have your feet off the ground. The other beings seem to advance quicker 
 than you. Another disappointment I found was that once you claimed a new planet, you had to aclimatize 
 it by buying many atmosphere kits and temperature kits to get it to tier 3 which had to be got 
 to make it a world to live in comfortable for your creatures. I was thinking of trading this game 
 in but I dont think you can if you play it online. I have had two attempts and both failed; the 
 worst one being when two of my planets were getting attacked at the same time, and also at same 
 time I had to stop my other planet from losing all its wildlife because of a virus on the planet 
 (I ended up losing the wildlife and one of my planets) .
  
  Im editing this to as Ive tried to get further in the game, I did but got attacked by swarms and 
 swarms and swarms and.... you get the picture. You got attacked so much that I could not advance 
 or get any badges.
  
  Dont bother buying this game unless you are good at rts games.
  
  Sometimes I wonder about all the games with all its hype but are actually a load of rubbish, if 
 it is worth copying them. The amount of time I have paid 35 and been disappointed it far outways 
 the games I have enjoyed. Im very disappointed with this game and plenty others: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Great game on paper, and for the most part it is a great game in the early stages where the bugs 
 are not nearly noticable, once you enter the space stage which is whats considered the main emphasis 
 of the game it becomes nothing more than a standard space RTS with realtime combat added, still 
 sounds great but unfortuntely the vastness of this part is what screws itself over, once you've 
 explored a large chunk of 'local space' you soon realise that you can explore every peice of the 
 galaxy which obviously, starts to use up huge chunks of ram and 'ding, you guessed it enter memory 
 leaks, this is part of the nasty space bugs which cause excessive crashes and eventually cause 
 the game to become unplayable, I see a true classic 'space game' with 3 minigames tagged on here 
 once alot of the serious gamebreaking bugs are fixed, but since this is EA we're talking about, 
 don't hold your breath until they release Spore: Gold or something :rolleyes: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odechant
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those game that really suck you in for about 9-hours which is what I spent completing 
 the main quest. I had fun, lots of fun, the 9-hours I spent were continuous. But now, today, I 
 went to start a new game and it was like. Blah. Maybe I'm just not creative enough. It's not like 
 I won't spend the next month or so replaying this it's just that I quickly lost all excitement 
 about the game play.
  
  Having said that, character creation is the bomb. It really is fun designing creatures, vehicle, 
 buildings and spaceships, but looks are seemingly all this game is basing its self on. 
  
  The game play is... dry. The multiplayer consists of importing other players "skins" and actual 
 contact with these people is non-existent.
  
  I fully expect an expansion of some sort. Some type of expanded mission pack, that encourages you 
 to design with some type of goal in mind, rather than just another quick and thoughtless play-through. 
 And it should be a free download, I hope the mod community can do something more with this other 
 than create spectacular creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thwart
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I must have been living in a bubble the last six months or so cause I didn't here anything about 
 the DRM for this game until after I bought it and got home. A friend IM'd me and told me about 
 the DRM after I just got done installing it on my work laptop. Crap! He said you only activate 
 the game three times. That means three accounts on the same computer or three different computers 
 or a mix of the two. Crap crap!
  
  So yeah. I was really upset about that. I installed it on my laptop, because my home pc bit the 
 dust a few weeks ago. I figured I'd uninstall it off my work laptop after I build my new pc. I 
 also wanted to install it on my wifes IMac. So I did that. Two installs down. Ugh.
  
  So I started playing the game. The first stage is simple and fun and takes just the right amount 
 of time. Your basically a cell creature and you need to swim around, eat, and try to avoid getting 
 eaten. Makes sense. Let's move on.
  
  The creature stage is where things start going down hill. Basically you're on land now. The surface 
 of the planet is covered with nests of other creatures that made it to the surface. It seems like 
 the nests are an equal distance apart, but I'm not sure if that is true. So that's lame. You basically 
 need to adust your creatures attributes to make friend or foe of the other creatures. You just 
 wander the planet from nest to nest to gain DNA points from either singing and dancing with these 
 creatures or killing them. You use the DNA points to adjust your appendages to help you befriend 
 or kill creatures at other nests. If you die you return to your nest. No penalty at all. It's like 
 a series of minigames. You just keep pushing forward until you can move to the next stage. By this 
 point in the gameplay I'm starting to get worried. I was hoping that this was going to be a more 
 complex game that would be more strict when it came to how the evolution worked. You can totally 
 change your characters appearance any time you want and as many times as you want. What? Why? Ugh.
 
  
  I should point out that the controls don't feel very solid and intuitive during the creature stage 
 as well. You can use the familiar asdw keys for movement, but the camera control is really not 
 good at all. 
  
  I was hoping to see some RTS dynamics enter into the game from the tribal stage and onward. Unfortunately, 
 the RTS dynamics are so shallow that I can't believe they released this game as it is. 
  
  With the Tribal stage you can adjust the clothing that your tribe wears. Whoopieeee! The controls 
 are different yet poorly designed here as well.
  
  To be honest I didn't get past the Tribal stage. My disheartened experience doesn't bring me to 
 want to play the game anymore. I seem to be more entertained with reading the honest and poor reviews 
 of the game than playing the game itself.
  
  When the other reviewers get past the negative aspects of the DRM they have just as much negative 
 things to say about the game itself. The civilization and galactic stages are apparently less thrilling 
 than the creature stage. They all say the same thing about how they were lead to believe that this 
 game was going to have some strong RTS elements within it and good strategic gameplay. Wrong! This 
 game was release for casual gamers only. 
  
  DRM is the least of this games worries. I'm not sure how XPlay gave this game 5/5. In fact, a lot 
 of game review sites are giving this game a good numerical rating, but when you read the review 
 they do touch on the big disappointments in the game. They're tilting their scores to be favorable, 
 but you need to read the review to get the real truth.
  
  I can't imagine that a series of patches will improve the gameplay enough to make anyone that is 
 more than just a casual gamer happy. The inevitable expansion packs will bring new limbs, appendages, 
 and clothes, and buildings, and whatever other crap to accessorize the game, but I doubt they'll 
 improve the gameplay. 
  
  It's too late.
  
  They let the primordial ooze out of the bag.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caramelsosweet
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the ones that was excited about Spore from the first day it was announced. I am an 
 avid sims lover and new anything touched by Will Wright would be purchased by me. While I am still 
 in that camp, this game is a little disappointing. It's one of those games that after you conquer 
 it once, there's no reason to do it again.
  
  But there is enjoyment in conquering it that one time.
  
  There is an issue in this game for 
 me and that is making an ally out of an opposing tribe/creature. The social features are extremely 
 boring. There is no depth to this part of the game. 
  
  I believe this forces you to be kind of an aggressive player on the dark side because the playing 
 is only interesting for me when I defeat a tribe.
  
  I hope there are expansion packs that will be released for this game. Knowing Will Wright and his 
 love for expansions in the sims, it seems possible. Only then do I think this game can redeem itself.
 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archalus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, I just don't see what everybody is raving about with this game. In my opinion it's just 
 boring. It's cute, but no way in hell should this be in the strategy category.
  
  The hype was incredible for what it actually is. I thought I would see an in depth creation game. 
 All I see is a glorified creature editor. I will admit, creating a creature is a lot of fun and 
 can be kind of rewarding in it's own right. But that's where any kind of critical thinking or decision 
 making ends. 
  
  I can't help to feel that the high scores are either paid for or the result of everybody wanting 
 it to be something it's not. I don't even care about the DRM everybody is complaining about. The 
 game is just not what it was hyped up to be. 
  
  Really, if your looking for a cute game to kill some time with virtually no thinking involved, 
 Spore is it. If your looking for a strategy game. Stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Well I believe I've fooled around with Spore just about enough to give some honest opinions about 
 each part of the game. I'll start off by saying that this game really brings back the feeling of 
 being addicted to a game and even time away is spent trying to solve my empire's problems when 
 I get back on. It's innovative in its approach and infinitely creative thanks to all the users. 
 The biggest portion of this game is going to be the gameplay department so I'll save that for last.
 
  
  First off is the sound. If you've played any other Maxis title then you know right off the bat 
 what to expect in this category. Instrumentals play in the background and narrate the mood wonderfully. 
 The music is often airy and spacey but always relaxing, never detracting from the gameplay. This 
 mood music appropriately changes when conflict arises and suits those portions of the game perfectly. 
 Sound effects from munching on critters to breaking down huts to laser fire are all what you'd 
 come to expect from a game such as this. The creatures you'll create will also develop a language 
 of their own that is kind of similar to Simlish and this language will evolve as your creatures 
 increase their intelligence.
  
  The graphics have a style all their own where everything from plant life to planet design is alien 
 in nature but wonderfully fitting for the game. The creature, building and vehicle creators let 
 you construct objects that would make most computer animated movies jealous. While the amount of 
 parts is, of course, limited the way you can attach and manipulate the parts is not. I've seen 
 everything from bovine looking creatures walking on their hind legs covered in spikes to creatures 
 that look nothing like anything I've ever seen before. All of this is mostly seamless except for 
 a little loading time when entering a planet's atmosphere. So in other words there isn't any slowdown, 
 clipping or things getting stuck where they're not supposed to. The game is perfectly polished 
 in the graphics department.
  
  The biggest portion of the game is the various gameplay elements that encompass the various content 
 editors in the game. They range from simple fight or flee mechanics to an almost galactic game 
 of Chess and chance. It's in the later stages of the game where balancing issues and problems with 
 the AI come into play.
  
  Every game has a beginning so I'll start there. I began my evolution as a simple cell with limited 
 design choices, and the option to choose herbivore or carnivore. I was able to pretty much pick 
 where the creature's eyes and movement limbs go but that's about it. I was then put into a world 
 I would describe as if I filled up my sink and was able to peer at the microbes battling it out 
 for life. This portion of the game is pretty elementary; you eat, flee or attack carefully. You'll 
 eat anything easy to catch, you'll flee anything bigger than you or with better defensive/offensive 
 parts or you'll find a creature that has a weak spot and take it out hopefully netting you with 
 the ability to unlock a new part. Each bit of food nets you DNA points where you then mate and 
 redesign your cell with a very limited amount of parts. The environment is very fluid looking with 
 things going on all around and even below you. Maxis has constructed a very surreal world in this 
 portion. A nice little touch was as your creature grows, it goes from a translucent organism to 
 something that looks like it has weight and is definitely more solid. It's not long after that 
 when my creature became land bound. It seems the initial choice of herbivore and carnivore had 
 a little influence on what I was to become.
  
  Since I was a carnivore, I was limited to a set of carnivore heads and even got a nice little ability 
 to roar and strike fear in other creatures. Other than that the beginning building set is very 
 limited and so was my DNA reserve so initially on land, there's not much one can do. I was then 
 thrust into a nest where the game played out a bit like an MMORPG. Depending on what body parts 
 I picked, they gave my creature certain abilities that ranged from attack, to social and others 
 that dictated movement like sprinting or flight. I tried a balance of social and attack and started 
 out in this new world.
  
  In this world there are skeletal remains that instantly unlock a new body part; other body parts 
 are collected by either killing other creatures or befriending them. Killing is easy to understand, 
 you highlight a creature, pick an attack and then wait for it to recharge before you can attack 
 again. The social aspect makes you mimic what a creature does in order for it to like you. Befriending 
 a creature is much harder because you'll always have to have either the same level of body part 
 that lets you do the same exact song, dance or charm movement. I befriended a few creatures but 
 found it was much easier just to wipe them off the face of the planet.
  
  Speaking of extinction, usually that was one of the little mini-missions I received. There are 
 small missions in this portion of the game that are usually befriending a certain amount of creatures 
 from a set species or wiping them all out. As you advance your creature gets smarter and is able 
 to have a few creatures tag along either from your nest or nests of creatures you befriended. You 
 can rest at your home nest, allies' nests or nest of extinct species and food abounds on trees 
 or animals you've killed. After a while you'll have enough DNA to move on to the tribal stageor 
 not. You can always stick around this portion to gather more body parts.
  
  In this stage's editor you'll put the final changes on your creature and then design an outfit 
 that increases stats such as health, social, combat and food gathering. Then you're tossed into 
 a stage that plays out like a mini-RTS game. Your tribe uses food as currency for pretty much anything; 
 new buildings require food and new tribe members require food. Good thing food is abundant; you 
 can hunt animals, domesticate animals for their eggs, fish, pick fruit or raid other villages.
 
  
  The way to defeat this stage is to either befriend or eradicate the other villages, which unlocks 
 their technology and lets you advance. I tried to play this stage a little more diplomatic but 
 noticed that that majority of the tribes didn't share that same philosophy. 5 or 6 of the other 
 tribes met the business end of my stone axes and the defeat of these tribes increased the size 
 of my tribe and unlocked things such as healing rods, fishing spears, torches and instruments. 
 Instruments are used in social interactions which is what I did with one tribe. You pretty much 
 equip your tripe members with the instruments you can and head over to their village to try to 
 impress them. The other tribe will tell you what instrument to play and if you have enough tribe 
 members playing it, it fills up an impress meter faster. 
  
  This portion of the game felt kind of weak as there were only a limited amount of things to do 
 and a limited amount of ways to do them. Sure there are a few military strategies you can do but 
 overall it was a short stage of the game that should last less than an hour. After this it's off 
 to civilization and an increase in difficulty. Up until this point the game is a cake walk.
  
  This editor lets you civilize your tribe's attire a little more then lets you build what your 
 city hall looks like, along with houses, factories, entertainment buildings, tanks and ships. 
 
  
  Houses, factories and entertainment buildings have a certain pattern that they should be placed 
 in your city to increase happiness and productivity. Doing this properly ensures your city will 
 be profitable. Tanks and ships are your muscle that captures spice geysers that give you more money. 
 Yes in Spore, spice is money. This portion plays a little more like an RTS but more like the board 
 game Risk.
  
  The decisions of past portions of the game dictate whether your civilization is warlike, economic 
 or spiritual and this will change the way you play the game. If you're warlike, you're more likely 
 just to conquer everything and your special abilities are shields and bombs. Economic and you'll 
 buy out the other cities and religious you'll convert unhappy cities to your cause. 
  
  You can build allies with other nations and start trade which is a good way to begin even if you're 
 a warlike civilization. Piss too many people in the start and the game will team up on you to wipe 
 you from the face of the planet. Having allies also lets you talk them into helping you attack 
 other countries.
  
  It's this part of the game where the game AI comes up a little faulty. In one play through it was 
 down to me and two other nations and the one nation and I weren't looking too good. So while that 
 nation was under attack I sat back and tried to gather the dying nation's spice geysers. In a move 
 that baffled me, the dying nation sent its entire military to attack my nation leaving their capital 
 open to destruction and messing up my city in the process. The chance is that nation would have 
 died anyways but I didn't expect it to take a Scorched Earth policy for a measly spice geyser. 
 
  
  Gaining cities offers you a sort of momentum where more powerful special abilities are unlocked, 
 then the ability to create aircraft and finally a special ability that clinches the game. I unlocked 
 ICBM's and took out the last three cities with a click of a button. Then it was off to the galactic 
 stage.
  
  This stage lets you create a spaceship where everything is pretty much just for appearance. All 
 the stats for the spaceship are instead bought as you acquire badges for pretty much everything 
 you do. This portion of the game is the part in Maxis fashion that never ends and you can play 
 forever.
  
  You leave your home planet and you find that there are countless star systems and races that own 
 those stars. Once again you can conquer trade, ally or just explore throughout the universe and 
 here's where the balancing issues rear their head. I gave up my war like ways and decided to just 
 explore the universe looking for rare items and trading, unfortunately visiting some star systems 
 is considered an act of war and you can quickly make enemies that make this portion of the game 
 very tedious.
  
  I started with making allies with all the empires around my star system but as I ventured out I 
 pissed off 2 or 3 other empires. Now I find that I'm constantly having my home world attacked and 
 can't get very far in the universe. The balance issues come from the way these attacks play out.
 
  
  You see, when your allies are attacked by other empires or pirates, they expect you to fend them 
 off for them. When you're attacked you don't get any help. When you try to conquer another planet, 
 it's your ship and maybe some 1 or 2 very weak allies against a fleet that can not only attack 
 you in deep space but also have numerous ships on the home planet. Lastly when your planet is attacked 
 it's up to your lone ship to defend it from usually 2 large ships and 8-10 smaller ships. All of 
 these ensure that you'll be restarting at your home planet over and over again. In other words, 
 no matter what you do, you're constantly outnumbered and almost always results in death. So this 
 portion could be summed up in Chess like way where every move has to be calculated and small steps 
 should be taken all along the way. 
  
  There's also a terraforming portion that takes a while to get used to and is pretty hit or miss. 
 It's hard to get a planet perfect and to keep it that way when you constantly have to return to 
 your home world to defend it or run out to save an allied world. I think it's impossible to outright 
 lose this phase but staying alive is an exercise in tedium as each attack on your home planet requires 
 you to build it back up piece by piece. I wish there was at least an auto rebuild function that 
 would deduct the money out. It would be well used by the time I'm done playing this game.
  
  Well that's pretty much it. There's also an easy and well designed Spore community that makes 
 everything from downloading other people's designs to showcasing your own. In a game that's all 
 about creativity with some entertaining game portions, designing, showcasing and downloading could 
 take hours in just itself.
  
  Like I said I'm extremely happy with this game despite a few balancing issues and gameplay decisions. 
 It's not that they are impossible to overcome but they just take some thinking and planning to 
 conquer and I'm interested in what expansions will come from this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tolerdesigns
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Many individuals have been complaining to no end about Spores faults, criticizing the games more 
 simplistic RTS stages, and cartoony-style graphics. I believe that most of this comes from the 
 large amount of hype that was put on the game before it's release.
  That being said, it is understandable that people would have high expectations for such an innovative 
 release, but I think we should all take a step back, and look at Spore for what it does have to 
 offer.
  
  Firstly, no one can argue that the creator tools are some of the most fun and creative that have 
 ever been released in this style of game. The sheer joy of creating something entirely from basic 
 shapes and parts, and seeing it fully immersed in the game exceeded all of my expectations.
  
  Secondly, although the stages leading up to the space stage are fairly simplistic in nature, 
 I look at them more as a building ground for your galatic conquest.
  
  All in all, the game has a lot to offer, and is definitely worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Spore! It's finally here after being in developement for almost 8 years. One of the most anticipated 
 games for PC this year, there was a lot of hype surrounding its release. After spending a large 
 amount of time playing it (instead of doing homework =D) the game is excellent but not quite the 
 revolution we expected, similar to Crysis. Spore is basically a god/evolution game with some other 
 gameplay elements from other games worked in. There's no actual "story." Firing up the game, you're 
 greeted to a large galaxy where you first choose a planet (I picked one that looked the most similar 
 to Earth and called it Raymundo! XD) and after that you choose to be either a herbivore or a carnivore. 
 I choose a herbivore and the opening movie plays using the scientific concept of panspermia (life 
 emerges from a meteor from space) . Thus begins the cell phase where you're in the primordial soup 
 as a unicellular cell. This part is the fastest part and takes maybe 30 to 40 minutes to complete. 
 It plays like Pac-Man as you gotta eat tiny vegetables or meat if you're a carnivore. As you progress, 
 you get DNA points that you spend to upgrade your cell by adding a new mouth or spikes for defense. 
 I switched my creatures mouth to a carnivore mouth so by the end of the phase I had adopted the 
 omnivore path, allowing me to consume any type of food. Once the cell phase is over, you evolve 
 legs and lo and behold, you're on land!!! The 2nd part is the creature phase where your goals are 
 to earn DNA points again to upgrade and reproduce. To do this you can ally other creature nests 
 (usually taken from user content if you're logged into the server) or fight them and cause their 
 extinction. Most of the time I tried to ally the nests unless that species is already hostile to 
 begin with. To do this you must sing to the other species and a fill a meter. Do this for X number 
 of creatures and that species becomes your friend, denoted by the big happy green smiley face. 
 To fight other species, simply switch to combat stance and attack. Kill X number of creatures and 
 that species beceomes extinct. To upgrade your creature, you must find your mate using your mating 
 call and a member of your species with all these cutesy pink hearts floating on its head will come 
 to you. Then its time to let the love begin! =D Course you don't see anything it's rated E10! The 
 creature phase is very cute and filled with lots of charm with the creature sounds and stuff. Once 
 your progress is bar is complete and you evolve a bigger brain the tribal phase begins!!! This 
 part plays like a simplified version of StarCraft or similar RTS game. You start off with your 
 main hut and you must collect fruit using your workers. This allows you to create a larger population. 
 Your goal is to either ally or kill off the rival tribes similar to the creature phase. To ally 
 tribes you must take your Chieftain and a band of music players along to impress the other tribe. 
 Most of the tribes were already hostile toward me so I had no choice but to attack them. Once all 
 tribes are killed or allied, you move to the civilization phase. This part plays like a simple 
 version of, obviously, Civilization. This time you gotta gather a resource called spice which allows 
 you create vehicles, ships, and planes. You'll also use the building editor to make buildings such 
 as entertainment centers, houses and factories. For diplomacy you can set up trade routes with 
 other cites where after some time will allow you to buy that city and add it to your own. Like 
 the tribal phase, most of the cities were hostile so I had no choice but to build up the fleet 
 and fight. Thankfully I managed to find an ally cause I attacked their enemy (the enemy of my enemy 
 is my friend! =D) . Once I had wiped out the hostile cities my ally smartly said to me, add me to 
 your empire which I promptly did cause I really didn't want to fight again! Hey, I'm a nice guy! 
 XD With the cities united, you create your very own spaceship and soon you have reached the stars 
 beginning the space stage. This is the most longest and largest stage. This part plays like a 4X 
 game, similar to Sins of a Solar Empire. Exploring in your ship, you can terraform planets to plant 
 colonies and expand your empire, make trade routes with other empires (which usually allows you 
 to buy that empire once you trade enough with them) , form alliances so that you have help is wars 
 or simply blast other empires to smithereens! I played this part for quite awhile and explored 
 many worlds. Zooming out, I realized that I explored barely 1% of the galaxy. That's how big it 
 is. There is an ending to the game, involving the center of the galaxy but I haven't reached it 
 yet. To progress through the space stage, you earn badges. Earn enough you get promoted. Currently 
 I'm at the rank of "The Celebrated" and I have alliances with 3 empires. There's also 3 other empires 
 that are hostile to me so open war is gonna break sooner or later. This part is a little frustrating 
 as you have to babysit your planets a little too much with fighting off the pirates and enemy attacks. 
 It's also the most complex stage and might turn off some casual gamers. Overall, most of the stages 
 are simple but Will Wright has said that this was by choice. I hear hardcore gamers going, "Oh, 
 this is so easy, this game sucks!" Well, this is not Supreme Commander or Crysis; Spore was designed 
 to appeal to everyone, a point everyone seems to have missed. Now, lets talk graphics. They look 
 pretty good. I like the overall art style cause it uses a lot of colors and the system requirements 
 are pretty low. The creatures also animate amazingly well. The sound is mostly ambient music but 
 its very relaxing, sorta like lounge music. There's no voice acting, other then the creature sounds 
 which are just cutesy chirps and growls. Now to address the DRM due to protests it has sparked. 
 Normally, I don't mention it but I feel like I have too. Yes, you get 3 installs and its annoying 
 but looking at both sides, they all have valid arguments. EA has a right to protect their games 
 but 3 installs is not the way to go. We brought the game fair and square so we should be allowed 
 to install whenever infinite amount of times. I suggest a compromise. EA should keep the activation 
 and the cd-key BUT remove the installation limit. This way gamers can install the game anytime 
 and all they have to do is activate. I think its pretty fair and keeps both parties happy although 
 we'll still get some grumbling. Anyway, Spore is a unique game cause it's something that's never 
 been done and yes, its rather simple but its incredibly fun and addicting. Don't let the DRM scare 
 you, just pick up the damn game!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trentboy22
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  All that glitz and glamour can not save a game that has been striped of all innovation and potential, 
 game play is too obviously aimed at the 'casual' gamer market thus becomes tedious and dull once 
 the initial novelty wears off.
  
  The biggest let down of all though is the utter lack of online interaction once promised to us 
 what now seems so long ago. Automatically downloading premade creatures from the Maxis database, 
 or the occasional user just does't go far enough. Stay on the look out for future 'content packs' 
 a la Sims, which in my opinion is a cynical and crass strategy to coax money from you the user.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong the game looks and sounds beautiful, in particular the creature stage which 
 is engaging and fun (if not a little basic) . There is of course the creation tool which allows 
 you to customize not only your own unique species but the buildings it inhabits and vehicles that 
 allow you to trade, fight and preach to other cities. But it is not enough to save a game 
  that should have been one of the all time greats, a wasted opportunity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: driubi
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  After ceasing to follow the development on spore a year and half ago, I went and picked it up blindly 
 on release date at a best buy. The games cover art features a very colorful array of goofy looking 
 creatures, reminiscent of a barney and friends video. I would have been thoroughly embarrassed 
 to carry this around the store and make the purchase if i hadn't convinced my self that I was buying 
 it for my non-existent 6 year old child. With Will Wright's legend for complexity, the cover bothered 
 me very little. I don't like to judge books by their covers, but this game probably deserved it.
 
  
  The installation process went smoothly enough, and I appreciated the in game sign up for an account 
 (as appose to having to browse to a website and set up an account for a log in and password) . My 
 first in-game disappointment came at the vary beginning in which you are presented with the choice. 
 
  
  Carnivore or Herbivore?
  
  How about neither? Anyone with any knowledge of evolution knows that life's dietary habits don't 
 start at the cellular level.
  
  It this point I tossed out any hopes that this game would provide some intricacies of evolution 
 - in the way that Wright's Sim City provided some intricacies of city planning. Unfortunately I 
 was wise to toss out those hopes.
  
  The actual game play mechanics of spore end up mostly being over simplified versions of games made 
 in the 80s and 90s. Spore manages to take one of the most epic concepts in video games AND science 
 and make it into an extremely un-epic experience.
  
  Cell Stage: 8.0
  
  This is the stage of the game that is hands down the most fun to play. The game play elements are 
 copied from Flow.
  
  http://www. xgenstudios. com/play/flow
  
  Spores cell phase is more fun that flow. Its very simple, you get to customize your cell to fit 
 your play style. You could add flagella (yes the cell stage starts off turning its back on evolutionary 
 realities) to you spore and push it to go faster, if you want to escape from predators. Your spore 
 can benefit by quick turning speeds if you chose - which make for "running from crocodiles" like 
 zigzag escapes, that usually end with the predator being distracted by some other prey. You you 
 can protect yourself by placing spike like extrusions that ward off would be predators. As you 
 avoid predators, you pick up little bits of green or red flowery looking objects that essential 
 help you grow (in a very similar to flow type way) . Spore deviates from flow by your growth determining 
 what "level" of creature you are on. Evolving is done with the simple click of a button which calls 
 a mate in and brings up the cell editing window. Unfortunately, getting through the cell stage 
 takes about 10-20 minutes. This phase is WAY easier than I thought it would be, and I was expecting 
 it to take from a few days to a week to get through every phase.
  
  Land Stage: 5.0
  
  I eagerly advanced to the land stage only to wish to be back on the cell stage within 10 minutes. 
 The land stage is, like the rest of the game, Extremely easy. It is also extremely redundant. Since 
 I had chose an herbivore, and decided that I wanted to test the system by making my creatures extremely 
 violent herbivores, I went on the attack. Attacking is simple, trot your creature design out to 
 a nest near to yours, and attack. Attack abilities are gained by how you edit your creature - as 
 is how much damage you deal. Kill enough of a certain creature and their race goes extinct by being 
 whorled up into a spinning particle effects. This is a terrible design decision. Its obvious that 
 the destruction of a race happens when they can no longer reproduce - so if there is only one of 
 a species remaining, it should be done for. It shouldn't be done for if you kill 10 of them. I 
 did appreciate that my herbivore puked when I made him eat meat, however, this reminded me of being 
 forced to chose what I would be at the beginning of the game. After you destroy enough species, 
 your little band of creatures will take to the road and migrate to a place where the creatures 
 are a bit more tough. This repeats until the end of stage. By this point I had put about 40 minutes 
 into the game, and the half hour it took me to go through the land stage didn't seem too short, 
 as the repetitive game play already started to overstay its welcome.
  
  Tribal Stage: 3.0
  
  This stage is completely abysmal. It starts off by pissing you off because 
 your creature stops evolving. I'm guessing Will Wright has only kept the evolution part as a marketing 
 ploy - since the game "EVO: Journey to Eden" follows actual evolution better than spore (and it 
 doesn't follow it at all) . This stage is like an RTS with only 1 unit, 1 resource, terrible AI, 
 and a design that makes you more and more powerful as you play, and your enemies stay the same. 
 I would much rather play Herzog Zwei for sega genesis (and trust me, I don't want to play that 
 game at all) . Will Wrights attempt to diversify units by allowing you to equip certain weapons 
 is unnecessary as there is no challenge. You can equip any weapon, and march your soldiers to another 
 tribe and demolish them then walk back. Gather resources, attack, gather resources, attack, etc. 
 It takes a half hour to get out of this abysmal stage, and that is a half hour too long.
  
  Civilization Stage: 5.0
  
  The civilization stage suffers from most of the same problems the 
 Tribal Stage does (including Herzog Zwei being more appealing of a game to play) . The civ stage 
 allows you to build up an economy by collecting 1 resource. This resource buys you buildings and 
 vehicles (which you design) to use to attack or befriend neighbors. Since my violent herbivores 
 seem to do surprisingly well in the games absence of natural selection - I was already an angry 
 race, since the last stage was so abysmal I still wanted to kill things. The ease and lack of strategy 
 in the tribal stage ports right over to the civilization stage with no hiccups. Strategy consists 
 of taking resource points, building up your base, taking others bases, and repeating. The game 
 gets easier and easier as you go along, and as long as you place turrets on your cities and leave 
 behind a few units, the AI can't manage to take over any of your cities. The only redeeming quality 
 of this mode is the spherical map, and that it has a bit more variety than the tribal stage. About 
 2 hours into the game I reached the space stage.
  
  
  Space Stage: 7.0
  
  The space stage is essentially at the lower end of complexity I expected from will wright. That 
 being said, it is leagues more complex than any of the other stages. Unfortunately this mode is 
 plagued with the repetitiveness all the other modes suffer from. You are essentially tasked with 
 missions to colonize planets and spread throughout the galaxy (peacefully or violently) . After 
 having my share of killing, I decided to test how flexible my race was - and found that my diplomatic 
 skills wasn't hindered at all by the millions of years of violence my creatures had practiced. 
 Making friends was as easy as clicking on the friendly message to send to species you meet (although 
 some are violent races and threaten attack no matter what - so far no one has actually taken any 
 action) . This phase really reminds me of an old game I played as a kid called Star Control II. 
 Unfortunately part of remembering this game was how much better it was than this spore stage. The 
 missions are unexciting and repetitive. Poor design plagues the collection missions. For instance, 
 you get sent on a mission to scan all the life forms of a planet, which is not fun, but not a problem 
 either. After you scan everything, you are asked to return to the planet and pick up a specific 
 plant. Unfortunately you can't tell the name of a plant without scanning it again - which essentially 
 has you doing the same job all over again. Inhabiting planets is done well enough, but after playing 
 this mode for a few hours, I got bored and annoyed by it. 
  
  
  Overall Rating: 6.0
  
  The most enjoyable part of this game is also the shortest - and the remaining sections drag 
 the space section down to a six. I lowered this score to a 1, because of EA's draconian copy protection 
 scheme which I was unaware of at the time of purchase. This license makes it illegal to have a 
 copy of this game on more than 2 computers at once, and only allows you to reinstall the program 
 3 times before it stops working. In fact, I haven't purchased this game as much as I have rented 
 it, and rented it at 50 dollar at that. I will not purchase any more EA games until they remove 
 this customer hating policy. 
  
  Will Wright is no longer Will Wright. There is however a new Will Wright in town by the name of 
 Tarn Adams. If graphics are expendable to you (ASCII) , and you can trudge through a 5-10 hour learning 
 curve, I suggest checking out his creation: Dwarf Fortress. Its a marvelous simulation whose complexity 
 dwarfs spore on every level. Its still in alpha stage, and it still has ASCII graphics, but I'd 
 still rather play it than this dumbed down game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorEric
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  I was at work when I overheard co-workers talk about the spore creature editor. By this time the 
 game was one day away from release and I already seen media reviews of the game. So like every 
 other game I was bough in to the game before trying it.
  
  When it did come out I took the time to go get a copy. At first it was quite good. The game could 
 run on my computer which could not run Oblivion Elder Scrolls and for the first 2 ages I was enjoying 
 my self.
  
  It was involving and not boring. The cut scene where funny watching your own creatures do there 
 bizarre interactions. Creating your characters if you where in the mood to play it was quite entertaining 
 trying to fit everything on and improving his stats.
  
  But at the beginning of the tribal phase the game began the hurricane effect. If anyone who is 
 reading this review is like me, they like strategy games (ie Empire Earth, Civilization series, 
 Simcity...) and Spore made an poor attempt at incorporating this element in the game. From this 
 point it was either Like/Dislike and conquer without challenge.
  
  The game play threw out the game was simple, but I did not expect the tribal phase and up to be 
 as plane as toast without butter. The strategy was slap in the game with either little effort or 
 for the intent to be played by a 10 year old.
  
  Civilization game followed the same trend. You make a city, build an army and take over a neighboring 
 city. Continue the process until the world is yours (while an ICBM makes it really easy) .
  
  The Space age I believe was spouse to be Spores golden opportunity to make up for the mediocre 
 game play. In my opinion it failed. It is long, tedious and unrewarding to the player.
  
  I bough this game and was disappointed in the game length. I played it for about 4-5 hours and 
 I was in the space age. I was shocked to realize how short a multi-gender game was. I could sit 
 down and play a map in StarCraft and eat up 1/2 the time for twice the involvement.
  
  Finally the thing that got me annoyed with this game is the requirement of an internet connection 
 and the need to register with EA. Wikipedia classifieds this game as a "massively single-player 
 online game". This is the first time I seen this. You can't even start a multiplayer game but you 
 need the internet to play it for content from other people which I will never get.
  
  I decided to not keep the game and just give it to my nephew for his 9th birthday. Now all I got 
 to do is learn how to unregister my copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 77Altair77
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game because it's plain fun! Some people might think it's lame and 
 boring but I think otherwise. It isn't worth the hype though because most people thought it would 
 be a revolutionary game but it turned out to be just another game. Really fun, though.
  
  Some people said that it's broken and messed up and crashes pretty often. I didn't have a single 
 crash since I've started playing and my settings are on medium/high settings. It works great and 
 runs smooth. I highly recommend people to buy this awesome game ;)
  
  My favorite stage was the tribal stage. It is simple but fun. seeing a rival tribe trying to defend 
 themselves against an epic and in the middle of their fight a UFO rushes in and abduct one of their 
 tribesmen lol. Civ stage was the lamest in my opinion. it's undescribably lame... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onefall
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Fun but pretty simple game play until the space stage. Not too many options for game play in early 
 stages just wash, rinse, repeat. Can get boring fast. Not too in depth for more hardcore players. 
 
  
  3 installs wtih DRM from SecuROM though. Hard to remove and you have to call EA for another activation 
 if you want to activate on more than 3 computers. Quesionable rootkit? Yay Sony.
  
  Not bad but a little disappointed at how simplistic the first few stages are. Would have liked 
 a little more indepth gameplay. And a little advanced warning about installing SecuROM would have 
 been nice. Now I have to edit the registry and download software to remove it when I remove the 
 game from my hard drive.
  
  Probably something i'll play when I'm in between other games or when I'm feeling for a light snack. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Spore starts off at a disadvantage. With such absurd expectations and ridiculous excitement over 
 the course of three years, Maxis couldn't have hoped to meet the expectations of excited on-lookers. 
 Shockingly enough, Maxis falls short on many aspects of the game. As much as Will Wright's latest 
 brainchild doesn't live up to a lot of what it sets out to do, it is still a grand, fun and a surprisingly 
 thought-provoking piece of entertainment.
  
  Spore has a sprawling narrative that spans billions of years, and you're creating every single 
 detail of this epic. You start off as a cell, which hitched a ride on a meteor that happened to 
 crash-land onto a planet that luckily fulfilled all the requirements to support life. You're now 
 in the primordial soup, attempting to grow and evolve enough to live on the surface. Your objective 
 is simple: eat to grow.
  
  The gameplay in the cell phase is simple but fun. Using your mouse to guide your cell, he'll automatically 
 eat whatever he is able to munch on. Eating not only increases the size of your cell, but it also 
 grants you DNA points, which is the main currency and means of phase advancement for the first 
 two phases. DNA is spent to evolve your cell by dabbling into the creature editor to outfit it 
 with new parts. The editor, as you might expect, is easy to get into and accessible, but it's limited 
 in the cell phase, mostly because of how the phase is played from a top-down view.
  
  Limited as it is, the cell phase makes the most use out of the editor in terms of gameplay. It's 
 truly a kill-or-be-killed aquatic landscape, so if you haven't properly outfitted your cell with 
 offensive/defensive tools, it's going to get tough. Your cell will also eventually grow to the 
 point that a pair of flagella won't be enough to evade predators or catch prey, forcing you to 
 evolve to add more locomotive parts. Placement of your parts also matter. Fitting on a defensive 
 spike anywhere won't automatically protect your cell; leaving your sides defenseless opens a door 
 for your predators to chow on. Even though dying doesn't have much of a consequence (you're reborn 
 from another egg) , the editor is key to getting through this phase with ease. 
  
  Overall, the cell phase is a great start to Spore; the phase oozes with charm and cuteness and 
 how it blurs out bigger micro-critters in the background gives this microscopic phase a grand sense 
 of scale. Little details, like how your prey shiver and dart their eyes back at your cell's predatory 
 jaws, are appreciated rather than overlooked. It's also full of life; herbivore cells chomp on 
 greens, predators chase smaller cells and it all looks very natural. The phase's relative simplicity 
 means it won't hold your interest for long, so the phase ends before it overstays its welcome. 
 A couple hundred billion years worth of evolution and growth is achieved in 15-20 minutes and now 
 your cell is a multi-celled organism, on its way to becoming fully sentient, ready to explore surface 
 world.
  
  Upon entering the creature phase, the game's scope opens up a bit. Various other creatures have 
 placed their stake on the planet and now your main goal is to once again get enough DNA. Most of 
 your DNA will come from befriending another creature or driving them to extinction. Doing so is 
 quite simple; taking the social path has you performing simple social gestures, while the violent 
 path has you rushing to another creature's nest and killing a set amount of them until they're 
 extinct. Exploring for new creature parts is also a focus in this phase. Digging through fossilized 
 remains is how you'll get most of your parts and it's pretty addicting trying to find every single 
 one.
  
  Once you start editing your creature again, though, the placements of the parts don't matter anymore; 
 it's all stat-based now. Definitely a step back from what was established in the cell phase, it 
 doesn't matter where you place a mouth piece, a pair of arms, whatever. Spore loses this strategic 
 aspect of evolution in the creature phase, instead of building upon it. This phase's biosphere 
 also feels extremely artificial. Unlike the cell phase, where it was teeming with activity, creatures 
 rarely ever leave their nests or really do much of anything; they just stand around for you to 
 engage them.
  
  The creature phase is one of the weaker phases of Spore in terms of pure gameplay, but it totally 
 delivers on one front: the creatures themselves. They're fun to look at and you can really see 
 the procedural-intensiveness of Spore in full-force here; creatures animate naturally even with 
 ridiculous body proportions and leg and arm placements. Each creature looks completely different 
 from one another and wanting to see what freak of nature is over the next hill is the primary reason 
 to play and complete this phase. Once completed, which should take no less than an hour, your creature 
 is fully sentient and billions of more years have flown by. It's time to slowly become civilized.
 
  
  Your creature's design is now finalized; he's fully evolved. Customization now comes in the way 
 of adding items onto your creature to increase his stats. The game shifts into real-time strategy 
 for the next two phases, with your currency now being food. Completing this phase requires you 
 to either befriend or destroy tribes around you, much like the creature phase.
  
  The tribal phase stands as the weakest phase out of all five. There's no real hook; the cell phase 
 made strategic use out of the editor, the creature phase had a sense of discovery, but the tribal 
 phase is a stripped-down RTS and nothing more. Stripped as it is, the tribal phase is decent and 
 it ends before it becomes a bore. After befriending and destroying the remaining tribes (or doing 
 a little bit of both) , your creature is now the dominant species of your planet. Technological 
 advancements arise, and now you move onto a full-blown civilization. 
  
  The civilization phase is a bit more fleshed out. A city hall is the centerpiece of each one and 
 factories, houses and entertainment structures are built around it. Factories generate income, 
 while decreasing your citizens' happiness, houses increase the amount of land, sea and air units 
 that any one city can produce before reaching the cap and entertainment structures make your citizens 
 happier. There's some strategy to consider when placing these structures (that you can create yourself, 
 of course) , whether you want to make your city a depressed but a money-making machine (which will 
 make your city more susceptible to religious conversion) , a happy but moderate income-generator 
 or a balance of both is up to you.
  
  You start off with just one city and depending how you've played the game up to this point, you 
 will either take neighboring cities by either religious, economic or militaristic means. Religious 
 and military routes are pretty much the same, overwhelm other cities by sheer numbers, but the 
 economic route is unique. Establishing trade routes increase relations to the point where you can 
 buy a city out, making it part of your budding empire.
  
  As much as the gameplay depth increases slightly in the civilization phase, it's also imbalanced. 
 Playing economically is really fun, but it's downright impossible to win the endgame if you don't 
 have any militaristic cities. Economic vehicles don't have any offensive attacks to speak of and 
 your empire can slowly crumble at the last minute. A diplomacy model is also introduced, but while 
 it's simple, it adds an oh-so thin layer of depth. Building creation is also a missed opportunity, 
 because what you make only affects the visual look of the structure and not the gameplay itself. 
 Still, the civilization phase is easily the most exciting out of the initial four. It's almost 
 always chaotic, as warring nations attack others for supremacy and weaker nations often beg for 
 your help. It's a lot of fun, even with its issues.
  
  Simple. It's a word that has been used a lot in this review, because the first four phases are 
 just that: simple. The awfully short length of each phase assures that the simplicity won't go 
 from pretty fun to mind-numbing repetition, as shallow as they are. Consequence abilities, which 
 are certain abilities given to your creature as a consequence of how you've played (have you been 
 a carnivorous species, a friendly one, an adaptable one, and so on) adds little depth as to how 
 you go about your world domination run. The abilities don't severely impact the game to much of 
 a relevant degree, so where you take your species' general philosophy is more influenced by personal 
 preference than anything else. 
  
  The transitions from one phase to the next are also quite jarring. One second your creatures are 
 tribal beings and then for some arbitrary reason, they suddenly come up with the notion of skyscrapers 
 and machinery. The lack of an underwater portion between cell and creature phase would've gapped 
 the transition from cell to creature, too. Actually, building a civilization underwater would've 
 been awesome. It would've also encouraged multiple play-throughs, too, but alas, maybe an expansion. 
 Scratch that, an underwater expansion is inevitable. This is EA we're talking about.
  
  The only transition that makes sense is from the civilization to space phase and it's in space 
 when the game opens up considerably. There's quite literally an entire galaxy's worth of stars 
 and planets to explore and discover. You don't have to be a mathematician to know that it's not 
 possible to visit every single planet in one lifetime. The size and grandeur of the space phase 
 is practically infinite, but what exactly do you do?
  
  Not a lot, initially. You're not given a lot of cash and your basic interstellar drive tethers 
 you to your home star system. Your limited set of tools also means you can't do much with planets, 
 except abduct stuff and marvel at how gorgeous view is. Most of your profit will initially come 
 from completing quests, which are rudimentary in design. Go scan this, go get that, it's very basic, 
 but the sheer variety of planets and their respective flora and fauna keeps interests high. Much 
 like the creature phase, the sense of discovery and adventure is here, except that sense is amplified 
 to the thousandth degree.
  
  Soon enough, you'll rack enough money to buy decent upgrades and critical tools to expand your 
 empire. Spice is the main resource that drives the galactic economy and it's on practically every 
 single planet. There are varying types of spice and some go for outrageously high prices, so colonizing 
 planets becomes a crucial part in roughing it out in the cosmos. Before colonization can be deemed 
 successful, though, the planet's biosphere must be stabilized. Terraforming by pumping fumes into 
 the air increases atmosphere and plants and animals you've abducted will round out a planet's ecosystem. 
 For awhile, this process is exciting (you can even pump enough atmosphere to the point that it 
 causes global warming; it's funny and ridiculously cool) , but it becomes routine after doing it 
 for the fiftieth time. The rewards are worth it, however.
  
  The space phase, quite frankly, can get insanely addicting, but several problems strike at the 
 core of it. Once your empire expands and more and more spice colonies are created, micromanagement 
 rears its ugly head. Spice isn't directly transported to your ship; you must go to every single 
 colonized planet to obtain the spice the colony has mined. Imagine, you're suddenly short on cash 
 and so you must begin a ten-minute escapade of flying to every single colonized planet to gather 
 spice to sell. This process repeats itself forever and it's exacerbated when you continue you expand. 
 Eventually, you'll be so rich at points that spice becomes irrelevant, so going to every single 
 colonized planet to pick up spice is temporarily stalled. Soon, though, your coffers start to dry 
 up and you're forced to go another spice trek.
  
  Another issue, and possibly just as annoying, is how incompetent everyone is. Your empire and your 
 allies constantly prod for help, saying they need some infected creatures destroyed to save their 
 ecosystem, or that a band of pirates must be stopped from stealing spice. Their requests are so 
 stupid and they could easily handle such a situation by themselves. Eventually, like the issue 
 with spice mining, you'll learn to just ignore such pleads for help, because failing to assist 
 doesn't bring on cataclysmic consequences. Only when diplomatic relationships start to deteriorate 
 is when assistance should be given.
  
  The space phase has problems, that much is crystal clear, but on the whole, it's the true meat 
 of Spore. There's so much to just simply see and do. Black holes, still-developing star systems, 
 brand new planets, brand new creatures. Creatures from other planets will slowly move to the next 
 phase and you can watch and wait for it to all happen, or you can speed the process up and they'll 
 take notice and revere you as a god. If you're feeling immature, go ahead and carve a giant pair 
 of genitals on a moon. Oh yeah, that's a ton of fun. The space phase will eat up hours upon hours 
 of time when it only seemed like only thirty-minutes passed by.
  
  Spore is going to last a long time, longer than it should thanks to how it integrates user-generated 
 content. The Sporepedia is your one-stop tool to search user creations and upload your own. It's 
 always on the bottom-left of your interface and it takes a split-second to load up. If you just 
 can't seem to create a decent Serenity space vessel, there are a couple nice ones out there. How 
 about some cylons? Sure, there's a couple good ones. The result of this integration is a galaxy 
 teeming with unique, one-of-kind creatures
  
  All these user-created designs and varied planets would mean nothing if Spore didn't look good. 
 Fortunately, even after being in development for so long, it's a beautiful game. Yes, textures 
 blur greatly up-close and the shadows could use work, but the sheer beauty of the game overwhelms 
 such flaws. The cell phase has a great, creative artistic flair and the creature phase has its 
 share of jaw-dropping, picturesque landscapes. The tribal phase, well, it looks average at best, 
 further cementing it as the worst phase. Civilization's scaling effect looks terrific and then 
 space permanently keeps eyes widened. It's simply a joy to fly around planets and watch the surface 
 change and scale. Look upwards and the sun starts rising and Spore becomes an ethereal experience 
 for a brief moment. Spore also has extremely lax system requirements, like all of Maxis's games, 
 supporting stuff all the way back from the FX series of Nvidia cards.
  
  The audio isn't quite up to par, but it's hard to imagine how it could in the first place. Brian 
 Eno's ambient soundtrack is the highlight in Spore's audio component. His style is perfect for 
 a game like Spore. It sits in the background, while you put hours into the game in one sitting. 
 Sound effects are strong and great at attaching certain sounds effects to certain actions, so it's 
 clear on what you're really doing to the world. It's a strong audio effort and there's nothing 
 particularly wrong with it. It's just well-designed.
  
  Spore goes on forever and it's simply up to you when your space voyage will come to a close. There's 
 a lot to see and do in space and the user-generated content guarantees longevity. There is an ending 
 to the game and while the ending isn't very remarkable, it does give some finality to your epic 
 journey. The game even highlights certain moments on a massive timeline that starts from your humble 
 beginnings as a little cell. Don't fret, though, you can continue on playing after the ending. 
 Getting to it might be more trouble than its worth, but if you want some tangible conclusion, then 
 it's there. 
  
  When it comes down to it, it's Spore's technology that's more impressive than the game itself. 
 How it integrates user-creations into the game is remarkable and how Spore's procedural-driven 
 means creation diversity borders on infinite. Spore also surprisingly provokes thought. We were 
 once little cells, only to change and adapt to what we are today over course of billions of years. 
 As much as we have accomplished, we're still quite literally a spec of dust in this galaxy of ours 
 and our galaxy is a spec in the grand universe. The ideas that Spore provides makes you think, 
 and that might be what Will Wright was trying to achieve all along. If that's case, then he's succeeded 
 and quite possibly surpassed expectations in that regard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has been the favorite pet of every game magazine for ages, and when I saw the 8.0 score 
 on Gamespot I knew it was a flop. 8.0 is quite good score, but you need to adjust for the fanboy 
 mentality around this game, and when the fanboys say 8.0, it actually means a 6.5. You might want 
 to add a point or so to that if you want to reward creative concepts and do not care too much about 
 the fun factor, as the setting is indeed quite original.
  
  The game sounds truly epic - bring up a single celled organism to be the ruler of the universe 
 through evolution. But, what you get is a series of separate minigames which by themselves are 
 quite uninteresting. Sadly, for every minigame Spore offers, you can find much better versions 
 of that game elsewhere. 
  
  The various stages are:
  
  * Microbial Stage - Simple action game, swim around and eat stuff smaller than you. I think I enjoyed 
 this game the most, which says it all about the rest.
  * Creature Stage - You got legs! Use them to run around and eat others or dance and sing to amuse 
 them with your talents to rule. 
  * Tribal Stage - A very simple RTS game, with emphasis on SIMPLE. Find food and rule over others 
 by entertainment or weapons.
  * City Stage - Build your own city.
  * Civilization Stage. A more complex RTS.
  * Spacefaring Stage - Discover space and colonize 
 other planets.
  * Galactic Stage - Rule the universe? Did not reach this yet.
  
  I was mostly disappointed in how abruptly the game transits from one stage in the evolution to 
 another. I was imagining a more gradual transition, but in fact you only play each stage for a 
 short time then the next stage will appear from nowhere and dramatically change the gameplay rules 
 and how evolved your creatures are, giving you no control of what happens in between. You basically 
 go from being a primitive caveman to a city planner envisioning nuclear power in a short step. 
 
  
  You will not carry over anything from your accomplishments in your past, except from the dreadful 
 looks you most likely ended up with for your creature during the early stages of the game. To survive 
 early on you need to focus on building body parts that just do not belong on any highly evolved 
 creature in the later stages, like a pair of gigantic jaws on the top of your forehead or huge 
 spit cannons on your cheeks.
  
  Then there's a big focus on internet and community stuff that can be tied up to the game, like 
 posting your creature online and what not. Well, that might have been interesting if the game truly 
 was epic like everyone thought, but for a set of minigames like these..?
  
  I grew bored of Spore quite quickly. I wanted to like the game, and was amused somewhat by the 
 originality of the concept. But, it just does not click together well, and each minigame overlasts 
 its potential, making you feel bored, with the only thing driving you forward being the curiosity 
 of what minigame comes next.
  
  Is having seven heavily advertised fast food meals better than having one really luxurious and 
 satisfying meal in a great restaurant? I guess it all boils down to this question.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrecenk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a good game from cell to omnipotence. The first 4 stages of the game (cell, creature, tribal, 
 and civilization) have simple game play, which may be disappointing to some, but they are short 
 enough that it does not have a chance to become tedious before you get to the meat of the game: 
 the space stage. I'm not going to go into every aspect of the game in detail, but I will list some 
 things I liked and some things that annoyed me.
  
  There isn't much to like or dislike about the cell stage. It's simple, arcadey, and you'll blow 
 through it in under an hour. The creature stage is much cooler because you get access to the editor 
 which is very easy to use and fun to play with, but you have to unlock the parts which gets annoying 
 pretty quickly. Especially when you've already beaten the creature stage, and you find yourself 
 wandering around looking for that one last part to finish your creature while the "advance to tribe" 
 button flashes at the bottom of the screen.\
  
  The tribal stage is a simplified rts, which is a lot of fun in general, but there seems to be a 
 big difference in difficulty depending on how you play. When I played social in the tribal stage 
 it was really easy to gather food (right click bushes) , and take towns (give food away) . When I 
 played military it was harder to get food (actually have to go kill things) , and also harder to 
 take towns (they fight back and you always have losses) . It's a little annoying that the different 
 paths aren't balanced, but neither was hard enough to deter from the overall enjoyment.
  
  The civilization stage is much cooler in my opinion. It is still a simple rts, but the resource 
 has changed from food to spice and you fight with vehicles rather than creatures. Being religious 
 and being military are very similar (right click on city and click convert or capture) , but there 
 is also a third option to trade with and later purchase cities. There is a lot less micromanagement 
 and a lot more resource management, which I think eliminates some of the tedious components. You 
 also have the option of befriending civilizations, and the first time I played through I owned 
 less than half of the cities when my ally finished conquering the rest. So there are really 4 ways 
 to win. 
  
  The editors in the civilization stage are very nice as well. The building editor is purely for 
 aesthetics, but the vehicle editor allows buying parts which actually effect the game play, and 
 now having multiples of the same weapon does help. Y you are limited to a maximum of 100% power, 
 and adding more weapons decreases your health and speed (and vice versa) . I found the most effective 
 thing to do was balance weapons and health and sacrifice speed. 
  
  There is also a city editor which lets you place the buildings in your city, but it's less of a 
 visual thing so much as it is a puzzle to maximize your cities happiness and money making potential. 
 There are only 3 types of buildings: house, factory, and entertainment, and your stats are not 
 just determined by how many of each you have, but also by the way they are connected. You get money 
 for each house next to a factory, you get happiness for each house next to entertainment, and you 
 lose happiness for each entertainment next to a house. It's nice to have something to work on while 
 your ships are moving or you are waiting for income.
  
  In the space stage you do various things to get badges, which unlock new tools, and at the same 
 time try to take as much of space and get as much money as possible. The space stage is significantly 
 more complicated than the other stages, and you'll have to play a little smarter to succeed. In 
 the beginning you have to complete missions or trade to make money, and in the beginning I really 
 wouldn't recommend making enemies (they'll kill you) . Once you get enough money you can colonize 
 a couple of uninhabited systems, and then you'll get free money from those colonies, and the more 
 money you have the more options you have. You can conquer planets, buy planets, colonize planets, 
 make alliances, start wars, build cities, fill out ecosystems, hunt for treasure, complete missions, 
 paint and sculpt planets, explore or search for rare sights, and probably other things I can't 
 think of right now.
  
  The main complaints I've heard about the space stage are : you can't play military, and that you 
 get attacked to often. You can play military, but you have to upgrade your weapons first which 
 means you can't do it from the beginning. However, once I got the bigger bombs it has become pretty 
 easy to just fly down and blow up a colony without spending a dime. As for the frequent attacks 
 that does get pretty annoying when you get interrupted to go defend something every 5-10 minutes. 
 However, the frequency of attacks is based on the number of enemies you have, so all you have to 
 do is befriend your enemies (pay them off, use the happy ray, complete missions for them etc) , or 
 kill them. Once your enemies are eliminated the only attackers are pirates and you can ignore them 
 because all they do is steal your spice (which automatically refills in 10 minutes or so) . However, 
 you get badges for defending your allies so I'd just try to rack those up before eliminating all 
 your enemies (and your chances to get those until you make new enemies) .
  
  
  
  
  All in all spore is a heck of a lot of fun, and honestly if it weren't for the DRM I'd have given 
 it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyspikeend
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  First of all the idea of taking a cell and bringing it all the way to universe domination is AWESOME! 
 The ability to sculpt your creature to your liking is great. You can spend an hour creating a creature 
 or a few minutes if you please. Although the customization is fun at first, it can get boring after 
 a while. Those who are not used to a slightly RTS type of game may get overwhelmed as you progress. 
 This is because as you progress you have to worry about more things and more events will happen 
 faster and more often. It really does not require that much skill though. Also when you advance 
 to the later stages, things can become very repetitive. The only true problem I have with SPORE 
 is that I am running 2 graphics cards in SLI, and unfortunately for some reason I must disable 
 SLI every time I want to play SPORE. Which can sometimes be annoying. Personally I have not found 
 any other bugs, but i'm sure there is at least a few that exist. Over all I highly suggest this 
 game. And I believe it can be appropriate and fun for any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I am one of those that has been looking forward to Spore, since hearing about it a couple years 
 back at E3. The sad trend of gaming today is trying to grab those casual gamers. It is a sad trend, 
 because by trying for those casual gamers, you are leaving behind those strategy-loving hardcore 
 gamers, that have been with Maxis since the very beginning of Sim City and even before. It is something 
 that today in a lot of games we the hardcore gamer are being overlooked and really in a way taken 
 for granted. 
  
  Oh the hardcore gamer will always be there or the gamers of old will stick around, even if we make 
 games that don't really fit into their spheres anymore. The overall idea of Spore is a great one, 
 but it stops short in making this multi-game very simple and very short, even on the hard difficulty 
 the game flew by within a couple hours. Leaving me entertained for a while, but not $50 dollars 
 worth of entertainment, I know that much. 
  
  I just wish that this game was less shallow and more in depth. I would have liked to spend more 
 time during each level of the game and not be forced to evolve. I would have liked to be able to 
 eat more amoeba like creatures in the tide pool if I liked and got credit for it and I would have 
 liked to be able to take on more creatures at the creature level if I liked. 
  
  Although I believe the game was shallow and more much kid-friendly then I had hoped. In that I 
 mean way to easy and not a lot of strategy needed. I still was entertained and I still enjoyed 
 myself, although not as long as I had once hoped for the game. I just wish that I could rent computer 
 games, instead of shelling out 50 dollars for each of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mik30
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  Graphics: 5/10
  Sound: 1/10
  Gameplay: 2/10
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  
  The Game is essentially a 
 collection of
  stupid minigames one would expect from a
  browser game but not from a native PC-Game.
  
  Especially in the 2nd stage one recognizes
 
  pretty fast that the game has nothing to do
  with evolution. Neither the legs or the
  eyes etc have an evolutionary effect on the being
  you control.
  
  Skip this one and grab 
 Simcity 2000 from
  the bargain bin if you want a good Sim game.
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Way back in 2000, when we could count the hundreds of MHz of our computers had with just one hand, 
 Will Wright had just wrapped up work on Sim City 3000 and the original Sims to begin work on Spore. 
 How anyone can dedicate nearly a decade of their life to a single project blows this writer's mind 
 but he's the creator of the best selling video game of all time so what Will wants, Will gets. 
 Now that the day is here does Spore live up to the tremendous hype? Or after 8 years is it overripe?
 
  
  In an eggshell, Spore takes you on a journey from the very beginnings of life as a microbe, through 
 several stages of evolution until ultimately you have the power to destroy and craft planets from 
 the safety of your space craft. The idea seems too much for a single game to handle and apparently 
 it is, so the game is broken up into five very individual stages of life, each step is so separate 
 that you can choose to begin at any stage of the game since each acts like a separate game with 
 their own gameplay elements and goals. Because of this I'm going to make life a little easier on 
 both you and I and break this game into smaller, easier to digest pieces.
  
  Your life begins as a cellular lifeforms in the "Cell Stage", where you'll take the form of a microbe 
 crashing into the sea of your chosen planet from the insides of an asteroid You'll start with a 
 random creature with either the mouth of a Herbivore or Carnivore and have to feed on your food 
 of choice. Once the game begins you'll find it very similar to a PC flash game/PS3 game called 
 flOw  go play it now and come back -- I'll still be 
 here. Now you should have a basic feel to the first section of Spore and It'd be foolish to believe 
 that flOw didn't heavily inspire the whole feel of the cell stage, but Spore takes it a step further 
 and really makes you feel part of the food chain when humongous creatures instinctively begin chasing 
 you on sight and other creatures around you are dueling for their own survival. You won't just 
 be swimming, fighting and franticly clicking as the first two stages of Flow are all about evolution, 
 you'll find the spoils of war often contain items as well as food and these items can be used when 
 it's time to evolve. Once you choose to evolve and find a mate you gain access to your first gander 
 at the fabled creature creator, although to begin with you don't have a lot of choice beyond changing 
 the shape of your creature and adding a couple of eyes and mouths, unlockable items do grant some 
 interesting abilities such as electric power or a mosquito snout where you can suck the goodness 
 from the other residents of your pool. I had a lot of fun with the Cell Stage, but sadly it will 
 only last about 30 minutes before you've grown to be one of the largest creatures in the pool and 
 it is time to leave the waters and onto the creature Stage.
  
  One nice feature of Spore is that although you can jump to any stage of the game, you will receive 
 bonuses based on how you lived in the previous stage, generally encouraging the behavior you already 
 set for yourself by giving you friendly or aggressive bonuses. Once you and a few of your fellow 
 abominations of nature leave the ocean, your small pack builds a nest and you are sent off to complete 
 a set of goals with a style and format that seems rather close to that of a MMORPG, which is rather 
 a jarring change of pace from the previous stage (which is a feeling you'll soon get used to) . 
 Besides the endgame this is where you will likely spend the majority of your time if you plan on 
 building up the creature of your dreams (or nightmares) since upon completing the creature stage 
 the design of your creature is locked and going forward you'll only have the ability to add accessories. 
 Since the point of this stage is to get your creature evolved most of anything you do here will 
 unlock an item of some kind, usually along the lines of the type of items you are already using, 
 if you have horns you'll be likely to unlock larger horns, if you have a giant eye that sticks 
 several meters out the top of your head then you'll unlock more variations of that style. A lot 
 of designs can be found in bone piles scattered across the continent where as others can be eared 
 by either sending your creature into battle or by dancing and making a fool of yourself in front 
 of the other species. The creature stage has a lot of appeal since you can unlock all of the creature 
 parts here, but it feels like a little more time could of been spent on the interactions between 
 the different species. You do get the chance to ally up with other races but nothing really seems 
 to be going on in the world and everything feels very unnatural for what you'd expect when living 
 amongst wild beasts.
  
  Now we reach the rather weak midpoint of the game known as the Tribal Stage. Your little nest has 
 banded together into a tribe with the goal of either conquering other tribes or making peace with 
 them (seeing a theme?) , now instead of doing a little dance for the other creatures you are playing 
 instruments for them. The game genre now switches to an RTS method and you'll be tasked with harvesting 
 food, building structures and arming your people with tools. You'll unlock new structures by either 
 befriending or conquering other tribes and then you make new tools by using those structures, it 
 sounds pretty simple and honestly it really is. Much of the complexity and detail of most RTS games 
 are stripped down to make the experience far more accessible, this is likely fine for some, but 
 experienced RTS players will find the midpoint of Spore just a filler and not a compelling experience.
 
  
  Next we move to the civilization stage with its roots firmly embedded in Sim City, sadly those 
 roots aren't feeding from the joy that is Sim City 2/3/4000, instead they've turned towards the 
 evil of the Society brand. There is a little strategy involved here, you have three building types 
 (residential, industry and entertainment) and each effects the neighboring structures giving boosts 
 to their abilities. You could use a lot of strategy to lay out your city but since you can only 
 place 11 buildings per city you can simply watch your cities output while mindlessly swapping the 
 positions of the buildings that you've purchased. The civ stage also marks the occasion where the 
 creator tool starts to become a nuance. So you design your city hall and your three building types, 
 then your three types of vehicle, then the 3 types again for the other city types, Religious, Economic 
 and Military, eventually you may have created 13 separate designs by the end of the stage. You'll 
 soon start to feel your desire to create new and interesting objects slip away, replaced with apathy 
 and selecting existing objects so you can just get on with what you are doing. Your different units 
 will effect how you go about conquering the globe: Religious units require you to right click on 
 an enemy city and fire rays at them until they convert to your religion and join you, Military 
 units require you to right click on an enemy city and fire bullets at them until they fall and 
 join you, Economic units are a little different and you setup trade routes with other cities until 
 you can ultimately purchase them. The civilization stage feels equally as weak as the creature 
 stage and although you do get to design some interesting vehicles with the tools provided the actual 
 gameplay here is very short and simplistic, with little strategy required to win even on the harder 
 setting.
  
  Finally we reach the Space Stage and this is where the meat and potatoes of Spore is found, in 
 fact I'd go as far to say that excluding the creation tools it feels as if much time was spent 
 on developing this stage as every previous stage put together. The space stage plays a lot like 
 a space RTS, such as Sins of a Solar Empire, things are still trimmed down in many ways but here 
 is where some standout originality comes in. Along with the available war and diplomacy options 
 you can create new colonies on other planets, this alone isn't a big deal until you work on improving 
 the planet so you can place additional cities and increased planning options. To improve these 
 planets you need to balance the ecosystem which is like trying to find the right bowl of porridge, 
 you have to get everything just right, by heating up or cooling the planet while also maintaining 
 the correct atmosphere levels, okay perhaps that's not a whole lot like porridge. To begin to terraform 
 the planet and get a template atmosphere you can perform feats such as calling down asteroids, 
 summoning volcanoes or vacuuming up clouds, once you have met environmental conditions you are 
 required to start dropping down plants and creatures from other planets to get everything stabilized. 
 It seems a lot more complex than it really is, but the metamorphosis of a planet looks fantastic, 
 espically when you decide to bring about the ice age to a less than hospitable neighbor by freezing 
 his planet solid with a sustained ice beam. There are lots of little things to keep you busy in 
 the space stage, trading various resources between planets or doing a few side missions to raise 
 your reputation and earn a little extra money to buy that doomsday weapon you've always dreamed 
 of. Despite these tasks there is no main task here and ultimately you have to create your own goals 
 in a massive galaxy with so many solar systems that most people won't even scratch the surface 
 of what's available, because ultimately you're just reapeating the same actions over and over.
 
  
  Spore isn't much of a challenging game, mainly to keep things accessible and removing the need 
 for any detailed strategy. Trying to add extra challenge by selecting a harder difficulty doesn't 
 do a whole lot to add value since the AI appears to behave in much the same and just the damage 
 multipliers are adjusted, it's all rather a moot point anyhow since you have infinite lives through 
 every stage. To be fair Will's games haven't been about lives and difficulty in the past either, 
 both Sims and Sim City are without any clearly defined goals or structure and rely on the player 
 to make up their own fun just as Spore does. Most of the fun you'll get out of Spore is really 
 to be found in building rather than doing, which is why so much has been said about the creation 
 tools and why the Creature creator was released early to build hype and interest. I've always found 
 creation tools in games to be either overly complex or terribly simple and they never seem to feel 
 like more than tools where the entire plan in to finish so you can use the pieces. In Spore you 
 can use the creator to build something amazing and not really care if you ever use it, building 
 it is most of the fun. The tools are so easy to use; draw out a spine, drag on some arms and legs, 
 give it some eyes, a mouth and you have something totally unique to you, spend a little more time 
 on it and you have something that can look amazingly professional without it feeling like you put 
 in any real effort. The whole game survives because of the creation tools and everything is made 
 that much sweeter by the endless options brought to your planets using the wonders of the internet. 
 Anyone that has an intent of spending a lot of time in the space stage will be very thankful for 
 all these options to keep you looking around and exploring, then rather than blocking the obscene 
 content you can simply eradicate them from existence.
  
  It wouldn't be a review without a little thought to the audio and visual aspects in play here. 
 The graphics do a fine job of doing what you'd expect without anything really exceptional as far 
 as pure power it's more the nuances of style that you witness at some points of the game such as 
 looking at the giant creatures in the depths of the water or burning a planet with the godlike 
 powers of your space ship. The audio is fantastic, the generative music fits well into each stage 
 of the game, advanced creatures banter along in native simish and the other creature sounds are 
 varied and usually appropriate to the creature you've tried to create, depending on the mouth you 
 have chosen.
  
  Spore has a lot of ambitious ideas, but seeing them split across five games that don't have any 
 individual value is unfortunate. I suppose that wanting five fully feature rich games is just greedy 
 but the experience as a whole just feels like it is spread a little too thin and simply a sandbox 
 for the offspring of the outstanding creature creator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi-starrider
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Personally, having followed spore since 2004, hanging on the seat of every single preview and new 
 screen shot, I am totally and completely satisfied with spore. It's everything It was cracked up 
 to be and a little more. The sporepedia was a wonderful addition to the game and really adds to 
 the experience. Honestly, given everything that was said about the game from day one, I don't understand 
 what people were expected. The cell stage is exactly what they said it would be, the creature stage 
 is even better, the civ stage is a fun yet simplified version of the civ games, and the space stage 
 is a wonderful empire management simulator that is complex and multi-dimensional without being 
 overbearing or confusing. Its everything it was supposed to be, if for some reason people expected 
 it to be anything more than that, they have nothing but themselves to blame for unreal expectations. 
 Blame yourselves for your letdown, Will Wright did a great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Pomo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  First things first, my biggest problem with Spore is it's not complex enough, which is surprising 
 due to the fact that it's premise is to have the player form a galactic civilization literally 
 from the ground up. 
  
  Spore, to meet my hype as the best game ever, would have had to be a tad bit more realistic (like 
 the initial GDC video) , have more in-depth and personal interaction (I would have loved to see 
 customizable weapons, for instance) , the ability to control an individual creature again while 
 in the advanced stages, and overall just more complexity.
  
  What it does right is let the player create - not just customize, but actually create - creatures, 
 vehicles, etc., which is insanely fun and addictive. Again though, more customizability would have 
 been great in these editors. Vehicles must be symmetrical, there are no simple shape parts for 
 creatures (just a square or sphere part would let you make so much more) , and so on.
  
  It does deserve more credit than it's getting for what it has, however, and I believe Maxis will 
 improve on the problems with future expansions. I just hate it when something so hyped doesn't 
 meet my exact expectations, which were admittedly huge. All in all, I can't wait to play the game 
 again, as it's digital crack. Regardless, I suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathc4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Cell to Civ stage is fine (although about as stimulating, shallow and complex as a pencil.) Space 
 stage is the final let down to what could have been the greatest game ever if it had been targeted 
 to gamers instead of house wives.
  
  Do you like working on an assembly line where every 2-3 minutes you are shocked with a cattle prod? 
 Then you will LOVE space stage. Its boring, repetitive and has no real sense of purpose. You can't 
 experiment on things, you can't come up with crazy creative ideas and see if they work, you really 
 can't do a damn thing except trade Spice, screw around with biomes and kill empires.
  
  The technology and editors are AMAZING, its just a shame its potential is wasted on such a mediocre 
 game. If in the hands of another developer (one that actually makes GAMES not shallow mini games) 
 it could be a revolution in the gaming industry. 
  
  3 years of waiting and Will sacrifices this game on the alter of corporate profits. This game killed 
 my faith in the gaming industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zloth2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I think a lot of folks are missing the point of Spore. This isn't a hard core RTS game. This isn't 
 a hard core 4X strategy game. This isn't a hard core Privateer game. This game is several lightweight 
 games pushed into one so that you can develop an entire alien race! It's all about the creativity.
 
  
  At that, this game works very well. By following your little critter from the tide pool all the 
 way into space, you can really get attached to the little guys. The creation tools let you make 
 a huge variety of creatures and, because of the multiple phases, your creatures will have fairly 
 unique abilities as well as appearance. The community sharing tools even let you show off your 
 creations to others and see what they are making.
  
  The game is badly hurt by a rather nasty balance bug on release, however. At medium difficulty, 
 the game is pretty easy once you figure out what you are doing at each stage. However, once you 
 get into space, you'll likely find that your planets are being attacked over and over, making life 
 very rough. You can play the game at easy difficulty but that makes space a bit too easy and the 
 rest of the game almost sleepy. Hopefully Maxis can do something about this soon.
  
  Another problem is the lack of save slots. If you save in a bad spot, it's game over because you 
 only get one save slot per campaign.
  
  The DRM that has some folks calling for blood seems great to me. Three installs? Fine. I hardly 
 ever need two installs, never mind three. Best of all, this new system doesn't try to put strange 
 drivers on my machine so it can read weird secure DVDs. Heck, I can take the DVD out of the drive 
 completely and still play.
  
  By the way - any of you folks that remember M. U. L. E. from 25 years ago, listen to your colony music. 
 Every now and again, it will play the theme song from that old game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moc5
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  All the stages in this game can be compared to 20-30 year old arcade style gaming. Ok, the first 
 mini game is vaguely reminiscent of ancient arcade game Pac man with all the complexity and detail 
 of the original version, second stage more pac man with a very slight twist, third stage, space 
 invaders, forth stage, more space invaders (no twist this time) , and the final stage, the crowning 
 glory of 1980's gaming -- Missile command.
  
  Honestly, I'm not kidding. I can not believe how generic this game is. I would recommend it to 
 kids, but I can't. My 10 year old niece thinks its too simple and that it has no depth. Wow! Will, 
 please redeem your reputation from this complete disaster.
  
  I've been looking forward to this game for a year. This game is backed by big money, talented people, 
 and a very delayed release date. EA hyped the **** out of this game. Why deliver such a tremendous 
 disappointment to all your fans? You could of and should of done a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodcow666
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  What happened EA? Spore had so much potential, but boring gameplay and DRM protection destroy all 
 hope I once had in the game.
  
  I bought the game hoping for a deep creative experience, but instead the game is dumbed-down to 
 the point of bordom. The civilixzation stage in particular is a striped-down RTS i've ever played. 
 Basically you gather recourse, click "build vehicle", send the vehicle to a city and repeat. Over 
 and over again.
  
  And that brings me to the main problem, DRM protection. Basically your paying to RENT your game 
 from EA, as you're only allowed 3 activations per code. Unlike Mass Effect, who's protection was 
 bearable due the fact that when you uninstalled the game it re-embursed the activation. This just 
 shows that EA thinks that everyone is a dirty, greedy pirate.
  
  Overall, Spore failed to live up to its promises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flexwalker95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off I would like to say that this game has had an amazing amount of hype. Saying that 
 I think the game was rated a lower score then we expected because of the amount of hype the game 
 had, which in my opinion is not one bit fair. Although the game does have some minor flaws flaws 
 the overall game is amazing.
  
  Cell Stage:
  The cell stage starts off as you coming down in a metiorite that crashes into your planet. Then 
 your microscopic organism Emerges from the rock and that is were this stage starts. the visual 
 aspects of this stage are quite good actually and overall it is very charming. The gameplay is 
 rather simple you either use WASD the ARROW KEYS or your MOUSE to move around the world. The goal 
 of this stage is to eat things and avoid being eaten and growing to become the dominent cell. The 
 creator is also simple it only contains 12 parts to personalize your cell to your like. I think 
 this stage deserves a 9/10 because it is fun but it is way to simple one of the major flaws in 
 the entire game.
  
  Creature Stage: 
  The creature stage for most people was there favorite stage but for me it was not as fun as the 
 other stages. you start out by putting legs on your creature then there is a short cutscene and 
 the creature emerges from the water and that is were creature stage begins. The controls are the 
 same as cell with the exception that you can look around the 3D enviorment. The graphics are decent 
 but the ugly black outline around the creatures really disgusts me. fighting against other nests 
 is not all that fun but gathering other members and singing and dancing for me is so fun to watch 
 the creatures interact and have fun. the creator for creature is the best creator and how it animates 
 the creature is incredible. This stage is fun but it lacks of something that wants me to keep playing 
 it over and over. 8.5/10
  
  Tribe Stage:
  The tribe stage is just the right length if it would be any longer I would probably lose interest. 
 But this is probably tied with space stage for me. The way the creatures have made up their own 
 language and are speaking it is quite enjoying to watch. In this stage you can either capture or 
 ally with other tribes I personally would rather use the instruments to impress the the other tribe 
 and then ally with them. What I also think is cool is that you can use fireworks sing songs around 
 the campfire and give other tribes gifts.10/10 because this stage is so fun and it has just the 
 right length to keep you interested.
  
  Civilization Stage:
  Civilization stage is sort of boring. All you do is first Create your man hall which is pretty 
 fun and then you create your land vehicle and besides the creators this stage is sort of boring 
 but it does have some charm that can make the stage fun. one thing that is fun is that you can 
 communicate with other tribes and dress you creatures with outfits that is also fun to do. One 
 thing that looks cool is when you try to convert a civilization and you see the large creature 
 which i think is awesome. I think that there are too many civilizations to conquer and it gets kind 
 of boring. 8.0/10
  
  Space Stage:
  Space stage starts off as your civilization decides that they should make a space ship and fly 
 off into space. This stage is stage is extremely fun and zooming out to view the entire galaxy 
 and it's scope is absolutely incredible you will never experience 4 million planets to explore 
 in any other game. Although the space stage has a lot of strengths it also has some weaknesses. 
 One cool thing is terraforming tool which you can go to any planet sculp color or change the atmosphere 
 to any planet you like. Although the scope and terraforming is cool and fun it can get very repetitive 
 which is not always a bad thing but after playing for very long periods of time it can get kind 
 of boring. Even with that the game is so fun to play. 10/10
  
  Closing Comments:
  I think think this game is awesome and it is definately worth buying and will easily keep you interested 
 for hours and hours. 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryansim2025
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  So, i've been playing for a few days now, i picked it up right when it came out, and was ready 
 for fun. Then i had to spend about an hour in the cell stage which was ok, but the WASD controls 
 for the creature were not very responsive/accurate. After that, I really did enjoy the creature 
 stage. I thgought it was fun, and I liked adding to my creature as I progressed. I think this was 
 the best part of the game. As its been said before, from tribe on, it goes down hill. I actually 
 found the simplicity of the game an insult. I was ready to tackle problems of the world, be diplomatic, 
 or blow everything up. Didn't happen, mostly 'cause you can't do half that stuff. You have ONE 
 land unit, ONE sea unit, and ONE air unit. That in and of itself is a failure.
  
  It could have been great, but it looks like Maxis spent all their time in the creature stage, and 
 completely messed up everything after that in order to get the game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevigodofRocc
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  (Woohoo first review)
  
  Spore has gleaned many reactions among gamers and non-gamers alike. Some purists would say that 
 it is a waste of money and shallow in depth, while newcomers will be astounded by the presentation. 
 When you look at it though, it's really hit and miss depending on the audience. Presentation and 
 creativity stimulation are grade A, while some segments of the game could've been done without.
 
  For presentation, Spore is outstanding, giving colorful visuals, slightly upbeat music and brilliant 
 creature voices. However, once you get to playing it, it spirals up and down on it's various stages 
 as it imitates many game types. While I found the adventure aspect fun and colorful (although a 
 little bland) it was a good experience, the RTS, on the other hand, was atrocious.
  
  (So you know where I'm coming from, as a gamer, I enjoy top tier strategy games, shooters, RPGs 
 and overall, adventure games.)
  
  
  While some insist that the Tidepool Phase is tedious, I found it a nice start. Little hybrid single-cell 
 to arthropod organisms eating algae and each other in primordial soup. The goal is to eat things 
 weaker than you and to grow while becoming more complex as you evolve your cell with: extra flagellae, 
 fins, jets, horns, more mouths, toxin emitters and electric cells. You can get to some pretty strategic 
 placement of parts, as well as develop some tactics such as sidewinding, scooting by with electric 
 shocks, or simple crunching of other cells. Escaping predation also takes a little creativity (maneuvering 
 through debris to trap others. Afterward, you walk to land and play the Creature Phase.
  
  The Creature Phase is beautiful. As an adventure, it is entertaining and is reminiscent of an RPG. 
 If you approach it as an RPG, however, you're likely to be disappointed. This phase consists of 
 eating or befriending other creatures and evolving your own creature. The sheer experience of climbing 
 a hilltop to see the nest on the other side... is magnificent. The graphics and tone are well set, 
 and although the AI is somewhat shallow, it's forgivable. There are nameless amounts of parts and 
 customization that can go into your creature (you've probably heard this) but among others, you 
 also have wings. One of my favorite parts of the creature game, was charging a nest, either taking 
 most of them down, and then retreating on wing back to my own nest to heal up. You also eventually 
 gain a pack. It acts as you'd expect by following you around and helping you fight. After an hour 
 or two, you can move onto the Tribal Phase as your creature becomes more intelligent.
  
  The Tribal Stage was somewhat half-hearted, however, in its attempt to be a strategy game. It seems 
 messed up that.... while it is straightforward enough, sometimes no matter what you do, 4 tribes 
 attacking at once is too much (hard mode, 1st playthrough.) Gathering resources, for instance, 
 requires a bit of micromanagement, while something that you would normally do (like debate on where 
 to place members, defend resource points, gather armies, fortify defenses) is.... lacking. Your 
 tribe is limited to 6-9-12 people (depending on progress) and the only resource is food. Not only 
 are you limited to this, but you can't build over defeated bases, nor expand your village. Once 
 all is said and done, either crushing (through rushing) or befriending all the other tribes, you 
 move onto the Civilization Phase.
  
  The Civilization Phase is similarly shallow in its play experience. While you can create a vehicle 
 and take resource points as well as strategically place units, it basically boils down to paying 
 off one or two factions, while simultaneously building a huge army to wipe out the turrets of another 
 city. Once claimed, lather, rinse and repeat. This job is made slightly easier by powers (it varies 
 by your play style) such as bombs and shields. Religion and Military are essentially identical 
 except that Religious leaves buildings standing while economic is a major waiting game. Although 
 this may leave a sour taste in your mouth, fear not, the Space Stage is here!
  
  Wow. Wow. Wow. The Space Stage is where the fun commences (having been ruined by the half-arsed 
 Tribal and Civilization Phases. So your race has reached the stars, so what? I'll tell you what: 
 Interstellar Travel, Other Galactic Empires, Colonization, Trade, Space Raids, Alliances, Wars, 
 More Universes than you can count and an ultimate Great Enemy. (Yes I have read Dune.) In the Space 
 Stage, you do as much or little as you want. You can explore an uncountable number of planets, 
 expand your empire, or do both at once along with a slew of missions to increase your rank. Your 
 ship is equipped with many weapon functions with lasers and missiles, but also other tools such 
 as an abduction beam, or a prepackaged colony. Colonization is loads of fun. You can create atmospheres 
 and unique ecosystems to increase habitability and mine spice, or simply recolor every planet you 
 find. If you want story, you can travel to the center of the Universe (haven't done it yet) to 
 encounter a secret ending. No spoilers here unless you saw my Dune reference above.
  
  At any rate, that is where my review stops, as I have yet to play enough of the Space Stage to 
 get there anyways. I have high hopes for expansion packs with new content and hopefully a reworked 
 RTS stage (as I was very disappointed with those) , although it's not likely to happen in the near 
 future.
  
  To sum it up, Spore is certainly more than the sum of its parts. The beginning stages give you 
 a personal link to your avatar-creature as well as a presentation while the Space Stage allows 
 you to play that Sci-Fi explorer while you run an Empire. Gamers will likely have mixed reactions 
 while creators will have a ball. Overall, the only limit in the game is your creativity. And while 
 some are unimpressed with certain stages of the game, remember this, they're stages. The true game 
 begins once you hit the end, and with a virtually unlimited universe to explore, it really only 
 ends when you want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncbeach1
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to Spores release for some time now, having played and enjoyed Sim City, 
 Civilization, and the Sims. But after playing Spore I am very disappointed.
  
  The game starts well: good pace to the action, graphics draw you in, music matches the game ambiance, 
 controls are easy to learn and use. However, all the early stages are super easy and seemingly 
 designed with elementary school children in mind. Even at the hardest settings, novice gamers will 
 be unchallenged.
  
  Once you get to the space stage the game-play changes. Gone are the fun and cute parts of the game, 
 enter a stripped down version of Galactic Civilizations. The first few missions given to you (build 
 a colony, meet another race, set-up a trade route) are straightforward. Zooming in and out of different 
 planets looking for collectible artifacts and upgrades is fun for awhile. But then the fun comes 
 to an abrupt end.
  
  Building a fortune only takes owning a few planets in a playable galaxy of 10,000 or so. You can 
 also upgrade your weapons and health to the maximum (5 levels) in under an hour. The combat is 
 a clickfest with absolutely no strategy involved. To make matters worse, there is no automation 
 to some of the repetitive tasks. Resource management, colony defense, and teraforming are all manual 
 processes that will get very boring after awhile. There are no fleets to position or ships to build 
 and outfit. There are no overview pages that let you see your empires stats or manage anything. 
 You will find yourself doing the same missions over and over. Its just plain boring. 
  
  After forcing myself to try and complete the last mission of getting to the galactic core, the 
 letdown was unbelievable. Without spoiling the outcome, I cant say much, but all I could think 
 to myself is, "wow, this game stinks". I turned it off without a second thought and I doubt I will 
 ever replay it.
  
  If you are looking for an arcade style of game try Bigfish. If you want a space strategy go for 
 Galactic Civilizations. If you want to waste your money, buy Spore.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentom06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  spore is made up of 5 stages: the cell, creature, tribal, civilization and space stages. While 
 all of these stages are good there are improvements to be made in all of them.
  
  Cell stage: swim, swim, swim is basically all you do in the cell stage which begs the question: 
 why is it so much FUN?! I suppose the best bit is watching your creature evolve as you get more 
 DNA points and parts. Not a lot more to say on this stage but improvements to be made are minimal. 
 Just make it a bit more complex really, or change it altogether. score: 8/10
  
  Creature stage: The creature stage is like the cell stage as in most of the fun is in gathering 
 new parts and watching your creature slowly evolve. But since its the longest stage (bar the space 
 stage) it can get slightly repetetive ESPECILLY if you're a carnivore. Go to enemy nest, eat, evolve, 
 other nest, eat, evolve... although having wings (good one's) makes this a lot more enjoyable as 
 its fun to just fly around instead of walking. One thing about it that needs to be said is that 
 having a pack of creatures from your own tribe makes this FAR TOO EASY! score:8/10
  
  Tribal stage: This is probably the worst stage on spore which doesn't make it bad, just not as 
 good as the rest. First thing is again, IT IS FAR TO REPETETIVE! build up tribe members to max, 
 get weapons kill/impress other tribe, fish for food to get more tribe members, repeat, is it. I 
 was expecting a more age of empire like stage but its far too simple. Improvements: more resources, 
 weapons, instruments. score:7/10
  
  Civilization stage: OK, so after you complete the tribal stage you'll be taken to the building 
 creator, which is awesome. Its great that you can create buildings of almost any shape. Make a 
 long building with seemingly impossible overhangs, make it look completely crazy, or even make 
 it look like a human! The vehicle creator is just as varied and allows your imagination to run 
 wild. Again the civ stage is far too simplified. It needs more types of buildings with advantages 
 and disadvantages, and also needs some pre-made buildings for those of us that are: a) lazy and 
 b) have no imagination. There is also a weapon that lets you destroy all other civilizations instantly. 
 The price of this needs putting up. Once you have taken over 1/2 of the cities its easy to just 
 sit there, wait for money to build up and nuke everyone. score: 8.5/10
  
  Space stage: OK, you've built up your civilization and are ready to go into space. This stage is 
 in my opion by far the best and could be a good game by itself (although many reviews here seem 
 to disagree with me there) . Once you get there you can, destroy other aliens, ally with them, expand 
 your creature's empire or just explore the universe. Best thing in this stage (and indeed the game) 
 is terraforming. Its so satisfying to improve the conditions of a planet and turn it from a barren 
 rock to a planet bustling with life, and then look down upon the life you have created. Also the 
 sheer size of the galaxy makes your empire feel tiny. One star in god knows how many others, all 
 with at least 1 planet in it. You can explore many systems out in space including binary star systems 
 (posh phrase for twin suns) and black holes. The main aim is to get to the centre of the universe 
 but once you've done this the game goes strangely empty. Mainly because you got what was in the 
 centre and there are no more goals to complete, except maybe finding Earth. (such a momentus task 
 I don't dare to try) . It is quite fun to go out and find all the other creatures you've created. 
 Improvements: more complex side missions (rather than just: abduct X, go to planet X and find an 
 artifact.) score: 9.7/10
  
  Overall a good game although very over-simplified. One improvement that needs to be mentioned is 
 the fact that with its vast galaxies, spore is such an obvious candidate for online play! After 
 getting bored of my own galaxy it would be way fun to go into my friends galaxy and wipe out the 
 most powerful civilizations in the galaxy, or terraform masses of planets, or play silly made-up 
 games such as "first to get to the centre of the galaxy wins", "first to capture a star system", 
 "kill each other!". Or it would be even more fun to do this with multiple friends (5-10 say?) . 
 Of course they could go all out and create an MMORPG out of the online play for the more hardcore 
 players maybe. Either way spore DEFINITELY needs online play. Hopefully maxis will create a sequel 
 that is more complex, and with online (and a longer story) . IMO, if they get it right spore 2 could 
 be the best game ever, easily.
  
  Final word: The concept is there but the execution is slightly off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Freedom. It has been the mark of Maxis since the revolutionary engine of the Sims franchise. In 
 their games, you're free to do as you please. Spore promissed to take this a step further, to bend 
 the rules of evolution, to allow you to guide your species through Darwin's theory, in a fight 
 to become the dominant species of your world, then the universe.
  
  Forget about it...
  
  Starting up: You're not guiding your species through evolution, you're damned well controlling 
 it. Your character has no AI. You must tell him when to eat, when to mate... and that's pretty 
 much all the vital things for your survival . Your flock is a stranger to you. You'll only remember 
 to come home to heal (something you can do on your allies' nest as well) or to mate. You create 
 no sense of identity with your species, only with your specimen. And that's the thing that kills 
 it: You're not guiding a species, you're guiding a single member of such race, and his interactions 
 are limited to other creatures.
  
  Evolution is not guided by Darwin's laws. You don't adapt to survive. You adapt for the sake of 
 adapting, for the sake of changing. To make more allies and progress. Sure, it's nice to have bigger 
 HP, to have bigger skills on dancing and singing (gaming characteristics that makes Pokemon seem 
 'adult' compared to this) , and to deal more damage with your strikes, your bites... The problem 
 is that this is all a result of an almost pixel-hunting experience. You get different characteristics 
 by digging them up all across the 'world'. You won't grow fur on your species' back after a harsh 
 winter. You won't grow large ams to feed off tall trees. You'll do all of that because you want 
 to. Tall trees are found right next to small trees. There is no extinction of a race unable to 
 fit into the surroundings, there is the extinction of the races you, or a random predator, choose 
 to extinct. Migration is a time-based element, and there's nothing to drive your species away from 
 its nest, the guys just chose they needed some novelty in life. It's almost an RPG in creature 
 stage, something completely unfit for a game of evolution. Why? Because on an RPG you choose where 
 to allocate your XP. In evolution the conditions around you do the choosing.
  
  The tribal, civilization and space-faring stages are some of the most shallow strategy experiences 
 I've ever seen in life. That the most complex thing you can do in civilization stage is to design 
 your city hall should be clear evidence that this isn't a strategy game, it's a wider-scoped (or 
 narrower, considering the limited developing aspects) Sims franchise.
  
  Before you say: Oh, but there are hundreds of thousands of different combinations to try up (on 
 creature and cell stage) , surely that amounts for a fantastic replay factor... Not really. Apart 
 from the Herbivore/Carnivore, Military/Cultural/Econimic and a few other narrow-minded pathways, 
 no matter how differently you play, no matter how many arms, how many legs, wings, eyes, how many 
 mouths your character has, nothing will change in the game except the appearence of your race. 
 They follow the same road to domination. There's no difference between a highly militarized city 
 ruled by moths, and a deeply religious city inhabited by apes. No matter which kind of creature 
 you choose to play as, from tribal stage forward, they're all the same.
  
  The gameplay is as simplistic as it can possibly be, with arrow/A, S, W, D/ mouse controlled characters 
 and point and click strategic interface (in later stages) . The visual is bright, cheerful and surreal, 
 and perhaps the only actual original bit in the entire game. The sound is limited to either growls 
 or cheerful screechs (I could have sworn one of them would yell pikachu at me, which would make 
 me uninstall the game that very moment) .
  
  It's impossible to disconsider the hype, the fuss made around this game. For, what?, a year, players 
 have lived with the expectation for a '2001, a specie's odyssey', and we can't even get 'evolution 
 101'. Gamers were promissed a revolutionary concept, all we got was a children's game that feels 
 like a show from 'Discovery Kids' or 'Nickelodeon', that makes dancing around more important than 
 relationships with your own flocks.
  
  A game that promissed to take you from 'celular organisms to space' manages to completely overlook 
 everthing in between.
  
  Spore is a major let-down, no matter how you look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: countphatula
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  You get to play God. How cool is that? Well actually you don't. You get to play a being going through 
 several stages of evolution right from a single cell to a space pirate terminator.
  
  The basic premise of the game is to survive. Eat others creatures but not be eaten. Or you can 
 eat plants and still strive to keep your limbs from other carnivores. The game's broken into several 
 stages and the nice thing about each stage is that once you meet the criteria for advancement into 
 a succeeding stage, the game doesn't force you to advance. You can still stick around in your pre-historic 
 time bracket and have "fun". This is true especially in the creature stage when you want to find 
 as many "power-ups" as possible. I won't list the several stages here since that's a part of the 
 discovery and evolution aspect of the game.
  
  The biggest draw of the game is going to be user created content (UCC?) . You create yourself, your 
 vehicles, your buildings and can even transform planets into looking like pink barbie dolls. However 
 again the game doesn't force you to be creative - you can slap a few pieces together and call it 
 your creation if you want to get right into the game play.
  
  Interaction and combat: You can lay waste to the land or be friends with most of your neighbors. 
 Some of the creatures are inherently hostile and nothing you can do will change their feelings. 
 You can either flee or eat them. Your actions in your earlier stages will determine the special 
 abilities you receive in later stages of your evolution.
  
  The game does get a bit repetitive especially in the space stage and can get quite annoying when 
 you are far from home and your help is requested closer to home. Unlocking the shaman perk helps 
 but good luck if you don't have the shaman perk. The game does feel a bit short but has immense 
 replay value. Almost worth the 50$ I shelled out. 
  
  The game system requirements are modest and on my machine (dual core AMD 4200, 3gigs of RAM, X1950 
 pro) , the game looks good and feels fluid at maximum settings. I'll refrain from discussing the 
 DRM - vile as I believe it is, the DRM has not stopped me from enjoying the game and contrary to 
 the popular rumors, reinstalls on the same machine will count as a single install unless enough 
 hardware changes (gets upgraded) to make the game think you are installing on a different machine.
 
  
  The game's fun and is addictive. If you ever wanted a galaxy in a box, Spore delivers... mostly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryujin81
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Let's start from the beginning. The cell stage is quite enjoyable, if overly simplified. It looked 
 way better three years ago, instead of the overly cute version we get when we buy the game. It 
 is also over way too quickly (although that might almost be considered good as it is so mindnumbingly 
 easy and you get the exact same enemies every time. It takes less than 10 minutes (less than 5 
 if you actually rush through it) to clear this stage, slightly longer if you go for silly mode 
 and remove the eyes and tail and simply drift around (but even then it doesn't take too long to 
 clear) .
  
  I also quite enjoyed the creature stage, although it too was overly simplified. And guess what, 
 the creature stage also looked better three years ago. Anyways, here's how it works. You have a 
 total of 8 possible actions you can perform based on the parts you put on your creature, 4 social 
 and 4 aggressive (although you can clear this stage as well with only a mouth and nothing else) . 
 Here comes the first major complaint, the evolution in this game is a total joke, you can go from 
 a simple blob to a very complex super creature in one generation, and then back to a blob in the 
 next if you feel like it, there is no realism whatsoever. Another thing is that the bonuses you 
 get from parts don't stack, meaning if your creature is decked out with 10 spiked club appendages, 
 it will do just as much damage as if it had only one. The goals of this stage are also very much 
 on the unrealistic stage. Back in 2005 there were creatures roaming all around you, but in the 
 "finished" product all other creatures are concentrated to their nest area, and you have to either 
 kill a certain number of them, or do a ridiculous mini game of dancing/singing Simon-says routines 
 to get a certain number of them to ally with you.
  Anyways, as you earn DNA points by either making other creatures extinct or making them your allies 
 your brain grows and you get to bring friends with you.
  As your creature develops (or not, doesn't really matter much unless you wanna rush to the next 
 stage) the game suddenly tells you it's time to move on to the next stage.
  
  WOOT, finally, the tribal stage, took me almost half an hour to get there, wow that was hard work......
 
  Ok yet again, this also looked better three years ago (ok will stop saying that now, you have 
 probably gotten the point by now) . Over simplified and ridiculously easy are yet again key words. 
 This is the last stage that is somewhat enjoyable, it only goes downhill from here. You kill some 
 animals or collect some fruit to feed your tribe, you buy them some clothes that give bonuses (but 
 don't really matter, as usual) , and place some huts that only act as switches, to give your tribal 
 members different weapons, instruments or food gathering tools. Again you either wipe out the other 
 tribes or befriend them in a stupid Simon-says mini-game.
  And a couple of minutes later you have cleared this stage as well.
  
  Ah, the Civ stage, where 
 the uselessness of adding different parts to your creations rise to new levels, only to be outdone 
 later in the Space stage.
  You start with a single city, where you design the buildings, all 4 of them.... No matter how you 
 design them, they do exactly the same thing. You also have to think about how to place them as 
 they grant bonuses or penalties depending on the buildings next to them (you figure out how to 
 maximize this in a few minutes, after that it just becomes annoying as hell) . You also design your 
 vehicles for land and sea (and a few minutes later air) . The parts you put on your vehicles matter 
 a tiny bit more than on your buildings, but that's not saying much. No matter what weapon you put 
 on them (oh and they all have weapons, no matter what the marketing people say about economic/cultural/military 
 approaches, and they all do basically the same thing, just calling it by different names) they 
 all fire the same glowy thingys.
  Anyways, calling the Civ stage an RTS is a joke, it is so stupidly easy it's not even funny. You 
 send some vehicles to take the resource nodes, and then you send some to wipe out/convert/buy the 
 other cities on the planet, and a few minutes later you are done, but wait, there is more pain 
 and suffering to come in the Space stage.
  
  Mmm, the Space stage, the culmination of years and years or research into the meaninglessness of 
 design and parts. No matter how you design your spaceship, with or without engines, with or without 
 weapons, it doesn't change a single thing. Although being able to create the purple tutu wearing 
 spaceship of your dreams might possibly be thought of as a good thing by some.
  Anyways, you are finally in space, do some missions, encounter 50 alien races in 2 minutes and 
 figure out you're not alone in space so you decide to make some allies, big mistake buddy.
  The most annoying thing about space stage is that while you are trying your hardest to enjoy it 
 (despite the crappy controls) , you are constantly bombarded with emergencies. You need to avert 
 eco-disasters (kill 5 creatures) , help your planets against pirates or alien invaders, and of course, 
 you have been promoted to being the galaxy gopher, constantly flying between systems collecting 
 spice and trying to sell it for a high price. But oh wait, you made an ally you say, oh boy, your 
 troubles just got multiplied, now you have to constantly help them as well.
  I quickly gave up on trying to design my own planets and stuff, since I was constantly interrupted 
 by disasters. Oh and somehow between the Creature stage and the Space stage, the number of species 
 on planets plummeted from dozens and dozens down to a maximum of 9
  Finally, after using tons of cheats to at least no have to worry about getting money, I managed 
 to do enough quests and kill enough enemies and crap, while constantly zipping all over the place 
 averting disasters, I managed to get some nifty tools for my space ship, one of which was a Hologram 
 Scout which enables you to beam down to the surface of planets to walk around. Man I had been waiting 
 for this (being quite fed up with the tediousness of the Space stage) , finally being able to run 
 around on the planets I had painstakingly created (ok, the creation didn't take much effort, but 
 averting all the disasters that kept interrupting me did) . But this turned out to be the final 
 nail in the coffin.
  When you beam down, you walk around at a very slow pace, manoeuvrability is crap and you can't 
 cross water, no matter how shallow. So after a a couple of minutes of trying to get anywhere while 
 still in this decade I finally gave up on Spore.
  
  All I can say is this is probably the biggest let-down I've experienced in a long long time. It 
 is ridiculously over-simplified, overly cute, has nothing to do with realism or science, gets repetitive 
 and boring really really fast, and spend enough time in the Space stage and you'll be wishing for 
 an alien race to come blow up Earth to put you out of your disaster-averting misery.
  I only hope that some day, one of the developers that hopefully saved a copy of the version they 
 showed us in 2005 releases that to the public, finally giving us the game we actually though we 
 were buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solares101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  First off, is this game what i was expecting? Well the answer is yes and no.
  
  I've been looking forward to this game for a long time, not because of its fancy creator functions 
 but because of its sheer scope. I (like many others) have been worrying about weather or not this 
 game is going to be exactly what I wanted. I'm not a fan of the Sims and I would probably classify 
 myself as more of a hardcore gamer (PC gamer to be exact) .
  
  The game had fantastic potential but is let down by its execution. Five Stages that bring you from 
 a small cell organism all the way to a space faring civilization. Reviewing the game as a whole 
 would be an epic task so I'm going to split it into a few ratings out of 10.
  
  Cell Stage
  Well this is a simple point and click game. You swim around, eat and try to avoid 
 being eaten. That's pretty much it. Basic customization allows you to make your creation a little 
 different but essentially that's all you're going to be doing. Now that you know the scope of this 
 part, let me give it a score.... 7. You may think that's a little high considering what I've just 
 said about it but once you realize the parameters of what this game type is like you will probably 
 agree with me. Its short, simple and fun to play. Basically an old arcade or mobile phone game 
 (their is a cell stage mobile phone game you can get as well...)
  
  Creature Stage
  Ok so you have evolved to sprout legs and walk onto land. Great. So now what? Well you need to 
 evolve more! That's all this stage is about really. Evolving. You go around harassing / killing 
 other species (depending on weather or not your a carnivore or herbivore) and finding new parts 
 to put on your creature. Fun stage with plenty to it and for those of you that are more into customization 
 it really offers hours of entertainment. I would give this stage a solid 8.
  
  Tribal Stage
  Oh dear! First real hiccup in the way the game plays out. It's a very basic RTS 
 game. Go kill / capture the enemy tribes and add heads to your totem. Did I find this stage enjoyable? 
 Well other than the cut seen leading up to it (2001 anyone?) I found this stage a hindrance. Not 
 much fun to be had here at all. And this is the main reason the game as a whole hasn't got a fantastic 
 score! Yep it gets a 3.5
  
  Civilization stage
  Well this was fun. Dominate the planet in a classic RTS style. Recourse gathering (standard with 
 most RTS games) , army creation (again very standard) and strategic dominance. Fun? YES! Original? 
 NO! I will be honest... This stage is still very fun but seems like more of a wanna be C&C generals 
 only without the different units. I actually didn't use sea vehicles at all in this mode as i just 
 didn't need them. I dominated all of the cities on my continent and then obliterated the others 
 using aircraft. It may sound like I'm making this stage sound rubbish but i genuinely enjoyed myself. 
 If it wasn't for the fact that i was racing to reach space stage at this point i probably would 
 have enjoyed it a heck of allot more. This stage gets a 7.5
  
  Space Stage
  My initial reaction was 'well the game is right at the end... and I'm pretty much done'. How wrong 
 was I? The Scale of this stage totally blows the rest of the game out of the water. It's HUGE! 
 Flying around the galaxy meeting new species all the time, trading with them, destroying them or 
 even just plain avoiding them. I've only been playing the space stage for 6 hours so far (which 
 is pretty much how long i spent on the other four stages put together) and i feel like I've achieved 
 allot. At the same time though, just zooming out further into the galaxy makes you realize their 
 is so much more to see and conquer! What's at the centre of the galaxy? Well i hope to find out 
 in a few months time when I'm finally get round to exploring it! By far the best stage of the game 
 and deserves a solid 10/10!
  
  Ok so that's an overview of all the stages. It seems to me like the first four stages are little 
 mini games leading up to the big space game. The only reason this game is getting an 8.5 as appose 
 to an average to poor 6 / 7 is because of the space stage. It might just be that the whole creation 
 aspect of the game doesn't interest me much but I've got a funny feeling its more because the first 
 few stages are comparatively boring next to the space stage.
  
  As I said, I'm a pretty hardcore gamer (mostly FPS / RTS) and i only like playing games that present 
 a challenge. Has spore presented me with enough of a challenge? Yes... yes it has, but only when 
 you play it on hard difficulty! I haven't tried playing it on easy or normal entirely because i 
 wanted to saver and enjoy the challenges that the game has to offer. The biggest question is... 
 how much longer will i play the game for? Well i don't know to be honest. Their is certainly enough 
 content to keep me going for years but I'm not sure ill stay interested enough to play for that 
 long. I'd say the game has another 10 - 20 hours worth of game play in it before i move onto other 
 things.
  
  Overall, a good game with plenty of content that's let down by the un-inspiring first four stages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuculand2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  it is to weak compare to what i aspected, is kind of childish. the idea inside the game is great, 
 to create your world starting form a cell, but is just to easy to evolve to a intergalactic empire.
 
  the building engine needs more details, more mature details. for a game that targets children 
 from 5 to 10 years old is great, but in the game when u jump from tribe to city and from city to 
 space traveling u can feel a gap. the evolution is to fast and like i said childish.
  to bad u cant clone your city, modify your race looking after u evolve to tribe, to bad u dont 
 have a systam search or planet search. spaceship battle could have been better, in the game they 
 look disappoiting.
  the game woth the shot but it aint gonna be a smah hit in the industry, i just gonna remain a startin 
 tittle in the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra_ST
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Spore is basically on a concept of a focusing on the stages in the beginning of life, so in short 
 you start as a cell life form and build your way to a creature with legs/wings and progress on 
 until you are able to conquer other planets. The design and the possibilities of a unique creature 
 are endless you can make all sorts of different designs and looks. The game is fairly open wide 
 with some space to run around in and explore, all this sounds great but that polish doesn't last 
 long. The game is in a cartoonish format although 3D, the game play is great and is easy to learn 
 and use the amount of interesting things that happen, now that is the flaw. There are a limited 
 amount of things/events that happen that are particularly interesting, so no split second events 
 or the earth your standing on just blows up, the game doesn't keep you for long while the game 
 physics and concept design are great, unless you'd really think you'll be in to it, I would give 
 this a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samwisethe2nd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  This is a great game; a few issues to start with while learning the traps and fully comprehending 
 the complexity. Some stages are shorter than I would have enjoyed, but the space age makes it worth 
 the kick forward.
  
  An extremely complex game made simple and enjoyable, if you just read the manual. Once it's all 
 said and done, this is a thoroughly enjoyable game with a great scope for replay, over and over.
 
  
  This is a great game. I don't know what people are whinging about, possibly need to give it more 
 than 5 minutes to understand and appreciate it properly. Sometimes it's easier to hate on something 
 then to just enjoy it.
  
  There is a need for a few new features to make some of the game play more fluid, but once you work 
 out how to navigate, it's all good.
  
  Looking forward to the next few months to see if any new releases can challenge this one for the 
 best game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GluttonCZ
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I was looking forward for Spore. I love Sims. I love customization. It was very promising. 
 5 games in one. They promissed some 18 editors,... wow. Best game ever according previews! And 
 I blindly believed them.
  
  But... the game is not even the game. Every stage is just about doing the same think again and 
 again 40 times. No addidioanl possibilities. It is not deep as other AAA titles. The gameplay can 
 be compared to the free internet flash games. Very easy, repetitive and stupid.
  
  Ok, and the editors. There is not 18 of them. They are jsut very similar. 10 vehicle editor are 
 different maybe in 6 parts? Otherwise they are same. So you have a creature editor, vehicle editors 
 and building editors. Nothing more. Where are these 18 diferent editors?
  
  And becaue the creatre editor is best of them and is sold separatelly, I can not suggest full game. 
 Go and buy Creature Editor alone. You will recieve the best part of the Spore. Rest is just not 
 good game. And you will recieve it cheaper and without dissapointment.
  
  The online function are not working also. You can not send messages to your friends. You can not 
 filter according abilities etc. he servers are so heavily loaded that you are not able to search 
 for all creations (confirmed by oficial helpdesk) . Browsing sporepedia is slow and painfull experience.
 
  
  I still can not believe that studio that created something so deep as Sims2 can create something 
 so shoddy as Spore.
  
  Dont believe the hype. These 2 minutes videos looks amazing. Problem is, that they are showig EVERYTHING 
 you can meet in the game. There is nothing more then in these 2 minutes trailers. The rest of the 
 game is just repeating it again and again :- (
  
  I still have problems to believed it. One week I was hoping for best game of all the times. And 
 two weeks later it is just rubbish that I have no need to paly again. This game should stay in 
 development for 2 or 3 years. It is great technoogy demo. But it is missing a game (reminds me 
 Assassins Creed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlemrsnow
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'll divide everything up into catagorys to simplify my review in the spirit of Spore.
  
  My PC Specs:
  CPU: Intel Core2duo @ 3.0GHz
  Ram: (1024MB DDR2 800MHz) X2 (2GB total)
  
 Video: (BFG Geforce 9800GTX)
  HDD: (Seagate Sata3 500GB 32MB Cache) X2 (1TB total)
  Sound: (SB X-FI XtremeGamer Fatal1ty)
  OS: (Windows XP SP3)
  
  Performance:
  In my personal 
 experiance with the game, I've had an average of about 1 crash per hour. With no auto save this 
 can be a real pain. The game seems to run great despite the crashes, But the game does look like 
 its a few years old, and even thats giving it some credit.. 
  
  System Settings:
  There are system settings?! I almost missed them there are so few of them! Theres no auto save 
 function, No anti-aliasing, no controls settings and no camera settings (And the camera in space 
 stage is REALLY bad) .
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the creator mode are close to stunning when you don't run into a bad texture mapping 
 job. 40% - 60% of the objects in the creator are very poorly texture mapped, resulting in textures 
 stretched sometimes beyond recognition. All of this doesn't matter though, because in game all 
 the textures are distorted very badly, and in some cases don't even load the proper colors.
  
  Sound:
  As far as the music goes, I really can't tell you anything about it. I always turn 
 off the music in games so I can listen to my own preferred music while playing. The sounds however, 
 I can tell you get extremely annoying very quickily, I would say its worse than the sims!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in spore is very repetitive and lacking in any amount of depth what 
 so ever. Anything you do in one stage of the game has no effect on the later stages of the game. 
 For instance in Civilization stage, earning 1,000,000 is a waste of time. you will still always 
 start the space stage with 100,000 regardless. Not to mention the editor in most cases is purely 
 for eye candy.
  
  Overall Rating: 2
  Graphics: 3
  Gameplay: 0
  Quality: 3
  Sound: 3
  
  Conclusion:
  If you've got plenty of money to spend and want something to keep 
 you slightly entertained for 10 - 20 hours, As long as you don't have anger problems this game 
 will be great for you, The graphics are horrible, the game lacks of any real system settings, and 
 the sound is about as annoying as the sims after a few hours. The overall quality of this game 
 just feels rushed, There are major bugs that could not possibly have been missed while this game 
 was in development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: envomtonix
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Spore can seem surprisingly ambitious through the menus offering you to jump into a creator mode, 
 or go straight to the game; in either your starting category, or skip to a given stage.
  
  Firstly you can start of first hand, in the age of creation or introduction. A brief cinematic 
 will come up showing you as a being hidden inside a crater emerging in the Cell Stage as creature 
 with a choice of either Herbivore, or Carnivore... Omnivore is not accessible at the beginning of 
 this stage, but will become accessible throughout your progression of unlocking parts. This gameplay 
 is pretty much a 8-way directional structure. As you move around as your creation you will grow 
 in size, but growth is more appropriate to your features so by unlocking any or all features will 
 make your creature more diverse than simplistic. Creatures around here very likely try to eat you 
 so it's important to figure out a strategic path; through evasive means, or through defense, or 
 also through aggressive means as well making your creature more HUNTER than the HUNTED. This is 
 a pretty fast stage so you might not spend any more than 15 minutes unless you enjoy the growth 
 of dominance in the Cell Stage, and just love destroying all life.
  
  After you move from Cell to Creation, you will notice a change in how your creature will alter. 
 At first, you'll have the option to craft legs and arms to your creature but much more will be 
 gained onwards. As you're all done with that and you emerge to dry land you will set up a nest 
 and a wide space to explore. This solely is my favorite portion of the game because it's narrowed 
 down to the structure of the creatures individually and not by their vehicles or what planet they're 
 from, so if you're like me you could spend a large amount of time having fun with this stage. So 
 as you continue out to explore the landmass you see many other creatures around; some hostile, 
 some neutral, or some massive that just want to eat everything. Depending on the path you take 
 in this stage, there are those that can be your allies, or some that will constantly try to kill 
 you off - sometimes you'll see creatures getting killed by others. So with the path of violence 
 or alliance, becoming allied with another creature will be a peaceful proposition allowing allied 
 creatures to join in with your creature when you've acquired enough BRAIN STATUS (or Stage progression) . 
 With allies, they will follow you along through your journey of either "Search and Destroy" or 
 "Becoming Allied" with other groups. You will see along your travels, since your nest will move 
 from time to time, the skeletons of creatures that sparkle. Search these out and you will unlock 
 more advanced features you can change through mating, to customize your simple figure into a structured 
 creature with more power, or better socializing abilities. After a while with experimenting or 
 acquiring loads of allies, you will receive word that you can advance to the Tribal Stage.
  
  And so, once again, you've evolved from a creature into a more diverse stage; Tribal Stage. 
 All those that you've acquired in the Creation Stage or Creature Stage, those feats are no longer 
 resourceful. Your creature with mouths all over the place or spikes all over... those won't be anything 
 but more disregarded pieces, often times looking "unclean". So for this stage, the game takes a 
 approach from hunting or allying, to peaceful or hostile approaches with other tribes. You will 
 be dealing with buildings to give your tribe something to work with, either by instruments of peace, 
 or weapons of war... shouldn't be too complex. So in this Real Time Strategy of sorts, you can hunt 
 down for food, or gather fruits (depending on your stance) which will allow you to populate your 
 tribe to even purchases of buildings (9 to be exact) . This one might seem quick but that depends 
 on the speed to get things done. Either befriend a tribe, or conquer them through hostile means, 
 this stage might take around 30-45 minutes.
  
  From the Tribal Stage, you are welcomed to a more sophisticated stage of Real Time Strategy known 
 as the Civilization Stage, where tribes are now cities, you will populate with not troops but vehicles. 
 This mode will be at first a bit confusing, which was for me, but depending on your previous stance 
 to the point now, you could be either a Military faction, or a peaceful Religion faction; I am 
 not sure if Economic is one of the others, or if just a means through this stage. As you begin 
 in this stage, you will be guided to find some Spice, think of this like the basics for any RTS 
 game; find some resource! This spice you find, will be the economic structure for your city, from 
 building to buying, to even "Gift Giving" to other factions to show peace. As for the game, there 
 will be many other factions on the map at once and some might be aggressive at first depending 
 on your status (You're Religious!) but depending on how much of their dislikes, you could be able 
 to buy them off with gifts, to prevent spontaneous attacks. With either the Military Stance or 
 Religious Stance, you capture all cities on the map - I guess those that are your allies too. So 
 convert them with religion or take by force... I don't know if you can buy them off (I tried but 
 it never seemed to give me the option) . With this mode, I would figure it would take you a good 
 time to finish it, from all the wars you get in to the resources to provide; 1 hour to 2 hours? 
 So, once you captured all the cities on the map... you'll find means to create rockets, TO SPACE!!!
 
  
  The last and final stage, quite possibly the most complex stage since I've been having so much 
 trouble through it. This one shall be brief, sadly... You pretty much set out to explore and claim 
 the galaxy. There are all sorts of badges that you can achieve so depending on how hard you work 
 at it, you'll get promoted, progression towards whatever lies next. There's a great many things 
 that you can do, you can explore the universe or galaxy (whatever) , you can establish spice routes 
 with friendly factions, you might be like me and get hoarded by hostile factions. You could even 
 scout missions as well to get some pay, or Sporebucks. You can have a lot of fun playing around 
 with this stage, but I found it pretty hard to complete missions. This take on Space-RTS, it's 
 good but frankly it doesn't seem like, down to earth alongside Spore.
  
  Spore... a good game, but so much of a good game that it just takes everything as a whole, and makes 
 you question which stages were the best; not the whole game. As far as I know, it's good and kept 
 me amused, but it just didn't seem as solid. Some games can do better but this game had all the 
 fixens to make it appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so instead of a new Simcity Mr. Wright decided to work on Spore. Ok, let's take a look.
  I looked forward to this game with much anticipation! Ever since the announcement years ago.
 
  All his other games were great so if he and his team worked for so many years on this one, it's 
 gotta be great right? 
  I kind of knew what the game was about and it sounded awesome! From cell stage to space stage??! 
 What is not to like! 
  With no hesitation I bought the game right when it came out, in fact I was the first one in line 
 that day to grab a copy.
  Looking back I should've researched it a little better because I regret that I ever bought it! 
 I'm not going into detail like all the other reviews but I can tell you this.. the game is SEVERELY 
 limited, to a point were it's not even fun to play anymore. The cell stage is promising and I was 
 excited to go on land and all that, but after Tribe stage you pretty much leave your creature behind 
 (you hardly see them in detail anymore, because you zoom out so far it doesn't really matter what 
 fantastic creature you made in the beginning) All of a sudden the whole game transforms into a 
 very limited, basic version of Command & Conquer where your 'civilization' has to conquer the world, 
 pointing and clicking on you enemies. And then the 'ulimate' space stage, because that's what pretty 
 much everyone is playing for,.. is nothing else but 1 (!) lame spaceship flying to other planets 
 and 'discover' things, and no you can't exit the spaceship nor land, so why did you spent so much 
 time creating a creature?! You gotta be kidding me! It's like having 5 mini games in one and they 
 all are related to each other..
  They have been working on this for how many years?!! And this is not some kind of new right out 
 of college development team (although the final product surely looks like it) .. this is from the 
 creators of The Sims and the founding father of SimCity!!! This is lame and totally unacceptable! 
 They should've stuck with developing SimCity 5. I would've loved to have so many customization, 
 downloading and sharing options with a new SC. And they didn't, they messed up with Spore! I feel 
 ripped. If I could return it I would.
  The good thing is that I learned an important lesson not to buy any games before fully researched 
 and certainly not the day of the release date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazardan
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Many people have been saying that the hype killed this game. In my opinion, the lack of depth and 
 multiplayer killed it. 
  When I first installed the game, I was very eager to play its multiplayer. Something about sharing 
 a world with my best friend amused me. That was until I found out that the multiplayer concept 
 was very stretched and different then what I thought. Apparently I was just playing with copy's 
 of my friends creatures, rather then him playing as them. That would explain why his entire village 
 never attacked me as I was destroying his buildings.
  Another thing I'd like to complain about is the lack of depth. I wanted to play as a single cell 
 creature, then evolve to my final form though engaging and grueling tasks. Instead, I got a RPG/RTS/Arcade/Space 
 Thing. If I were to describe Spore in a single sentence, I'd say "its a jack of all trades, but 
 master of none." You see, the RPG element is weak, and unfulfilling. If your a Herbivore, your 
 forced to go around dancing and singing to other villages, to make friends. At this time I was 
 saying "Screw this, I'm playing WoW". The RTS stages were annoying. Although my creatures had enlarged 
 brains, they still couldn't figure out how to go around mountains and surround foes, rather then 
 line up in front of one another. The final space stage was my favorite. Simply because of the diversity. 
 It had many unique planets to explore, and upgrades to discover. 
  Of course, the best thing about Spore is the customization of... well... everything! You can build 
 building, vehicles and your creatures from the ground up. 
  Its a solid game, but could have been much better. At times you can tell if by the people that 
 made "The Sims", because I once caught my vicious, power-hungry tribe talking about flowers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zima_claim
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  When saying that his game will be revolutionary, Will Wright probably meant that it will be revolutionary 
 for him personally. Because he never produced such a boring game before.
  
  Oh yeah, the main promise of seeing evolution from a cell to space travel is a lie. There is no 
 evolution in this game at all. There are four different stages with little connection or flow between 
 them.
  
  The game is simply mediocre.
  
  This, by the way, raises a valid question of why the hell industry websites (save for German ones, 
 for some reason) are rating this game so high? I can understand fans, who have waited for years 
 to play it and spent 50 bucks to buy it. Their auto-piloted hyper-scores are explained by momentum. 
 Essentially, the first run through might be fun, but the game has almost zero replay value. This 
 and numerous other flaws should have been understood by professionals and reflected in reviews, 
 to steer consumers into the right direction.
  
  What I see happening is reviewers abandoning gamers and siding with producers, or more likely, 
 distributors. Apparently, reviewers want to get on Wright and Co's good side no matter what, even 
 if they produce sub-par quality games.
  
  And that's a real shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggiebertus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  A little notice first: I am from the Netherlands, so grammar mistakes and weird sayings are inevitably 
 present.
  
  Well now; when i first saw spore's 30 minute demo at the 2005 GDC i was awed with it's scale and 
 the creative freedom Will promised us with Spore. How could such a game ever finish and turn out 
 OK?
  
  But it s OK. Everything Wright promised us, is here. The game gives you all the creators and all 
 the procedural stuff you could possibly dream of. Exept for vegetation, planet and underwater creating 
 stuff but i am sure a handfull of expantion sets will fix that. 
  
  The first phases, Cell Phase and Creature Phase are action phases. The cell phase can be over painfully 
 quick, but parhaps that makes it more fun. The atmosphere of the Cell Phase is very good and you'll 
 really feel like a small thing in a lively piece of water. The creature phase is a little boring 
 for my taste, especially when you are a friendly creature, since it's just searching around looking 
 for things that are easily enough to befriend. This makes the creature phase feel long and boring, 
 while the editing of your creature is really fun.
  
  The Tribal and Civ phases are RTS phases. What you do in them is commanding your units into taking 
 other tribes or city's. The Tribal phase is kinda fun, in that it is quick and full of your creatures 
 being animated fighting, holding weapons or making music with various instuments. The only letdown 
 of the Tribal Phase is that you can only costumise your peoples outfits, which is a lot more restricted 
 than the editing in the rest of the game. Also the tribal phase is very easy, both in the peacefull 
 and in the warlike path.
  
  The Civ phase is also fast and easy, exept when you are playing the economic way. In it however 
 you can make your own hymn, costumise buildings and vehicles and create some fun outfits. The religious 
 and warlike path are very similar though, and it really comes down to creating a lot of vehicles 
 and overwhelming your foes.
  
  When you reach the space age you can costumise even more. Virtually everything. The scale of the 
 age is incredible but the trading and making friends mechanics are very dumbed down and easy. Also, 
 war is not to great since your homeworld we get bombarded by enemy fleets almost constantly while 
 waging a war (esspecially early in the game) is a painstaking, long and sort of hard thing, even 
 more so if you do not have any ally's. Still, the power you have is incredible, and doing some 
 missions (who are repetitive, though many aren't tht boring) and landing colony's which you then 
 'll have to give a stable ecosystem, which is a fun thing to do, although a little irritating sometimes.
 
  
  Sounds in the game are immersive and varied, and the graphics render the creatures and worlds very 
 well. 
  
  To play Spore you will need to have a lot imagination and sometimes a little patience. The on-line 
 idea of sharing is great, altough signing onto a good ''sporecast'' (which is a collection of certain 
 creatures, which helps you getting the good stuff easier.) is a must. Else you may get stuck with 
 a lot of useless ugly creatures, vehicles and buildings.
  
  So, the gameplay is just enough to keep it floating but the creators steal the show. From my point 
 of view, Spore is just the game that hs to be great. I mean, say for yourself, where will you 
 find a game with such a huge scale, such a lot of freedom and a game that would have the label 
  game?
  
  A little side note though. SecureRom and the EA gang absolutely suck! 3 time install rate. Not 
 to mention the annoying SecureRom itself. Criminals! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I so truly wanted this game to be amazing. The fact that it was made by will wright had me hoping 
 this would be the ultimate sim game.
  
  I could not have been more wrong. The initial stages of the game are legitimately fun. but it felt 
 very dumbed down from what I had read from early previews. game play grinds to a screeching halt 
 after the civ stage and the space stage *which was supposed to be the shining gem for the game 
 was absolutely worthless. In the end the experience was completely lackluster. I really hope updates 
 are released that bring this game to what was originally promised... its not like the developers 
 had almost 10 years to work with the game. 
  
  Its also worth noting that in the battle to stop pirates a program was embedded in this game that 
 only allows the game to be installed 3 time! what kind of robbery is this? after 3 installs you 
 have to call the tech support and PROVE to THEM you are the legitimate owner of the game, explain 
 why you used thee installs etcetera... the best part of all that? Pirates had copies of the game 
 online before the game was even released. and whats more they had cracked the software so that 
 they need not worry about the 3 installs.
  
  Maybe the developers will release a second version that will add some depth back to the game and 
 remove the rent a game feature... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badger_mk2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I got into this game quite a while ago and I couldn't release. So when I cam home and saw 
 it on the mantle I ran threw the house screaming, (I know im cool :D) , so I fed the dog and ran 
 straight upstairs.
  Booted up my nice shiny PC and waited what felt like 20 years for it to load. So it finally boots 
 and I opened the disc tray put in the disc. 
  I waited for my computer to find it and then there was a large cheer, so it installs the 6 gig 
 of stuff, which took too long for my desperate longing.
  Anyway I wont bore you with the rest of that, so its all installed and I click on the desktop shortcut, 
 sorry Spore has failed to launch, 'err... WHAT THE MOTHER F**KING HELL!' due to no internet connection, 
 'ooooh OK', start internet.
  Click on shortcut, black screen, 'this black screen has been here a loooooong time' (actually about 
 10 seconds but it felt like years) , then the start up screen started, another loud cheer could 
 be heard from my house all around the village.
  
  The Game:
  Cell Game - When you start the game it will ask you a few questions like, carnivore or omnivore? 
 And user created creatures or random? so the cell stage is the first stage of the game, you watch 
 a split screen of a meteor entering the atmosphere and splitting, the camera then zooms in and 
 you see you little cell break out of it. Its a cute little blob with eyes. You can direct it with 
 WASD, Arrow keys OR mouse (in a Diablo style) (I personally suggest mouse) , so you swim around 
 with other creatures and depending on if your a herbivore or carnivore you eat other cells or bits 
 of grass. You can collect parts from killing other cells or by breaking open rocks. You can unlock 
 mouths, weapons and ways of movement. You can add these on at any time but clicking on the mating 
 call button. My opinion of this stage: I love it, its addictive and great fun, you can become very 
 close to your creature in this stage. Very easy no matter what diffuculty selected. 4/5
  
  Creature game - Once you get enough DNA you can grow legs, you watch a cut scene of your creation 
 wandering up onto the land. Once on the land you will receive a map and can venture wherever you 
 so wish. You have a choice of whether to befriend creatures or massacre them to extinction, but 
 remember consequences come from your decisions. You can unlock parts from skeletons and Alpha creatures. 
 You can again add the parts whenever you want by going to your nest and screeching out your creatures 
 mating call. You can from here morph your creature almost in infinite different ways, as you'll 
 know if you have downloaded the Creature Creator. Every now and again (three times to be precise) 
 your creatures will migrate and you have to find your way to the nest. My opinion: The creature 
 stage is the longest and hardest (remember this is MY OPINION) , but also the most fun, especially 
 if your creature can fly. It is very easy to grasp for younger children but has a certain actor 
 that entertains all ages. 4.5/5
  
  Tribal game - So again once you have enough DNA you can proceed into tribal stage there will be 
 a brief tutorial, then you will see another tribe reach sentience. It is then up to you to ally 
 or destroy them, you then have to repeat this five times (sounds boring but it is quite fun as 
 the tribes get stronger and the difficulty differs) , your village will grow every so often in a 
 green twirly light. This means you can place more buildings; these buildings give your tribes tools, 
 like instruments and weapons. My opinion: Great fun however this part is WAY tooo short and slightly 
 too easy, the RTS style works very well but the full potential hasn't been met. 3.99/5 (sorry it's 
 random but it doesn't deserve a 4)
  
  Civilization stage  So you have removed all other tribes from the picture, its just you and the 
 world or so you think, other tribes elsewhere have also controlled their areas and evolved into 
 fully fledged city's, but you don't have to worry about that just to start with. First of all your 
 citizens will require you to build them a city hall in the buildings creator (which is AMAZING 
 FUN) the music can be a bit sinister and aggressive which is weird but creating buildings is great 
 fun, HOWEVER, the colouring of the building is a bit crappy, there are limited textures to choose 
 from and the colouring is not very good but the variety of parts easily makes up for this slight 
 flaw. But back to the game you will then have to create a land vehicle, even better than the buildings 
 creator, especially with the effects i. e. Lights and Super Dooper Turbine Blasters. It is then 
 up to you to create a profitable city by placing buildings in ideal places. You can then place 
 turrets to protect your city. When the first city appears depending on your class, military, economic 
 or religious, you can create a trade route, destroy them or convert them. To make money you have 
 to capture Spice Geyser's. Other cities will attack them however for control over them. Wars will 
 also come and go with certain civ's you cannot befriend them all, but you can destroy them all 
 (my second approach after trying to by them) . It is up to you to find your flow. Oooh also if you 
 take over a city of a different style to yours you can keep it like that i. e. Military or you can 
 change it to your setup. The main goal of this stage is to own ALL ten cities, sounds hard but 
 once you have a technique and a sweet arse armada it's a breeze (I promise) . My opinion: AWESOME, 
 well almost awesome. The idea is their but it just wasn't pulled off, I do love this stage and 
 the length is perfect, however it doesn't have that feel that you want, it doesn't make you want 
 to scream (in a good way) I do however REALLY enjoy this stage, it is really fun, it just needs 
 another degree. 4/5 (really hard to decide, its great fun but lacking)
  
  SPACE! The final frontier!
  Or
  Space stage (to normal BORING people)  Enough of my random 
 mumblings, LETS BLAST OFF! So you have owned everybody, and own every city. The globe is yours! 
 But what is there left to dooooo? Look up! So your little creatures that you have had since they 
 were teeney weeney cellular blobs want to blast off. You are thrown into your final creator and 
 given the task off making a space bearing, intergalactic machinery wots-a-ma-call-it; once created 
 you are given the task of navigating it to get it used to the controls (which are IMMENSLY easy 
 to get) . To leave your planet just zooooooooom out, you given tasks a plenty, and if you couldn't 
 care less what your race want just ask some aliens :D, they are happy to give you missions. You 
 can also befriend or destroy aliens, or if you don't want to watch the other little creatures suffer, 
 merely blow up whole planet from a distance! Sure when your planets attacked its annoying having 
 to go back and defend them, even though they can quite easily defend them selves. Plus space can 
 get rather repetitive, if you set a goal for yourself to so it is way more fun, like trying to 
 find Earth! This is actually possible! My opinion: Suffers a major bought of, 'hey people love 
 repeating the same thing' disease, this is the worst part, however cultivating planets and changing 
 other tribes can be fun. Space stage is definitely best in small doses and NOT recommended for 
 the hardcore gamer. 3.5/5
  
  So this was my review, please comment me what you think, Danke.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall_gunbl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep it simple because the game is simple.
  
  Cell stage - cute and original. Very fun because you do not have to play it long and given the 
 context, it is excused from having many options. You start off as a tiny cell and slowly get bigger 
 and more parts to fight move and survive with. Growing bigger is quite psychedelic.
  
  Land stage - Entertaining as hell at first, going from a land noob to a land dominator. The fights 
 end up exactly like an MMO though, and a lot of the parts make you choose between what you want 
 to look like and how high a level you want a skill  _ . The creature creator is quite innovative 
 and loose, but in the end, you can only adjust the spine and its thickness to give the body proportions, 
 and add parts on to it (the parts can be morphed too) . everything is round and bulbous as far as 
 the main body itself is concern. Also, friendly interaction is reduced to a simon says game, and 
 if you can't "dance" well enough you have to get better feet, or if you can't seing well enough, 
 you have to get a better mouth?...
  
  tribal stage - simply a veryyyyyyy weak rts with a civ like option of befriending a tribe instead. 
 No more creature adjustment at this point, only clothes...
  
  Civ stage - just plain
  
  space stage - goofy fun, and charming how you get to plant different things on to new planets, 
 but yeah...
  
  As a whole package, its fun since it goes from the very core beginning to the end. Touching on 
 many genre such as action, rts, rpg... ish
  
  In the end, I personally would of just liked the first 2 stage made into its own game and have 
 its complexity cubed. Sorta like the evolution game on dreamcast, and the evo game on the snes. 
 Maybe throw in tribal stage too. But given the hype and legacy of its creator, the game is just 
 adequate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razlken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well spore is a game that i was looking forward to play from the instance i read about it. the 
 game is something different from other games. Maxis already showed us that they can create games 
 that are quite strange and different like The Sims.
  
  Firstly the game graphics is great, not the newest, but good enough to play the game and not feel 
 that it's actually a decade old. the animations are well made and great to watch. overall the graphic 
 aspect of the game is not bad at all.
  
  The Audio is perfect too, the sounds are realistic and well synced with all the animations and 
 events of the game. the Audio gives the player the feeling the game is alive in an universe of 
 its own.
  
  The gameplay is tricky to actually review, the game is a collection of different gameplay styles. 
 You start playing a simple mini game where you eat stuff (either meat or algae, depends if you are 
 carnivorous or herbivorous) in a pool of water and avoid getting eaten, the more you eat the more 
 you can buy parts to evolve. well this part is fun but long enough so it doesn't get boring.
  
  After that the game switches to a Platform/Action type of game where you interact with other 
 tribes, by either killing them or making them your allies. you can walk around your continent and 
 create a pack and you at the same time you can evolve your creature by changing its body parts. 
 This part can get a little boring since making other allies means copying their actions which can 
 be really annoying sometimes, but nothing to worry about it won't stay like that for much.
  
  finished this part you'll get to play a strategy like game where you have to kill or to ally 
 with the other tribes and the same goes for the stage afterward. here i must say that i was really 
 disappointed by the fact that the strategy part was pretty short. I'm no strategy lover but it 
 was the best game stage of all.
  
  The last stage is the space stage which is a RPG like style which is good but it seems to be too 
 long and the fact that your allies call you for every single problem on every single planet even 
 if its on the other side of the galaxy (giving u only 3 minutes to reach it) is really annoying. 
 the movement is space is like moving in a web each intersection point is a planet and u travel 
 from one intersection point to the other and so on.
  
  The game is well made and really fun if any of you like The Sims for its originality then you'll 
 like this one for sure & if you are new then you'll probably wanna give it a try. you'll probably 
 end up playing it more than once if you liked it on your first play.
  
  But i feel i need to warn you on something, probably you'll spend most of the time in the creature, 
 outfit, townhall, house, factory, entertainment, spaceship, military vehicle, military ship, military 
 aircraft.... and many many more then you think, hopefully there are some templates in the game but 
 where's the fun in using them!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archbuck
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Spore was one of the most anticipated and advertised games of 2008. Complexity was written on everything 
 released and previewed to the community... and on many levels the game really came through. Unfortunately, 
 the rest of the game is EXTREMELY simple.
  
  The game is divided into five "phases" including, cellular, creature, tribal, civilization, and 
 space. You are allowed to create / edit just about everything from the size / shape / color / features 
 of your creation to the buildings, ships, cars, boats, airplanes, cloths, etc in later stages. 
 And yet, for all of your creativity and effort, you don't use any one creation for very long and 
 there is no reason to plan ahead in any way as you can at any time have a baby and completely redesign 
 without any sort of punishment. On top of that, nothing you do in any one phase really affects 
 anything in any other phase. So much of the strategy which could have been incorporated into the 
 game has been lost. Beyond the creature phase, not much of your designing really seems to make 
 much difference beyond the look of your creations despite the items carrying stats and having the 
 look of multiple variations.
  
  On top of everything else the actual play of the game, between your creation screens, is an extremely 
 simple form of an RTS that becomes very repetitive after only a few minutes. This simplicity means 
 most 'gamers' will become bored within a short period of time, and the complexity of the game means 
 it is over the heads of most young children. Thus the only real players who may find long-term 
 enjoyment would be young teens and possibly casual gamers.
  
  As for the technical side, the game requirements are very light for a late 2008 game release, so 
 very few people should have any problems running it on very high graphics, although "high" is a 
 relative term. The cartoon style characters are presented very well, but overall the graphics are 
 nothing to jump up and down about... even if they do make for high frame rates and few technical 
 difficulties. One positive is the game does support widescreen (1440) resolution and surround sound. 
 Overall playtime is very small... you can easily make it through all 5 phases in a couple hours 
 once you know what you are doing.
  
  The final bad note is the addition of DRM software through SecuRom, which is affectively a virus 
 (to the point you can only completely remove in safemode) that installs itself into your computer 
 during the installation process. The DRM allows only 3 installs before you must call up EA Games 
 and beg to be allowed to continue to use the software you purchased. What the point of EA doing 
 this is beyond me, as it has 0 affect on hacking the game... it only succeeds in frustrating legitimate 
 users. 
  
  So, as a full review:
  
  The good:
  Complex design features allowing for infinite combinations of creatures, vehicles, buildings, and 
 cloths. No two play-throughs could be identical. The creatures themselves are very comical at times 
 which makes for great cutscenes. Very gentle system requirements make for high compatibility and 
 easily attained maximum graphics. 
  
  The bad:
  Over simplified RTS gameplay means everything else besides creation is extremely boring. Lack of 
 any sort of linear programing means there is no reason to plan your creatures development or to 
 make any effort to design prior to the end of each phase. DRM software means you will eventually 
 end up on the phone with EA Games in an attempt to get more play on your purchased copy.... while 
 hackers still play away without trouble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bankyoyo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  SPORE crashed into store 4th September in Austrialia
  5th in Europe
  7th in other territory
  8th in Thailand cause of riots problem
  SPORE could be seen in many 
 ways
  If you see it in bad way, think and see it again.
  but, if you think it's fair, play it more.
  Lets start in cell phase even my PC nearly couldnt 
 play SPORE, Graphic is great! Gamplay is good even it took some gameplay from Pacman.
  You could play it in many ways Carnivore, herbvivore or even omnivore.
  It depends on how many 
 plants and meat chums you ate in the cell phase. I've got the herbvivore so, it's quite easy to 
 play, except on food finding other cell are coming to get mine too. So, it's quite great AI. You 
 could finish the cell phase within 20-30 minutes so, it's to short for someone that want to play 
 something challenging like me?
  In the creature phase, better graphic and challenging gameplay. Somebody could play it and review 
 it bad or even worse, play it again I play socialble creature and still herbvivore. It's quite 
 dissapointing if there are nothing to do in creature phase except social and combat.
  I finished creature phase in about 2 hours.
  Tribal phase, like somthing that is worst of that 
 game.
  nothing much even there are someways that can increase food without runout like fish and seaweeds.
 
  Minigames like music conducting is something is crazy (in both good and bad way)
  there's nothing to do like in creature phase.
  I finished it less than 1 hour. (very easy)
 
  Lets take a look at the civilization phase, before you could go to civilization, you have to create 
 your own city centre and vechile ( sorry if I spell wrong)
  Challenging AI occurs in this phase, quite hard.
  after you could conquer takeover or buy more 
 citys you could build more advanced technology.
  I didn't finish this phase yet, 4 citys left with religious city.
  I would like to increase score 
 too, but the time use in playing this game is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_mozilla
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Unlike many others, I wasn't dissapointed by Spore that much. I was expecting a unique and creative 
 game, and that's what I got.
  
  The problem with Spore is that there isn't really anything to compare it with, so people choose 
 to compare each stage to a different game dedicated only for the genre in question. Against that 
 background Spore's shallow gameplay can only dissapoint. But in its own right it's a good and unique 
 experience.
  
  The Cell stage is what kick starts the game, it's a simple pacman clone, but the beatiful visual 
 style, the eccentric behavior of other small lifeforms along with the charming sounds really hooked 
 me. It's not a big part of the game, but it is funny and addictive.
  
  The Creature stage is where the editor is at its best, I liked molding my critter from a clumsy 
 4 legged cow-thing into an agile flying insect-like predator. I loved slaughtering all the cuddly 
 creations other Spore players had carefully crafted. But in the end after I had my creature in 
 the form I wanted, it just dragged on for too long and became repetitive and boring towards the 
 end.
  
  The Tribal stage is short and quite simple. You only really get to design clothes for your villagers, 
 then decide whether to befriend or destroy other villages. There is hunting, fishing, looting food, 
 choosing weapons and other small activities to be had, but all in all this stage felt a bit useless 
 and tacked on. But at least it was short and as such didn't leave a bad taste in my mouth.
  
  The Civilization stage is great. Yes, it's shallow compared to your average RTS, you only get 
 a handfull of unit and building types, minor diplomacy options and few special skills. But I had 
 helluva time nevertheless. The fighting over resources quickly escalated into a full scale war, 
 it was hectic, challenging, and involved strategy and tactics as well. With extra units and technology 
 adcancements it could had been much better, but it was a fun stage even in its current form.
  
  The Space stage is the main point of the game, it should took about as long as the rest of 
 the game put together. The scale of the game is massive and you have plenty to do if you just have 
 the motivation, which I did not. 
  
  It combines some of the best parts of the earlier stages. You get to control an individual (UFO) 
 like in the first 2 stages which is fun, the hectic pace of the civilization stage is there too 
 as you defend your colonies, terraform, negotiate, trade and complete missions. And having access 
 to various editors and even molding whole planets brings out the best in Spore.
  
  Unfortunately space stage also suffers from a poor interface, and the pace can at times get even 
 too hectic and leave you too little time to concentrate on the things you personally like. It also 
 suffers from a lack of purpose, unlike with the other stages you don't always have a clear goal 
 in mind and it can make it tedious.
  
  All in all Spore is a great game. When you think of it as a collection of separate mini-games it 
 might seem shallow and repetitive. But when you think of it as whole, a journey from a single cell 
 into a galaxy dominating species, it reminds you of how much variety and depth there actually is. 
 I can't help but to think that if people had not known anything about Spore beforehand they would 
 had liked it more with each stage bringing something surprising and new with it, but as it is it 
 just doesn't meet the expectations.
  
  Spore is the most innovative game in a long time, it's accompanied by charming visual design and 
 sound effects, it should have plenty of replay value thanks to different paths between  
 not to mention the editors and endless amount of content created by Spore players around the world. 
 But the shallow gameplay and a lack of challenge can make it grow old quick.
  
  I certainly recommend picking up Spore if you like creating and building stuff. And if the fact 
 that it's targeted for more casual gamers turns you off, I still recommend you pick it up from 
 a bargain bin one day if only to see something different. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leehound
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  As an older gamer, my reflexes can't keep up with a lot of the new games and I don't like games 
 that require massive amounts of game time to master. I think that Spore is really geared towards 
 the casual gamer. It is exactly the kind of game that I want to play at the end of a day from work. 
 It has varied styles of game play that really is well balanced. I am playing the game from the 
 beginning but my wife likes just creating things. It really is a game that fits alot of different 
 styles into one package. When you look at what you get with this game and the innovation behind 
 it. It is amazing that we only have to pay the price of just one game. This games has opened my 
 eyes to differnt types of genres that I normally would not play. A great value for the money. It 
 is truly an enjoyable game. TWO THUMBS UP!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DayWalkerGBR
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  I got the game yesterday and played non-stop! This is really a cool game! I am playing on normal 
 setting and so far it been spot on with that setting: Not too easy and yet not too difficult. The 
 learning curve is very quick and creating your creatures are a breeze. I love the way you can discover 
 new parts to modify your creature with and Im glad they didnt just give everything all at once. 
 You have to earn that upgrade. The only stage that disappointed so far was the Tribal Stage. I 
 just expected more. Its just get food, create creature, give creature a weapon/instrument, go kill/ally 
 with other tribe. Get all 5 and you're done...
  
  Overall though, this game was pretty excellent. It has its bits of repetitiveness at times but 
 nothing that would drive you to Boredomville soon. Cant wait till I get to Space Stage! To be continued... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanlinson
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  As a note. 
  
  First of all, the game incorporates a draconian DRM system that requires you to activate over the 
 internet, and limits you to a grand total of 3 activations. If you reach that limit, then you'll 
 have to call EA in order to add one extra activation. That's not as simple as it sounds, since 
 when you reach that point EA will assume that you, the paying customer, are a filthy pirating thief. 
 You will need to provide proof of purchase, reasons why the limit was reached, etc, etc (it has 
 all happened before with another recent EA product, Mass Effect) . EA, of course, is not obligated 
 to grant you that extra activation or even provide that service. In a couple of years they might 
 very well even shut down the general activation servers, because "it's not financially feasible" 
 to keep them running. What you will be left with is a nice, colorful $50 coaster. And you will 
 be required to pay for another copy/license if you want to continue playing.
  
  This basically means that you are actually RENTING the game, instead of owning it. The game WILL 
 stop to function in the future. That's inevitable, because even if EA keeps the activation servers 
 going, there IS going to be a time when EA will simply cease to exist because of financial issues 
 or federal laws (like most businesses eventually do) .
  
  Second, the game was dumbed down to oblivion. Evolution doesn't even matter anymore. For example, 
 you can add as many legs to a creature as you want, but the multi-legged creature won't be any 
 faster than a single-legged one with higher leg stats. This gameplay element makes "creating" your 
 creatures entirely pointless (cosmetic only, because everything is based on stats) , and brings 
 you about the same amount of excitement as dressing up a plastic doll.
  
  
  As for the game.
  
  Lack of diverse abilities, 
  Stupid A. I. even in hard mode, 
  Combat 
 is pretty easy, Just shield on and blast their home planet and capture
  Weapon lacks variation 
  Cannot Create Ships
  Lack of Creature ability 
  
  CELL STAGE
 
  If you want to play as a cell go play FLOW & etc
  
  Creature Stage
  If you want to play as a Mating Game, go play SIMS & etc.
  
  Tribal Stage
  If you want to 
 play RTS, go play Starcraft /Warcraft/CnC & etc.
  
  Space Stage
  If you want to play Space Game, Play Orion series, Sins of the solar empire & etc.
  
  But, 
 I do have to say that the game is ok, but is VERY VERY MUCH LACKING in diversity, I have to compare 
 this game to ORION 2, since I like the game so much, and by comparing both... its just not worth.
 
  
  
  
  
  This game is pretty ripoff from Masters of Orion 2 & 3 series, Orion 2 is far better if you want 
 to play 4C type of games. Even sins of the solar empire.
  
  This game is RUSHED! 
  
  Not worth.
  
  LACKING OF DIVERSE ABILITIES & etc..... 
  
  4/10
  
  Graphics : 9
  Sounds 
 : 4
  Gameplay : 2
  Replay Value : 2
  
  Suggestion: More Abilities, More usefulness of the PARTS, more Weapons, More Colony items, More 
 planetary Items... etc.
  
  - end - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdave
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  First off, for people who haven't played the game yet, there are essentially 5 phases to the game: 
 single-cell, creature, tribal, civilization, and space.
  
  The single-cell phase is where you start off and it's really almost like a mini-game. You get to 
 change around your tiny creature in a few ways and eat some food. All in all pretty basic and boring 
 gameplay.
  
  Next is the creature phase. As gamespot said, the creature creator is the best part of this game. 
 You quite literally get to change everything about your creature. This is what makes this phase 
 of the game everyone's favorite. It's pretty cool to see your wacky creation come to life. Other 
 than that nothing has changed since the last phase except you can befriend creatures instead of 
 eating them, it's still very simple and boring.
  
  Next are the tribal and civilization phases which are pretty much the same. You either befriend 
 or destroy other tribes/cities and it all plays out like a really easy RTS game. Again, simple 
 and boring.
  
  Last is the space stage which is my most hated stage. This stage is almost the same as the tribal 
 or civilization phase except it's tedious and needlessly complicated, but it still manages to be 
 somewhat easy and boring at the same time. For example, one alien race threatened me with war if 
 I didn't pay them a sum of money. I refused and went to war, but as soon as I attacked them about 
 5 other alien factions declared war. Even though I can easily fend off all these races, it takes 
 up all my time, and I have no time to explore, do missions, terraform or anything else space mode 
 has to offer. There's no way to see who has alliances other than your own either!!!
  
  All in all, this game is boring, repetitive, frustrating and offers no challenge. Only buy it when 
 it's $10, but by then maybe some better sim game would've come along so maybe just don't bother... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  In few words:
  
  PROS
  - Some innovative ideas
  - A big game world
  -----------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------
 
  CONS
  - Cartoony graphics
  - Changing time period is very poor made and swallow
  - More linear and shorter than you think... 
  - Its a repeative experience with not so much interesting 
 things to explore 
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  The game graphics are nothing special and feel childish to say the least... 
  
  But the graphics 
 are not the worse problem
  The problem is that there isn't much freedom in this game universal dominance ... 
  The game 
 is very simplistic and as the player progress through time it feels very swallow. It's a quick phase 
 through everything, and it's amusing seeing the ticker tick 5 billion years all while when you 
 feel like you've been at it for 5 minutes, without even getting the freedom.
  Everything feels rushed to the space age
  
  Unfortunately the game does not live to its hype.... 
 
  
  If you are a 15 year old you maybe find it awesome but for a more mature and veteran player like 
 me the game is boring and a disappointment
  
  Final Score 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  After many years of development, it's almost as if we're supposed to become victims of illusion 
 just for the sake of the people who worked on it. And, Beatrice, no, I won't be. I miss your stuff. 
 The stuff that was awesome.
  
  Simply, there was not as much work put into this game as many people think. In fact, if people 
 have played it up to its full offering, they would know.
  
  In this day and age, it's not near impossible to render a universe the way they did, and make it 
 run smoothly - it's all achieved through working around setbacks found in previous attempts at 
 this, and it was worked at, and worked and worked at, until finally problems were minimized, and 
 there you have what they'd been trying to achieve. As I said, an illusion; in reality, you're seeing 
 something that seems massive, but is not. 
  
  Once they finally achieved this .. 3D .. simulation .. of the universe, galaxies, planets, life 
 forms, cells, etc.. it was a relief, and in turn they were given a chance to build upon this finding, 
 however in a very simple, almost linear manner. The game hardly lives up to something you can actually 
 enjoy for 1 hour, without being frustrated by something.
  
  There isn't much freedom in this game to be honest. You're put on a singular mission, which is 
 either universal dominance ... or... universal dominance -- the communications and connections 
 between the lifeforms you create isn't explored much, --by you -- , nor are the civilizations you 
 build, or the planets you own. Like I said, it's a quick phase through everything, and it's amusing 
 seeing the ticker tick 5 billion years all while when you feel like you've been at it for 5 minutes, 
 without even getting the freedom to find a single mate, a piece of land to start a family on, to 
 build shelter, or learn the magic of fire yourself, or even take a damn alien crap. Everything's 
 rushed to the space age, and you're left thinking, "Am I God now? No, I'm a human. And I'm sick 
 of looking at this stupid ship hovering above the galaxy. I want to live on a planet."
  
  I honestly don't know how any more to express my disappointment .. I'd only hope, in a sequel, 
 everything left out, would be included. Or their entire direction is changed thoroughly.
  
  Playing this game has reminded me of the actually good RTS games .. and I may just pick one up.
 
  
  (I quit, as of 11:00PM, at 6 hours playtime: Space Age, Wednesday, September 10, 2008, and I won't 
 be picking this back up in a billion years - even as another species) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HMSA
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  If you always asked yourself why you cannot interact with your friends while playing your single 
 player games as well, Spore should be what you have dreamed with. Will Wright merged Single Player 
 games and the player interaction of the MMOG's to create this game, and the result is and awesome 
 game, that while you play it "alone", you will still interact with people around all world, be 
 it fighting or making alliances with their creatures, seen or using their buildings and vehicles, 
 and the other way is true also, your creations ( all of them) will appear in games around all world. 
 And by the first time you will really play every stage possible in the evolution of one race, and 
 the universy is the limit. Or probably many races, becouse most of people will finish it many and 
 many times for sure! One of the best replay factor i've ever seen!
  
  An instantat classic that can divide ways after and before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ill4real
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe i almost considered not even getting this game because of the people in Europe 
 that got the game ahead of time were complaining about soo much stuff. But i got it anyways and 
 was ready for disapointment but i got going, not expecting the game to be any good till the later 
 stages but i honestly enjoyed the entire thing.
  
  Cell stage- I thought i'ld hate it but honestly it was simple but still fun. Huge microscopic creatures 
 come out of nowhere and you try to escape their massive jaws, u upgrade with cool things like poison 
 and electrocution. A simple pleasure.
  
  Creature Stage- I heard that creature stage was very boring but i thought it was great. Constantly 
 finding new parts and evolving, Massive creatures grabbing you and throwing you through the trees, 
 the occasional space ship flying by, setting up a pack and wiping out a whole race (eating their 
 eggs and everything lol)
  
  Tribal Stage- I also heard this stage was oversimplified and yes it is simple but is it too simple? 
 i dont think so. You can domesticate animals, attack tribes, animals, large epic animals, you can 
 befriend other tribes and send them gifts and play music. Alot of neat little things like stealing 
 your neighbors food, fishing and the special abilities really keep things new.
  
  Civilization Stage- This is where the game gets a little more difficult. You can be an economic, 
 military or religous nation and you have to take over the planet. Creating your vehicles is really 
 fun but i really wasn't into making the buildings too much. 
  
  Space Stage- The game truely gets challenging and sometimes a little overwhelming in this stage. 
 There is just sooo much to do from tereforming and colonizing planets to making trade routes with 
 other nations, waging war on other nations, finding artifacts, discovering new intelligent races... there's 
 honestly too much to name.
  
  One thing that people rarely mention about this game is the "consequences" of the game but they 
 are more like benefits. BAsically, depending on if you were a carnivore, predatory, economic, friendly, 
 social, omnivore, religous ect through all of the stages you get special abilities based on how 
 you have been playing. Throughout the game it's always the 2 extremes of agressive, social and 
 the inbetweeen but worded differently like carnivore, omnivore and herbivore for example. but when 
 you get to the space stage there is like 10 different things you can become like a knight, ecologist, 
 zealot, shaman, warrior ect ect and these give you more awesome abilities.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed this game and i am still really enjoying it. I understand it may not be for 
 everyone but if you are into evolution, science, creativity or just really open minded towards 
 game you will love this game. If all you play is fps's and madden and you are expecting this game 
 to just offer you everything and more... it's not. But it is still an amazing game and you have 
 to take it for what it is and now what it could have been or what you think it should have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanjo22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  When I gawked at Spore for two or so years as I followed its development, I daydreamed of creating 
 a great empire bent on galactic domination, destroying planets and terrorizing the galaxy. But 
 no, I'm playing as Robert Maynard and David Suzuki, shooing away pirates from my colonies and preventing 
 ecological disasters. 
  
  
  ==Cell Stage==
  
  EASILY the best part of the game, it is also (ironically) the shortest. Taking up a whopping 10-20 
 minutes of the gameplay, the cell stage proves that fancy gimmicks and 3D gameplay don't make the 
 game good. You play as a cell, collecting DNA and surviving in a harsh tidepool enviroment.
  
  You swim around eating plants or animals and a little bar at the bottom fills up. When that 
 fills up, your creature somehow grows a pair of legs and you move on to the:
  
  ==Creature Stage==
  
  The creature stage is spent wandering around a continent befriending 
 or attacking other species. This holds absolutely no relevance in the later parts of the game. 
 You can't ally yourself with the evolved versions of your creature friends, you can't domesticate 
 them, they just disappear. 
  
  You may be familiar with the creature creator. Well, it's not very creative. In order to defeat 
 or befriend other creatures you'll need to upgrade your creature with the parts that have the most 
 stats, not what you want in order to make your creature to look cool. We all wanted to make penis-monsters 
 and five-assed monsters, I know. But you just can't.
  
  Body parts are found in bone piles scattered throughout the area. If you're lucky you might go 
 beyond the parts you're used to from the creature creator. You can change the shape and the colour, 
 which I like. After your DNA bar fills up you move on to the:
  
  ==Tribal Stage==
  
  Not the best part of the game, but not the worst either. It's probably the second worst. Since 
 Spore is essentially 5 watered-down genres in one, this is a watered-down RTS. It's the exact same 
 as the creature phase, you go around either befriending or defeating rival tribes. 
  
  Once you've defeated or befriended all the tribes on the continent, you move along to the:
  
 
  ==City Stage==
  
  Better than the Tribal Stage, one of the more enjoyable stages in the game. You have a city, and 
 for some reason every member of your species has split into different cities around the planet. 
 Here you can develop vehicles, boats, planes, and buildings. Probably the most creative stage in 
 the game.
  
  You can (as you may have guessed) defeat other cities, or have them join you (either by religious 
 or economic means) . You can now harvest spice, which is rather important in the:
  
  ==Space Stage==
  
  Alot of people think this is the best part of the game. They say it's open 
 ended and sandbox-like. Well, they're wrong. It's the worst part, repetitive and frustrating. You 
 spend your time shooting colonies at planets, having tons of fun running back and forth collecting 
 animals and plants to terraform them 3-4 times, only to have it attacked by an "Unknown species" 
 while you're 400 parsecs away on another arm of the galaxy. 
  
  There is no exploration, just wandering around randomly-generated planets, most of them are T0, 
 which means there's absolutely nothing interesting on them and it's too much work to terraform 
 them. 
  
  You play the galactic errand boy, running around to you and your allies planets doing simple, repetitive 
 missions for them, preventing their ecological disasters, and shooting pirates. It's all the same, 
 all the time. There's no impressive weapons for immense destruction until later on in the game 
 (I've yet to get the planet-destroyer) , no new things to find, just putting colonies down and wandering 
 around space defending the non-defenceless.
  
  Other gripes I had were the fact that your big and powerful ship is almost as small as your creature 
 itself and really underpowered. 
  
  Overall, Spore does not live up to the hype, and it's repetitive and linear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorcerrer
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  it is a very good and prototype game!! it is funny and
  you enjoin play it. it will be very difficult to boring it!!!
  .
  it was about time to created 
 a cleaver game!!! 
  Play it!!! it ius very good!!!
  
  you can create yout own race that is cool!!!!
  
  what spore create will you be?
  
  he game 
 consists of one okayish, one great, two pretty lame and one awesome stage. Too bad that tirbal 
 and civilisation stage are so lame and boring. Nothing much to do there, too easy. If they had 
 done it like a simple version of Civilization it would have rocked
  
  for ,u greeks friend==== 
     
     
    Spore  
   ,  
      
    
    PC  
  EA.     
    
 Sims    
     
   , 
   
     
      
 .  Spore, ,  
  DRM (Digital Rights Management) ,    
      
   . 
    
    
 ,   gamers 
    
     
     
    
    
    
   
 -   
     
 Internet-    
    
     
     
   , 
    
 
  
       
     
  user reviews  online  
 Amazon. com,     
    
    
    DRM.  
    
    . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I find it pretty funny for people to critize a game cuz its not what they expected. If you watched 
 any of the gameplay vids/ demonstrations from E3 for last couple years of this game then you know 
 what to expect. I personally found the game just as it was shown. When you play on hard difficulty 
 game is just right. Starting from the cell stage and making your way up to space is a perfect experience. 
 I personally didn't find the game to simple as i knew the first couple evolutions wouldn; t be demanding. 
 You basically are jsut trying to grow and become a good defined creature on your planet. Once tribal 
 stage hits, the game takes things to the rts side where you become the leader of the tribe deciding 
 how your guys will act. Graphics are nice. Meteors fall to earth and you must find shelter or rain 
 or even 2 space ships fight above you as your still just a creature trying to survive on the planet. 
 Easy and medium difficulties are fine but once you put it on hard you really get a engaging game 
 where the AI creatures will group or sneak attack you etc. The creation aspect is still there off 
 course. If you know anything about spore you would know its high customization. The game is everything 
 you would want if you have actually looked into the game. I suggest you watch the E3 gameplay vid 
 from couple vids back as everything you see there is what you will expect in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The first word that comes to mind when I think of Spore is massive. This game is absolutely huge, 
 especially in the space stage. The reason this is so good is because Spore has bang for your buck. 
 The replay value is great because of the scale and the customizability of the game. Whenever you 
 play, there is always something new, especially because your game can use other players' creations 
 in it as well as the computers and yours. The feeling of seeing a completely new species and knowing 
 it was made by another player is indescribable. Especially when you find a friend's creation in 
 your game! I love the tools and abilities in the game, especially in the space stage.
  
  As you might have guessed, that is my favorite stage. That is probably a good thing considering 
 I could play it for the rest of my life and never explore the entire galaxy. The only reason I 
 give this game a 9.5 is because it still needs a little bit of polishing. It's a disappointment 
 that they took out the water stage, because Spore could definitely benefit from it, but I hear 
 rumors that it may be released in an expansion pack. Spore also needs a little bit more content 
 in the civilization stage, because it is extremely simple. For example, it could use more resources 
 and even technology in the game, so that you have to have the right resources to build and the 
 right research for new parts on your vehicles. The last big polishing problem with Spore is that 
 the cell and creature stages are a little to short for my taste. I love the cell stage, but there 
 isn't much time you are given to play in it.
  
  Overall, I would have to highly recommend this game. It is well worth your money and time, and 
 it is a very different genre than all of the other same-old, same-old games that we see released 
 all the time. And whether you are a hardcore or a softcore gamer, you will love this game. 
  
  Pros:
  
  Bang for your buck, high replay value, large scale, an innovative new genre of 
 games that allows a lot of player created content, just plain fun. 
  
  Cons:
  
  Unpolished game, no REAL multiplayer mode, lack of a water stage, short game play on all stages 
 except space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovargas
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Spore... I'm very disappointed with this game, it was announced like great "thing".
  
  The change over the evolution have missing aspect, for example, you pass from cellular creature 
 to a creature with legs?, what's that?, you miss create more complex aquatic creatures, and then 
 evolve to land creatures with legs.
  
  I really expected more work on evolution process, in fact, I spent just one hour to get legs from 
 cellular in Normal difficult.
  
  The game is very simple, the strategy until stage air is not difficult at all, you simply get stage 
 air like walk in the park. The graphics are ok, the game do not required much hardware configuration, 
 that is a good point for the game.
  
  I don't have much to say about it, and I think that is better because I don't want to hurt any 
 feelings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought this would be the deepest game ever made. It's not 
 even close, but the unlimited customization makes up for it.
  
  The first stage in Spore, will have you swimming around, eating things. Honestly, they could've 
 put in a better effort here. It's basically a flashier looking Feeding Frenzy. It's pretty damn 
 lame. Thankfully, you can breeze through it in about ten minutes.
  
  The second stage will keep you interested, as you really get to start playing around with the "Creature 
 Creator". This is where the game shines brightest. Literally anything you can think of, can be 
 created thanks to the amazing creator tool. The stage itself, plays like a dumbed down RTS/RPG. 
 It's fun just discovering new creatures, or finding that the AI has made one of your older creations, 
 a giant menacing EPIC boss. It's great.
  
  The third stage, which I'm on right now, is yet another dumbed down version of an RTS game. It's 
 fun, but don't expect Starcraft here, or anything. The clothing options further the customization, 
 but honestly, the clothes make your creature look worse. The clothes just don't fit naturally on 
 your creature, and looks like you just glued a bunch of crap on him.
  
  So yeah, if you can't tell from that, the gameplay takes a backseat, to the great customization 
 features. Definately know what you're getting into, before laying down $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oninuva
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Basically it's 5 mini games put into one. 
  
  1. You get to pay a upgraded pac man game.
  2. You get to run around and either "eat" or "impress" the other tribes until you evolve. Not much 
 to see.
  3. Tribal Stage, okay so you get even more people and you watch them dance, sing, and eat.
  4. 
 Civ Stage, cool I get to design some things, too bad putting more guns on the model doesn't give 
 you more firepower. Doesn't matter if you put many attachments, it's still just one of each.
  5. Space Age, yeah its a bit fun, but boring and simple. Needs more complexity 
  
  First of 
 all the 3 install thing is a joke. It's fine for now but in the future they should remove it. It's 
 only proven to tempt people to pirate and hack the game. 
  
  Secondly, there needs to be a higher level of skill required. The first 2 or 3 stages are not fun 
 at all. Who wants to play the tidal phase? Basically you are just paying to play Civ and Space 
 Age because the other ones are pretty stupid. 
  
  Give it some more thought and your just paying for a creature creator. I hope they release some 
 patches in the future that lets you design more buildings that actually do different things. Also 
 maybe some online gameplay would be great. Does not have to be MMO but even a online with lobby 
 and rooms would be great even if they were private. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkinkade05
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I was really looking forward to this game. To me, it had the potential 
 to be revolutionary. I was excited when I installed the game - but after that, I was disappointed.
 
  
  Where's the depth of gameplay? Sure, the creatures you make are cool, but the game taken as a whole 
 is just several superficial mini-games tied together and sold as "SPORE". As the video review on 
 GameSpot notes, the beginning stage is a glorified Pacman. In the next phase, there are a whopping 
 THREE things you can do. Make friends, kill nearby tribes, and collect food. Wow. How about some 
 imagination from the gameplay designers? Who was in charge of keeping this thing interesting after 
 you make your creature? 
  
  This game attempts to be a jack of several trades, but masters none. 
  
  The phases themselves 
 are mildly amusing. But people don't pay $50 for mildly amusing. They want to be entertained. If 
 you're above the age of 14, this won't keep you entertained for very long.
  
  As a side note, those of you "professional game critics" that gave this simplistic sham of a game 
 a good review should be ashamed of yourselves. Why are you so afraid to confront the almighty EA? 
 Hmm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmistify
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  It would have been interesting to see a game that actually depicts evolution but this game seems 
 more to follow the intelligent design view. For instance, I don't like that various parts of a 
 creation have stats. You ultimately end up with the same looking creatures. They should have made 
 it so that once you pick a certain trait, you'd be pretty much stuck with it. You would think that 
 once you pick poison as a part, you should always have it or have to pay DNA to get rid of it... 
 but the game says "Whatever to science! You're the DESIGNER!" This game promises to be about evolution 
 and it's definitely not.
  
  Also, the gameplay is short. Most of my time was spent on customizing my character instead of playing 
 the actual levels. The cell and creature stages go by way too fast. And the tribal stage has only 
 5 tribes to take down/become friends. I got to the civilization stage and had to stop because you 
 have to customize EVERYTHING! The buildings, vehicles, clothing... it's just too much. Why can't 
 I just play the level? 
  
  Also, when I died, I noticed to penalty. So where's the fun in that?
  
  So that's the bad, 
 what about the good? The game is beautiful and the customization can be fun. It's great to see 
 the variety of creatures that other people come up with that can be loaded into your worlds and 
 to make friends or make them go extinct!
  
  I can see that the replayability will be limited to playing as a carnivore, omnivore, and herbivore, 
 and trying to do the various stages to get all the creature affects that show up in later stages. 
 However, it will pretty much end there unless Spore comes out with some multiplayer updates.
  
  Overall, decent game but not one of the best in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenebrionCQ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Put simply, I've been very pleased with SPORE thus far. I've played through the game from cell 
 stage to space stage several times, and each time I play it, I find myself enjoying it more and 
 more.
  
  The beauty of Spore is that the game puts you into a massive and immersive universe. The mechanics 
 behind the games within Spore aren't revolutionary, but they're more than enough to get you started, 
 keep you interested, and make you want more. What's better is that the space stage contains one 
 of the most impressive and engrossing game universes I've ever seen in a videogame, and truly makes 
 me feel like I'm playing in an unimaginably vast galaxy.
  
  The bottom line is, if you enjoy sandbox games where you can do your own thing, create your own 
 races, design your own buildings, command your own vehicles, and pilot your own ship, then you'll 
 love Spore. If you'd rather jack a car than create a car, I'd advise something from the kiddie-bin 
 of games instead, such as Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok you start ass a cel. Then you can build your own monster every time they mate. Then you build 
 a tribe. then a city. Finaly you go into space where the real fun begins space is soo big that 
 there are 2.000.000 planets too fisit. I don't know what you think (Guy ore women that read this 
 review) but this game ha's desierved a 10 look what you all can do there are just soo many choice's 
 and soo little time. They made it in 2 years now that's what a super team is suposto be well i 
 have spend my money on it and i think that i got more then its worth. This is a great game for 
 all age's if you like shooters ore just make friends online with own made monsters. There is just 
 soo mutch i need too tell but there is soo mutch that i need too discover in this game soo i will 
 tell you this. This game is worth your money believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan1331
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  It has a lot of amazing elements. The freedom of creating your creature and your buildings is so 
 big that it gets boring, but it helps you, giving you pre-made buildings from which to choose, 
 so you don't have to spend a long time every time you want a new building. 
  Stages are designed from small to big (cell stage, can be completed in a few minutes to space stage 
 that you can play for an eternity) .
  The galaxy looks amazing, with all the stars, all the solar systems and all the black holes, worm 
 holes etc.
  The other empires extend in space a bit too quick.
  
  But what could have made it almost perfect is customizing your species thinking. The way your main 
 character (in the space stage) talks can't be modified. It's not serious, it's not funny, is between, 
 kinda stupid. The game tries to be funny but the humor looks like it's made by a 5th grader. The 
 movie that plays when you reach the galaxy core looks like it's trying to compete with Portal humor 
 but it's way behind it. Looks stupid.
  
  Overall a very good game but as I said, just some little details could have made it a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  The idea of implementing player built content as a core game mechanic is Evolutionary (wink wink 
 nod nod) . The main hook of the uber popular modern RPG and MMO sceen is character custimization, 
 community "show and tell", and user immersion. Spore takes this to a new level. By the end of a 
 game of Spore you have given birth to an entire evolutionary tree of a sentient creature; Including 
 it's culture, architecture and technology. All intrically designed by you from simple intuitive 
 decisions that allow a freedom of expresion never before seen in gaming history. In a word, Awesome.
 
  
  There are obvious issues with Spore as a game. However, due to it's IMPORTANCE to gamers everywhere 
 as a new genre of game they are nit picking at best. I'd say my biggest disappointment in Spore 
 occurs at the tribal evolution and is then rectified in the meat of the game at the space evolution. 
 The biggest problem in my humble oppinion is that the tribal and civilization stages are weak strategically 
 and most damagingly lose the sense of direct user immersion that covers for weak gameplay in other 
 areas of the game. In a game that is so strong and historically important it is easy for these 
 sections of the game to sag a bit, especially in the light of comparison to the other stages of 
 the game.
  
  In conclusion, I look forward to my next Sporee with great relish. I look forward to Spore's sequals 
 with anticipation and I look forward to the impact of Spore on commercial gaming with great hope 
 and baited breath. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knit_girl1974
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Spore is definitely unique. There isn't another game out there that is anything like it. I was 
 a little nervous purchasing it after reading some less than stellar player reviews, but I decided 
 to give it a go because my kids and I all had a great time with the Creature Creator.
  
  All three of us are hopelessly hooked. My son is 11 and my daughter is 9. He is a gamer at heart, 
 she only ever played Webkinz until yesterday. The game is not deep; it does not require massive 
 amounts of strategic thinking for a player to be successful. For a hardcore gamer, this will likely 
 be too fluffy to really get more than a few hours of enjoyment from.
  
  For me and my kids however, it an engaging, immersive, creative experience that we can't get enough 
 of. It's a perfect introduction to "real gaming" for my daughter, and a chance for my son to enjoy 
 a game that brings out his creative side. It's a wonderful diversion for me too, a perfect filler 
 game that is stylish, easy to pick up, and gives me the chance to stretch my own creative wings.
 
  
  Others have spoken of the various stages, so I won't do that here. What I will say is Spore is 
 an ideal game for the entire family to have fun with. If you want a lot of depth, play Civ IV instead, 
 you'll enjoy it more. If you want a totally unique gaming experience with a heavy emphasis on creativity, 
 and a game your kids will like too, grab Spore. It's totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jefferios
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Everything you need to have (Buildings, ships) You can create on your own. Pretty amazing game. 
 It has some very powerful tools at your fingertips.
  
  After waiting 3 years. I am happy with this product. The online community of tools are incredibly. 
 Also the Space stage is immense. I would recommend this game to anyone considering it. 
  
  Here are the games specs:
  
  Windows XP:
  
  * 2.0 GHz P4 processor or equivalent
  * 512 
 MB RAM
  * A 128 MB Video Card, with support for Pixel Shader 2.0
  * At least 6 GB of hard drive space
  
  Windows Vista:
  
  * 2.0 GHz P4 processor or equivalent
 
  * 768 MB RAM
  * A 128 MB Video Card, with support for Pixel Shader 2.0
  * At least 6 GB of hard drive space
  
  Mac:
  
  * Mac OS X 10.5.3 Leopard or higher
  * 
 Intel Core Duo Processor
  * 1024 MB RAM
  * ATI X1600 or NVidia 7300 GT with 128 MB of Video RAM, or Intel Integrated GMA X3100
  * At least 
 4.7GB of hard drive space for installation, plus additional space for creations.
  * This game will not run on PowerPC (G3/G4/G5) based Mac systems (PowerMac) .
  
  On my PC which 
 is a bit higher than the PC's specs and it worked perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeckoOne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Is there any way we can get what we were promised as recent as 2006? There used to be underwater, 
 creature dragging creature after a kill, flora editing, more SUBSTANCE!
  
  Instead we get 10 minute minigames until you get to space where they took "all the good from MMOs" 
 and put them in the game. Oh and by that they mean the insane tedium of doing the same thing over 
 and over and being forced into certain actions if you want to "finish the game" (get to the center 
 of the galaxy) . So much for the sandbox we were promised.
  
  This game could be so much, but EA and their greediness have ruined it. They forced removal of 
 so much content (likely so they could have an early expansion) that the game is no longer a game. 
 Hopefully it's not broken beyond repair, but I will unlikely be *purchasing* any future expansions 
 until the game reaches the level of what the game should have been at release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticap
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I know that many people wont agree with this, but this is my opinion on what I think is a superb 
 game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics aren't amazing, but they also aren't rubbish. Anything that you create yourself can 
 look as good or as bad as you make it. The actual environments themselves though, such as the planets 
 aren't that amazing. The graphics are slightly better than The Sims 2 graphics, but the trees and 
 planets can look slightly blurred.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The sounds on this game are good. The creatures make believable noises, and the weapons make generic 
 zapping and popping sounds. It's nothing groundbreaking but it does manage to keep the experience 
 immersive. The music in my opinion is superb. If you're a fan of ambient soundscapes then you will 
 greatly enjoy this soundtrack.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game is highly addictive. A lot of the stages (such as the Tribe and Civilization stages) 
 can be repetitive clickfests, and they are are very simple (some may say shallow) , but this game 
 is about creating a species and evolving it through its life. The way you evolve your creatures 
 is great, and the use of DNA points makes you evolve your creatures in a believable way. Rather 
 than letting you have a single cell organism suddenly turn into a giant lizard covered in spikes 
 and claws, the game makes you slowly evolve your creature a few parts at a time.
  
  The creators are great, allowing you to build anything from creatures, to houses, to space ships. 
 There are enough parts to keep you occupied for a long time and the parts can be mixed and matched 
 and manipulated to give you a huge amount of possibilites. Still, there is a feeling that the game 
 could have benefited from a few more parts.
  
  Story:
  
  There is and there isn't a story. There's no real cut scenes apart from the scenes that appear 
 during the progression from one stage to the next, but these aren't really story scenes. Like The 
 Sims 2, you make your own story as you go.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  While it has it's flaws, Spore is a remarkable and highly addictive game. However, if you're a 
 fan of solid stories and directional gameplay you might find it lacking substance. Also, if you're 
 not a fan of creative gameplay and building your own worlds and characters then you will most likely 
 not enjoy this game. For those of us that do, this game has hours of entertainment and is as vast 
 as your imagination can make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Well lets see, best thing is to start with the basics.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are Shader Model 2.0. That pretty much means if you a computer with a 5 year old graphics 
 card, you can run it. They are really picture perfect, but for the way the game is presented, they 
 are really amazing. Everything is colorful. You can tell what everything is. The animations are 
 amazing, just try evolving for the first time in creature phase and try not to laugh.
  
  Audio:
  
  I'm in college, occasionally I have to play the game with the sound off so that my 
 roommate can sleep. THE GAME IS NOT THE SAME WITHOUT SOUND. While gameplay is not dependent on 
 sound, meaning that you don't really get any audio cues that are not also on screen. And face it, 
 these creatures don't speak English, or anyother language as far as I can tell. But....... without 
 the sound, the game is boring. You'll start to miss the love-making music, the singing, the dancing. 
 The sound effects really make this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well, you start off with a point-and-click gameplay, you could also use WASD, but it doesn't really 
 flow as well. You pretty much eat and defend yourself, or if you are like me then you just killed 
 everything that you could till you grew a brain. YES, you grow a brain. 
  You move onto a creature phase in which you feel like you're playing an adventure RPG. You move 
 with the keyboard or the mouse, and you attack with the mouse by either kicking the enemy or an 
 attack button. It reminds me of a more manual version of LOTRO. YOU DON'T HAVE TO FIGHT. In this 
 level, you can dance, sing, charm, and pose your way to a bigger brain. Then you discover fire 
 and become a tribe. The game does not play like civilization yet, it feels kinda like......... um........ I 
 don't know. It's really unique right now, but the gameplay is all laid out in the tutorial at the 
 inception of this level. It won't be too hard, but you can make it harder. After becoming the only 
 tribe left, your creatures are the only creatures left, and you then become a civilization. This 
 is the only game that I've played that allows you to create your own vehicles. This is were the 
 game feels like a watered-down version of Civilization. After integrating every city into your 
 empire, you learn how to fly through space. Then the game play changes again. The gameplay throughout 
 is very intuitive, and you will be given either training or a tutorial for every level of the game. 
 
  
  Overview:
  
  The game is fun, bold, hilarious, and amazing. You will be laughing and having fun, and crying 
 if you chieftain dies. It is really hard to actually die in this game, but it does happen. I bought 
 this game and started playing it around 5 in the evening, before I knew it, I had to go to class 
 at 8 the next morning. I skipped out on sleeping the night before so that I could evolve through 
 time. This game is just perfect, and I would recommend it to everyone, even if you have a loew 
 level computer. ENJOY!
  
  Recapitulation: This game feels unfinished, it feels like EA Games got ahold of it and messed it 
 up. The final chapter really is messed up, it feels like EA rushed the game through production, 
 like most of their games. Most of the game feels like semi-interesting mini-games thrown together 
 and put in a box and sold. It was disappointing. After the initial Spore-fever wore off, it kinda 
 sucked. Do not buy this game at full price, try to find it in a bargain bin in a few years. Try 
 it for the experience, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect. 
  
  Fully customize game, including creatures, cars, tanks, planes, ships.
  
  there are 5 stages 
 to play, I specially like the Space stage and the creature stage.
  
  the creature stage is where you morph your creature, mate them, and you decide how will you race 
 it, you can become a friendly alien, or a Galactic Tyrant, you decide. 
  
  I specially like the space stage. this is free roaming game. some players think it's too easy, 
 some players think it's too hard, I mean wtf? there are 3 difficulties to choose from right ? the 
 game is not about easy or hard, it's the way how you play it, you always ressurect when you die, 
 with no penalty, and your homeworld doesn't really get destroyed which is a Good thing :) thank 
 you for that.
  
  this are the following things I like from the space stage.
  1. you can blow-up an entire planet, if you have enough spore credit and unlock that bomb.
  2. 
 you can terraform or actually destroy the planet ecosystem, transform your Enemy's homeworld into 
 a molten Lava or an ice cold stormy planet.. your choice, colonies and lifeforms cannot survive 
 in an unstable planet.
  3. or just trade with them, doing missions and buy off thier star system... your choice :)
  4. 
 or just blow up stuff , abduct life forms.... so many things to do. so many aliens to fight.
  
  Overall the creation tool is one of the best, there are a Hundred Thousands of alien around 
 the internet, there are always a new ones everyday. this includes buildings like townhall, houses, 
 factories. And also vehicles.
  
  Go get this game if you wanna kill Aliens ! =) or create them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damascus_Six
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  A formerly ambitious project that now looks more like a paycheck for EA. 
  
  The toolkits for making your creatures and buildings were fun to play with for an hour or so. Unfortunately 
 it seems all the effort went into making those and all the gameplay that uses your creations was 
 just an afterthought. 
  
  Simplistic controls, animations, and world design make for the bare minimum to be considered a 
 game. Crappy cartoon visuals mixed with a more feeble dose of "Maxis humor" as seen in the Sims 
 just seem to add insult to injury. 
  
  Interesting concept to hear about, with a very poor execution, which seems to be the complete opposite 
 of Sim City and The Sims. Will Wright and Maxis should be ashamed of this half finished product. 
 
  
  No AI at all to challenge you. It feels like a strategy game that requires no strategy at all. 
 The scope of the game is massive, and the depth is pathetically small.
  
  Nevermind the DRM issues, this game isn't worth paying for even if you could own it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chancellor28
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  I got spore and was oooed and ahhed when i finished installing in and went thru the stages they 
 were all beautiful but when i got to the space stage (which is again beautifully done and could 
 have been a game in itself) I realized that pretty much everything i did in each of early stages 
 of my evolution had almost no effect on the next nothing i did in my larva stage or any there after 
 really had an effect on my creation in later stages. All in all i was a bit upset with that when 
 all was said and done. i was kinda hoping for more interaction between the stages and spending 
 many hours raising and changing my critter up from larva stage to see how he developed the the 
 stages of the game, while i can do this there is really no evolving from stage to stage just any 
 number of drastic changes you and do at your wim. I liked the game alot and it was fun to play 
 thru it twice once as a herb once as a pred but after that it lost its luster Great game but not 
 all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WayneSikes49
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  For a game that took 4+ years in the making, there's not much real content. Given that it was made 
 by EA / Maxis, it's pretty obvious that this game has had many development teams and has undergone 
 many changes over the years. That type of development process results in a game loaded with inconsistencies, 
 no real 'fluidity' of game play, and bugs. I'm a game developer and have seen this same process 
 in many games. Now, EA needs to make back it's investment, not to mention the money spent on PR 
 and hype that it's been pushing. 
  
  The initial gameplay is entertaining - not challenging - but fun and cute. The cuteness wears off 
 after awhile and you realize you are in a very limited world with the only real 'cool' part of 
 the game being the creation editor. 
  
  I would have given this game a slightly higher rating but the game's SecureRom copy protection 
 is an annoyance, and, in my opinion the equivalent of malware or spyware. So, minus a couple rating 
 points for that. 
  
  Now I'm seeing a large public backlash against EA's DRM in Spore, so I'm betting we'll see a patch 
 sooner or later that alleviates the severe 3-activation protection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  It as 4 or more years ago that one of the video game industry's titans was brain storming on the 
 next best thing. That titan was Will Wright. Mr. Wright has never let the industry down with his 
 ingenious ideas. He brought you SimCity, The Sims, The Sims 2 and the most recent, Spore. Which 
 brings us to my review.
  
  Spore is a game that takes you on a journey of evolution. You start the game with a simple yet 
 innovative creature. Similar to Flow for the PS3. As you consume food and special items, your simple 
 creature evolves into something bigger and smarter. As you discover new abilities, your character 
 gets stronger and more unique.
  
  Spore includes many other features like a Creature Creator, Building Creator, Vehicle Creator and 
 so on. Plus, you also get so many parts to make your creations more and more unique. I personally 
 like the vehicle creator tool.
  
  From a technical perspective, I find that Spore has much potential. However, it is best to consider 
 have a decent powerhouse for a computer. This game's graphics can get intense. The music is also 
 unique and the sound effects are tailored to the creatures and their homes you make. Bottom line, 
 I give 8.0 out of 10.0 because the has a high fun factor but lacks a little bit in the flow of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrifterShadow
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I had a lot of fun doing certain things in this game but not all. The creature 
 creation is absolutely amazing, best I've seen. Along with the vehicle and building creation. Now 
 the first two stages are really fun, but then you get to the tribal stage which is just way too 
 easy and way too boring, same goes for the civilization stage. Once you get to the space stage 
 you will start to have a bit of fun but then this fun will start to get redundant. This consists 
 of constant attacks on your planet while you're trying to build another planet of your own, doing 
 the same attacks on other planets using slow boring weapons, and working for the planet bomb which 
 will take you ages to do. The galaxies are quite amazing but there is just way too much. All you 
 find yourself eventually wanting to do is blow up a planet and just end it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alarikulf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Spore can be defined as a factory for the imagination. There is an endless span of ways to bring 
 out your creative thought into a digital masterpiece. You start out as a small cell in a tide pool, 
 surviving and growing until you evolve into the creature stage. From there you sprout your first 
 set of legs, ready to rise from the pools and settle on land. You will then continue to either 
 ally with your neighboring creatures or drive them to extinction as your species continues to evolve 
 and expand into a civilization. 
  
  Graphics in spore aren't amazing, but they are still good enough to compliment the game well, and 
 so far it hasn't lagged out on me unless I had a program running in the background. Thus to say, 
 the gameplay is pretty good.
  
  The pros of this game are the fact that it doesn't get boring after one round of completing a cycle 
 (rather it only gets more fun each time) , and there are several tools to make your creatures, buildings, 
 and vehicles truly unique. 
  
  The cons of this game are that the planets are a little smaller than they could have been; thus 
 leading to shorter gameplay cycles, and if you reach a new stage of the game (ie; creature, tribal, 
 civilization, or space) but decide you want to save/exit, you have to go through the tutorial first 
 or else you will not be able to save.
  
  Nonetheless, this is a great game if you enjoy general digital creation, and I certainly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  OK, does this game reach the potential it had with so many people waiting years to play it? NO!!!
 
  
  But this said, if you've been waiting for an innovative game to come out where you can express 
 your creativity in it and use a bit of your imagination (for once in a video game) then this is 
 THE game!
  
  Frankly, I'm very impressed with Will Wright's vision of a "Sim Everything" game... I liked The 
 Sims (for a while) and I love even more Spore since it grows on you. I know the first 3 stages 
 are a bit of a letdown and the space stage missions get repetitive but this game allows us to do 
 what's never been done in a video game before: use your creativity and imagination!
  
  For myself, I enjoyed playing as a herbivore the most and getting to be a religious species is 
 the most satisfying for me. The killing is fun also but I think making allies in the game is more 
 fun.
  
  Finally, if you're a hardcore gamer. You might wanna skip this game and play Crysis or anything 
 because Spore has more of a casual feel kind of gameplay to it... but if that's your style then 
 you owe yourself to try this game with an open-minded approach and you might get rewarded with 
 a total new experience! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noconsole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  To not give this masterpiece a 9.5 at least is a blasphemy. I have read a lot of reviews from a 
 lot of different gaming websites and always held Gamespot in high regards for their critical and 
 95% true remarks (based on my own opinion) . But with this game I think they missed some key points, 
 and just in the early stages that I've actually played Spore. This game has everything a gamer 
 from any genre could want: customization, an easy to use/fun interface; control scheme, colorful 
 graphics, mood-synced sounds and music, and what a lot of games lack these days; replayability. 
 I didn't include overall story in there because that is pretty much up to the players imagination, 
 especially with the ability to not only create, but share their creatures, buildings, and even 
 end-game space craft with the entire world. I cant think of a single thing that this game doesn't 
 have that I can find elsewhere, aside from the straight up PvP that a lot of gamers crave. That 
 one fact aside, the rest of the game is just plain amazing with mass amounts of replayability. 
 To not play this game, would be a crime against gamer humanity.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unaki
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  SPORE. Possibly the most anticipated and super-hyped game to ever grace store shelves has finally 
 come and with high marks, minus SecuROM and Electronic Arts' stupidity. Will Wright is a freaking 
 genious, starting with SimCity, then the SIMs, and finally this newest masterpiece. It is a beautiful 
 game that has been trashed by all the reviews that seem to focus on one thing. Electronic Arts' 
 DRM called SecuROM which is labeled as "Punishing supporters while helping pirates prosper." While 
 I view it as such, I will not go into any details about SecuROM and will leave it at that, and 
 instead focus on actually reviewing SPORE.
  
  In SPORE, you play as God, much like in Black and White for those who played, and create creatures, 
 spaceships, planes, buildings, tanks, etc., while navigating through a series of different game 
 styles to evolve your creature, which brings me to the first part, and possibly the most informative 
 part of my review, the Gameplay.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  SPORE is extremely unique, pulling different game aspects from other popular game genres including 
 point & click games, adventure games, and real-time strategy games. 
  
  You start off in what is called the "Cell Stage." A meteor crashes on a barren planet, releasing 
 a single tiny organism into the world, or tidepool, to fend for itself. This is where the point 
 and click comes in as you click around the world to move and eat. Depending on whether you chose 
 carnivore or herbivore in the cell creation screen, you will attack other creatures for food or 
 feed off the random molecules of foliage floating around. As you eat, your cell gets a little bigger 
 and you see even more creatures. Some are gigantic and cannot be taken on lest you want to get 
 eaten, and some are the right size to attack if you are a carnivore.
  
  After each stage, you get a timeline of your actions, showing from the beginning of the stage all 
 the way to the end where you leave the stage. After finishing Cell, you move into the "Creature 
 Phase." This is the adventure game. After selecting your parts and legs for your creature, you 
 move into land and begin getting used to life outside of the tidepool. This is also where your 
 pack will come into play. As you roam around and befriend or attack other creature tribes, you 
 evolve and find new parts for your creature. You also learn how to attack and do things such as 
 dance and sing. Along with these creatures comes the special Epic monsters which are about twenty 
 times bigger than you and require your whole pack and certain body parts to take down. There are 
 no rewards to taking down an epic creature except bragging rights. As you progress, you can call 
 upon your friends or nest-mates to aid you in your adventure. However, this phase is short lived 
 and you enter the "Tribal Phase." This is also the point where you have one chance to make you 
 dream creature with arms and make it your permanent race look.
  
  In tribal, you get into the RTS aspect and must take over or befriend the other tribes in the area. 
 As you conquer or befriend the tribes, you gain their clothing which is used to outfit your race. 
 You do not have that many clothing points at this point so options are quite limited but they do 
 shoot up quite a bit in the next stage. In Tribal, this is where your tribe learns the secrets 
 of fire, song and weapons. When befriending other tribes, you go into this mini-game, provided 
 you have the instruments the tribe has, and do a little show for them to make them happy. There 
 isn't much you can do with befriended tribes so I guess it is kind of pointless. Food is the bread 
 and butter (Gigglesnort) of this phase and is used as the currency to build buildings, hatch new 
 members of the tribe, and to give as offerings to other tribes. Over time, you advance and can 
 call out more members, up to twelve, to help you win the phase. 
  
  After Tribal comes the "Civilization Phase," which plays out like the game another RTS game, except 
 this time, you have grown so much that your tribe is like the Human species. They are the dominant, 
 and sentient, race of the homeworld and have mastered vehicles and ranged weaponry. You lose ground 
 troops but ground troops are not needed because of the power of the vehicles you can build. You 
 must build your city and take over all the other groups of people either by buying them out, or 
 destroying them completely with weapons. You can run around collecting all the spice derricks, 
 the source of money for the phase, yielding large amounts of Sporebucks. However, as you gain more 
 territory, you lose the need for the spice as the income floods in through the use of factories 
 or trade routes. In the end, this phase is rather dull and every vehicle, minus airplanes, uses 
 a grenade of sorts that tracks the enemy to a certain distance. The planes only shoot a laser and 
 are easily taken out. If you have one group of sea vehicles, you can pretty much clear the entire 
 phase in one go if you are on normal difficulty. After taking over the planet, a celebration takes 
 place and a new vehicle is shot into the air.
  
  Space. The Final Frontier. And the most overwhelming aspect of the game.
  
  The vehicle that 
 is launched is the first-ever spaceship, and seemingly the only one you ever see of your race. 
 In the "Space Phase," prepare to be overwhelmed. Don't expect to see the whole galaxy in one play, 
 though. Space is huge, and I mean it. You can visit over 10,000 planets, 1,000 of which are taken 
 by the super-race, the Grox. Space is hard to master at first because you gain access to so many 
 abilities, from molding planets to abducting creatures. At first the phase is a calm and peaceful 
 area but soon, you may find a race that immediately hates you and this will make the game even 
 harder. As you fly through space, conducting business with other races, you will find that your 
 worlds are attacked. A LOT! This is very frustrating especially when you cannot access wormholes 
 (Until you get the right tool) to quickly travel back and forth. As you get into more wars, this 
 will happen a lot more frequently, meaning you may never be able to conduct business with friendly 
 nations ever again because if you lose your homeworld, you lose the game. The tasks you must do, 
 or choose to do, for other races are quite tedious and repetitive, ranging from scanning all the 
 creatures and plants on a planet to finding some item in a system that is vaguely hinted at such 
 as "The planet is supposed to be this far from this system" leaving you to ponder and find the 
 planet, meaning you have less time to do missions before another attack happens.
  
  There are too many aspects of Space I can comment on and that would result in far too many words 
 so I will just say that Space is the least enjoyable phase of all just because it throws so much 
 at the player in so little time after you just got out of a basic stage that was slow and let you 
 think a little before being attacked 500 times.
  
  One aspect that is kind of cute is the "Community." If you registered with EA, you gain access 
 to the spore community and from them, other players' uploaded creations can be downloaded to your 
 game and can be seen all around your own little universe. However, there is lack of multiplayer, 
 thank god, for now. The reason I would dislike multiplayer are mostly power trips. Your planet 
 could be blown up by players in space stage while you were busy evolving your cell to a creature. 
 Enough of the gameplay, let us get into the story.
  
  STORY 1/1
  
  There is barely a story to this game, except for evolution. However, there is a bit of a story 
 in Space but it is a very simple little aspect that requires a lot of planning and a lot of items. 
 That is to just merely get to the center of the galaxy. 
  
  Not much to say but remember those tribes you made friends with in Creature and Tribal? They never 
 evolve and become the animals of the game.
  
  I am sorry but there is hardly anything to score, so this section has a special scoring that will 
 not count towards my overall average. I believe in only giving a story score if there is more than 
 a few bits of text that you must read. Now, let us forget about the story and move on to the sound 
 and graphics.
  
  SOUND 8/10
  
  The music in this game is rather cute and reminiscent of simplicity as you roam around the world. 
 
  
  The actual sounds the creatures make are nice as well. In Creature, your little guy will make noises 
 and squeal, whine, even somewhat stutter as he finds his mate. In Tribal, those noises turn into 
 grunts and faint hints of speech. When your race is modernized in Civilization, they begin to actually 
 speak with one another in their own language that the players themselves cannot understand. The 
 text is there, though, to translate and that is good. Each race in Space also has its own little 
 sounds they make as you interact with them. So many noises, such nice music, this portion of the 
 game is overall great. 
  
  Now, onto the graphics!
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  
  The graphics of the creatures are beautiful. And so are the graphics of the vehicles and buildings 
 too! The creatures themselves look completely unique and "No two creatures are alike" is something 
 I would follow in this game since the possibilities for creation are endless. However, the graphics 
 of the non-creation aspects seem a little bland for the richness of the detail in this game. The 
 cities are all in tiny circles, the spaceships are too small for the screen and after creature 
 phase, you cannot actually admire your race as they amble around their towns, the weapons you use 
 are extremely bland and all look basically the same aside from bombs, lasers, and missiles in Space, 
 but you do however get to do many things most games will not let you do like the Creature Creator!
 
  
  CREATOR 8/10
  
  This alone deserves its own section because, well, the creature creation was actually released 
 before the full game to let people sample what the game would be like. However, that is not what 
 I am reviewing. I am reviewing SPORE, the game, not SPORE, the Creature Editor.
  
  Now, let us get to the nitty-gritty, and the most appealing aspect of SPORE. In the Creature portion, 
 you start with a blob and move its spine and change its length. However, you cannot change the 
 width, nor the size of the "belly" and it is very hard to mold that spine back into a pudgy blob. 
 Once you have molded your blob into the shape you want, you can start putting on arms, legs, hand, 
 feet, eyes, a mouth or twenty, and a lot of other cosmetic pieces. The possibilities are near limitless! 
 However, one huge problem is the fact that you cannot place pieces as a single piece if you don't 
 travel straight down the spine. It always separates the piece into twin symmetrical pieces on the 
 body, on each side. This is visible and annoying in the creature, vehicle, and spaceship creators, 
 while Buildings do not separate at all, meaning you can do whatever on buildings. Another gripe 
 I have is that you can't create water creatures or air creatures! Yes, that is one drawback to 
 the game. Hopefully it will be cleared up with an expansion or something similar.
  
  In vehicle creation, you choose either a boat, car, or airplane model room and can use any parts 
 from each creator minus the specialty parts for the ones you didn't choose. The possibilities for 
 vehicles are, again, limitless. You can create an overly complex super tank or a dreadnaught or 
 you can make a little Volkswagen-like car with a bubble body and wheels. Weapon choices on vehicles 
 are quite barren and there are very few of them. With each piece you place, your vehicle's speed, 
 military, and health status changes, but the actual weapon fired does not change. 
  
  The Spaceship creator is a little different. You can choose any piece from any of the other vehicles 
 to put on your ship but you cannot choose space items for your other vehicles. I kind of find this 
 annoying but then again, I don't want the same vehicle for every class. Now, everything, and I 
 mean everything, you put on your ship is purely cosmetic and does not affect stats at all since 
 that is only affected through the Space stage in the "story mode." I like this and I don't like 
 this because it would turn out to be another Soul Calibur IV disaster and it makes the most barren 
 and least enjoyable vehicle out of them all. Sure I can make a space-faring car but I want a bit 
 more. I want it to shoot giant missles and fire sniper shots from the guns I put on its back. 
 
  
  OVERALL 8/10
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anybody who is wanting to try a new and innovative game as 
 a buy. You can buy it either from a retail store in regular and Galactic Edition (Has the most 
 stuff out of any collectors edition ever released) or you can use Direct2Drive and buy it off the 
 internet, downloading it straight to your drive. I hope you enjoyed my review, because I know I 
 enjoyed writing it for you guys to decide on a potential purchase!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha31405
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game ever since it was announce a year or two back in the E3 convention. 
 I got the game and i have been playing it and i seem to have become addicted to it. I give the 
 game two thumbs up because it isn't hard to get to the space civilization and there are so many 
 options to do what you want with your people. I have so much fun making my own Tanks, Airplanes, 
 Boats, and even my spaceship. Its all really fun because its not permanent and you can keep changing 
 it as much as you like. Even though i admit the space part is the hardest, it is also the most 
 fun to play. Cant wait to get the planet buster so i can go around and destroy the planets that 
 defy me. Even though i'm not that aggresive i will attack :D just for the fun of it. and thats 
 what i love about it, the ability to do a lot of things. i hope other people can enjoy just as 
 much as i do. And i'm still working on seeing other online players because i don't know if i have 
 seen any or not. I probably have and not known but its all good. But good luck to those who enjoy 
 playing this game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raejie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  You know when Wright created the Sims... Almost people in the world is playing it (if not.. knows 
 about it) .
  So it change the world of console gaming right? It's so different kind of game.. it's like no ending.. 
 tawa But then after years and years passing.. THEN.. another rare game ever created by human creativity... 
 it is SPORE!!!!
  
  It's a game who can play by anyone, anywhere in the world.. is so simple game user-friendly.. very 
 colorful, great environment and most of all it maybe the real happenings in our world. (maybe! many 
 sightings in our world about saucers right?) And it's like our world is on the technology stage 
 and maybe after this stage we will have our space stage which we can visit other galaxies. tawa
 
  
  By the way this game is very innovative. You can create any kind of creatures you want. (I created 
 creatures like Prediator, Roswell Alien, Robots like creatures, Pokemon like creatures, etc.) tawa 
 
  
  I really like to play this game from bacteria, land creatures, civilization creatures upto Space 
 Creatures.
  Anyway it is the another Masterpiece from Maxis! Thanks a lot guys for making SPORE. i hope Mr. 
 Wright will continue to create one-of-a-kind games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Dreamers celebrate! Finally there arrives a game just for us! :)
  
  I've been playing Spore now for countless hours on end and have found it to be very addicting.
 
  If you are like me, an artist and graphic designer you are in for a treat. That's what I find 
 most intriguing about Spore. The tools that are supplied for creation.
  
  I've yet to play a game that has given the player this many options for customization. I keep hearing 
 that the game doesn't have any depth. I think those people are looking for it in the wrong place. 
 The depth is in the creative sense.
  
  As a game Spore delivers a very fun and distinctive atmosphere. Exploration and discovery are around 
 every corner. What I found to be even more exciting than the game play itself was the the idea 
 that whatever I could imagine I could create and share with millions of others out there in the 
 Spore Universe. Now that's innovative!
  
  Yes, there are things that can become annoying. For example, during the "Space Age", sometimes 
 it seems like you are the only one in the Galaxy who can do anything. It can take away from the 
 overall joy of other tasks you might be trying to accomplish. Still, it doesn't leave you bitter 
 or frustrated.
  
  If you are a jaded hardcore gamer with no imagination who has been flushed by the Hype of this 
 game, Spore will probably be disappointing. If you are like me, a creative person who savors making 
 the game rather than playing it ... Spore is for certainly you!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for something big, just like they shown on the E3 past two years ago. It looked so 
 revolutionary but after a couple of hours of game play, I already touched to a big part of the 
 game. For me it looks like a game for kid. Im 20 and I would be much more in it if I had 14. Its 
 kinda cool, but none of the stages are intense, you can easily beat every stages in a couple of 
 minutes or so. I did not seen everything from the galactic one, but its starting to get repetitive. 
 Its still a good game, intention is good, graphic are okay, and I appreciate the connection with 
 all the creations of others that you can have. But as I waited for 2 years, I'm disappointed. The 
 game would have been more attractive if we could have play the Civilisation part online with others, 
 I mean, it would completly be great to not have creations of other A. I, but Massively online. I'm 
 asking for too much, but the game has a big lack of action. Sorry im french. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crocodile_Key
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I was afraid to spend the money on Spore when I read the negative reviews, but I am so glad I bought 
 it. I have played for around 20 hours now, and still have not finished the space stage. The game 
 is very fun.
  
  If you are looking for a hardcore RTS, go somewhere else. Spore is made to be simple and fun, but 
 still have enough depth to keep you interested. There are reviews around stating that the game 
 is short and boring, that they finished it in a couple hours. They obviously didn't take advantage 
 of what Spore offers. I have spent many hours designing my character, house, ships, aircraft, spacecraft, 
 and had fun in the gameplay as well. If you rush through the game you will get bored and say there 
 is no replay value, but if you are a creative person with a good imagination, and you slow down 
 and do what this game was meant to do, you will love it.
  
  I know I will be playing this game for a while. I don't regret spending the money at all. Buy Spore, 
 relax, create, enjoy. Take time to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has been anticipated for almost 4 years and now it's finally here. Does it live up to 
 it's full hype? Not quite, but it can still be very entertaining.
  
  There are a total of 5 stages in the whole game: Cell, creature, tribe, civilization, and space. 
 My biggest complaint (out of a few) is that the game goes by too quickly. However, all the stages 
 can be fun regaurdless.
  
  Cell: The games starts off with the cell stage. You control a cell-like creature and your goal 
 is to just eat plants/other cells (depending if you choose to be a carnivore or herbivore) . Every 
 now and then, you can use the mating call to find a mate and lay and egg. Then you enter the creator. 
 There aren't very many parts for your cell but you can increase it's speed or change it's mouth.
 
  
  Creature: After the cell stage, you enter the creature phase where you move to the land. Your goal 
 here is to explore your world, befriend or eat other creatures, and just stay alive. You can slowly 
 wipe out other species by killing them off as well. As you progress, your creature will get smarter 
 and you can find parts to add on to your creature (which is done by mating, like the cell stage) .
 
  
  Tribal: In this stage, the game changes to and RPG-like game to an RTS. Your creature can't be 
 changed (make sure you like the way your creature looks before moving on) but instead, you can dress 
 them up anyway you want. You can build weapon shacks or instruments like maracas or didgeridoos. 
 Your goal is to either ally with other tribes or eliminate them. You befriend them by giving them 
 gifts or play instruments for them. You eliminate them by fighting them (what else) .
  
  Civilization: Here, you have more outfit choices for your creature and now you make your own buildings 
 (city hall, home, entertainment, and factories) and put together your city. You can also put together 
 your land vehicles, ships, and jets. Your species is now the dominant species on your planet and 
 your goal is to take over every other city (or ally with them) . The type of government you are 
 also depends on your actions (military, economic, religious) . Great fun although I wish you could 
 make more buildings in your city.
  
  Space: Now you make your own space ship and can leave your planet. You can travel to an uncharted 
 planet and set up a colony. First, you have to make the plent more livable by adding atmosphere 
 and keeping the ecosystem balanced (by adding plants and animals as well) . You can also contact 
 other lifeforms in the galaxy and either take them over, ally with them, or establish a trad route. 
 This part lasts forever too.
  
  So, even though isn't as awesome as it could have been, it can still be very fun and it definitely 
 doesn't deserve all the hate that it gets. I recommend this game to just about anyone. Although 
 it's a little short, you'll find plenty of fun in Spore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privatespanky
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Yea, parts are short, like the cell stage, and it could have been made a bit longer, but I really 
 have nothing to complain about. The game is a lot of fun, and the easy parts (Cell, Creature, Tribe) 
 are just long enough so you don't get annoyed. Overall, I just think the idea was great, and the 
 play is just right. I wasn't looking for a "Civ Clone" when I got this, and with all the negative 
 DRM talk, I was kinda hesitant. To be realistic, even if this thing does phone home, I got nothing 
 to hide, and I could care less. The manual even insist on me installing it onto more than one computer, 
 so NO DRM COMPLAINTS. I found most people who complain about the DRM DO NOT OWN THE GAME, or haven't 
 even tried to purchase it legit. In other words, they are just spreading bad reviews, and haven't 
 purchased a thing. I could see the backdoor software being bad if you pirate and wanna stay anonymous, 
 but my games are legit, and the security doesn't invade me all. Overall, its a great game, and 
 you will spend tons of time creating things, which I still think is one of the best features, even 
 if the creating is mostly aesthetic.
  
  Go get your creatively on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a mix of several different genres, RTS, adventure, and some kind of city/planet builder. 
 most are fun creature is great at first but pretty much boils down to running around killing or 
 befriending stuff by clicking a few action buttons on the skill bar. The main fun is to find new 
 parts and evolve your creature, the annoying thing is stacking parts has no relevance, once you 
 put on a part, thats your value. you cant get better by adding more. meaning its mostly cosmetic 
 changes. 
  
  Tribal stage is just a simplified RTS, civilization a watered down city builder and manager, but 
 space age, its great. 
  in The space age there are lots of options terraforming is a blast, transforming planets with huge 
 explosions. yippe! but once you get alliances going, youll be pestered to help them every 10 minutes 
 and if you have an awful computer ( like me, 33GB total hard drive and a graphics card from 02') 
 the game can be really hard, some mosters dont even show up, making saving the planet i need to 
 save, impossible. The creations tools are fun outside of gameplay too, and being that you can get 
 to space age in about 6 hours, you'll probably be spending alot of time on them rather than the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  All I really have to say is that this game is seriously boring. I wanted to like it. A lot. But 
 the gameplay is way too simple and the creatures are not that endearing. I made it past the creature 
 stage and couldn't get myself to pick it back up again. All this game really is, is a showcase 
 for people to walk around and bump into other peoples creatures. To me that's not fun. I'd rather 
 people just use the creature creator and post pics online for us to see. We'd get the same experience 
 and wouldn't have to pay $50 for the privilege.
  
  And that's really too bad. Because I wanted this game to be good. Maybe I'd like the game better 
 once I get to space? But the early stages are just too dull and unengaging to get through. And 
 besides, why play a game if it's not fun? That's like playing 49 levels of a game in the off chance 
 that leve 50 will be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eltanan23
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Spore. Putting aside all the hype, the DRM issues, and questionable international release schedule, 
 is Spore a good game?
  
  Yes and no. Yes, because it IS good... at least the first time through. Then it quickly becomes 
 'been there, done that' and you'll be looking for something else to play. Why? I'll tell you.
 
  
  First of all, as other reviewers have quite correctly pointed out, creating your creature has very 
 little to do with actual gameplay. If you, say, add a spike, then you have a weapon. It doesn't 
 matter if the spike is 2 inches or 6 feet long, it doesn't matter if you have 1 or 100 of them. 
 same stat, same effect. even if you attach the spike in a location that should be completely useless, 
 it still works just the same. The only phase in which actual placement has any effect whatsoever 
 is in the cell stage, where you only have 12 parts to choose from at best.
  
  It's worth noting here that the cell stage is probably the most interesting/atmospheric, as you 
 gain size and those huge blurry monstrosities floating in the background start to take notice... 
 THAT is fun. Unfortunately, the cell stage is over in 10-15 minutes and then the tedium begins.
 
  
  As stated above, the 'creature' phase is very very pointless. All you're doing is either befriending 
 or attacking other creatures until you have enough 'DNA points' to become a tribe. Repetitive, 
 boring nonsense. At least the cell stage felt like it had some authenticity to it. Not to mention 
 sheer moodiness. At least you get to continue playing with body parts through this though, as useless 
 and purely cosmetic as it may be.
  
  It's also worth noting that the only sense organ that has any worth whatsoever is eyes. if you 
 have at least 1 eye, you can see. if not, everything is dark and blurry. that's the ONLY effect. 
 Add ears? doesn't matter. Apparently sound is no longer a useful survival tool. And, that being 
 the case, why does the game even HAVE ears? and so many different kinds of ears? they're useless! 
 They have no point whatsoever.
  
  This pointlessness takes a back seat during the next phase (tribal) which plays out like a round 
 of Reflexive Games' 'Virtual Villagers', except with other tribes to deal with. Again, this phase, 
 which may have had some fun potential in it somewhere, is over in about 20 minutes.
  
  And then there's the civ phase, in which pointlessness rears its ugly head again in the form of 
 all kinds of little cosmetic enhancements you can add to city layouts such as statues, songs, and 
 shrubbery. NONE of which you'll be spending much time gawking at (and that's all it's for) because 
 the civ phase will also be over in 20 minutes, more or less. Unless you spend all your time zoomed 
 way in and admiring your shrubberies, in which case I point at you and laugh with derisive contempt.
 
  
  Ahh, and then, finally, the space stage. The space stage partly makes up for all the shortcomings 
 of previous phases, by allowing things like terraforming, alien abduction, planting monoliths, 
 and other such zany meddling. Unfortunately, the fun of this phase is seriously marred by the logistics 
 of the whole 'spice economy' aspect, in which your single ship has to do the entire job of collecting 
 spice from everywhere and selling it. Tedious and more tedious. And then there's all the other 
 civs which will (if you don't kiss enough alien tail) declare war on you at the drop of a hat and 
 make you spend all your time trying to defend your colonies. (again, with a SINGLE ship, which 
 is ridiculous. you can get a couple allied friends to fly with you, but they're next to useless. 
 For all practical purposes, you're on your own.)
  
  And if you manage to somehow fend off attackers, make enough friends, and get enough sporebucks 
 to outfit your ship and get powerful, well, the only place to go is toward the center of the galaxy, 
 where the Grox are waiting to destroy you.
  
  The Grox are pretty much like the Dread Lords from Stardock's GalCiv2. Once you 'meet' them, you 
 may as well stop playing, because they're unbeatable. They're ridiculously powerful, control an 
 impossibly huge empire, and can erase any of your colonies from existence in a matter of minutes, 
 whether you're there defending it or not. Seriously, you may as well just quit at this point, or 
 else you'll run a risk of breaking your PC when you smash it against the wall in a rage.
  
  This game, for all of its waiting and hype and ambitions, is an almost complete FAIL. I say almost, 
 because I still like starting a new game and playing the cell stage again, the only part that was 
 truly FUN. 
  
  But now when the cell stage ends, I tend to quit. Really, there's no point.
  
  And that's why 
 Spore fails. The fun parts are over far too quickly, while the tedious elements just drag on and 
 on and on...
  
  Hopefully, though, the concept itself will inspire other companies to make similar games, and maybe 
 one of THEM will get it right. We can hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Man, this is a TOUGH game to review for me. I love spore, it's great; it really is.
  
  Once you get to the galactic stage anyway.
  
  Good:
  -Simple
  -Easy to learn and get into
 
  -The creature, vehicle and architect tools are very deep and easy to loose yourself in.
  -The vastness of the Galactic Stage
  -The DEPTH of the Galactic Stage
  -Nothing more fun then 
 tractor beaming up an animal and dropping it onto a barren moon.
  -Unless your tractor beaming an animal up and letting go of the beam while said animal is still 
 60 feet up in the air.
  
  
  Bad:
  -No depth at all to the early stages of the game.
  -Easy to find yourself pushing as hard as you can to get to the next stage, hoping it's better 
 then the last.
  -Hype. Lots, and lots, of hype. Too much really.
  -Strategy. Where is it?
  
  
  It seems to me that the majority of the time spent on developing 
 spore went right into the Galactic stage of the game. The various stages before that are relatively 
 simple to move through (I managed to get to the galactic stage in one play through the first time 
 I played) and it doesn't even get that difficult at all until around the end of the Civilization 
 stage.
  
  The humor is good though and can lead to one of those HAHA moments where you can't help but stutter 
 a chuckle. An example for me was when I had entered the second stage of the game. AS I trying to 
 turn my animal into a sentient being, shortly after allying myself with another group of creatures 
 a UFO flew by and snagged them up one by one.
  
  It is really an all around interesting game, but I honestly believe more thought could have been 
 put into the microbial stage all the way through the civilization stage. It just seems to me that 
 the majority of the complexity when into Galactic mode.
  
  It really is the most fun part of the game, and the galaxy is absolutely HUGE. I read something 
 some time ago about the final stage of the game that basically said that if you went from solar 
 system to solar system just mapping out what planets were there, it would take you roughly 10 years 
 without a break to discover everything; and I can believe it. Zooming out of your solar system 
 for the first time there is easily about 40-50 or more star systems to ruffle through just in your 
 immediate area, and if you zoom out further, you'll find that is just in one small section of one 
 arm of a spiral galaxy!
  
  Even so, and even though it is the harder (and more fun) part of the game, it still really is quite 
 simple to master, though it may take you a couple of missions from your home planet to figure it 
 out correctly.
  
  All in all, the game is fun, but there should have been more depth to the earlier stages then there 
 actually was, and I feel that is a little bit of a let down. I'm all for letting everyone play, 
 but a game of this nature really SHOULD take more then one day to get to the final stage of play.
 
  
  All in all, what with all that was being said about this game by the developer, I found it was 
 lacking quite a bit of what made it sound interesting and fun. A worthy purchase if only for the 
 final stage of the game, but boring most of the way up to that point.
  
  I'm just glad I can choose whatever stage I want to start in after completing the game to the galactic 
 stage once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the game around 7 pm, and after playing for a while I heard cars going by. I 
 wondered what so many cars were doing driving around that late at night. Then I realized that the 
 sun had come up and it was actually people going to work. No game has done that to me since WoW 
 when I was in university three years ago.
  The graphics are very well done, the cell stage is just beautiful and seeing other much larger 
 cells in the background really makes you feel like you are in a living environment surrounded by 
 all manner of life.
  The sporepedia is very well integrated and populating your universe is quite simple. Within 10 
 minutes I had accumulated 300 creatures and buildings of a Godzilla and Dungeons and Dragons theme. 
 As I explored my world I ran into these creatures with amusing results. My vicious carnivores attacked 
 and devoured all manner of fantasy beast, before advancing to the space age. It was there I made 
 my first true alliance, with a race of creatures that my four year old daughter had made on the 
 creature creator last month. 
  Most astounding of all of this though was that my girlfriend sat down and played for over an hour. 
 She does not play video games, period. So watching her play on my laptop, oohing and awwing over 
 her little three-eyed plant herbivore, was quite a sight.
  As for complaints, I only have a couple minor tweaks I would like. First I would like to be able 
 to rename creatures without changing the author's name or making it a seperate creature. I have 
 seen a few creatures that I would like in my game but they had names like PunkBl45t3R96, so I didn't 
 get them.
  I can't wait for some additions to the game. New creature parts (Especially more wings) , parts 
 for building and vehicle editors, possibly some new paints for the editors. And I'm anxiously awaiting 
 the flora editor that's coming out.
  All in all, a great game, which can only be made better by putting more of the same into it. Well 
 worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samu99
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The game might not have tons of debt in its stages, but I see it more as a toy box than a game. 
 You tweak around with creations you make and the millions of the others. You never know what you 
 will encounter and it's up to you what to do with it.
  
  If more dept is what is wanted , I think we can look forward to expansion packs that enrich the 
 game.
  
  I give it a 9 because there are still some minor issues that need to be addressed. Like the constant 
 attacks in space stage. This stage is very interesting and almost infinite, it just needs a little 
 tweaking.
  
  The graphics are amazing. When you are a creature in creature stage and you look at the sky and 
 see other planets around you that really exist ( you can go visit them later in space stage) it 
 gives me chills because it's so nice! The sounds are accurate for an evolution game, the creatures 
 have enough variety in their voices and the music goes well with the curiosity aspect of the game.
 
  
  Thx for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I'm completely rewriting this review. I have had any number of problems with Spore. With the EA 
 Downloader installed the buddy list and Sporecast don't work, plus the game is slow and crashes 
 every half an hour.
  Without th e downloader all these problems disappear, but the game crashes every time I save.
 
  So i uninstalled it (only 2 installs left) .
  I recently reinstalled it, what a different, all the problems are gone, the game crashes occasionally 
 but is ok otherwise, I was really getting into it and was willing to redo my review with a score 
 of 8.0.
  Until, yesterday, the game froze, a placed my first buiding in the Tribal phase, I could open and 
 close windows but nothing was happening. There is a pause button but pressing it does nothing.
 
  I have tried to contact EA but this is harder than it first appears. Their FAQs suggest to uninstall 
 and reinstall (oh great, 1 install left) or to wait for a patch.
  Why has the gaming industry come to this, release a game in a poor state and then patch it as you 
 go. Valve would never get away with this. And I haven't even started on the stupid DRM stuff.
 
  I have uninstalled Spore until this problem can be patched. I then have to beg to EA to let me 
 install it again, I am renting this stupid game for 35.
  
  I'm gonna reinstall rct3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Spore is over all a genius idea on Will Wrights part. Other than the fact it feels like it was 
 made for 3 yr. olds, it is a fantastic game that, when you reach the space age, can take even the 
 most die hard fan months to finish, yet, it never gets boring. The online downloading is yet another 
 genius idea. When this idea mixes with the epic creatures, you can get quite... interesting sights. 
 For example: When I was exploring the creature section of the game. I witnessed a giant pikachu 
 epic creature lumbering around and annihalating everything in its path. As funny as this was, I 
 had to quickly start moving again because it saw me and gave chase. Let me just say it's hard to 
 outrun a giant pikachu! A well planed game that would be a 9.8 if they hadn't made it so childish. 
 I would recomemend it to players of almost every genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that could have been incredible... Instead they ended up with a game that fills 
 me full of "meh". 
  
  The good:
  Interesting concept
  Creative flexibility
  Humorous
  
  The bad:
  Concept execution
  Boring phases
  Creative flexibility is offset 
 by stupidly small units and buildings
  Homor is completely offset by repetitive gameplay
  
  I've tried... and tried... and tried to get into this game because I keep waiting for the 8/10 
 and 90/100 reviewed game to jump off the screen and grab me. However... it ISN'T 90/100... it ISN'T 
 8/10, it is nothing but a cute and funny cartoon with boring, repetitive gameplay. It had the potential, 
 but they failed miserably in the execution. I keep searching the interface and game for something 
 I am missing but it just isn't there.
  
  I could have even lived with the game if I could see my empire build to full potential and see 
 the hard work making my units and buildings really shine. However... everything is so small that 
 unless you go out of your way to zoom in... it is just a bunch of moving colored blocks with white 
 balls and red lines flying off of them. Your empire is nothing but a swarm of insects around a 
 splat as you move around the planet.
  
  what a miserable FLOP and you gaming sites that reviewed this thing 8/10 and 90/100 are high on 
 crack or something
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VagrantShard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be bluntI was never expecting much out of Will Wright's Spore. Then again, I don't 
 expect much out of anything these days. Expecting a bit of substance and depth when it comes to 
 modern day gaming is apparently unheard of because you, the people, continue to spew out gobs of 
 money every time you even so much as hear the phrase 'havok physics'.
  
  Okay, okay, I'm being too harsh. Spore is not a bad gameit's actually five mediocre games. There 
 are five stages of Spore, and each one of them caters to a different genre of gaming. Everything 
 from simple arcade games to real time strategy is represented, though not very well. The obvious 
 problem here is very few people actually enjoy such a wide genre of gaming, and the ones that do 
 will be disappointed by each stage's simplicity.
  
  In the Cell Stage, you basically point and click where your creature swims to. Eat enough of the 
 correct type of food, and you grow larger. Once you grow to a certain point, you evolve and move 
 on to the next stage. This is the game's most visually appealing stage, as you truly feel a sense 
 of proportion. Swimming around in the cesspool of life, you will encounter gargantuan creatures 
 of all shapes and sizes floating under you, and occasionally towards youjaws open wide.
  
  Once you leave the water, you enter the Creature Stage. During this stage, you and your pack of 
 creatures wander the lands, befriending or killing off other creatures. Befriending creatures is 
 a simple game of Simon Says, while killing off creatures has you simply clicking on them, and executing 
 one of four various attacks. There is a small bit of depth here but it quickly grows repetitive, 
 as you will perform the same tasks dozens upon dozens of times. That being said, editing your creature 
 during this stage is a lot of fun, as you will collect many different parts.
  
  Once you accomplish enough tasks, your creature evolves again, and you enter the Tribal Stage. 
 The game plays like a watered down real time strategy, without the strategy. You can gather food, 
 make more of your species, and continue to befriend / attack other species. In many ways it feels 
 like the Creature Stage with the camera pulled way back so you no longer see the finer details 
 of your creation. This portion of the game is, and there is no other way to say it, boring. Anyone 
 who enjoys RTS' will be let down, while those who have never played them will be left generally 
 confusedand still bored.
  
  Both the Civilization and Galactic Stages are essentially more of the same. The latter is a bit 
 of fun, as you can perform various missions and tasks, such as terra-forming a planet orblowing 
 it up. 
  
  However, here is the underlying problem with Spore. Spore is a single player game, with no true 
 objective. Once you reach the Galactic Stagethat's it. If Spore was an MMO, this would be fine, 
 and the game would actually be much better off than it is now. Unfortunately, as it stands the 
 entire game is a disappointment. It had potential to be a truly groundbreaking experience. Instead, 
 it only serves as a doorstop for future titles to exceed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerdk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is a nice mixture of sims and civilization with wow graphics, nothing else. The first tree 
 stages are perfect and it's a lot of fun. I loved this stages, but until later in the game it get's 
 just boring. Nothing is really happening, besides flying in your own modified intergalactic ship. 
 Why in hell do I have to modify my own building's? The game is only good in the start, nothing 
 else.
  The game is overated and it's no point to keep flying in your own ship.
  Come on, wake up, I was only playing sims for building perpese, not more. I want to build houses.
 
  In the end, I am very disappointed.
  Don't want to talk about this game enymore, so I am going back to my favorit STALKER.
  
  The 
 game have nothing to offer in the end. Waist of time, not even in multiplayer.
  But you have to give it a try, the first 3 stages are a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokadread
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  well spore is a really good game and ideia.. the creature creator gives you the pleasure of creating 
 a brand new creature from nothing... its just simply amazing... but when u get to space stage, 
 and thats the strong point of the game, and the rest? its pretty basic... and the space stage its 
 pretty hard too so if you dont like "space rpg" its a big disappointment.. although the game is 
 very interesting, in my point of view, until the cities stage, which is very basic... conclusion 
 if you want to spend 60  on the game to reach the space stage
  in just 8 or 7 hours and then never touch in the game like me its a big mistake...
  anyway if 
 you like space things (lol) , this game is for you...
  bb and play a lot :P
  still waiting for cod5 since i buy cod4...
  ps: oh and nice ideia to multiplayer, never played 
 so i dont know how things are going :) but hope that are going just fine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artman100
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Well, after the install and grappling with that which must not be named on Game-spot lest I get 
 banned, I had to spend a further 30 mins changing msconfig settings and rebooting before it would 
 launch. That was the crash over
  
  It started to burn when I realised you couldn't just design your funky creature and play because 
 you needed to choose the parts that had the stats you needed to survive. I kinda expected the ability 
 to sing etc to be learned in the game - not be assigned to the creature parts. 
  
  So, I bade a fond farewell to my planned 'wacky' 'soppy' looking creature as I had to choose parts 
 that could bite, spit and charge.
  
  This put me at a low and I simply charged quickly through the simple tribal and civ stages looking 
 forward to the Space *cough* age. 
  
  This part I'm enjoying but have read some horror stories about meeting races that are randomly 
 created and capable of stopping your game dead. So far so good here though.
  
  So not a complete waste of my money but a serious disappointment. over the way the creature creator 
 is utilized in the game and the fact that EA seem so slack in responding to dealing with the problems 
 running the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehard_Si
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I went out and bought this game the day it came out, cell stage seemed pretty cool, on to the creature. 
 Yeah this seems good, then you realise you can only do like 2 choices everytime you meet another 
 creature and then 4 attacks or social things after that. Throw in a combination, rinse and repeat. 
 Over and over again. After a while you get bored very quickly of just seeing strange other creatures.
 
  
  Tribal stage was again just a very very basic RTS.
  
  Same for civ stage. You get like 1 land vehicle and 1 plane, and thats it. Ok you can customise 
 it, but so what? No actual gameplay here.
  
  Not made the space stage yet, and quite frankly i'm bored already and guess its going to be more 
 of the same.
  
  In short, nice idea and novelty, but has no real gameplay depth at all to it.
  
  My advice, 
 don't buy it and instead go play it on a mates because after a few hours you will be fed up with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drtechno
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game has some revolutionary concepts, such as automatically shared user content and amazing 
 design tools (that were already introducted and perfected, and some would say superior by Galactic 
 Civilizations 2 years ago) . But lets not get carried away. The construction tools are fantastic. 
 But it ends there. So I don't understand where the high reviews are coming from.
  
  There is no 'game' here. As some people put, the 'game' amounts to over simplified tasks that are 
 monotonous and repetitive. The creature stage isn't as fun as you would imagine, as not all the 
 parts are available, and even if they were, you are encouraged to use the 'highest stat' part effectively 
 limiting you to maybe 6-10 parts to place onto your creature.
  
  Why would you use a cool looking mouth with a social rating of '1' if that means that you can't 
 befriend the other tribes and hence progress in the game?? Basically, many of the parts become 
 useless, no matter how good they look. Furthermore, other creature nests (only one nest per species) 
 are arranged with weak creatures immediately around you, and progressively higher level creatures 
 at increasing distances. How predictable. Basically, its designed so that you only explore or run 
 around your immediate nest. I always imagined finding random creatures walking around, hunting, 
 eating, grazing, finding mates, etc. Nope. All creatures basically hang around IN or NEXT TO their 
 nest. How lame. So basically there is no mixing of the creatures. Creatures dont wander around 
 the world as you would think. They are all found in clumps and really only have limited interactions 
 with each other (limited since they only interact [partially] with surrounding nests, as they dont 
 wander around the world)
  
  The civilization stage is HORRIBLE. Basically it amounts to the most simplified and boring RTS 
 I have ever played. Quickly grab a few resources, and then keep clicking on 'create vehicle' and 
 send it to the enemy city. Repeat the last 2 steps endlessly and you have the game. No strategy, 
 no thinking, no variety. You might as well have a script do this for you.
  
  Then there's the DRM. Let me just clarify what people are saying by adding, it not only counts 
 installations, but changes to your hardware ! Upgrade a system component (memory, CPU, vid card) 
 and you are out an installation. Not that it matters because its really a pretty bad game (except 
 for the creation tools) Nice job. Basically I just paid $50 for a coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferakon
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Okay I don't normally write reviews but I have written one today to attempt to save people from 
 buying this game.
  
  I don't have time to write much but, heres my quick impression.
  
  1: Cell stage: Awesome! Ever played that free flash game by Xgen called Fishy? Yeah, that but with 
 a customizable fish which you can add spikes, different mouths and different propulsion systems 
 to. Too bad it last about erm... TEN MINUTES... fifteen if you're lucky enough to be bad at it. 
 9/10 one knocked off because of how short it is.
  
  2: Creature stage: Brilliant, especially a nice surprise to see flying creatures well done. 10/10
 
  
  3: Tribe stage: It's okay for a dumbed down Age of Empires... too bad how I evolved my critter 
 doesn't matter anymore one bit and that all my clothes don't fit properly, but have to be added 
 if I want any kind of stat boost in order to take over other tribes... 6/10
  
  4: Civilization stage: Good points: fully customizable vehicles & buildings. Bad points, no more 
 creature interaction at all. How you design vehicles makes zero difference to their animation besides 
 how they move (wheels/walkers etc.) for example; you put 4 huge lazer turrets on it, it fires a 
 homing cannon ball, upwards. You put a missile launcher on it, it fires a homing cannon ball, upwards. 
 etc. and pretty much everything else. I'll describe it as the world simplest and most boring futuristic 
 RTS game. (I can't see where the civilization stuff is supposed to be here) . 3/10
  
  5: Space stage: Just insanely boring and repetitive, you now only control your spaceship and what 
 you can do with it is pretty dull. 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idyllwildca
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  It's a shame because the game is decent (not quite what it was made out to be) but the DRM sure 
 ruined the game and that has nothing to do with the creators it has to do with the greed of EA. 
 The pirated game was open for download before the actual game was released. This is only hurting 
 the people that pay for the game and not the ones that get it for free. Do yourself a favor and 
 if you have not bought this game yet then do not support DRM. As far as I knew it was our right 
 to be able to resell games that you own according to copyright laws. I'm not sure what happened 
 to this idea.
  
  Basically you are paying to rent the game and not to own it. Keep this in mind when you drop your 
 fifty bucks on it. 
  
  As for the game play, it is a little bit basic for me but I must say that I had a good time. If 
 I was able to I would return it just on the idea that I do not own it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russellt28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  first off i am surprised by the people posting on this site. the reviews are simply horrendous. 
 i have a strange inkling that most of the reviews are die hard fans of RTS games and hence expected 
 this game to be incredibly meaty in strategy and overlooked its true simplistic form.
  
  This game is fantastic. all stages are so incredibly beautiful and involved that sometimes you 
 find yourself not focusing on the quests but instead simply running around zooming in and out looking 
 at the creature you created.
  
  the creator tool is another awesome accomplishment combining a simple idea to create something 
 so fun and life-like still leaves me in shock.
  
  the fact that you can create your own anthem in the game just shows you the creative tools available 
 to you.
  
  Its more than i expected it to be and im still not in space stage! 
  
  look is it cartoony. yes.
  but why should that matter. its comic scenes are great
  and its 
 cute enough for even your kids to get into.
  
  If you by nature are just not a person who enjoys desining then this is not the game for you. Sim 
 city is more your style in that case. but if you are the type of person who loves cute, simple 
 fun gameplay, with a buttload of creative options than you cant miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  When I heard that the Maxis crew was making a game about evolution with a scope that spanned from 
 single celled existence to space domination, I thought: it's about GD time guys. I was probably 
 one of the four kids in the world that enjoyed SimLife, and I've been waiting for an update in 
 vain for some time. I love the Sim games with few exceptions (stinking SimCity Societies) .
  
  Here's the thing: the first time I played the Sims 2 I felt vaguely disappointed. After the 
 expansions and stuff packs started rolling in, the beast prettied up bit by bit. That's about where 
 I'm at with Spore. I'm having fun messing with the thing, but it feels too bare in content to really 
 be as fulfilling as it can and should be. Hopefully, it'll get the same treatment as the Sims 2, 
 then it'll be worth the time and effort. The tools and mechanics just need to be fleshed out and 
 added on. No sweat. As it is now, it feels like I'm trying out an engine in a demo. We'll see. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicekitty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  It is very simplistic. The stages become repetitive quickly. Luckily, you can breeze through the 
 stages to unlock them, and then play the stages you like and skip the ones you don't. I thought 
 it would be adaptable to the user, but it's really not. It is very structured, even in terms of 
 the goals. I know the goals are supposed to give guidance, and they do, but they create a structure 
 from which it is hard to deviate.
  
  I made it to the space stage in one day. I hope the space stage offers me more things to do. I 
 will also go back and try to do the stages from different strategies.
  
  Some of the interface was changed from the creature creator, and I was not thrilled with the changes. 
 I guess I'll get used to that. The graphics also are not as clear as I would have expected. They 
 tend to be a little pixelated even at the highest resolution.
  
  Overall, I am not as impressed as I thought I would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  creating creatures is the only really great part of this game. The rts phases of tribal and civilization 
 is so simplified and obvious they would be better to just leave them out.
  
  Waay to short-lived, but designing creatures is really cool though.
  
  filler
  filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler
  filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreblade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  What could I say about Spore. First of all it's a very innovative game from a creative person. 
 This is the first game where you could create your own race and grow it to be a better being. It 
 is very easy till space then it get's hard if you get to the grox. IT's fun to make a planet more 
 suitable for life or forming it. I think only a few persons will discover all planets since there 
 are many millions of them, only the real hardcore gamers will do that but they are then truly nerds. 
 A problem is that you can't get out of the space ship anymore when you reach the space stage. There 
 is also an achieve system wich gives you if you complete on of the goals some upgrade or item for 
 your ship. The many alien attacks gets annoying especially when you are at war with many races. 
 Another good feature is that you can download creatures form the sporopedia. All in all it's a 
 good game but get bad after you play 10 hours in space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Well, where should i start, the game does brings to the table nice ideas and a new concept, but 
 it lacks on developments meaning in features and more stuff to do, heck its on a dvd, hey, fill 
 it out with more stuff. Again Will Right from Maxis brings something interesting. In the game you 
 can create your creature in time, forming it out during the adventure. Some parts are funny and 
 you make alliances during the way in which sometimes is the only things to do, or you kill the 
 other creatures, at least they put also other things to do like hunting large animals, domesticating 
 and creating stuff with the builder.
  
  The graphics are nice, made simple in a way but with nice effects, as a cartoon environment but 
 with more complex things and colorful too. 
  
  The sound is decent, of course noisy with all the noise of the animals.
  
  Controls, well, 
 they are ok, the first stage could be a little challenging for the first try but also in the other 
 stages, just that with the bugs it might prove nothing or life threatening, as i explain, one bug 
 that the creature might be unresponsive or climbing a hill will stop you completely so to continue 
 i had to turn and go up again to climb.
  
  Replay, depends on the person, for me i would play it again to try everything, and what creatures 
 i like creating, the micromanagement is ok with me, since its simple, the quests are ok but not 
 enough variety.
  
  And for the other stuff i wanted to say about the features, the quests are not to many, we need 
 a loading menu list and a saving list, because quitting and restarting the game is not thrilling. 
 Well, i forgot the rest but this are the 2 things i had in my mind.
  
  Even so with EA reputation and bad management as a publisher, and so goes on with developers and 
 EA, as who knows what is actually happening behind scenes the outcome of games will come out sloppy. 
 Also Maxis loosing both games Sim City and Sims to EA, as of which Sim City lost the philosophy 
 and the "Sim City" stuff when it was made by another developer, Sim City societies, like the dumb 
 version of sim city. Hopefully Sims 3 won't suffer the same fate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carto0n
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  When first turning on spore the game appears very simple, floating around and picking up coloured 
 food can at first make it feel like your playing any old arcade game. However as you play that 
 little bit more the game becomes much more interesting, modifying your creature to combat new obstacles 
 and adapting to new environments is very interesting. But before you know it your growing legs 
 and are onto the next very different section of the game.
  
  The entire game of spore is very much like this. You'll be thrown into a new environment, it may 
 appear simple at first but you gradually start to see the depth of what your doing. Unfortunately 
 you will be throw into yet another section of the game before really building that appreciation 
 for the section youve just played. While this can be annoying it also gives the game great replayablity. 
 That along with different ways to play each of the sections means you'll definitely want to play 
 the game at least twice to see whats out there.
  
  Overall Spore is a good game, having 5 different types of gameplay means the game stays interesting 
 all the way through but you can feel a bit rushed now and again.
  
  8.0
  
  To all the people **** about SecuROM - Yes, it is a problem but we're reviewing the GAME here. 
 You may think your making some kind of Political-esc stand by giving the game stupid and unfair 
 ratings but your not. Yes 3 installs is a problem but youve got to look past that and see what 
 an interesting game spore is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubalu0
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Spore is fun to playing. Is it groundbreaking and impossible to stop playing.... uh nope! It is 
 a well designed game for casual gamers. It lacks the substance true gamers need for it to be engaging. 
 I enjoy playing the game but i get bored pretty quick on the few clicks you really do to accomplish 
 anything. This is a combination of several simples games, yet it does none of them particularly 
 well. The most fun is the space portion and even it is not particularly engaging. While its a good 
 way to waste some time it wont bug you if your friend calls and wants to go do something. I have 
 had fun with it but I am already bored with it. I am usually pretty saddened when 80 dollars doesn't 
 give me at least 10 hours of entertainment. To be honest I had more fun with the creature creator 
 long before the actual game even came out. I will still play sometimes but probably only to design 
 not for the game content. Also on a last note the DRM sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NA3D
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  It could just be where I am right now with gaming/social life/work but it just didn't hit the spot 
 how I was hoping.
  
  My computer is 5 years old, so I can't enjoy the graphics that it can produce, but I am not holding 
 that against it at all. I know the graphics are better than what I am seeing. I believe the graphics 
 could have been a little better from the screenshots/videos I have seen though.
  
  Gameplay is shorter than I hoped for each stage, mainly due to the fact that it isn't very enjoyable 
 to play each stage if you have played it for much longer than what it takes to evolve to the next 
 stage... I was hoping for a lot more from the cell stage most of all...
  
  Though I think the interaction mini game, to gain allies, is entertaining at first, it takes too 
 long for what it is, and after the first round of doing it, it gets pretty dull... 
  
  I can't blame any of the game crashes on the game itself due to my computer's age... so there goes 
 that group...
  
  Sound is more repetitive than what it should be IMO.
  
  Gameplay, sound, graphics... I feel like I am missing some stuff...
  
  --End of Review --
 
  
  Explaining the Low score I gave it.
  
  I have to knock off points for selling a demo, even with part of the money able to go toward Spore. 
 It was a lame move, and if EA actually cared about their consumers they wouldn't have done it. 
 So that tilted the scale on my overall outlook of the game, which I would have given a 4.5 to anyways. 
 
  
  That and other things that were taken out of the game to be put in expansion packs later. (Just 
 like what happened with Sims 2 for people who know the story behind that.)
  
  Graphics 5 (I know it can't look at good as Gran Turismo because of dynamics, but it could have 
 been better environment wise still IMO)
  Sound 4
  Gameplay 2
  Game Length 2 (Stage Length in this case)
  Innovation 7.5 (Most games out there are 1-3 for this, 
 but they could have gone further.)
  I forgot... Controls too... Not intuitive most of the time... Space stage is just as repetitive 
 as the rest of the game...
  I forgot about SecuROM, and the limited 3 installs... so that kills the rest of the rating, when 
 I was going to let it be a 3, and is now a 1...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malu05
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  The DRM part speaks for itself, its just the worst of the game and makes me feel like a criminal 
 when i open the package. And as my friends who "got" it from torrents don't get this DRM thing 
 i kinda feels like piracy is an acceptable-and almost ethical thing.
  
  The fact that i Pay to get a nasty DRM limit on my installations and the people who don't pay don't 
 get any nasty DRM limits makes my copy inferior to a un-legit one.
  
  The game's Cell stage was quite fun to start with, then it just went downwards. Too repetitive 
 and a lack of challenge for a experienced gamer like me made the game feel a bit like "The Sims"... 
 i mean, you don't really feel like having a goal. I think most 5.0 reviews have said what there 
 is to say about this game.
  
  Clearly not my type of game.
  
  However i like the "Creator" part, but since there already was the free creature creator app out 
 this doesn't really add a hole lot to that part 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NameyMcNameName
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  After reading all of the lackluster reviews, and preparing myself to be unimpressed about this 
 hyped game that I have spent 4 years waiting for... I went into it with a glum attitude.
  
  ... And was promptly blown away. From the Cell-stage to the Tribal stage - everything feels just 
 right. The games are simple, (which isn't a bad thing!) addictive, and do not outstay they're welcome. 
 Just as a game is about to get tiring, Spore moves on to the next level - where you have to explore 
 each possibility all over again.
  
  And that's fun.
  
  The graphics may not be that of Crysis - but they're still amazing in their own little way. - Not 
 to mention the technology that is running under the hood... and the fact that you get to run in 
 to other player's creations... the whole game is something that I would expect from the zany mind 
 of Will Right.
  
  It's a blast to play - makes you come back for more, and manages to stay fresh - always throwing 
 you a pleasant curve ball.
  
  It's a great game - not the best game - but atleast deserves a 9/10. Could have been better, but 
 not by much.
  
  Will Right told is what he was going to make - and he delivered with very few corners cut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrakeGladiator
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  What to say? It is just insane! I never played a game like Spore before. I loved it, it is definitely 
 one of best games of all times, but there are some bad points, for example, Spore is a quite repetitive. 
 When you play it for first time, you will love it, but at second and above, you have repeat all 
 steps, it is simple boring. Other bad points is that creatures from Spore Creature Creator can 
 only played on Tribal, Civilization and Space phases, not Cellular nor Creature phases. I got sad 
 when I found it out, Spore's Creators would have put any special system to convert creatures from 
 Creature Creator to the first phase, and allow them to evolve alone. Anyway, Spore deserves, on 
 my opinion, the 10-classification, however, it has also bad points, like all games, but I hope 
 to get better points on future Spore's expansions, I am sure they will be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameniko
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Negatives
  Idea was good, but overall very childish. Evolution stages very boring and not engaging. Stupid 
 way you evolve, just hunt for DNA and food. Gets very repetitive after a few hours of play. Graphics 
 a little outdated. Character voices very stupid, creatures dance and sing, doesnt make sence! Silly 
 attacking system.....
  
  Positives
  Its unique... EA will make a MILLION Expansion packs for it like SIMS to steal money off hard working 
 people. Not to mention at least 2 sequels... If the game sells that is... And to be honest I dont 
 think it will. I am 22 and I reckon this game is for 14 year olds.... But you never know, many people 
 out there might find it interesting.
  
  I have nothing else to say about this game but I have to fill out the 800 word limit so my review 
 can be submitted. I would definately pay $100AU for this kind of stuff. $50 AU Tops!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake_971
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  As I installed spore on my computer I was filled with exitement. I've been tracking this game on 
 and off for quite some time, and it was good to finally be able to get it. The SecuRom sucks balls. 
 But hopefully they'll come to their senses and remove the bloody thing.
  
  Upon starting the game you select the planet you wish to start playing on, and create the basis 
 of your creature. And then you basicly swim around, collecting parts and eating to become bigger.
 
  When you reach your goal you've probably adapted to the enviroment more than you know. I, for 
 one, placed some toxic spit device on the tail of my creature, so when larger ones tried to sneak 
 up and kill me, they simply died. Very fun.
  
  However, this gets dull pretty fast, so luckily the creature stage is just around the corner. This 
 is the most fun stage in my opinion. You make friends and enemies and adapt even more to the terrain. 
 
  
  You then enter tribal mode, which is RTS like. It could be a lot more fun, but it works as a filler. 
 I was dissapointed at how much more complicated it was to make friends, rather than enemies. So 
 I just ended up killing all of my opponents, which wasnt really hard at all.
  
  The civilization stage that follows is also quite simple, but a bit more fun. Here you get to create 
 buildings, ground veichles, airplanes and boats alike. Much fun.
  
  The space stage is a blast. You can even customize your own planets. What a fun game...
  
  
 Spore is worth a try. It's easy to laught at your creatures and to get immersed in the game world. 
 I absolutely reccomend it for people at any age. 
  
  - Daniel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebruma
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  The game is child easy, just click around and you're done with the stage. Really, if you die you 
 just start over. In the creature stage every attack is the same, seeing you creature spit venom 
 is cool for like 5 seconds, the you realize it's just the same as hitting 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 to attack, 
 it just becomes 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 ... In the city stage you have just 3 types of units, that 
 are just the same as the opponents. Yeah you can customize them, they can ben a little more fast 
 or strong, but it doesnt affect the gameplay at all. Just attack a city and you win, plain and 
 boring.
  
  Don't even say "warcraft" in the same sentence of "spore" please. Warcraft 1 was way more intense 
 and deep than spore. Custumization is cool but it doesn't affect the game at all. The online play 
 is non existant. The DRM makes paying costumers regret they didnt use a to$$ent. Nice shot EA! 
 Next time just take something that works, like master of magic, put a creature creator in it and 
 release it without making a 4 years babbling about how great it will be, maybe we won't hate you 
 like we do now. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: virus209
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Game was fun when you explore around to survive and upgrading my spore charactar. Graphics are 
 nice, the creating system is fantastic. Spore was fun until i got to the tribe stage which i was 
 stunned.... i was like ok what happen from first person view to RTS.. ok. I thought to my self maybe 
 some how you can go back to first person view but couldnt figure it out. Maybe thats how the game 
 is created. What made the game fun was the creating system. Thats addicting other then that the 
 rest is boring. It gives you the ability to create almost any thing you want. Creating space ships, 
 creatures, buildings, vehicles is fun and even your own planets (which isnt all that) . So many options 
 in the creating mode. The bottom line is spore is and ok game, it took them a while to creat the 
 game which didnt come out that great. I expected alot from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apinksquash
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  I'm a long time Will Wright fan...
  I've bought and played most of the maxis titles ever since the original simcity, and I've bought 
 all his more recent projects including The Sims and The Sims 2. However, I will NOT be buying Spore 
 the way it is currently packaged!
  
  The game secretly installs SecuROM software on your computer, and won't let you install the game 
 more than 3 times total. 
  
  - Upgrading your computer soon? .. oops, too bad! There goes one of your 3 installs.
  
  - Need 
 to reformat your computer because its become slow or has a virus? Oops, there goes one of your 
 3 installs.
  
  - Need to uninstall the game to make space for other games and want to reinstall it in the future 
 to play it again? Oops, There goes one of your 3 installs.
  
  - Have more than one computer in your house that you want to install Spore on? Maybe a desktop 
 and a laptop? Or a laptop and two home desktops? Oops, there goes 2 or in the case of the later, 
 all three of your 3 total installs that you get for the game.
  
  
  Boycott this game until EA wises up and gets rid of this stupid DRM they package with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colibrimonopol
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Oh my God. I waited so long for this game and have been so let down. You always need more money 
 then you can get. You play through the first level in ten minutes. I can not even sell this game 
 at a Game Shop because it is on the PC.
  
  This game should be fun but it is turning in to a nightmare, I have a top spec PC and the game 
 runs on very high, but I get to the same part of the game and it just crashes, over and over again. 
 I am not alone on this.
  
  With no sign of a patch coming any time soon to fix this and all the other problems the community 
 that has been raised.
  
  Please wait till this game is fixed before you buy it because you will be pulling your hair out 
 with a result of the poor quality.
  
  How does this happen, after all the time that has gone in to this game.
  
  To sum up there 
 will be people that will love this game and if you are about ten years old you will, I have been 
 playing game since the NES and I hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrith
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I've had Spore about 30 hours now, and played it for about 2/3s of that time. What have I found? 
 A great game that has a little bit of everything, but masters nothing. A literal jack-of-all-trades, 
 which is very uncommon in the game industry. This being said, it's another amazing achievement 
 from a company that has achieved so much in it's time.
  
  In my 20ish hours of gameplay, I've gotten 1 race of herbivores to the Space Age, and 1 race of 
 omnivores to the Tribal Age. My review is based on what I've seen since then:
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  - The graphics are innovative, but not the best there is. This is partially noted 
 by the fact that this game is playable on somewhat low-end systems. It even plays on my laptop, 
 which just BARELY makes due according to the system requirements, but plays well nonetheless.
 
  - Those people looking for a game with the best graphics in the world should look to other games. 
 IMHO, the graphics of Mass Effect are far superior to that of Spore. However, the graphics fit 
 the theme of a game that is generalized across many genres, not centered upon one or two.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  - Most notable about sound in Spore are the sound effects, not the music. The 
 calls that your creatures make sound realistic, and the ambient effects are very fun to listen 
 to.
  - The music tracks are well thought out for each section of the game. For example, the Cell Stage 
 has a nicely paced track, which is fitting for it's quick but enjoyable gameplay. IMHO, the Tribal 
 stage has the best track. It reminds me of the music from the Stone Age of Empire Earth.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  - For a game that covers many platforms, I was surprised with the relatively simplistic 
 controls. Each phase of the game has slightly different controls, but the basic concept remains 
 the same: survive. But in game where controlling a species as it advances, the concept fits perfectly.
 
  - One thing that is simple to note is the fact that this game was made for all ages of players, 
 meaning that it's not a complicated learning curve. However, some of the most simple things may 
 take some reading to figure out. As an example, in the creature stage of the game, it took me nearly 
 45 minutes to figure out how to form my pack, and how it affects certain actions.
  
  Value: 9.0
  - As mentioned earlier, this game covers many genres, many platforms. This makes 
 it a value in the box. As their all seamlessly run in one game, that's very impressive (at least, 
 in my book) .
  - Most notable (to me, at least) are the multiple creation engines that come with the game. The 
 ability to create many different types of things (not just creatures, but buildings, vehicles, 
 etc.) is very impressive. Ease of use makes things even better, as there isn't any hunting for 
 specific points to put things on (take Galactic Civilization's creation tools as an example of 
 that) .
  - Being able to share content with other people online is very cool. Since the game automatically 
 draws from creatures created by other users, you get to play with other people's creation as you 
 like (and can ban ones that you don't like all that much) .
  - Being able to replay a game many times always raises it's value. With many things to change, 
 and lots of options, this game has the potential to be played for many hours, and many days.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  With all things considered, this game has a lot of potential. That, when 
 explored, can make for one of the best overall experiences for many types of gamers. However, as 
 some people have noticed, the game is also easily conquered, if you don't spend much time in the 
 creation engines or exploring all the options.
  
  For anyone who loves the aspect of building things in a game (be it a civilization, species, or 
 just a person) , this game will be a blast to play. Those who are looking for a game with straightforward 
 and linear gameplay, however, will be disappointed by how quickly the game can be completed in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is super fun to play. It's fun because it is original in its style. It's original in 
 its content, and has one of the coolest creator tools I have ever seen in a game. The things that 
 you can create in this game are boundless. You can make everything from creatures, to boats, flying 
 vehicles, spaceships, and even music to name a few. Yes you can write your own music for this game 
 using pre-rendered melodies and beats. One of the coolest things in this game is the fact that 
 you can import anybody's creations into your own game and they will populate any of the millions 
 of explorable planets. That's right, I said millions. I went to Comic-Con this year and saw Will 
 Wright (Creator of Spore, Sim-City, and The Sims to name a few) give a presentaion on this game. 
 He said that in your lifetime you would not be able to visit every planet that was in this game. 
 While amazing, the only problem with that is that there isn't too much depth with all of this cosmic 
 real estate. 
  The game is broken up into stages: Cell stage, Creature stage, Tribal stage, Civilization stage, 
 and Space stage. You start off as a single cell organism and move on to exploring the entire universe. 
 The game does a great job of showing the player how completely tiny we humans are in the grand 
 scheme of things. While all the stages are interesting, they just seem like watered down versions 
 of great games. Mr. Wright took a lot of the simple building blocks of RTS's, RPG's, and added 
 his own flavor. While a very cool concept, the game could have been a lot deeper in terms of actual 
 game play. Once you get over the initial awe at the scope of this game, it doesn't do a great job 
 of holding your attention is what I am trying to say. It's one of those games that I would recommend 
 to anyone in an instant because it is so original in its ideas that you HAVE to see it. It's a 
 game that is like gawking at a crazy auto wreck on the highway, you have to look, but you aren't 
 going to pull over and hang out with the cops while they sort through the rubble. You will still 
 spend an amazing amount of hours in this game if you like building and creating things. That's 
 where I am going to get all of my game play. I will make a lot of creatures and ships and upload 
 them to the Sporepedia so that other players can rate them and use them in their universes. If 
 you like originality like I do, you will definitely not want to miss this one. It just doesn't 
 have the playability from a gameplay standpoint to hold water with how original and ambitious of 
 a project it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapperbnn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Entertaining. Not what I hoped, but enjoyable. Creature phase is exceptional, and the editors are 
 fantastic. I love designing city buildings, my creatures and my vehicles. I hated the Tribal phase, 
 but was quite fond of the rest. The space phase wasn't a triumph, the endless space would have 
 worked if there were more than a few things to do. The missions are fairly repetitive, usually 
 requiring not much more than traveling across the galaxy. I'll be playing this still for many more 
 hours, making many new civilizations, its still an addictive game even if it leaves something to 
 be desired at the end.
  
  The technology is also fantastic and I hope to see more games like this. I'll be on the look out 
 for more Maxis games.
  
  Overall, something I'd recommend picking up, even if its just for the creature phase and the editors! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre23
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played E. V. O. for Snes? Well, it is all about the same thing, you get a creature 
 that eat, eat and eat to evolve and conquer the world.
  
  Spore is the bad 3D copy of E. V. O and the only difference is the creature editor and the space 
 stage.
  
  I really tought this game would be good because of the vids from E3 but it really sucks. I cant 
 believe they spent 7 years to make such horrible game!
  
  Cell stage - Lasts 7-10 minutes
  
  Creature stage - Lasts 30 minutes
  
  Tribe Stage - Lasts 
 30 minutes
  
  City Stage - Lasts 20 minutes
  
  Space Siege - Lasts forever but if you got some brains, you wont spend more than 30 minutes since 
 the game offers no challenge at all. 
  
  This game is clearly for 5 - 12 years old kids that get nothing better to play.
  
  I really 
 dont know why the game market was so excited about it. Doesnt make any sense.
  
  But, if you are that kind of person that thinks that "The Sims" is cool, than forget all I said 
 and go play Spore. You may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malow-x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a unique game that offers fun for the hardcore/midcore/casual gamer. It has a wide variety 
 of elements that keep you hooked until the end. Even if there are some points wher some could find 
 the game tedious or monotonous. Its not a huge drawback by any means. The real question does spore 
 deliver a fun filled game that will grasp your attention? the answer is simply... yes. 
  
  
  Spore basically gives you 5 games in one, not to mention a load of creative tools to build 
 your own universe. Each game that is offered is little bits and pieces of the games that you love. 
 Although not a perfect match (i. e. civilization phase RTS) . It is still enjoyable and enough to 
 keep you wanting to go farther.
  
  So all in all here in a simply put review. It deserves an 8.5/10 not a bashing from people who 
 cant enjoy something so fun and simple. The only reason i gave it a 10 is because the score was 
 too low at the time for a game that deserves so much more. I personally enjoy this game and i rarely 
 ever enjoy a game on the pc. So do yourself a favor and check it out at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallpino
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  As a K-12 Art Teacher, I have used PC Games to show infinite art & graphic design concepts in an 
 irresistible way to attract my students attention; not to mention as an incentive & motivational 
 resource to present a dynamic course interlacing life studio demonstration with actual applications 
 through the evolving process of game's conceptual art & design. From the integration of games, 
 fine arts, commercial art, & animation diverse extracurricular activities have emerged. Every time 
 I have made such incursion, a sense of fulfillment has edified their creative experience vastly. 
 Students are learning to integrate their personal enjoyment of gaming, with the refinement of their 
 artistic skills and thus, gaining a strong sense of possibilities. .... specially career wise. It's 
 no longer a matter to just playing it ... but creating it as well. Spore is an example of such integration. 
 Explaining proportion, perspective, texture, lighting, alignment, can be shown effectively through 
 games like Sim City & The Sims series, and now Spore. If I can consciously & responsibly have my 
 students academically engaged while their interest are gradually lead to embrace the overall learning 
 endeavor, then an enhanced learning environment comes intuitively. Individual interest, enjoyment 
 and performance are successfully met. Most important, we artistically evolve and grow. Evidently 
 those ten years of Spore development were well spent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I will start this review out with a warning. That warning is, if you can't play The Sims games 
 Spore is not for you. One thing a lot of people don't grasp is the fact that this game is meant 
 for casual gamers who can play The Sims for hours on end. Yes Will said it has a little bit for 
 everyone however it does not. So think long and hard about this. Can you play a game for hours 
 on end that makes you control people as you watch them clean dishes, go to work, eat poop and then 
 wake up to do it all over again? If your is answer no avoid Spore because you will most likely 
 not like it.
  
  
  
  Now onto the game. Spore is a great game, but it lacks a lot. First off you start as a cell with 
 a simple mouth that lets you eat meat chunks if you go the carnivore route or plants if you go 
 the herbivore route, a little flagella that lets you swim around, and two eyes to see with. The 
 basics needed to move around and survive. As you swim around eating and growing you will run into 
 new cells and collect new parts. This part of the game on hard mode can be really fun but on the 
 lower modes it really does seem to be overly easy. Over all I like this phase but I just wish that 
 on hard mode it would take more DNA points to move on because it does seem to be short.
  
  Once you finish with the cell phase you move onto the creature phase. This phase brings you into 
 a fully 3D world teeming with life and other animals that you can interact with whether you rather 
 befriend them or eat them making them go extinct. In this phase like the cell phase you can collect 
 body parts to better improve your creature and your brain will go in size as you gather DNA points 
 along with a few migrations. Over all this phase is really fun and it is "just" right. My only 
 problem is that on hard the stage still seems too short and once you kill the creatures nothing 
 can be done with the nest, and they remain empty.
  
  Once you get done making friends and eating them you move onto tribal stage. This is where you 
 loose personal control over the creature personally and gain control over them as a group as the 
 game goes into a RTS. While in this stage you collect food that acts as a currency. You also compete 
 with other tribes who will constantly attack you unless you befriend them or destroy them. I find 
 this stage to be the most fun but I was sadden when I destroyed all the other tribes and no more 
 spawned. Yes I could go on with the stage but what is the point when you have nothing to do but 
 watch your guy's fish?
  
  Once you finish tribe stage you move onto the Civilization stage. This stage IMO is the hardest 
 (on hard more) to do. You start out making your city hall and a land vehicle. Then from there you 
 go out collect spice, which acts as your currency and use this to build your city and make more 
 crafts. After awhile few other cities will pop up but they are this time the same race as you. 
 Here you can take three paths, religious, militaristic, or economic type government. You set out 
 to conquer the other cities or make them your allies. My only problem with this stage that the 
 only thing you must collect is spice, and that you can only have one type of land vehicle.
  
  After you take control of ever city you move onto the final frontier and also the final stage. 
 Space Stage. Now I must admit I have no finished this stage but I must stay that so far it is the 
 most complex stage. I find myself confused a lot and having to reread all the text a few dozen 
 times. However the aspect of interacting with other alien races, taking over planets and setting 
 up trade routes is a lot of fun and I had a blast terraforming my moon.
  
  Overall this game really is every thing tossed into one. It has a great tool set system for making 
 creatures, buildings and so on. However not innovative games are not perfect and this being a innovative 
 game it has its flaws, but it is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  "This was supposed to be a revolutionary new game type...
  But EA made sure this will not be successful."
  
  
  NOTE:
  This is actually a RENTAL game, 
 not a bought game because it only lets you install 3 times. Otherwise you need to call EA customer 
 support and beg them to give more keys for it.
  BTW, it will be expensive call if you live outside the U. S.
  
  
  How could I give more than 
 5.0 points to game that is hard to install, has limit your times to install the game and protection 
 is nothing more than flawed malware code (SecuROM) that wants to hurt your pc and when it has no 
 replay value?
  
  
  
  I was about to return the game to store, before I remember that I had old pc that could be used 
 for testing this (because I don't wanna risk my new pc) .
  
  Seems like that long waited evolution thing was pointless.
  Example: Adding more legs will not 
 help you to get more speed than normal two legs.
  
  Maybe I am wrong, but I didn't find any use for that creating creatures thing. It will only allow 
 you to make some cosmetic things and its good way to kill some time, but it doesn't matter because 
 everything is based on stats.
  
  
  Will update the score if and when we will get game version that we can buy, not rent.
  
  
 
  
  
  I might also take couple point away, because it looks like I have to format and reinstall Windows 
 to get rid of that securom (read virus) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a huge disappointment. It was great fun for the first couple of hours. The game has five 
 stages, each one slightly more complicated than the last. All stages are very easy for anyone with 
 RTS gaming experience, however.
  
  The creation tools are very powerful, but ultimately mean nothing, because you spend such little 
 time in each of the five stages. It doesn't matter how much time you spend making that perfect 
 5 legged, winged and armored creature with a fantastic paint scheme, because after the stage is 
 completed, your customizations have no effect on the next stage. During the Tribal phase, you're 
 provided with a huge array of clothing options, none of which seems to make any difference to the 
 gameplay.
  
  For those of you who have spent time with the Spore Creature Creator, it will be extremely disappointing 
 to realize that you spend more time designing your creation that you will playing the game with 
 it. There is no reason to tweak the amount of mouths, armor plates, weapons, wings or stealth options, 
 because you either never need to use it (wings or stealth) , or you can just Mate and swap your 
 parts around depending on the situation. 
  
  Camera controls are clunky (no Invert Mouse option?!?) and the RTS elements are extremely simple. 
 On a recent play through I was able to go from Stage 1 to Stage 5 in about 45 minutes, and most 
 of that time was waiting on artificial time sinks (such as waiting for children to grow up before 
 you can add them to your population)
  
  There is no replay value because regardless of what you create, your civilization always ends up 
 in the same place. Your path to the Space Stage is always the same, and it doesn't matter if you 
 are aggressive or passive. I don't even know if it's possible to lose a game in any of the staqes. 
 
  
  As stated before, it doesn't really matter how much time you spend developing your creature or 
 vehicles or buildings, because after you leave the 45 minute Stage you're currently playing, it 
 all becomes irrelevant. 
  
  The online content is strangely pointless as well. You can't really go to your friends planets 
 and wreck havoc. Even if you could, the gameplay options are too limited to do anything when you 
 get there. There isn't even a rock-paper-scissors formula for units. All the vaulted online integration 
 basically breaks down into seeing your friend's creations. But since the gameplay mechanics are 
 so simple, it doesn't matter if his Generic Land Vehicle has three wheels or ten wheels.
  
  Finally, I saw no need to download other content and import it into your game, because you really 
 spend so little time in each stage. While it is initially fun to see your friend's creations in 
 your game, remember it's not like it's your friends are playing them. They're just computer controlled 
 models that your friend designed, and all the AI behaves the same. You'll attack or ally with them 
 in a few minutes and never go back to seeing them again.
  
  To make matters worse, the game is still a bit too complicated for children. Gameplay is far too 
 easy for RTS fans, but too difficult to grasp for non-gamers. I'm not sure who it's targeted to. 
 Would probably be a fun game for the preteen or casual gamer crowd, assuming they weren't already 
 experts on console video games.
  
  DRM with this game is TERRIBLE. You are required to activate your game, much like Vista, and you 
 only get 3 activations. Then you have to call EA and convince them you're not pirating the software. 
 It feels like you're renting the game via a PPV service. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_813
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Spore started off to be a interesting sounding concept. Two years latter, the game comes out. After 
 playing it for a while, it gets very repetitive and boring. The highlight of the game is the ability 
 to make different creatures. The gameplay was made very simplistic.
  
  Another killer aspect for most people is the DRM that has been included with this game. You have 
 to have internet connection to register the game which is required to play. Also, you only get 
 three installs of the game. After that, you are either locked out of your own game, or have to 
 contact EA to try and get them to allow you to install your game again. You do not get credit for 
 uninstalling the game from your machine like some other DRM software. If your machine needs reformatting 
 or you need to replace hardware parts, that will take more than one of your three allowable installs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhero7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Spore is an ambitious project. Evolve a single spore of space dust through the stages of evolution 
 from single-celled organism to space-faring galactic civilization.
  
  It should be said that with all the hype surrounding such an anticipated game, it's almost impossible 
 to deliver on some expectations. However, Spore can deliver a routine romp through various gameplay 
 modes that might entertain for a while, without fully blowing you away.
  
  You start as a single celled organism. The gameplay here can be compared to Flow, or Pacman. Guide 
 you creature around an ocean devouring bits of food and avoiding becoming a bit of food yourself. 
 This stage is the simplest, as you can gather a few extra parts to evolve your creature and make 
 it easier to eat more tiny foodstuffs. However, the entire stage can also be played without evolving 
 once. There is no penalty for being eaten, so as soon as you devour enough meat particles or plants, 
 you can get out of dodge, which you'll probably want to do. This stage lasts about fifteen minutes, 
 which is good because you may be ready to move on after 10.
  
  Next is the creature stage, which is where Spore begins to shine. If you've downloaded the creature 
 creator, you'll know all about the customization you can put your little critter through. There 
 are easily millions of combinations and the most meticulous of designers will find a lot here to 
 love. Most of us will design for a bit and then dive into the gameplay, which plays a lot like 
 a single-player MMO, if a simplistic one. Depending on the parts you give your creation, you'll 
 have different abilities with which to either impress and befriend, or destroy and devour your 
 neighbors. This stage can last an hour or two, depending on how much time you like to spend messing 
 around and exploring the continent.
  
  Third is the tribal stage, which plays like an RTS. Create a small tribe and do exactly what you 
 did in the creature stage. Either dominate the other tribes or befriend them. Honestly, it doesn't 
 really matter, as both get you to the Civilization stage.
  
  The Civilization stage plays similarly to the its namesake game, although it isn't nearly as complicated. 
 Keep your cities happy and productive (which is extremely easy even on the hardest difficulty) 
 and buy, convert, or blow up your neighbors, which are now different factions of your own race. 
 There is a bit to love here, although more vehicle and building diversity might have been nice.
 
  
  The space stage is the final stage of Spore, and you might find yourself spending the most time 
 here. Instead of commanding an entire group, you're once again in command of a single vessel, venturing 
 out to befriend or conquer your neighbors, while terraforming and colonizing uninhabited worlds.
 
  
  If the individual sections sound similar, it's because they are. It might have been nice to see 
 a little diversity here. Instead in every stage you talk to your friends and crush your enemies.
 
  
  Spore can run on virtually all machines and runs well. If you enjoy a myriad of gameplay styles 
 and can tolerate some repetitiveness in new shiny coatings, or if you enjoy designing buildings 
 or creatures, you'll find a lot to love in Spore. However, to the casual fan who's purchased the 
 game on the hype building up the release alone, Spore leaves something to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zamfir1970
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Water level: Fun and addictive, I wanted to be the biggest thing in the sea. It forced me out of 
 the water before I was ready to go.
  
  Land level: All eyes do the same thing, body size is irrelevant, it's way too easy and things like 
 jumping don't seem to matter at all. I'd like to see more depth here, but it was fun, and it did 
 feel like my creations.
  
  Tribal level: Seemed like the most simplistic strategy game ever. Creatures cease to seem "yours" 
 and just seem sort of generic. Evolution and creature design ends. Goes quickly.
  
  Civilization level: Great customization, but silly implementation. Vehicles don't need drivers 
 and seem to all do the same thing, just look different. A disappointment.
  
  Space level: See Civilization level, only bigger.
  
  All in all, the customization tools are 
 awesome, but since they don't make much difference in the greater scheme of things, it's a bit 
 of a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djameso1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  While the game does fall short in a few areas, it is a lot of fun overall. Consider that purchasing 
 a new version of 5 different Sim games would cost you well over $100, this game is really a budget 
 buy for what you get.
  
  I also marvel at the creativity spawned by the creature, vehicle and building creators. The tools 
 are so simple that my four year old daughter has created dozens of beautiful and unique creations 
 all by herself.
  
  Overall, the diversity in this game cannot be beat. I see a lot people slamming this game for it's 
 simplicity, but I wonder how many are playing as herbivores on the difficult setting. At first 
 glance, diplomacy/herbivore games seem to be a lot slower and more challenging than military/carnivore.
 
  
  I can see this game appealing to not only Sim fans, but fans of RTS games as well. Spore won't 
 be for everyone, but the vast majority will find themselves wasting away hours trying to come up 
 with the perfect creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjbcfc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Spore is one of those games that grips you and is joyful to play but at the same time disappoints 
 and frustrates you at the fact that it could be SO much better.
  
  The beginning of the game, the cell stage, is surprisingly very good. It gently introduces you 
 to the key part of this game, the creator tool. Creating your cell is fun despite the low amount 
 of features/parts available to the player.
  
  The following stage, the creature stage, is arguably the best and most enjoyable. This is where 
 the creator tool comes into it's own, you only have to see the huge variety of different creatures 
 that the online community has made to truly appreciate how great the tool is. It is all so simple 
 to use aswell which is a key feature.
  
  The tribal stage is the BIG weakness in my opinion and the civilisation stage took a while to draw 
 me into it. The final stage, space exploration, is great however I think that my love for anything 
 associated with space fueled my liking for this stage of the game, I fear that someone who isn't 
 that fascinated in space won't be hooked as much as I am.
  
  Overall, custimisation and user generated content is the driving force of this game for without 
 it the game would epically fail. I urge everyone to at least download the creature creator trial 
 from EA to test it out because it is the best part of the game.
  
  The game would have been given a 7.5 however since it's a truly innovative game I have to bump 
 this up to a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan5973
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a cute game to play with your children if you have any pre-teens in the house. It's too 
 stupid for anyone over 12 and probably too difficult for a little kid. The concept of the game 
 in itself isn't bad. Considering the time it took to develop the game, you'd think it would consist 
 of much more. 
  
  The gaming scene for Windows is complete garbage right now. I can't even remember when the last 
 time a good game was released. It seems like I spent $5000.00 on a home computer to surf the internet 
 and download mp3s. Windows video gaming is a lucrative market because people buy the latest hardware 
 to see how it performs with Crysisanalyze benchmarks. Consumers have been burned because of the 
 raging war between NVIDIA and ATI and the associated price manipulation. Directx10 has been out 
 for well over a year and less than 10 percent of the games out there feature it. Unless some smart 
 people change things, I'll probably just ditch Windows gaming altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anacardo
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Spore might be one of the major disappointments of 2008, a game which promised a lot and delivered 
 very little. Don't get me wrong, the game looks great, works like a charm and it's incredibly easy 
 to grasp and play. Still the game is plagued by an issue which derive from an incredible but deliberate 
 choice. This game is dumbed down to the point that a 10 years old kid would find it unchallenging. 
 Let me give an example: let's say that you build a creature and you fill it with eyes, 6 legs and 
 arms, you make it strong and full-featured. In a complex game, your creature would probably ended 
 up needing more food in order to keep its multitude of organs up and running. At the same time 
 you would expect that equipping 6 eyes to your new creature would probably move the field of vision 
 a little further enabling you to see more of the world. Or that a 4 legs lightweight creature would 
 outrun anything it encounters. Sadly, apart from a few characteristics that are very little influenced 
 by how you build your creature, nothing of this is present in the game. The more you go on, the 
 more you'll come to realize that no matter how you design your pet creatures, the outcomes would 
 simply be equally the same. Therefore... why bother? But if this seemed already a small let down 
 considering what this game might actually have been, when you reach the civilization stage everything 
 falls apart. You get the opportunity to build three types of vehicles: land, sea and air. The first 
 striking "feature" is that you can have only on vehicle per kind chosen. This means that if you 
 have built some tanks in order to conquer a city and now you want to build some lighter but faster 
 vehicles, you're out of luck: every land vehicle in your arsenal will be immediately converted 
 to the new kind. Yes that's right: just one vehicle model per each kind at any given time. Of course 
 you might argue: "but this would be a major exploit! I'll just build bikes for hours, then switch 
 and have free tanks at a fraction of the cost!!" Yes of course, provided that a bike would have 
 cost less than a tank which, in spore, is definitely not the case. Are you beginning to see the 
 point? Apart from the variation in land, sea and air vehicles, every vehicle costs the same, no 
 matter how complex, heavy or powerful it might be. You create an F16 replica with missiles and 
 guns? that would be 3000K. A flying monstrosity made only of guns, armor and bombs that would shred 
 the F-16 to pieces? same 3000K. An armless flying triangle? same 3000k. Can you see the point? 
 No matter how customizable this game might be, there's really little point in working on the editors 
 if it makes really no difference in the game. And you'll end up loosing interest in other players 
 creatures as well. No matter how clever a designer might be, in the end the only difference in 
 a creature from another will be the appearance. But I'm afraid we just scratched the surface. How 
 can you take over the world when you made a mistake and you'll turn out being outnumbered, decimated, 
 conquered and technologically inferior to the other nations you're battling with? You should be 
 dead, right? Wrong. Because Spore wants you to go on, to play more, it simply lets you win. IN 
 the end you'll reach space age in no time, and really start to wonder if all the previous stages 
 were just a tutorial and when this game is trying to lead you to.
  Summarizing: with a more mature gameplay, spore could have been a great game, if not THE GREAT 
 game. But as it is, it's just a collage of an incredible technology, some outstanding content, 
 and a few minigames and editors which are too easy and dumb to play and definitely not challenging.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIN-dycate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  So of course there's been a lot of hype about Spore giving the game high expectations, but as the 
 saying goes, "the higher you go the harder you fall." In the case of games the more hype, the more 
 potential for failure. Spore has definitely had the hype, so does it stand up to the expectations 
 or miserably fail?
  
  If you are unlikely unfamiliar with the premise of Spore, the game is a light pallet melting pot 
 of game play. Spore combines an insane amount of seamless creature customization, "God" game play, 
 sandbox worlds, eco/war-strategy (Age of Empires-esque) , global strategy (Civilization) , and mini-games. 
 The game starts you off as a simple amoeba in a primordial deadly playground, you progress by consuming 
 either plant-life or amoebas and evolve your way from a primordial pool to an ocean and eventually 
 grow legs and make your way on to land. At this point you run around eating, mating, hunting, growing, 
 evolving, creating packs, nesting, and migrating. This all of course depends on your own tastes 
 and style of game play. You could either eat other creatures or go the way of the vegan and only 
 eat plants and attempt to befriend all the creatures around you. What ever you choose to do, you 
 will eventually evolve to the point of being able to use fire. Before I cover the tribal phase, 
 which begins once you discover fire, evolution needs to be defined. Evolution involves you getting 
 your creature to mate, once they mate they will lay an egg. At which point will bring up the creature 
 creator, where you can manipulate girth, length, bone size, well anything you can think of MOSTLY. 
 However you can't just add an arm here, spike there; you have to spend DNA (spores evolution currency) 
 and you have to find parts. You earn DNA by either eating fruit or other creatures and you find 
 parts by either scavenging the bones of dead scattered through out the world or just killing everything 
 in sight. Once you have both DNA to spend and parts to add, you may manipulate as much as you want 
 with the only limitation being how much you've scavenged. Be weary with your methods of gathering 
 DNA and parts; the way you play in these early stages determines your sentient evolution's characteristics.
 
  
  The Tribal Stage; so you've learned how to make fire, at this point the game really takes off. 
 If you've ever played Age of Empires II or III this part of the game is going to seem extremely 
 familiar. After your conquering of rival tribes and advancing your species' intelligence, you'll 
 move on to the civilization stage, which is unsurprisingly going to remind you of Civilization. 
 Advance your technology and off you go into space. Considering this is only an early impression, 
 I can't go any further than the Tribal stage on my explanation.
  
  So now that you have a good understanding of what the game is supposed to be, how does it actually 
 present itself? The early stages lack difficulty or immersion, yet are short enough to keep you 
 interested to make it to the Tribal Stage. My biggest problem with this portion of the game are 
 the controls, they are not as responsive as they could be and are slightly clumsy. Fortunately 
 they're not terrible... but as I said this portion of the game is short, so you don't suffer long. 
 The sound track for this portion of the game is great and the tempo and beat change with the mood 
 of the situation. The soundtrack definitely hits the spot for what it is and does carry through 
 out the game. Spore significantly improves once you move into the sentient stages of the game.
 
  
  Overall my experiences with Spore have been great, with very few issues presented. The game looks 
 great, gives you a huge world to play with (well worlds, galaxies even) and has the best character 
 customization hands down. The soundtrack is well composed, carries well, and matches the situation. 
 At least up to the Tribal Stage, the strategy game play is fun, which is the point of a game, to 
 just be fun. Only hitches so far, poor early controls and the mini-games lack difficulty. Temporarily 
 I'm stamping Spore with 8.02 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  From the minute I first saw Spore, all the stuff I read about it, all the youtube videos of it, 
 all this hype, I was so so excited for this game.
  
  And then the day came and it was finally here. I only waited about 2-3 years.
  
  And then I 
 started playing... The following is a brief summary of the stages and gameplay and may contain 
 minor spoilers.
  
  Stage 1-
  The "pacman" stage. You are a tiny cell eating meat, plants, or other cells. That's it, nothing 
 more. But it is somewhat fun. Lasts about 15 minutes or so.
  
  Stage 2-
  Creature stage. I was most excited for this stage. But all it is is you running around either "impressing" 
 other creatures by dancing, singing, etc. or by killing them. Not much to it at all. Very repetitive, 
 not so much fun.
  
  Stage 3-
  Tribal stage. Just as before only you get a little crew to help you along. The idea is the same, 
 either "impress" other tribes or destroy them. It is just too repetitive and mind numbing. No strategy 
 or thinking required.
  
  Stage 4-
  Civilization. By far the worst stage. All you do is build a few cars and go dominate the other 
 cities. There is a little variety on how you do this, by buying the cities, forcing your "religion" 
 on them, or destroying them. This requires a tiny bit of thinking, but still not enough to keep 
 you engaged.
  
  Stage 5-
  Space stage. The biggest let down of the game. This was supposed to be brilliant. It is overly 
 complicated and annoying doing the tasks. You've played ever stage hoping each one gets better, 
 but this is the end.
  
  This is where you realize the game didn't live up to any of the hype it received.
  
  
  Overall, 
 the game is a huge let down. Which is sad because I know they put a ton of work into it. It sounds 
 so fun and good on paper, but actually playing it is not so much. I'm very disappointed in it. 
 I rate this game a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  So on the 7th I rushed down to Game Stop where I put the game on reserve back in July. I have been 
 watching and wait for this game since 2005 or something like that. Installation went smooth and 
 everything seemed perfect..... Until I tried the register the game to my spore. com account.
  
  EA really messed up on this one. For what ever reason, the game has the registration code and 
 will not register the game. Meaning that you can't use any of the online features. I tried a re-install 
 but no joy on that. I looked up the problem online and the whole world has the same problem. I 
 have the regular edition which has fewer problems then the Galactic edition. What is dumb about 
 this is that my friend got it the some day and he COULD register it. I guess it was the luck of 
 the draw. EA has a solution, to delete the login. prop file. I did that but still didn't let me 
 register. At least I can play the game offline which isn't so bad but the point of the game is 
 to interact online.
  
  Despite the registration problem, the game is awesome. It does go by a bit fast. I am already on 
 the civilization stage. But the replay value is great and also the fact that there are many planets 
 to start on. I can't wait to start the civ. stage.... making vehicles and junk. 
  
  The game is simple and fun and is meant to be accessible to many walks of life. The retards that 
 gave this game a score of 1.0 or something like that have no clue about the purpose of the game. 
 I hope EA gets its act together and fixes the problem.
  
  ASUS M2Ne MoBo
  2.8 Ghz AMD 64 Athlon x2
  2 GB RAM
  XFX nVidia 256 MB 7600GT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graymic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I found this game very enjoyable and managed to get to the space stage 3/4 times within the course 
 of the night, i found it quite quick as i was rushing through to see what kinda race i wanted. 
 Anywho finally settling with a two legged parrot species i found it quite an enjoyable game. Trying 
 to unlock everything doesn't seem like a chore as it is a constant flowing game which is good fun. 
 However only thing i didn't enjoy was at the space stage not being able to properly leave the spacecraft, 
 sure you can hologram yourself down. But this isn't near as fun as running around the whole of 
 the cityies and lava planets. But it really starts to get challenging in the space stage. The replayability 
 in this game is sure to keep you going for a good few months and if your like me longer!
  very good game, i would like to see space stations and underwater creations in the future :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbysmith
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Concept: The premise of the game is rather interesting. You guide a species of creature that you 
 design, from single cell all the way into the future for space exploration. You can make the creature 
 look and act any way you like. Very cool.
  
  Gameplay: Not very original ideas here. Each phase of the game is done in a different style which 
 you'll quickly recognize. However, the presentation is top notch, and it's actually rather fun. 
 You won't say to yourself, "Oh no not another ______ knockoff." As a whole, the game is a blast 
 to play. The game itself isn't terribly hard, but it's fun.
  
  Audio/Video: The presentation is very high quality, from the environments, creature design, sound 
 effects and the like. 
  
  Technical/Stability: Haven't had any problems running this game on my XP system. From installation 
 through playing the game I've had perfect results.
  
  DRM: My main OS is Linux, so perhaps I'm a bit more against it than the average gamer, but the 
 current trend with game publishers and copy protection is getting to the point where its borderline 
 insane. In effect, you're just renting the game. You're only allowed a couple installations, after 
 that you have to call and beg them to get permission to play the game you paid for. In theory, 
 it's probably not so bad, but if you wind up reinstalling/changing your operating system or the 
 like you're in for problems. First thing I did after finding this out is to install the crack. 
 Yes, I actually bought the game then got a crack for it. (I've also done this with BioShock, UT3, 
 and the like) That's sad. Some people might not care about what their system is doing or who it's 
 sending data to; I do.
  
  That aside, Spore is a fun game that should keep you busy for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  This game is great, simple and refreshing. From game store shelves where there is mostly historical 
 games, action, rts, rpg, sports and so on... finally onw of "those" games that is original.
  
  This game is good and funny from the moment you start playing it. Is is done to keep gameplay 
 simple, and entertaining to suit all ages and gamer types. One of the big aspects of this game 
 is the creation tools... one of the, or THE most complete, yet simple, creative tools you will ever 
 be able to play with. You will just take an hour to think and create your units until you are pleased 
 with it. Putting that aside, i personnaly feel that each phase are lacking depth compare to the 
 type of gameplay it wants it to be. 
  
  Once you played a phase, there is mostly no reason to go back to it, except to try it out with 
 a religious approach or economical. The space age is the most "wide" as of gameplay, and personnaly 
 the most entertaining. Playing as space age with my units, and remembering playing with the cell 
 and the evolution of my race is what makes it so special.
  
  Game may run on mostly all recent computers, and 2-3 year old ones. Simple, fun.. nothing hardcore 
 with real strategy to it even on tribal or civilization stage. This game is exactly what i was 
 expecting, its just that playing feels a little bit unsatisfying compared to those ideas on paper. 
 
  
  Overall this game is something original that most devellopers wont even try to make, falling into 
 generic games that mostly fall flat. This game as achieved something others didnt, but limited 
 in the choices or actions you can have within its phases is what hurts it. Something it is not 
 limited is its creative tools, but having total freedom on your creations but limited in their 
 gameplay is what makes me lowering its score.
  
  Overal gameplay good... but everything else Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Spore is everything I could have wished for. I won't go over the five stages, but I can say the 
 first two are gems. The problem is that the first two stages are so good the last three can't compare. 
 However, don't get me wrong the last three are good, but you just don't get that amazing feeling 
 that you got playing the first two. 
  
  I sat enamored for 8 hours straight in front of my computer screen thinking of how proud my 7th 
 grade science teacher would be of Spore. Watching your single cell organism grow into many multi-celled 
 organisms bent on world domination is one of the most satisfying feelings you can get in a video 
 game. I fondly remember when I didn't equip my creature with eyes and spent my time wondering around 
 with almost no sense of directionBut that was the past and now this is the future. Now, my Spotted 
 Galxite is ready for space exploration!
  
  I appreciate the Spore creators making religion, economics and military the three main ways of 
 controlling your world. Any atheist or agnostic will have a "special" attachment to Spore that 
 most fanatics won't be able to appreciate. 
  
  The real gem about Spore is looking at creations of other users while you play the game. The creativeness 
 of some users is amazing and the simplicity of others is well very "minimalist". Other users' massive 
 creatures roam the country side looking for their next meal making all the little creatures run 
 in terror. 
  
  I could go on but I will leave you with this conclusion. The first two stages of Spore are a fantastic 
 journey. While the other three are great, but let me make this comparison. Think of the levels 
 of Spore as the Star Wars movies. The first three were great which could be compared to the first 
 two stages of Spore. While the last three were good, but because the first three were so epic the 
 new ones couldn't compare.
  
  Do yourself a favor and pick up a copy of Spore you will not be disappointed. Don't let the negative 
 reviews fool you this is a great game. Go ahead haters click the thumbs down you don't know what 
 you are missing.
  
  
  P. S. You guys wondering why SPORE is getting such low ratings take a look at this link http://www. pcmag. com/article2/0,2704,2329934,00. asp
 
  Judge a game not its producers...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someone_Kill_Me
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Spore is great, especially for those sim lovers out there. It's great for kids too, lets them explore 
 their creativity in a fun environment. The only complaint I can make is that the game seems a bit 
 short and a little too easy. I know you can stick in the space stage for quite awhile, but the 
 stages leading up to it could've been a bit longer or more challenging. Otherwise, I see no other 
 problems, the game is virtually bug-free except for a few issues with certain graphics cards (one 
 of which I happen to have -.-) . For those with the cards that do have the stretched out texture 
 issues, the only fix I've found so far is by setting the desktop resolution and the game resolution 
 to 1024X768 and keep the refresh rates the same also.
  
  All in all, a great game that appeals to a variety of gamers and a definite great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixou
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Spore delivers in many aspects. It has a great idea, great creation tools, very good art direction 
 and a rock solid graphics engine. But that is where it ends.
  
  Watching the Special Edition goodies (DVDs, Books) and following the in-progress reports over the 
 years it is obvious that Maxis had an abundance of great ideas to make a deep and rewarding game 
 out of Spore. The many iterations of the creation tools best exemplify that.
  
  This also means however that they decided conciously to eventually make a very simple and casual 
 game (admittedly to drive mass market sales) which is in reality no more than a sandbox for the 
 already released creature editor and a browser for other players creations (space stage) . 
  
  Gameplay thus is quickliy getting uninteresting, decisions are almost meaningless, and failure 
 (in the challenge sense) is practically impossible. In The Sims (a game Maxis often cites as reference) 
 there was always the need to balance a couple of stats through your Sim's day. In Spore too there 
 are a couple of stats like health and hunger. But they never affected the game, as a stage either 
 complete before the stat falls too low, or the "punishment" of a drop to zero was instant respawn 
 with maximum stats.
  
  With a little more depth this could have been a very nice "trial & error" challenge. Kinda what 
 Evolution is all about. Try this combination of parts... see if you can survive the hostile world... 
 add more offensive abilities: makes you more hungry... cant find prey... fail... That with endless 
 variations and the endlessly different creatures from other players would have made every playthrough 
 a world of new fun.
  
  But all the shortcuts and lack of penalty make the experience booring and ultimately a sandbox 
 in the literal sense.
  
  In addition to that many other disapointments have been mentioned:
  - Choices in the creation 
 editor become more and more meaningless as the game progresses
  - Controls are sometimes awkward (space phase)
  - Gameplay is repetitive, becomes boring
  - 
 Too little use of the massively singleplayer concept
  - Lack of depth
  - DRM issues
  
  The positive as i see it:
  - Very cute and charming
  - Nice online concept
  - Casual friendly
 
  - Creative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycorus
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 8, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Oh my, its so boring. Already sold the game! Evolution? At every stage you can change a cow into 
 a bird! 
  The only fun is when you need to be creative, but its about... 2% of the game? Because of those 
 creators i gave huge 2.0. 
  I cant see where's the fun. 
  First step - its pac man 2d.
  Second step - its pac man 3d.
  Third and other steps - its worse than any rts. You cant even 
 move your troops properly. Every stage you can finish in about an hour!
  
  If you have seen pre-released creators pack than you have seen everything. Just stick to it :)
 
  
  Dont buy it, you will loose your money. If you bought it - sell it when you can :) 
  I sold the game to a person who was The Sims fan and now he hates me. The protection is so crappy 
 that he cant even sell it now : ( EA must really dont like customers. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  spore, introduced a long time ago
  when the e3 was still boobs&games
  but now: its finally here, but what it worth the wait?
  
  playing this game for quite a while 
 now, playing every phase a couple times, it starts to feel a bit... well.... limited
  
  its all you'd expect there to be, a whole evolution
  but every aspect of it is far to short, 
 it lacks the big "wow i could play this forever" feel to it
  
  lets take the creature phase for example, you just got out of the cel phase and are running around 
 with your tiny tiny little creature, eating stuff and explorering the region around your nest
 
  you keep doing this, untill you eventually get that message "hey your brain is big enough, lets 
 go make a tribe"
  and you either think 2 things, "lets get outa here" "im not done yet"
  i did the latter, it still missed half of the parts
  so i just went on playing the creature phase... untill 
 i ran out of content to play
  my creature was done, i killed almost everything
  but now that thing hit "was that it???"
  this feeling persists througout the entire game... phases 
 themselves are really short, there is no place but the space phase that lasts any longer then an 
 hour if you play it at the pace the game sets it to be
  
  in my ipinion the only thing that really works well is the first half of the space phase, after 
 that it just gets really annoying with "your colony is under attack" "kill infected creature X"
 
  
  my conclusion to this game is, its fun for a while
  but it has to many limitations to truly be a creative game
  its charm is from the editors, but 
 those are still limited by the relatively small number of parts
  you got this great idea, but the editor lacks the parts to make it happen
  its a fun game to 
 play for a week, it will probably draw you back with expansions
  but it lacks the addictive factor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charles-o
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  this game is too easy, I wish than ea or maxi or the community of spore create a mod to change 
 the diffculty of the game and do a patch to add an online playing !!!
  
  but anyway the game got some good part, in tribal mode. first of all this stade of the game is 
 very imertive it's a mixe of strategie game and a social game like in the sims ,the problme is 
 than it's a good mixe but it's only , an strategie game and sim style. to those who begin to play 
 this style of game . the civilisation mode is interesting but the same probleme is to blame!! it's 
 a good game but after awhile he become repetitif and the first stade is boring and the second stade 
 could be better!! IT'S AN REASON FOR CREATE A MOD :) LOL BUT ANYWAY ITS A GOOD GAME after all X)
 
  
  PS: IF YOU WANT GO SEE MY PROFILE PROULX ON SPORE GIVE me your opignion!! rated my stuff YOUR CHOICE:) x) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Spore was worth the wait. It's an awesome game with tons of possibilities for the player. The whole 
 "create what you want" aspect is revolutionary. Nods to Garrysmod which probably had a hand in 
 bringing this game to light.
  The animations and details of the characters/creatures is neat. You will find yourself laughing 
 at the A. I. or starring is amazement as what's being done. This is good stuff. The controls may 
 take some time getting used to. Specifically the camera angles. The game also "stutters". Not sure 
 if it's my computer or the game engine. This can all be fixed in a patch. A worthy addition to 
 any RTS fan Spore is a strong contender for RTS or strategy game of the year. If not, the last 
 decade.
  I picked up the Galactic Edition and it was a worthy buy. Some great stuff is included such as 
 "The Art Of Spore". This special edition set is nicely crafted with one of the best special edition 
 boxes ever made. Go buy Spore today, and don't say i didn't warn you about it being addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technowiz999
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this review short and sweet because I want to get back to playing Spore.
  
  I'll start off by agreeing with most people that the game can become repetitive, is extremely 
 easy, and has rather uninspiring gameplay. However, this games deserves at least a 8 even from 
 the most critical standpoints. 
  
  To answer the complaints above the game is not made for hardcore gamers, it is designed to be a 
 very family friendly game. I think over the years gamers have become very elitist and seem to think 
 of themselves as better then casual gamers. Just think back to Wright's brainchild; The Sims. The 
 gameplay was not significantly challenging, the graphics were not awe inspiring, and it become 
 repetitive incredibly fast. And yet you see people still playing it today by even the hardest-core 
 gamers and you may wonder why? Because it is and was original. It created a mixed sense of maternal 
 instinct and godlike power. Simply going to work everyday, coming home and eating, reading to improve 
 your cooking skill to get that promotion, and then going to bed just to start all over again... not 
 that exciting. Throw in the power to control that environment and mold it how you choose... EXCITING.
 
  
  Spore has never been toted for its gameplay, its graphics, its difficulty, or anything else. It 
 has been brought as a creative tool that allows you to create a living being and interact with 
 it. Create something from your wildest dreams, or the ultimate fighting machine. It is up to you.
 
  
  I have even seen reviews where the controls from spore are made fun of for being too easy and childlike. 
 Would you like Maxis to make them unusable? Would one prefer to sit there searching through dozens 
 of "file edit view" type menus? To me these are the easiest and most effective tools I have ever 
 used. I wish programs like photoshop were this simple. Granted the tools are limited, but their 
 can only be so much customization before it becomes cluttered and is difficult to use for the average 
 user, like many modern programs. Besides, what more could one possibly want to do with the creators? 
 If you can't create whatever your trying to it is probably because you have a severe creative deficiency. 
 Simply go through the Sporepedia and look at all the incredible creatures. The only problem I have 
 found with the controls is that I can't paint things exactly how I would like to and I can't get 
 some limbs to behave as I would like them to (such as a stinger on a tail)
  
  I am rambling though. Overall the game is brilliant and sets a new stage for the world of simulation 
 gaming. The gameplay probably isn't as strong as it could be and there is too much room left for 
 crappy expansions like The Sims, so that is why this game is brought down to a 9 (8.8 if I could) . 
 Feel free to send me a message if you disagree for some reason and I would be happy to discuss, 
 not argue, with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is pathetic. The best thing about it is the huge amount of different and creative creations 
 (creatures, buildings, vehicles, etc) . For a game that's suppose to be about evolution, it's filled 
 with nonsense mechanics like picking up parts from the ground. Was the target audience toddlers?
 
  
  The various stages of the game feels like they was made just to showcase the creations (like an 
 art gallery) . Each game is almost identical to others, so there's very little replay value. The 
 path take during each evolution stage makes no significant difference during later stages.
  
  The final stage, space, is not as fun as the rest. Instead of being like an empire management 
 game, it's a space trading game. You fly around, trade goods, and upgrade. However, instead of 
 focusing on your personal gains, you're constantly forced to also manage your empire through your 
 ship. You have to fly around worlds to build colonies, defend worlds, attack enemies, and terraform.
 
  
  The space stage is so tedious because there's always an enemy attack or ecological disaster, so 
 there's no time to do what you want. The space stage should be about ruling an empire, not being 
 the maid of the galaxy.
  
  There's also way too much life in space. After a few hours into the stage, every world becomes 
 colonizable and your area of space will be home to at least 20 different races. It seems like the 
 entire stage was made to show all the various creations in the sporepedia.
  
  The game is so repetitive that, once the novelty wore off, I completely lost all interest in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie785
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  whoa this game is epic ... like really epic
  
  i played this game so much, made it to space with 5 different creatures, all starting from cell 
 stage
  
  each stage has something awesome about it...
  
  because this game is like whoa, epic
  
  crazy awesome, i love it
  
  please make more, i 
 want expansion packs
  
  underwater would be nice
  
  i like whoa this game is epic ... like really epic crazy awesome, i love it please make more
 
  
  diabolical penis monster owns ur moms hut. if u know what i mean LOL
  
  the next time i kill someone im ganna say that out load today right now
  
  BOOM HEAD SHOT PWND
 
  
  holy crap i can't wait for more of this
  
  ganna be like whoa
  
  oooooooooosnap
  
  love it
  
  aaaaarrrrggggg
  
  space can suck my unit
  
  i like whoa this game is 
 epic ... like really epic crazy awesome, i love it please make more
  
  whitespace is awesome
  
  please give me a spam can opener in space
  
  i like to eat spore
 
  
  from a can
  
  in space
  
  i waited for this for 5 years what what 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Haven't really played Spore yet except for the Creature Creator. However I did pick up my copy 
 of the Galactic Edition today. Two comments need to be made:
  
  1. The GE packaging is fantastic! The case alone is a work of art.
  
  2. I want my $10 refunded 
 for the now rendered useless Creature Creator!
  
  But I shall reserve full judgement until I've played it for at least a week or so. If the CC was 
 any indication Spore the complete game should be fun and not lacking in the imaginative creation 
 category. Or is it the lack of imagination considering how many fallic-designed entities were uploaded 
 during the CC marathon? But I am happy with the GE. I am looking forward to viewing the 'making 
 of' disc as well as the National Geographic documentary that is included. Who says games are uneducational?
 
  
  Now where's that $10 refund? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elijah1992
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  And finally the day arrived, gone to the shop, bought the game.
  
  Installing the annoying ea manager and finally started playing.
  I was so excited finally I had 
 the main menu in front of me.
  
  But then unfortunately I started playing.
  
  Yes I agree making the creatures, adding all those parts, it's fun. But it ends adding just the 
 parts you need not really caring how the creature look like. You can put 10horns or just one it 
 will be the same attack value. 
  
  The most fun I had was the first stage, the pac-man stage, where even though the game was repetitive 
 it was fresh and fun.
  
  The other stages (maybe the creatures is another stage that I can stand) pretend to be complex, 
 with a wonderful depth, but it ends being too easy and really really really boring.
  I laughed thinking about the previews where the creators told us that diplomacy in the civilization 
 age was really important and well created. It's just "Declare war" and nothing else is important. 
 Having more than a city doesn't really help cos you could take an empire of 10cities with just 
 one. The fastest player pressing the "Create vehicle" botton is the winner.
  
  And then the biggest disappointment The space stage.
  It asks you to create an environment so 
 a planet can be used as a colony but you just have to stole some plants and animals and that's 
 it. There's no connection between the plants are poisonous for that species of erbivores, nothing!!! 
 Just use the atmosphere machine, three plants and two animals and that's it you have a planet.
 
  And every two second you have to defend your planet from bandits or ecological disasters. Oh my 
 god, like the whole empire has just one little stupid spacecraft.
  
  It's the classic maxis "So for children, no depth" game.
  Really all those days waiting for this 
 game were wasted.
  I thought it could be fantastic, but it has left a strange bitter taste in my mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joaovpo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Spore, a game where you play alot of phases. Let me explain then to you.
  
  Cell Phase - This is a 2D game, where you play as a cell and have to eat, and survive from the 
 other bigger cells. A fun "minigame".
  
  Creature Phase - Here you control one of your creatures you can create with alot of customization, 
 this plays like an RPG. You make friends, enemies, make a group with your friends, go out hunting, 
 survive from the bigger creatures.
  
  Tribal Phase - This is now an RTS. You control a small tribe, you can build things, weapons if 
 you want to kill the other tribes, or musical instruments if you want to ally with them. Here you 
 control up to 12 of your creatures, you send them to attack and to gather food from wild creatures 
 or fish.
  
  Civilization Phase - Still and RTS, but this time it changes a little. You no longer control your 
 creatures, you just build up your town and control your vehicles. There can be only one type of 
 each vehicle, one that walks the earth, one that walks the water, and one that walks the air. Your 
 civilization will change depending on how you acted when your were tribal, you can be a militar 
 civilization that will destroy towns, an economic cilization that will trade with everyone, get 
 rich, and buy all the town or a religous folk, that preachs and convert the towns to your cause.
 
  
  Space Phase - Here you control a starship. It is like some space adventure game. You fly around, 
 make friends, enemies, explore, shape planets, etc.
  
  - Now, Spore is a fun game, but it is alot of games but not deep. The "RPG" phase, is a simple 
 rpg, the RTS's phases are simple RTS's, the "Adventure" Phase is a simple adventure game. It is 
 fun but simple. One of the GREAT things about this game are the creators. You can shape the body 
 the way you want, put how many eyes mouths, arms, legs you want AND shape them the way you want.
 
  
  So Spore, is a fun game you should try out - but do not expect a superb masterpiece game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all I was kind of annoyed that there wasn't a cool cinematic intro. Especially after the 
 cool music in the online videos and stuff. Ok, a minor point, but combined with the EA Store direct 
 download not allowing play until 10am on release day kinda set the mood for me.
  
  So I'm only into the creature stage so far, but everyone talks about how great it is compared to 
 the later stages. But so far (halfway through) I'm finding it really quite tedious.
  
  And it's just crazy that the game lacks basic features like being able to re-map keyboard commands 
 or invert mouse-look. Ok, maybe I only represent 1% of the player community as someone who always 
 has the mouse inverted and who always uses QWES rather than WASD, but the entire experience is 
 completely frustrating due to the controls never doing what I want and the camera tilting the wrong 
 way.
  
  Supposedly you get some control customization but not until later stages. Complete crazy.
  
 
  Spore is an impressive tech-demo, but I suspect its "game play" is going to appeal strongly to 
 about 10% of its players. There's a really cool game engine here just waiting for someone to come 
 up with a fun game to implement in it.
  
  G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irelevent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The game was overall fun. i enjoyed most stages (other than cell) . However their should have been 
 an option to stay in one stage and advance it further for that stage. (actually getting to play 
 an epic creature maybe) . overall i think portions of the game was shaved off thanks to ea's money-grubbing 
 little fingertips, Expect 5 sequels within the next 3 years. (that's a real prediction from me, 
 remember that!)
  
  But i'm not here to talk about how their was too much hype about this game, or whether or not EA 
 is a terrible money-grubbing company that comes out with terrible games (Or ends up destroying 
 games that they publish, (spore) . Or how they buy licenses to sports teams/leagues so that they 
 are the only option for a fans fix (Madden) . 
  
  I'm here to talk about the game. Overall the game could have been better. It's actually pretty 
 good. And expect a bunch of sequels. It was scaled down last minute by EA so that EA could make 
 extra money in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetankfrank
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are terrible, Gameplay is repetative and boring. Throughout the stages you find yourself 
 hoping the next one is better because you arent having any fun. Only to find the whole game isnt 
 fun. I feel bad for the developers for wasting apparently 6 years on this game? So we could spend 
 6 hours. lol, We'll at least they should make good money off it. If you still want to buy this 
 game give it 3 months it will be down to 20$. If this game gets any better it will only be through 
 a series of 30$ expansions. Which if its anything like the Sims there will be.
  
  So unless there is some egg that has yet to be found in the game, I am convinced it is terrible. 
 Not worth 50$ and should have been 30$ even then, your probably better off with Black and White 
 1. That would definatly keep your interest alot longer. The graphics are probably better as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeasle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I love SimCity, the Sims, and just about everything that Will Wright and Maxis have ever done. 
 So I had high hopes for Spore.
  
  Spore just doesn't live up to the hype. I played the "hard" setting because I had heard how easy 
 the game was. There were some challenges, but not many. In the space stage, my home planet was 
 constantly attacked. It was easy to fight off the attack, but it was a pain to keep returning to 
 my home planet. 
  
  There are a few redeeming qualities. The game is charming. The graphics are colorful. And it runs 
 well on most systems. My system is about 3 years old and it runs great on medium graphics settings. 
 That impressed me because Sims 2 and the SimCity: Rush Hour use a lot of resources. I guess there 
 isn't much information to process in Spore.
  
  I will probably replay the game at some point. But not right now. I think the game is boring and 
 I wish I had spent fifty dollars on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doanm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Before Reading: Do note that my true score for the game would be 8.3. Gamespot only lets you move 
 the slider up by increments of a rigid .5 unfortunately.
  
  
  After a good 2-3 year wait, Will Wright finally gives us Spore on this fateful Fall season. I was 
 first enticed from a staged demo which featured all the cool stuff that Spore had to offer (missing 
 from the game that was featured in the 05 demo was the sea creature phase) . Today, after those 
 years of waiting, I finally spent a good part of the day playing through the game. But i shouldn't 
 get ahead of myself. First, if your wondering what Spore is, its an "evolution game" where you 
 create your own creature, and grow it from a microscopic cell to a potential galactic empire, over 
 5 different phases. These phases, which consist of different gameplay elements are as follows:
 
  
  Cell Stage
  Creature Phase
  Tribal Phase
  Civilization Phase
  Galactic Phase
  
  While i may not have completed creature phase (my sister was playing cell and creature) , I did 
 manage to upload a previously made creature of mine into Tribal Phase and go from there where i 
 blitzed to Galactic Phase. My experiences and perceptions were as follows:
  
  Cell Stage:
  The cell stage is the very first stage that you will play should you wish to go 
 the honest route. Your cell creature is born from a series of falling meteorites from the sky that 
 fell into the sea of a habitable planet. From these ruins emerges your single cellular creature, 
 so open and vulnerable to the dangers of the primordial pool. The objective is simply this. Eat, 
 eat and grow based on your preferences (you choose whether or not to go a carnivorous or herbivorous 
 route before you begin) while trying to survive in a pool where the bigger creatures threaten to 
 eat you. Controls are extremely intuitive as all you really have to do is drag the mouse to control 
 your creature. As you eat, you can go a custom creator menu that allows you to buy and adjust new 
 parts that you gain through the food you eat (treated as income) . This single stage is really the 
 most intimidating and frightful part of the game. I've had moments where my heart was thumping 
 whenever i was being chased by a carnivore that was far more massive then my little helpless cell 
 who was struggling to survive. As this game goes on you will max out your food meter which gives 
 your creature the queue to grow legs and finally walk on land. At this point the experience of 
 the game was extremley fresh considering how unique the experience was.
  
  Creature Phase:
  Your creature will finally walk on land along with a series of other creatures 
 that are like yours. Remember that the ultimate task of the game is to continue evolving until 
 you hit the galactic phase, so like in the cell phase, you are expected to fill up a certain meter 
 in order to move on to the next phase. This meter however will not be filled up with food. Rather, 
 it is your interactions with the unique animal life on land that will fill the meter should you 
 choose to ally with them by socializing or by aggressively rampaging through them in a feral rage. 
 My sister who was playing this took the hippy route. That is, she socialized with every creature 
 possible. Socializing and your creatures ability to socialize is based on key features that your 
 creation has. Should you wish you to access this all you simply have to do is walk up to your own 
 nest, make a mating call to find a mate (what else) and open up the creature creator. There is a 
 great amount of diversity of parts to choose from in this mode which unfortunately is stymied by 
 the fact that parts to choose from are limited and can only be unlocked through interaction with 
 other animals or by simply stumbling upon them when exploring the world around you. Friendly interactions 
 are simple enough. All you have to do is go up to a different creature fill up a "impression meter"by 
 simply copying the other animals social moves (you can choose from pose, dance, charm and sing) . Its 
 not entirely that simple as more complex creatures require a better level of existing skill sets 
 so charming them may fail. My sister has yet to finish this route so i'll simply leave it at that. 
 So far the game is shaping up decently enough even if the chore of charming animals can whittle 
 at you a bit.
  
  Tribal Phase:
  This is the part where I was actually playing the game rather then watching from screen as to what 
 my sister is doing. Before this game was released a free creature creator was given to the people 
 to make their own creatures, the results of this was astounding to put it lightly as over 2 million 
 creations have manged to fill up the servers in less then a few months after release. One of those 
 just so happen to be mine and they are no more then the cheesy spin off of a Doctor Who race who 
 I call the Sontar Hams (if your not a whovian then you won't know just who exactly i'm weakly parodying) . The 
 Tribal phase begins inside a small village with a small hut and a small mob of your own guys. This 
 is the point of the game where things start playing more like a real time strategy game, which 
 suits my taste just fine. After all, i'm a really huge strategy game fan. For the less RTS inclined 
 though you simply control a multiple group of units via mouse clicks where you gather food to keep 
 your tribe alive and can choose whether to attack or socialize with the neigboring tribes who are 
 in there own villages or huts. Typical of me, I take the aggressive route and kill all the neighboring 
 tribes. Its actually quite simple to play this part of the game. You build huts for weapons and 
 foods, equip your tribe members and just let them go perform there assigned jobs. This is the part 
 where the strategy elements seem a bit shallow. Mainly because of the really low amount of units 
 that you can have along with extreme limitations on base building (the game caps you on how many 
 buildings you can have in your village) . Whilst i was taking the agressive military stance, i managed 
 to wipe out each village fast enough through destroying every hut that i possibly encounter. At 
 the end of this phase you get a cute cutscene where your tribe is discussing establishing a civilization. 
 Speech bubbles pop up over your creatures with a little picture and your creatures will agree with 
 that general view. The little pic in my creatures speech bubble was one of a nuclear explosion. 
 Not surprising there considering that I was too busy killing everyone to socialize with them. It 
 feels like the weakest part of the game to be certain, but it still holds on its own but not by 
 much. But hey, why don't you guys play and socialize in tribal mode. I would not have any idea, 
 but it could be more fun then just killing everyone off.
  
  Civilization phase:
  This was actually a phase in the game that I managed to eat through the fastest. It basically become 
 more of a real time strategy game with some more depth to it that made it seem interesting. Simply 
 enough, your obviously a civilization that starts off in a small city. This is the part of the 
 game where more of the creator editors open up to introduce the abiltiy to make your own air vehcile, 
 land vehicle, sea vehicle and even buildings (city hall, housing sector, factory sector, entertainment 
 sector) . You can build these buildings at each one of your city which will determine your cities 
 happiness level and productivity. Don't be phased by this, its a hundred times easier to play this 
 mode then lets say: Sim City, or dare I say: Sim City: Societies. Considering that your previous 
 actions allow you to dominate the entire continent, your own species are pretty much the most numerous 
 over all the planet. They are however not close to united just yet which is what you will have 
 to strive for: Uniting the 12 cities scattered throughout the planet. As usual you can take the 
 diplomatic route or the military route. The diplomatic route lets you win cities by doing thier 
 side quest. But should you want, you can start to build an economic city, establish trade with a 
 rival city and buy it out. This is NOT the route i took. I felt that my creatures theme needed 
 to be persistent so considering the man of conviction that i am, i went the military route, built 
 all kinds of naval vessels, air vehicles and land vehicles and simply steam rolled over every single 
 city. Each city you conquer (or buy) will be officially your own and you may be able to control 
 what you build in that newly owned city. You should watch out though, if you took the city from 
 a small empire, your diplomatic relations with that faction will go sour. Diplomacy is really simple 
 actually and very easy to pick up. You can establish communication with a city and talk with them 
 via a series of dialogue options to choose from. They mostly range from buying the guys friendship, 
 to throwing insults" or making trade demands from them. Quick mention before I go on, resource 
 gather is extremely simplified to a smoking crate emitting orange smoke called Spice which gathered, 
 generates revenue. Unlike the tribal phase you can control alot more vehicles which was actually 
 contributory to the ease of which i steamrolled the planet.
  
  Galactic Phase:
  I've not much to say on this as i've only started. The game goes back to an adventure mode type 
 where you fly around the spaceship exploring the cosmos. This is the part of the game that really 
 opens up and has the most depth. I can tell for myself actually even if i've only gone as far as 
 5 different star systems. In fact if you zoom out even further with the mouse wheel, theres a whole 
 freaking galaxy to explore! Galactic phase is also simple enough, you fly around in a single spaceship 
 completing quest or looking out for them from the members of your own planet seeking to make a 
 name for itself out in the galaxy. This part of the game plays a whole lot more like an RPG as 
 you can collect parts to upgrade your spaceship and unlock new and cool abilities that let you 
 terraform entire planets, drop new colonies on them and hell, should you wish, destroy a freaking 
 planet (i've not gone this far yet though) . The little things i tried were as follows:
  
  -Played around with the laser beam and started zapping helpless tribes of animals
  -used the 
 tractor beam to fling animals around. Really fun,
  -had a little space battle with a hostile alien race and zapped it down with missiles.
  
  I 
 can't say much else on this mode just yet seeing how i have not played enough of it. So far the 
 thing I can say about Spore is that while it does use very familiar gameplay mechanics, the summation 
 of all those elements into one highly accessible and well optimized game makes this for a very 
 good game to play that could last you hours worth of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper0321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Spore is a nice game. It just lacks content to most of the players. Since we can safely say that 
 we are all hype when they announced it, it turns out that it is a major disappointment to others.
 
  
  Spore has 5 different stages, stages that we can say different to each other. Or is it?
  
  - First stage is all about you being a single tiny cell fighting your way up to the "Cell Hierarchy". 
 You need to eat and eventually kill other cells to survive. You can add or remove additional parts 
 from your cell to increase the chance of it surviving in this place. And you can also mate with 
 other cells (similar to your cell) to spawn more cell. 
  
  - Second stage is different. You are now evolved into a new formed. You gained the ability to fly/glide (required 
 wings) , walk/run (required legs/feet) , and much more. This time, you are going to meet many different 
 creatures, they're either friendly or hostile to you. Its all up to you if you want to be friend 
 with them or wipe their race of creature from this planet. Like in the first stage you can mate 
 to spawn more of your creatures. On this stage you are given a full choice of customizing the looks 
 of your creature. From the cosmetic looks to some other stuff, it's all up to you. This is important 
 since you can't modify the looks of your creature on the next stage (I might be wrong) . 
  
  - Third stage is an interesting one. The camera change into an RTS like footage. You are now on 
 tribal stage. It is kind of the same as the Second Stage since you will meet more tribal's as you 
 go to your adventure. It is completely up to you if you want to make them as your ally or wipe 
 them out from the face of the planet. You also gained the ability to erect different buildings. 
 The buildings are added when you be friended or wipe other tribal's. You can assign your followers 
 to do a certain task for your village. For example you can assign 2 followers as fisherman and 
 2 followers as an Axeman. 
  
  - Fourth stage is nothing new. Ever played civilization? Yeah it's like that. You are given a city 
 and your goal is to conquer all the cities on this planet by either destroying them by military 
 means, converting their city to your belief, or use your money to buy their city. It is completely 
 up to you. The developers added some humor in to this stage but I am not gonna spoil that. You 
 are given a chance of designing your own buildings and vehicles. The design is completely up to 
 you but you can choose one of the premade vehicles or buildings made by Maxis. This is help full 
 if you get bored easily like me. 
  
  - Fifth and final stage (For now) is the space stage. Your creatures are now able to explore the 
 far reach of the universe. You are given a task of colonizing other planets and looking for other 
 aliens. You are now the captain of a space ship made by your creatures. This spaceship is equipped 
 with state of the art gadgets made possible by your creatures. You will encounter many alien races 
 while you undergo your task of expanding your colony. You can either be friend with them or wipe 
 them. You can also get quests from them too. 
  Explore! Explore! Explore... Wait, is that Earth?. 
  
  
  That's basically Spore in a nutshell. 
 Also before I forgot, you are given a brief history/summary of the stage each time you finished 
 them. The game will ranked you depends on what you did on that stage. 
  
  Unless EA is going to release more contents in the near future, this game is just another game 
 in the market. Sure it's fun making those creatures (It's relaxing) , but EA need to add more content 
 into the game. 
  
  This is just my review and opinion. I might be wrong but this is how I view the game. In the mean 
 time, back to my spaceship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  So for the last couple of years Spore has been hyped to a degree were we all thought it would be 
 the ultimate god game. Well it's here now so let's see how good this little game really is.
  
  The first thing that struck me like the smell of a dog turd were the graphics. They are definitely 
 last gen, what a bummer! I guess they wanted to keep it accessible for people with lower spec pc's 
 but I was expecting more. The things you create look great in the editors but in the actual game 
 world (s) a lot of details are lost. Luckily the actual graphical design is so good I kinda got 
 over that initial shock. And I must say that on my average pc (3ghz dual, 2gb ram, 8800gts 512) 
 it runs without hiccups on maximum settings in 1680*1050. So that's a relief as well.
  
  The second thing that struck me, but in a much more positive way was the soundtrack. It's incredibly, 
 amazingly good. The music never gets intrusive or annoying and it reacts to what you do in the 
 game. It even fades out when you alt-tab out of the game. The sound effects are also spot on. Only 
 minor complaint is that the alien jibberish gets a bit repetitive here and there.
  
  But enough about the audio-visual stuff. Non of that matters if the actual game is crap. But luckily 
 it isn't. It isn't the ultimate god game though. In some ways it's actually more a toy then a game. 
 Chances are that you'll end up spending more time in the various editors then playing the actual 
 game. There are two reasons for this. The editors are just good fun in the first place. The other 
 reason is that the game itself is too shallow sadly. It trows together a couple of genres but everything 
 is stripped down, especially the first stages. Again very accessible, but a bit disappointing for 
 veteran gamers.
  
  So don't expect too much from this game if you are going to get it. But if you want something different, 
 creative and not too difficult then Spore might be just the thing for you.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominator3333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  So.. You start as one-cell life form, to grow to one creature, then you can make other tribes your 
 friend, or eliminate them (that's 2 choices, and that reflects on what will game say you are, for instance, friendly 
 creature, or some blood thirsty beast) , but it won't effect your gameplay for later stages, because 
 you can go friendly with everyone in first 1-2-3 stages and then decide to destroy everything on 
 map...) and so it is till the last stage, in every stage you basically have only 2 choices which 
 i mentioned earlier in text... then you come to the final stage... when you have your little ship 
 and you go around the universe doing all kinds of boring quests... and that's it for this game.. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  And now what is so special about this game is.. that it is brilliant when it comes to game communities 
 because every creature, space ship, building you encounter will probably be totally different and 
 from other spore players, so you will probably meet lots of walking dicks and other perverted **** 
 you can enjoy in other people creativity..., btw.. you have to have original game, not copy because 
 there you will only encounter creating of maxis employees and some they took from creature creator 
 users..
  
  and if it wasn't for this i would give this game like 5-6/10 or so...
  
  this was my first review, hope you appreciate... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djorm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong on the score I gave this game, spore is actually a very fun game that will probably 
 take up most of your time when you get it. Like any good game, spore has its flaws. The flaw of 
 spore is it doesn't start in the space stage.
  
  When you first play this game and you enter the cell stage you are very excited and you start playing, 
 eating other creatures or plants. Then when you get to the creature stage you will start to notice 
 that the game has not changed too much, it is still mostly eating and with only 2 objectives, kill 
 or ally the tribes. That is basically it with the creature stage, there isn't much that I found 
 to be cool, other than you can fly. The creature stage is sorta like diablo except that you have 
 no spells, no extra quests and nothing else really. It's just ally or kill to proceed. 
  
  When you enter the tribal stage the view is changed into an rts type of game play and it is a nice 
 change from the single creature control, but then when you see the objectives you begin to question 
 whether or not this game is all that its was meant to be. (Objective, kill or ally the other tribes) 
 Even building your tribe is too easy, the buildings cost little, you can only put them in certain 
 spots and they build instantly. 
  
  When you enter the civ stage you are again given the options to kill, ally (buy) or convert to your 
 side. At this point I was getting pissed because the civ stage was like an advanced tribal stage 
 so i killed everyone with nukes when i got the chance.
  
  Now you get to enter the space stage, this is were the game gets interesting. You can kill enemies 
 or buy systems. You can go to an empty system with animals and make a colony. You can go to a system 
 with someone there, (who is in pre space) and kill them and colonize the planet. You can blow up 
 their planet if you want another one in the same solar system (only one sapient race per system, 
 and i haven't gotten planetary destroyer yet so i can't confirm this) You can place a monolith 
 and advance the creatures to space and then ally them. If you have multiple saved games you can 
 go to one of your saved planets from another saved game (but you cant effect it in any way, just 
 check it out.) You can go to earth (if its still an Easter egg, haven't found it) and blow it up 
 :) . Or blow up mars. Or advance the humans to help you defeat the grox. You can probably do more 
 things too I just haven't gotten that far yet. You can do side missions! For the first time in 
 the game! You can colour a planet. You can make gear shaped craters. So by this you can tell the 
 the space stage is very fun because it was original for me, I never played a game that was like 
 that.
  
  Time spent playing Levels:
  Cell: 30 min
  Creature: 2 h
  Tribal: 1:30h
  Civ: 1h
  Space: Like 10h
  
  ps. The creators are still the same as in the demo, so if you 
 liked the creature creator the other creator are the same and the building creator will allow you 
 to be really creative because of all the parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  spore is a brilliant game. it is unique, innovative, simple yet detailed, funny and a sure entertainer 
 to a gamer of all types. the very well balanced learning curve of the game is brilliant and adds 
 up to infinite possibilities on all aspects to this game which can be easily picked up by anyone. this 
 game can be enjoyed by almost anyone, graphics, characters, and the whole scenario of evolution and 
 'survival of the fittest' depicted in this game are entertaining and funny. starting of in water 
 and moving on to land and evolving to an amazing living being has never been so much fun. good points 
 especially to areas of planning the narration of the game, summaries regarding evolutionary habits, interacting 
 pattern of organisms, very well detailed biological system of evolving even each organ and upgrades 
 regarding the same, importance os the emotional  and socialising 
 and its impact on evolution; a brilliant and simple game. a well hand shaked attempt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pattyd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Like many others I was eager to get my hands on a copy of Spore. Unfortunately, I will be selling 
 this game second hand very soon.
  
  I have played this game for nearly twenty hours now and it has already gotten boring. 
  
  The 
 cell stage is fun the first two, three times, but after that? 
  
  The creature stage is considerably more fun, if not the most fun stage, because of the part-seeking 
 and avoiding the huge (and hilarious) monsters that roam the area. You have to really keep in mind 
 what kind of creature you're going for and aim to collect the needed parts for it. And it is quite 
 challenging to try and collect every single part there is. What ruined this stage for me is the 
 camera. I don't play first-person shooter games for a reason. Cameras like in the creature stage 
 in Spore are guaranteed to give me a headache within a few minutes.
  
  The tribal and civilization stages could have been great. It should have been. They were the first 
 time. The humor inserted here made me laugh quite a few times, but... game-wise, it's just too 
 simple. Hunt and kill. May I remind the game developers that I have a brain and I would like it 
 being challenged? I'm not saying these stages should have been like Civilization, Nile, Ceasar 
 or other simulation games, but... come on?! A bit more depth? A bit more planning? A bit more strategy?
 
  
  The space stage is a considerable bit of fun, I think, but again... it's fun the first time. It's 
 quite good the second time, but at the third time, you're just not interested anymore.
  
  Admittedly, the 'building the buildings and vehicles' never attracted me much. Or rather... I love 
 building houses and shops the Sims where you have a lot more freedom. But in a game like Spore 
 I feel it's just an annoying, time-consuming distraction.
  
  Still, cheers for the creature creator. It's very nice to play with :) . 
  
  If this game gets 
 a sequel I hope they take it the Sims way. Release the first three stages with a LOT of depth and 
 real strategy and gameplay in the base game, and add expansion packs for the later stages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaku101
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  
  
  Interesting start however it fails to successfully do later stages of evolution. The first two 
 stages basically feel like small mini games and the third stage is a small RTS influenced stage 
 that seemed like a very interesting idea but it can be finished within 10 minutes. It basically 
 feels like 5 different games in one, however none of them are done well enough, This mainly happens 
 when you jump into the RTS civilization stage. At this stage your only given 3 different types 
 of buildings to build, Homes, Factories and Fun. The only advantage or goal of building the 3 different 
 buildings is to increase the income of the resource your planet offers by mixing Work (Factories) 
 with fun and housing. The RTS combat felt very tact on as you only have 3 different units to build 
 being ground, air and sea. However all the buildings and vehicles are customizable. However none 
 of the customizations makes the vehicles visually act any different other than the way they move (Float 
 or wheels) . The final stage, space, is basically like Space Rangers 2 the game with a mix to it. 
 However you're left with very little to do in the world other than repetitive tasks to gain money 
 to upgrade your ship or expand your empire. The combats now is all done mainly by ship and simply 
 isnet complex enough to enjoy as all your doing is clicking on other ships and towns to destroy 
 them. I still recommend you guys give the game a try but you may actually end up losing more interest 
 in the game as you progress.
  
  Good- Interesting gameplay, Amazing creature customization, endless like gameplay.
  
  Bad- 
 All 5 areas of gameplay are not done as well as they could have been and feel tact on, Short can 
 be beaten within 10 hours of gameplay.
  
  First stage-Cell, you play a mini game to eat other cells and you grow bigger as you eat more and 
 obtain some of their traits to customize your guy to better survive in the cell world. Basically 
 you click around and eat other guys as if you were a fish, appears as a 2D min game. Also if your 
 a meat eater or not you eat different things.
  
  Second stage-Creature, you carry on any characteristics from your cell form and can remove them. 
 You start off by simply attaching a pair of feet on your guy and seeing a pack of creatures just 
 like yours pop out of the water and follow you. A nest is created and your goal is to go around 
 and hunt other creatures or fruits if your a vegetarian. The only thing you do in this mode is 
 gather body parts and kill monsters, you some times have to find your pact if they migrate. The 
 more dudes or things you eat allows your brain to grow, once it reaches human size you win. The 
 controls are WASD to move and space bar to jump, mouse to attack and use abilities taken from other 
 creatures. The coolest feature here was giving my creature wings so he could fly.
  
  Third Stage- Tribal, The creatures nest basically turns into a town layout and the game changes 
 into a RTS. You no longer have full movement or customization abilities as you did in the creature 
 stage. But rather your creature becomes a chiefs men and commands the other troops, controls are 
 like a standard RTS. You are given a few different types of building however they are very similar. 
 The town center is a small hut in which you can customize your troops and spawn more soldiers, 
 basically your people, however they take at least a minute or more to reach adult size. You're 
 goal is to wipe out the other 5 tribes and collect food from either animals or fruits; you can 
 also steal other tribes food. Once you defeated another tribe you gain some of their goods like 
 armors and new buildings. A few buildings are a fisherman's house, basically allowing an alternate 
 from of food. First aid house trains shaman, 3 different weapon houses allows your troops to be 
 equipped with axes, fire sticks and spears which offer different effects, AXEs good for troops, 
 fire sticks for buildings and spears for troops as well but at ranged combat. You can also build 
 3 other house to use to impress the other tribes rather than kill them. These house are 3 different 
 instruments. Customizing troops at this stage does offer them different effects such as more health, 
 attack or peaceful skills.
  
  Fourth Stage- Civilization, basically once you've reached a human sized brain you evolve to this 
 stage. Now you must design your town capital, tanks and so fourth the things I listed up top in 
 the review. The goal is to either kill or perused the other individuals around you, their all basically 
 your race. Also at this stage depending on how you've been through your growth deter minds what 
 special skills you get like if your a war type you get war like special moves like missiles and 
 the same goes for being good. There are also recourses you need to collect to increase your income 
 called spice which is taken over by either of the 3 vehicles depending on the location of the spice.
 
  
  Fifth Stage- Space, It's basically like Space Rangers 2. You're give a ship to customize and your 
 goal is to travel to other planets, explore them to find treasure which you can sell, build a town 
 on them. However many of the planets are unhabitable in which you have to buy a device to change 
 the habitat. There are 3 levels of environment acceptances. T1, T2, T3. Basically you need to first 
 buy a device to change the planets habitat than steal a few animals and trees from other planets 
 to stabilize the habitat. You can also take on missions from other races and develop trade agreements. 
 Most of the missions are to go find this and bring it back or kill this animal that's spreading 
 a disease. The ship controls are pretty basic and appear kind of like your playing FF7 or FF8 moving 
 around the planet. The ship is capable of collecting different animals, trees, attacking, changing 
 the landscape and building other colonies. The ship can also be upgraded by buying upgrades for 
 it such as better weapons, health and energy, none of these are visible on the ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMUK
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Like the rest of the planet, I have been waiting a very long time for this. After falling asleep 
 during the early stages of evoling, which is very repetitive, I finally managed to stay awake long 
 enough to reach the Civ stages.
  
  Instead of moving up a gear, Spore remains firmly in 2nd as it runs out of ideas. You are left 
 basically doing the same kind of tasks you were at the start. 
  
  You can make alliances or start a war with a neighbouring faction, who all have come from your 
 original DNA. 
  
  Once you breeze past this 'mining spice' stage and head off into space, the demands placed on your 
 single ship to protect planets becomes annoying. 
  
  After spending time in the world of Spore, the average graphics and the 'Fisher price control systems' 
 leaves the game wanting as in traditional EA fashion, there will be expansions to improve things 
 further.
  
  Don't believe the hype, it's not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerouspowerz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Spore, a game I have been looking forward to for about 3 years. 
  Much has changes since the first pictures and footage was released, but the concept has remained 
 the same. Spore is basically a mix of Black and White and The Sims, but with aliens. 
  It might look like a child game but their is allot of joy for every one who sits down and plays 
 this game.
  
  The game is divided up in to five stages, Cell, Creature, Tribe, Civ and space. 
  The first is 
 much like Pacman but with more variation. You just simply must stay alive and grow in to a bigger 
 creature until you grow legs and the creature stage starts.
  Creature, you just play as one creature and follow his journey thru evolution (yes he has friends 
 but they don't do much other than follow you around and mate with you when you need to add another 
 piece to your creature) .
  
  Every creature you create and encounter will most probably be unique. Already in the early stages 
 of the game you se all kinds of strange aliens, both from Maxis and other players. One thing I 
 noticed was that if you had the creature Creator demo installed chances are that you might see 
 one of your old creatures, I did.
  But it takes a long time to create your "best" alien race, because you must throughout the entire 
 Creature stage collect bone pieces which unlock all the certain body parts. 
  However with this massive library of creatures there are some which do not properly animate.
 
  I saw several creatures who had there arms stuck to there chest or legs stuck together. But it 
 is not always noticeable and you will not bother with the small details when you reach Tribe stage 
 and beyond. 
  
  what I did find frustrating was the controls, I seams like the creature takes for ever to respond 
 to what I tell it to do, I found it simpler to use the mouse instead of your arrow keys (in all 
 stages except for space) . 
  
  Also the game feels to short, all the stages up to space one can play thru in about 5 hours, however 
 if you wish to play around with your creature or tribe then it can take as long as you wish. I 
 would like more stuff to do when one is in the tribal stage, you can just basically collect food, 
 Kill your enemy or become friends with your enemy (and get pets) . 
  
  The same goes for the Civ stage, I played as the most brutal War creature the universe had ever 
 seen. All I had to do was to build up my first town and build an army (took about 15min) , then 
 just go from one city to another with my massive army and crush everyone.
  And I didn't really se any point in the house editor, you can just build 4 kinds of houses, Home, 
 entertainment, factory and a city hall. If I build a massive house it will not be capable of holding 
 more people than a 1^3cm box would and if I give the house satellite connection my people/creatures 
 will still not go in and watch TV. 
  
  My final verdict: spore is a great game if you like BW and The Sims, and if you have the patience 
 to create your own creature (it takes some time to get all the details right, and sometimes you 
 just need to start from the begging with your creature, wasting "years" of evolution) . The game 
 is very "Cute" and captures you, but all of its flaws really stand out.
  But I am still going to play it over and over and over again until I have created every possible 
 creature. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondcs123
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  After months and months of long wait, Spore has finally arrived on the PC. But does it totally 
 stand out to everybody's expectations? Most of it, but not everything.
  
  If you don't know Spore, it's basically a game where you create a species and guiding it from a 
 cell stage swimming around in the water, evolving to creature stage where you have a nest and go 
 hunting on other nests, then Tribe stage where you have a village, then civilization then finally 
 space stage.
  
  The idea of it sounds ambitious, and with the game's main feature on customising your own creature 
 is real awesome and tireless. You can assign horns, different eyes and legs. You can adjust their 
 positions, sizes and all these organs have skills applied to it. It is great to have all these 
 things as you start off in the early parts wandering around and either attack enemies or make allies 
 with them.
  
  Perhaps the main problem with Spore for me was that the gameplay was quite repetitive. Though with 
 five stages and you get through all these maybe in eight hours, it is easy to find that these stages 
 are pretty much the same. The cell stage which haves you swimming around and either be a carnivore 
 eating smaller animals and meat or a herbivore which you eat little plant micro organisms.
  
  Furthermore into the later stages things get repeating but in quite a different scale. You 
 just have to go around explore yourself and find different species. Some are friendly and some 
 are aggressive. These are all great things and each time you start a new species, the world generates 
 random ones. But the thing is that basically you either make friends with them or kill them to 
 evolve. There aren't much depth inside them like cheating on them, preach communism and use them 
 like dogs. It's basic and straightfoward.
  
  But of course, the stage isn't the game's main feature. Spore brings out as mentioned before, a 
 customisable option. You can actually choose not to buy the game and just head off to download 
 the spore creator and create lots and lots of cute species. But of course you won't be able to 
 try and have fun with your creature.
  
  In a technical term Spore is above average in a way. The voice acting of these cute guys calling 
 (Roaring, screaming.... whatever you call them) make them attractive and so adorable you would really 
 want to take a big leap and hug them (Well, maybe not with the sharp teeth ones) . The graphics 
 are great comical styled, with great lighting effects though the textures feels a bit dull. Surprisingly 
 though Spore has a low requirements and certainly this is a game that 7 year old kids and can buy 
 without whining about frame rates.
  
  Overall speaking, Spore is a great enhanced version from the Sims. The creatures are awesome. Customisation 
 is excellent. And great support from the sound and graphics makes them look even cuter than ever. 
 But if you are those that like great action and strategists, you probably will find Spore quite 
 disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The hype for this game was reaching the sky with three features:
  
  1. First game to simulate species from micro organism to space age.
  2. Can create all kinds 
 of creatures, cars, ships etc etc and will support all kinds of creation ideas.
  3. It is made by Will Wright, the creator of simcity series (until Simcity 3000 only) , The Sims (not 
 Sims 2) , and many other Sim series.
  
  Did the game deliver the features they showed us? Yes it did. However, it seems features and ideas 
 aren't always the road to game's success.
  
  Graphics
  
  Very good graphic for the game. It is optimized for all kinds of computer and the minimum requirements 
 are very low, and it does run at minimum requirement with lowest settings with some lags (many other 
 games can't even be played with lowest setting on computer with minimum requirement) .
  
  Sound
  
  Being a game for everyone, the sound does sound childish. It doesn't mean the sound 
 is bad, it only means the standard has been leveled for everyone.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Surely the game shows all the features promised. However, there are many things in game that isn't 
 satisfactory for aged gamers. First of all, the first 4 stages of evolution is incredibly fast, 
 while the space age is incredibly long. Also, since it is staged and every stage has different 
 gameplay, the evolution actually seems less connected. These different gameplays are incredibly 
 simple, and doesn't give you enough depth. The game seems to be targeted for much younger audience 
 than for experienced gamers.
  
  Conclusion
  
  This game is pretty much for casual gamers, not experienced gamers. The depth of the game, other 
 than being able to zoom out from galaxy all the way into planet surface, is very shallow. I however 
 would reommend this game to young teenagers who is just getting into games.
  
  Pros
  - Simplistic gameplay
  - Great graphics with nice optimization even for computers that just meets 
 the minimum requirements which you will be able to play. Expect some lags, but playable.
  - Creating your own creatures and machines are fun
  
  Cons
  - Way too simplistic, almost 
 making it feel like I'm playing children's game.
  - Dividing into eras of evolution makes the game feel less connected
  - Almost no AI. We didn't 
 expect to control every aspect of our creature's life. We expected some sort of their own improvements 
 as time goes by. What happened to Sim's style of gameplay where we could watch creature's own way 
 of living their way depending on what kind of piece we give them?
  - Pieces which develops our creature has stats, which almost forces us to put them just for the 
 sake of its abilities, not for the way our creature looks (I don't want to be forced to put mouth 
 because it has singing level 5!) .
  - First four stages are incredibly short whereas last stage (space age) is incredibly long, making 
 the first four stages just a road to creating your creature's aspects.
  - Evolution only has 5 stages of evolution? Could have made more stages to avoid huge evolutionary 
 jumps (civilization to space age? o_O ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Wow,
  
  This game is awesome. I did not have any doubts on this game. I am surprised that some people are 
 even giving this game a bad score. For a couple reasons, I am sure most would think this game is 
 bad because it is from the creator of The Sims, plus it had a lot of hype with it.
  
  Regardless this game is exceptional. It delivers what it has been told from the years ago. The 
 sound, graphics, and replay value to this game are awesome. There is a lot to do. To me it makes 
 me feel like Black and White, and The Sims with a twist. If you are a fan of The Sims, and want 
 something new I would suggest this game. The character customization in this game is probably one 
 of the best I have seen since City of Heroes. It has so much to offer, and bassicly has no limits 
 of the imagination. You can simply create anything you want if you can think of it. 
  
  Just by simply grabbing the spinal cord and moving it in a way that shapes it and then you just 
 add things to it. I think this is one of the games best high lights and it shines well with it.
 
  
  All in all, I would suggest like I said before. Go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daian
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  First of all i was actually excited about this game, it seemed to have a lot of potential. When i 
 got it i was actually pleasantly surprised that it actually was fun. Really fun. But then i ended 
 up in space... and so long fun part.
  The game has 5 parts and Maxis really screwed up on the length of those parts. The first 4 parts 
 ,which are the most fun, are to short and a bit to simple. And then comes the last part which also 
 starts out promising but becomes boring and repetitive after a kind of short period of time. You 
 just keep doing the same 4-5 type of missions over and over ....... and over again. You can not 
 at least focus on your missions because half the time 2-3 planets are being raided, attacked or 
 suffering from an ecological disaster and you have to waste your time and come to the rescue of 
 those planets.
  If they would have made the first 4 parts longer and a little more complex , and the last part 
 a LOT shorter and a LOT less repetitive and annoying, then the game would have turned out a LOT 
 better than it currently is.
  The bottom line is : it starts well, keeps going great, but ends up disappointing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke-FFTl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but I know it could of been alot better. The game was going good until it got 
 to civilization stage, it was ok but was pretty boring and could of been better. There is no real 
 strategy at this part, all you have to do is build vehicle and send them to attack and you will 
 most likely win. What annoyed me was though was that there was very little variety; only 3 buildings 
 to construct and 3 vehicle ( land, air and sea) . As for re-playability, It has some indeed. If 
 Spore had reached its potential, then I would definitely give it an easy 10/10
  
  I would still get this game though, it is very unique and alot of fun to play.
  
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loonie
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Once reaching the space-age you realise that it is nothing more than a series of minigames, shoot 
 pirates with your ship, do repetitive missions. There are no macromanagement features, you must 
 attend your homeworld every time it is attacked, even if its capable of defending itself without 
 you because they accuse you of not helping. This does not add a challenge, it adds boredom and 
 frustration.
  
  This also contains the malware SecuROM, this limits the installs of the disc to three, if you install 
 it on 3 machines thats it your disc is now useless, if you upgrade your hardware 3 times your disc 
 is useless, if you have to uninstall for space, if there are errors in installing the game they 
 can all make the disc uselss after three installs, either forcing you to buy another copy, crack 
 it or not play. Essentially EA are renting software which you are purchasing, here is how SecuROM 
 works:
  
  No installation option for SecuROM? Check.
  Installed without my knowledge or consent? Check.
  EULA for malware contained in a hidden directory 
 so I cannot read it? Check.
  Games bundled with SecuROM malware? Check.
  Difficult for me to identify, locate and remove it? Check.
  
  And the final nail in the coffin 
 is the amount of bugs, including but not limited to:
  
  * Random crashing (primarily in the Space Stage)
  o Many cases is when zooming out to galaxy 
 from Homeworld
  o Dasmx86Dll. dll is the cause mostly.
  * The bug related to the DasmX86Dll. dll file and the WINMM. dll file
  o Also people have got the 
 d3dx. dll error. (I think thats spelt correctly)
  * SPORE not loading upon startup
  * Unable to download user content
  * License Server Issues
  * Graphical Glitches
  o Texture 
 Corruption (In some cases, Major corruption)
  o Main menu freeze
  o Planet fine, Galaxy map just black (Toolbars etc still work)
  * Mobile Graphics Card Issues 
 (Even supported ones)
  * Possible SECUROM issues
  * Public Content / Buddy Sharing issues
  * EA Downloader not detecting SPORE installation
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: north_londonlad
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Most people have been waiting years and years for this game, seeing the game in the past looked 
 amazing!! that was until 07 when they toke a step back??
  
  The game is still the basics of what it once was but its just the basics nothing more just like 
 four small games all wrapped into once package
  
  Each phase is way too short and you dont really feel like you have progressed, there isnt much 
 depth too the game either kill or ally your way too the next phase rinse and repeat
  
  I wanted more from this game, dont get me wrong I do enjoy it but its a disappointment it had so 
 much protential and just feels like they was doing too much and decided to cut it down and release 
 it 1/2 made even after 4 years of developing
  
  Game Play 7/10
  Replay Value 8/10
  Audio 5/10
  Graphics 4/10
  Chessyness 10/10
  
  Im getting a monster of a beast PC next 
 week and was going to wait to install spore on that thinking my old pc couldnt hack it AMD 3000, 
 Geforce 7800, 2gig Ram and I have maxed out the graphics and it runs perfect so have a feeling 
 Spore will work on any old hump of junk. The Sims 2 gives my pc more of a run then this game lol
 
  
  If you like sim type games you will like this for a while but when it kicks in the command and 
 conquer strategy type game it fails in so many ways
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTiMaTe_GaMeR4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Well, spore is finally released, And gamers everywhere are Disapointed.
  
  Spore has built up an incredible amount of hype, but games NEVER live up to this amount of hype. 
 Many gamers believed the hype, and are quite annoyed.
  
  But this does not take away from the fact that spore is a great game in its own right.
  
  You 
 start the game as a miniscule cell, eating plants or other cells to survive. The cell phase is 
 visually pleasing and quite a fun little arcade game. You evolve your cell and try to survive.
 
  
  then you evolve to a creature. If you played this phase as any other game, you WILL be bored and 
 annoyed. but this phase has many charms the mainstream group of gamers (ie: trolls) will never 
 understand. From witnessing a UFO abducting other creatures, to seeing how high that spice gyser 
 will launch you, the creature phase has several wonderful charms.
  
  Your creature now has become sentient and forms a tribe. The Tribal phase lacks depth, but is an 
 enjoyable experience that teaches you the basics that you need for the next phases.
  
  Civ phase is interesting. you are fighting for global domination against your own species. (dif 
 factions of them) And you will have military, economic and religious units to conquer the globe 
 in dif ways. Civ phase is enjoyable, but then you get to the MAIN game in my opinion.
  
  Space Phase. Space phase has millions of planets to visit. there really is no way to explain the 
 scope and size of the space phase. Its so fun to just cut back and shoot stuff! or pump crap into 
 the atmosphere and watch a beautiful planet die (with nice use of terraforming epuipment, you could 
 have the sequel to an unconvient truth, or FIND EARTH, yes EARTH is in the game, along with our 
 solar system.... somewhere...)
  
  Spore may make some very angry, failing to live up to the hype, but in reality its a very fun game.
 
  
  a solid 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowmankind
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  The first few days of owning Spore equated to me ignoring any other responsibility except basic 
 and necessary bodily functions. Now that things have died down a bit, I can see the game for what 
 it is. So what is it? Ambition that's almost achieved.
  
  So let's begin. The Cell phase was instant fun, and although it felt entirely like a casual game, 
 I was charmed all the way through its short game time (you can run through this phase in less than 
 an hour) . Creating your cell seems limited, but it makes sense as well, given that mother nature 
 had very little to play with in this portion of history. What is disappointing, however, is that 
 you only have 6 unlockables in this phase, meaning that the options for the creation of your cell 
 are largely cosmetic, with a few additional items that alter your gameplay strategy.
  
  Then you grow legs and go to land. And, like the majority of gaming consumers, I immediately set 
 out to be the baddest carnivore my planet had ever seen. Making friends with the odd tribe was 
 interesting, but for the most part, I derived much pleasure in making other species extinct (by 
 wiping out between 3 or 8 members of that species) . The rest of this portion is geared towards 
 growing your brain and finding new parts to unlock for your evolving creature. Then when you've 
 had enough of collect-em-up gameplay, you move on to the Tribal stage.
  
  Now, the tribal stage was my least favourite part of the game, because it seemed centered on the 
 exact goals of the previous stage, but with a different control interface. In other words, you 
 progressed by either killing rival tribes, or befriending them. Only now, you have spears and didgeridoos, 
 instead of teeth and dance moves.
  
  Then there's the civilisation phase, which again engenders the same gameplay goals of the previous 
 2 stages, only this time you have vehicles and diplomacy at your disposal. But what irritated me 
 about this phase is that as soon as you progress to it, you immediately have to design your new 
 Town Hall and new Vehicle in quick succession. By this time, I was all "Creator"d out, but it didn't 
 stop there: you have to also design a new Factory, Entertainment (building) , Boat and Air Vehicle. 
 So you do all that, claiming geography through either military, financial, or religious means, 
 and then the planet's yours.
  
  Which brings you to the Space phase of the game, and this is where it gets interesting. I get a 
 strong sensation that Spore was ultimately about 2 things: a galactic civilisation simulator, and 
 how a microbe came to be in that position. It's fine, but the game gets overwhelmingly complex 
 as soon as you enter the space race. To its credit, the game does give you as gentle a transition 
 as possible, but there is simply so much to learn to do, and sometimes not enough information on 
 how to do it. As such, you'll probably have to work out how to adjust the atmosphere of a planet 
 in order to colonise it yourself. Worse, sometimes you are given a mission that takes you to another 
 planet, without even the slightest hint on how to find that planet. Admittedly, this is rare, but 
 it's still bloody irritating.
  
  But by far the worst 2 crimes of the space mode are the micromanagement of your colonies (who are 
 too stupid to equip factories and laser turrets without your help) , and the fact that your colonies 
 -- and allies -- get attacked far too frequently. So, instead of discovering your way through space 
 at your leisure, you are constantly reined in to fight off attacking hordes because the people 
 on those planets are incapable of defending themselves.
  
  But those are the niggles. I also found the space phase to be wonderfully entertaining, with some 
 rarities hidden in the game for you to discover. And finding a black hole/wormhole randomly within 
 the game is truly satisfying.
  
  The one thing I'll say about Spore is that, because each task presented to you seems reasonable 
 and easy to achieve, you'll want to play for an extra 5 minutes, then 5 minutes more ... until 
 4 hours have passed! I also found the first and last portions of the game to be the most entertaining, 
 so the middle ground felt like a bit of a grind, but the beauty of such a game is that everyone 
 will have their preferred part of the game.
  
  It's also gorgeous and very charming, and there is enough in there to keep the hardcore gamer interested 
 ... if he or she is willing to look for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatboy_311
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought a copy of the game (aus) and have been very disappointed. It has alot of style, but very 
 little substance- the game presents itself well and definately makes you smile, but provides little 
 reason to keep playing. Creating your own creature can be fun, but having made a herbivore, an 
 omnivore and a carnivore over the last 3 days there is little reason to go back and play again.
 
  
  Another thing that should be mentioned is that the game is constantly downloading new content, 
 I have no idea how much but the default cache in the settings in for 2GB. It forces you to install 
 the EA download manager, a useless program that of course will be running constantly, in game or 
 not.
  
  Cell stage:
  Once you've played it for 10 minutes, you have seen it all.
  
  Creature creation:
  Assigning statistics to creature parts is a real let down. You end up just 
 putting on the pieces that give the best stats (especially on hard difficulty) , and not the ones 
 you dream of for your creature. There is no functional difference by placing one or twenty mouths 
 or weapons, and where you place them makes no difference either. If you try anything slightly out 
 of the ordinary, the game just doesn't animate it at all. For example: my carnivore was armed with 
 spikes along the back of it's arms, but when it attacks you just saw the hands do a swipe. I ended 
 up removing all but 1 spike because the extra ones did not add any damage.
  
  Creature stage:
  Basic and limited interactions amount to just 'grinding' your way to the next 
 stage. There is very little new to see once you have visited 2 or 3 nests. Always the same thing: 
 a group of creatures hanging around an identical nest, laying eggs. The world is covered by these 
 nests.
  
  Tribal stage:
  Again, very limited options result in this just being a grind. 3 weapons, 3 instruments. You can 
 either sing to a tribe or kill them, either way it is very quick and very easy to do. Gathering 
 food for the tribe is done by either hunting, fishing, gathering or farming and each of these work 
 almost the same way.
  
  Civilisation stage:
  You have to design 3 buildings and 3 vehicles, then never look at them again as you are zoomed 
 out most of the time. There is no 'city life' if you zoom in, just random creatures standing around, 
 or running around if the city is being attacked. The anthem creator is a joke, even if you have 
 musical ability it is very hard to make anything decent. The randomly generated anthems you get 
 are extremely random- there is no musicality and they will drive you nuts.
  
  Space stage:
  My favourite stage, it has much more variety and plenty to keep you interested. 
 I like the 'freeform' style of play, and the fact that there is more than two or three ways to 
 play in this stage.
  
  My complaint here is that once you get even a small number of colonies, there will be so many attacks/special 
 events that you rarely have time to just relax and explore the galaxy. The planets you visit are 
 all randomly generated in much the same way and there is no reason to truly 'explore' any of them. 
 The creatures and plants are always present in the same ratio, according to the 4 possible 'levels' 
 of the planet. So just like the creature stage, you end up seeing the same patterns of life over 
 and over- despite the different looks. And if you want to expand your empire be warned: you will 
 spend the whole time chasing after pirate attacks and ecological disasters on the colonies you 
 own, both of whi
  Which are pretty tiresome after the first couple of times.
  
  I played the space stage for a solid 4 hours with plenty left to do, then the game crashed and 
 there is no auto save (may exist in the options, but not by default) . Of course I had not saved, 
 lost all my progress and do not want to repeat all the tasks again.
  
  Conclusion:
  Spore comes across as a fun, light-hearted game. It makes you smile, but once you get into the 
 mechanics it is repetitive and boring. A for effort, D for result.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerbulance
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited when I played this for the first time. The experience of bringing up your 
 creature from scratch was a great feeling. Cell phase was good fun, reminds me of those addictively 
 fun flash games. Creature phase is overly simple with hardly any development. Tribal stage was 
 quite fun, possibly the most fun phase. It made me care about each of my tribe members, unlike 
 in the previous phases where you controlled the character alone and every one else of your species 
 was just a randomly generated NPC. If they made a game just focusing on the tribal phase, that 
 would have been a much greater game. 
  Civilisation phase was somewhat a let down. Trying to meld a lot of RTS characteristics into this 
 phase made it seem very dilute. The trade, resource collecting, combat and city designing was all 
 too simple. Intergalactic phase... well I just got really bored here. So many tutorials and to 
 actually do so little.
  Will Wright's vision of this game was amazing, its just that the implementation was terrible. The 
 creature creation is definitely the highlight of the game, but how much long term entertainment 
 can you gain from drag and dropping body parts? Each of the phases were too dilute in their gameplay. 
 There was a lot of repetition of missions in each phase (kill these guys, ally these guys, kill 
 the next ones) .
  This game would have been a LOT better if each phase had more depth. Maxis has gone for an epic 
 feel with this game, which I kind of felt, but it was ruined by the simplicity and repetitiveness 
 of the finer parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAITIAN
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Started playing yesterday around mid day, and I am struggling to stop and eat and everything else. 
 The game play is so captivating, you never want to stop playing. so far I have played about 20 
 hours and even when I am not playing I want to play more. The game play is intuitive and the different 
 controls in each stage and quite easy to adapt to. The Ai is fiendishly clever, and never stops 
 raiding your bases trying to steal food and destroy your colonies. All in all I think this is an 
 excellent game , I say 9 out of 10. I can not wait to see what kind of content is coming to come 
 form all the other players on-line, their so many inventive people out their , I truly look forward 
 to seeing all of their inventive perspectives. Tonnes of content is already available from the 
 Sporepedia, I find it much easier to use on occasion to build a new world rather than designing 
 all you buildings from scratch which would just be to extreme for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bart723
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  i thought this would be like the sims, fun in the early game, but then coast out near the end (in 
 spores case, the Space Stage) , but i REALLY enjoy the space stage. I dont know what exactly draws 
 me to it, but it was completely worth the amount i paid for the game
  
  i got it yesterday at about midday, and only stopped playing it to sleep and to do some neccessary 
 work, i think ive easily played 20 hours since then.
  
  Granted, mine crashed once or twice, but u do need to save. The space stage can get annoying when 
 everyone attacks you.
  
  The graphics in the cell stage are absolutely STUNNING. Some of the later game graphics arent as 
 good, but by the amount the game is rendering, its not too bad.
  
  Some features are hard to find, or non existent. Like, i dont know how to make an economic tribe 
 in the tribal stage. 
  
  Other parts are annoying, like trying to find creator parts in the cell phase, i only ever managed 
 to find 3/6.
  
  Still, i think this is the best buy ive made all year, and thats saying a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Spore! Supremely in depth? No, not really. But why would you want it to be? It has multiple epochs 
 of evolution with a general approach that every man woman and his/her dog could handle in a strategy 
 game. Would a die hard micromanaging strategist like this game? No. It is not that type of game.
 
  
  Spore is a a game based on very basic and wonderful creativity. You will probably find that you 
 will spend most of your time just doing this alone. The strategy gaming element is not really that 
 simulation based as other deep and engrossing games of the genre. This is more of a real time fun 
 adventure simulation that is simple, to the point and genuinely addictive. It is most definitely 
 one of the most epic games to date. 
  
  I highly recommend Spore to every gamer out there if they just want something different for once. 
 We got the Call of Duty's. We got the Command and Conquer's. But there is nothing out there like 
 this. Guaranteed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Well a highly awaited game has finally arrived as Spore gets released on PC.
  
  Spore is all about creating and evolving your creature and basically becoming the master race.
 
  
  First you have the First stage were a little organism has emerged from a meteor and your in water 
 were you have to survive from getting eaten and ultimately evolving. This is really simple yet 
 fun, you eat and try to stay alive long enough to evolve to the next stage. 
  
  Second stage you grow legs and make your way to land were you do the same thing as before except 
 for one thing. The main purpose of this stage is to make your creature the way you wan it. You 
 do so by unlocking parts by making allies with other species or simply kill them. 
  
  As well as myself, I'm sure lots of people got the creature creator before the game came out wanting 
 to see what it was like, and like me I'm sure lots of people made their "master race" to be prepared 
 for when the game came out and expecting to just have the pats there ready to make their race. 
 But instead found out that we had to slowly collect the parts.
  
  This was an annoying and tedious task to do, having to either make allies or kill other species 
 or simply finding bones on the ground to get parts and a lot of the time you wont get the exact 
 part you want straight away, it felt like playing World of Warcraft getting a certain object for 
 a quest with low percentage drop rate. 
  
  Anyway once I was happy with my creation I was onto the Third stage, its now become more of an 
 RTS game were you build "Tribe" and again either killing or make with the friendly with other species 
 and their Tribe, simple enough an easy and fun stage, playing instruments to become allies and 
 collecting primitive weapons to kill off the other tribes as well as putting triable clothing on 
 your creation (thats better, like to think by this stage were not naked anymore) . 
  
  After that your on to the forth stage were its still an RTS buy you no longer control your creation 
 but instead you have now evolved enough to make your own vehicles to collect resources and other 
 vehicles to destroy or befriend other species and instead of a camp you now have a city. Repeat 
 the last stage and once you've taken control of all other cities your on your final stage.
  
  This stage your a UFO and you got out to space and start exploring and colonies on other planets 
 and doing doing missions that you get from your home planet as well as other speices, and AGAIN 
 making allies or detroying them.
  
  This is a really addictive and fun game with some things that you might not like but overall if 
 wroth the buy, and altimatly you will spend more time creating your creautre/vehiclas and houses 
 to make it perfect to your liking. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
