-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spring Break
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/springbreak/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 124 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Deep Red
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Sep 10, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spring Break's actual gameplay never strays far from the G-rated management template that everyone's 
 been trying to copy since RollerCoaster Tycoon. 

 Eidos is marketing Deep Red Games' Virtual Resort: Spring Break as a besotted version of more-wholesome 
 management strategy games like Theme Park or RollerCoaster Tycoon. Scantily clad coeds and booze 
 are supposed to take the place of kiddie rides and sodas, which is supposed to give the gameplay 
 more of an adult edge. But the closest you get to adult content here are the bikini babes on the 
 box cover. Spring Break's actual gameplay never strays far from the G-rated management template 
 that everyone's been trying to copy since RollerCoaster Tycoon made designer Chris Sawyer a millionaire 
 many times over. That's not necessarily a bad thing in this case, although anyone looking for a 
 fresh new interpretation of what's become a very familiar formula will wind up disappointed.   
         Nothing beats the heat like a bar on the beach.    

 Spring Break isn't as exciting a game as its box cover and premise might make it seem. It's strictly 
 a single-player game and limited to the campaign scenarios in the beginning, although each scenario 
 map becomes available in a sandbox mode after you beat it. In the game's 12 missions, you take 
 control of various island resorts and attempt to complete certain objectives within a limited amount 
 of time. The developers didn't stretch their imaginations too far in coming up with these goals. 
 You'll need to construct a set number of facilities, attract a specific number of visitors, elevate 
 your resort's status to a four-star destination, and so on. There are a few objectives unique to 
 the game, although keeping visitors from being eaten by sharks and encouraging couples to "romp" 
 on the beach by adjusting what type of beer is being served are really just sideshows to the building 
 construction. Few of the goals have anything to do with the spring break bacchanalia that takes 
 over the eastern seaboard of the US every March. It's true that the game features a lot of references 
 to alcohol -- you'll build beach bars, theme bars, cocktail bars, and pool bars -- and has some very 
 minor references to risqu activity, but otherwise, the beach-blanket partygoers of Spring 
 Break really aren't that far removed from retirees on holiday in Palm Beach.   

  In what was apparently an attempt to make sure the game would appeal to a mainstream audience, 
 Spring Break's developer made many of the game's missions fairly easy. A beginner might find the 
 game to be somewhat challenging, but seasoned veterans of RollerCoaster Tycoon and its legion of 
 imitators might be able to whip through the entire list of scenarios in a day or two. No matter 
 what your gaming abilities, Spring Break has little replay value. The short list of buildings available 
 limits your options to a point where there isn't much sense in revisiting a mission, as you'll 
 have exhausted most of the possibilities getting through it the first time. There just aren't enough 
 options to make for any real long-term interest. To provide beach safety, you always build lifeguard 
 towers. To provide your guests with good meals, you always build one of two types of cafs 
 and restaurants. To provide entertainment, you always build arcades and beach discos. And so forth. 
 Every type of facility is generic, leaving virtually no room for creative freedom on your part. 
 Every resort will feature the same buildings in the end, the only difference being the order in 
 which these buildings are erected and perhaps a few minor things like how you price items and services 
 for sale and how you handle the hiring of maintenance staff. Of course, these limitations also 
 affect sandbox mode.   

  However, Spring Break does have a few things going for it. The game's interface is very user-friendly, 
 and it comes with a built-in MP3 player that lets you play your own tunes (although you won't hurry 
 to shut off the pleasant summertime tracks that come with the game) . Visitor feedback makes Spring 
 Break stand out from other management games of this sort. The personal characteristics, wants, 
 and wishes of each guest are tracked so that you're always a click away from seeing just how pleased 
 your guests are. Left-click on them and a pop-up menu box shows when they arrived and when they're 
 planning to depart, their current activity, what they most desire to do, and their current amount 
 of cash, along with slider bars indicating their level of drunkenness, sunburn, headache, and how 
 much they need to use the restroom. On the next screen you'll see more sliders indicating the individual's 
 beauty, babe factor, and queuing tolerance and the importance placed on price, variety, cleanliness, 
 and safety.   

  Obviously, your goal for the most part is to make sure that the majority of your clients are getting 
 what they want. As with the simplistic mission objectives, this isn't that difficult to accomplish. 
 An event ticker lets you know what desires are popular as each mission moves along, so you always 
 have a ready way to determine what facilities to build and when to build them. Provide a modicum 
 of proper amenities and the people will be happy to drop lots of cash in your bars, restaurants, 
 and Jet Ski rental shacks.           Visitor thoughts are a good barometer of how you're doing. 
    

 Further personal touches add more color to the game. One section of your guests' biographies reveals 
 their best and worst experiences at your resort. These notes can include mundane observations like 
 "the beach bar" or typical frat-boy comments like "when that girl took off her top." You can also 
 track the last three things to run through the mind of each visitor. Many of these comments emphasize 
 Spring Break's attempt to be a wild and crazy park management sim, but if you're trying to find 
 amusement by clicking on random people to see what sort of wacky comment might come up, that reveals 
 a lot about what's lacking in the core gameplay.   

  Goofy comments notwithstanding, there isn't much about Virtual Resort: Spring Break that stands 
 out from the RollerCoaster Tycoon rip-offs that have clogged store shelves since 1999. The gameplay 
 is a nondescript summary of everything that developers have put into these titles over the past 
 few years, albeit with the noteworthy frill of detailed feedback from your guests. Even the look 
 of the game is colorless, thanks to dated 2D graphics that get blurry when you magnify the map 
 view and a clunky engine that chugs at higher resolutions no matter how much RAM you feed it. Overall, 
 this is a straightforward game that is every bit as forgettable as what you did on your real spring 
 break, after the beer began to flow.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macacd
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Think you can create the Essential party island?
  
  Ever thought you could do better and build the ultimate exclusive resort?
  
  If the answer 
 is YES then beach life is the game fro you.
  
  From the moment you pick up the box you know who Eidos are aiming this game at, and I am pretty 
 sure its males 14- 23, with bikini clad females on the box and one on ever other page of the manual 
 I am quite sure.
  
  Presentation
  A lot of time has been putting the whole presentation aspect of the game, the menu system is simple 
 yet not to limited by its simplistic manner, the manual is a class publication, unlike so many 
 manuals that come with games these days.
  8 / 10
  
  Graphics
  If this game was out five years ago it would have been called revolutionary, but it now looks like 
 just another bland three dimensional strategies.
  5 / 10
  
  Sound
  im going to split this sound category into two sections, Music and Sound Effects.
  
  Music
 
  Outstanding some classic tunes from the likes of :-
  Angry Mexican DJ's,
  Laurent Garnier,
  Bent, Crustation.
  These make up the majority of your night time music which 
 is more of your American house/ dance music.
  Where as during the day you get some chillout mellow classics such as,
  Kinobe - Bopalong,
 
  Crustation - Face The Waves (Instrumental) .
  All selected through the ingame GipAMP MP3 player, you can even add your favrioute tunes from your 
 very own MP3 collection and select the time of day for your tune.
  Some of the best Chill out and club yourself mad sounds in any game.
  10/10
  
  Sound Effects
 
  When I say sound effects in that essence I mean the other sounds you get in games . From the sounds 
 you get when building a beach club, to the sound of a poor clubber emptying his stomach all over 
 your red cobbled paths.
  
  All the sounds are nothing new and sound like they have been in ever game since Theme Park almost 
 ten years ago. Not really original material here, but sound good nevertheless.
  6 / 10
  
  Overall sound Score
  8/10
  
  Lastability
  With the now essential to most games Sandbox 
 mode, this game will last as long as you are interested in it, I would say its got a good playing 
 life.
  7 / 10
  
  Best Bits
  + Watching the little clubbers spending there money in your masterpiece
  + The Music, great tunes.
 
  + The ability to add your own music to the game, I recommend adding some beach boys, California 
 Girls is one of my favourites.
  
  Worst Bits
  - Realising that you are going fail the level, despite spending some two and a half hours on it.
 
  - The lack of information the is given in the manual (but that is nitpicking right?)
  - The small amount of levels
  - It's the basically the same as ever Tycoon game you have ever 
 played but with beaches.
  - The inability to rotate the map, at first you think its not a problem, but in later levels its 
 frustrating
  
  Summary
  The game looks, sounds and plays extremely well with the addition of the sandbox system this gives 
 the game a lasting longevity that the missions simply didn't give. A worthy purchase. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
