-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Squad Assault: Second Wave
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ericyoungssquadassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic, squad-level World War II combat.
 Psychological modeling of all soldiers.
 Lots of content; more than 50 missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most content is recycled from previous game.
 New campaigns are brutally hard.
 Graphics and production values could be better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.1, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 63 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Merscom LLC
Developer: Freedom Games
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 31, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This repackaging of Squad Assault: West Front adds three new campaigns, but virtually everything 
 else has remained the same -- and that's both good and bad. 

  You can get a strong sense of dj vu while playing Squad Assault: Second Wave, the follow-up to 
 2003's Squad Assault: West Front. That's because Second Wave isn't so much a sequel as it is simply 
 a repackaging of West Front, along with three new campaigns and assorted new missions. Thus, aside 
 from the new content, virtually everything remains from the 2003 game, which itself was a fairly 
 good tactical wargame set in World War II. While we still admire the unique gameplay mechanics 
 of Squad Assault, it certainly feels as though the series, as well as the technology, is being 
 pushed a game too far with Second Wave.  

          Aside from three new campaigns, Second Wave basically repackages the previous game in the 
 series.     

  When you get down to it, Squad Assault is basically a 3D version of the semipopular Close Combat 
 games that Microsoft published a decade ago. This is no surprise, since Squad Assault was originally 
 developed by a veteran of the Close Combat development team. What makes Squad Assault unique compared 
 to other wargames and real-time strategy games is that it models realistic psychological behaviors 
 for each of the soldiers in battle, meaning that they behave like real human beings rather than 
 soulless automatons who will do anything they're told without hesitation. In other words, watch 
 a squad get torn apart by machine-gun fire, and the survivors will cower, panic, or even break 
 and run instead of follow your orders to fight to the death (though some might snap and go berserk 
 as well) . Because of this, you have to use proven tactics to even have a chance of success; otherwise, 
 if you waste your men in battle, they'll get wise and won't listen to your suicidal orders anymore. 

  The good news is that the strong gameplay mechanics of the Squad Assault system remain intact from 
 West Front. Instead of micromanaging your men, all you have to do is use the simple interface to 
 issue general commands, and they'll take it from there. Tell them to move cautiously up a road, 
 and they'll crawl and move from cover to cover. Order them to assault a building, and they'll rush 
 up and toss in grenades before storming in. It's the next-best thing to being an actual company 
 commander in combat, especially since you can easily gauge the success (or failure) of your decisions. 
 Fail to pop smoke grenades to cover a field of fire, and you'll see (and hear) your men get mowed 
 down by enemy fire. Drop artillery or mortar fire on a fortified house, and you'll see it smashed 
 into rubble.  

  Since it incorporates all the content of West Front, Second Wave is predominantly set in France, 
 and you can control the Allied or the Axis forces in more than 50 battles -- the majority of which, 
 again, are recycled from the previous game in the series. In fact, the three new campaigns simply 
 feel tacked on, especially after you consider that the strategic map for the Market Garden campaign 
 still shows France, when it should show Holland. Another campaign, based on the exploits of Easy 
 Company of the 101st Airborne Division, seems designed to cash in on the popularity of  Band of 
 Brothers , while the third campaign is set from the perspective of the Germans trying to contain 
 the Normandy landings. Many of the new maps look similar to the older maps; as many of the existing 
 terrain elements are recycled. Therefore, you get more of the infamous Norman hedgerow country 
 to battle through, as well as a slew of French towns and villages in which to go from house to 
 house.  

  The difficulty level of these new battles seems geared toward veterans of Close Combat and Squad 
 Assault, and they're definitely not easy. You need to tinker with the difficulty level quite a 
 bit (ramping your troops to elite level while also lowering the skill level of your opponents certainly 
 helps) , but the battles can still be brutal. Part of that can probably be attributed to the graphics 
 engine, which is fairly basic in terms of visual appeal. Squad Assault already looked dated when 
 West Front shipped in 2003, and it looks even more rudimentary today. The main issue with the graphics, 
 though, is that the environments are fairly plain, and that translates into huge killing fields 
 where machine gunners can mow down troops hundreds of yards away. That can turn even the slightest 
 mistake into a fatal one, because squads can get quickly cut down. To the artificial intelligence's 
 credit, your men will automatically toss smoke grenades to provide concealment and fall back on 
 their own, but it's still a bit frustrating to see attempt after attempt to maneuver around the 
 enemy fall apart thanks to the scarcity of decent cover. You really have to use everything at your 
 disposal, including smoke grenades, artillery, naval gunfire, and bounding tactics, to win. Even 
 more frustrating is that there still isn't a decent in-game save system, which would alleviate 
 a fair amount of annoyance. Currently, you have to redo each battle from scratch if you fail -- and 
 you'll fail quite a bit.  

          Though the production values are crude, it's still easy to keep track of the action onscreen. 
     

  Because most of Second Wave is simply recycled from West Front, there seem to be very few improvements 
 in the overall game. The multiplayer is still the same, letting you and a fellow player go head-to-head 
 in battles. The graphics are still relatively crude, from the low-res, blurry textures and the 
 blocky, chunky unit animations to the fact that the battlefields still seem to exist on a vast, 
 blurry plane as there's not an attempt to hide the edges of the map. Meanwhile, the sound effects 
 are literally the same, from the cries of your men when they're hit to the weapon and vehicle sounds. 
 You certainly won't mistake Second Wave for a next-generation game, and while wargamers aren't 
 that deterred by low production values, mainstream gamers certainly are.  

  That said, there's plenty of content in Second Wave, especially if you haven't played West Front 
 before, and you'll find that the original campaigns and missions hold up well. If you have played 
 West Front, though, it's harder to recommend Second Wave, since you've seen most of the content 
 already; the newer missions are even harder to recommend. Still, if you're looking for some realistic 
 World War II tactical combat, Squad Assault features some solid gameplay, and if you can get over 
 the production values, it's a pretty realistic simulation of what squad-level combat can be like. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: absintheguy818
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The game play was alot like the old school close combat, just with a tad of story boards and more 
 time realistic tables thrown in, if you ever played and like close combat this is a definite must, 
 but i do reccomend a trainer if you play as the germans, cause who ever progrmaed this made the 
 game very very biased towards the allies.
  
  Super varity of german tanks makes a blitz on french troops a must for the biuld you own seneros.
 
  But do play a full campagin if you got about 50 hours of game play, that of corse can be broken 
 up in to 15 min battles. From a close combat fan boy I love this game and if u like close combat 
 so will you,. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
