-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Squad Assault: West Front
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/squadassaultwestfront/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 50 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Freedom Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 2, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an engaging and realistic tactical wargame that's hampered by lackluster graphics and a strong 
 sense of dj vu. 

  It's time to go back to Normandy again in Squad Assault: West Front, a real-time tactical wargame 
 that bears more than a striking resemblance to the classic D-day-based wargame Close Combat. That's 
 not too surprising since Squad Assault designer Eric Young worked on the Close Combat games. That 
 also explains why, aside from the graphics engine, virtually nothing has changed. In fact, considering 
 that Squad Assault covers the same ground that the first and fifth Close Combat games did, it might 
 almost qualify as a remake of those games. While Squad Assault captures the intense and realistic 
 feel of being a company-level commander in the heat of battle, it may also feel like familiar territory. 

          The Yanks come ashore under withering fire.  Saving Private Ryan , anyone?     

  You 
 command Allied or Axis forces in a series of tactical engagements that represent the Normandy campaign, 
 from the landing on the beaches on D-day to the eventual breakout by the Allies. There's a wide 
 selection of battles available, from the brutal beach landings to close-quarters combat in the 
 bocage, the thick-hedgerow country that made the campaign a nightmare for the Allies. The campaigns 
 are dynamic: You start with a core group of units that you carry with you through the campaign, 
 and if they're lost in combat, you can requisition new troops using a point-allocation system. 
 In keeping with most wargames, there's an impressive amount of historical detail; squads are properly 
 outfitted with the appropriate weapons, and vehicles are represented by the many different variants. 

  The game mechanics and interface are pretty much lifted straight from Close Combat, including the 
 simple and elegant point-and-click command system. All you have to do is select a squad or vehicle, 
 pick an order from the menu, and then click on the map. You can pause whenever the action becomes 
 overwhelming to issue orders. Your troops are usually smart enough to comprehend your commands; 
 give them an order to assault a building, and they'll throw smoke grenades to cover their attack 
 and then charge.  

  Squad Assault also incorporates the morale model that Close Combat was so famous for; soldiers 
 each have a detailed psychological model so that they behave like real human beings rather than 
 mindless automatons. If a soldier sees all his buddies cut down around him, odds are he'll panic. 
 Apply enough pressure, and he may snap and go berserk, launching himself at the enemy in a suicide-like 
 charge. Give a soldier an order that will most likely result in certain death (for instance, an 
 order to charge a German machine gun nest head-on) , and he may very well ignore you and cower behind 
 cover. It's a great system because it forces you to recognize the limits of your men and to work 
 around them, like a real commander. Unfortunately, sometimes it feels like your elite troops can 
 break a bit too easily in Squad Assault, and you'll often see them trying to flee off the map in 
 droves. Thankfully, there is an option to make your men follow your every command so they don't 
 bolt.  

  The key to success, like always, is to employ proper tactics. Squads should always travel in pairs, 
 with one covering while the other bounds ahead. Suppression fire, mortars, air strikes, and naval 
 gunfire should be used to disrupt enemy attacks and pound defensive positions. Armor should be 
 used in support with plenty of infantry protecting their vulnerable flanks. If you're an avid wargamer, 
 these concepts are second nature to you, but if you're new to the genre, they're painful lessons 
 to learn, and if you don't learn them, the game will most likely be a frustrating experience. Squad 
 Assault does introduce a new 3D graphics engine to the Close Combat formula, and there are a number 
 of advantages to going to 3D. One of the longtime problems with Close Combat was that it was very 
 difficult to read the terrain. You'd maneuver units only to discover they didn't have a line of 
 sight on an objective. The 3D engine changes that, as now you can maneuver the camera anywhere. 
 You can zoom down to get a grunt's-eye view of the action and see the terrain, or you can switch 
 to the traditional top-down view, which is easier for issuing commands. The 3D engine also means 
 that buildings can be destroyed and trees can burn, which gives you a much stronger sense of the 
 battlefield.  

  However, Squad Assault's 3D engine is also the game's biggest weakness. It's a very lackluster 
 graphics engine. Ground textures are very low-res and blurry; units are a bit blocky and unit animations 
 are jerky; and trees and buildings are very basic. There's also no attempt to hide the map's edge, 
 so it's as if the battlefield exists in a vast, blurry plane. Obviously wargames don't have the 
 budgets they used to (Microsoft was the publisher of the first three Close Combat games) , so production 
 values across the genre have declined as a result. But there's still a lot of room for improvement 
 in Squad Assault's graphics. Though they won't be a detriment for wargamers who are used to not 
 having fancy 3D graphics, they will certainly be a turnoff for casual gamers and newcomers to the 
 genre. The poor aesthetics also affect gameplay. Due to the sparse amount of detail, many maps 
 are just wide-open kill zones with little cover on them. Because of this, units have considerable 
 line of sight in most directions, allowing them to mow down opponents from hundreds of yards away. 
 Even the bocage offers little cover and concealment at times. Also, buildings are only modeled 
 with ground floors, so there's little point in occupying a three-story building for line-of-sight 
 advantages, because the upper two floors don't exist. The sound effects vary in quality. Weapons 
 and vehicles sound authentic (the MG-42 does indeed sound like cloth ripping) , and soldiers cry 
 out when they're hit or panicking, but the voices sound like they were recorded by a couple of 
 guys in a garage.  

          A Sherman pummels a building where Germans are hiding.     

  The AI is generally pretty solid on the defense, but it can seem a bit hesitant on the offense; 
 sometimes it won't press the advantage and deliver the killing blow. There is support for two players 
 in multiplay, and that can be a very rewarding experience, since there's no computer AI that can 
 match the cunning and guile of a human opponent. Your soldiers perform pretty well, but they're 
 also plagued with an inability to conserve ammunition. It's frustrating to watch an entire squad 
 waste all its ammo on extremely low-percentage shots. Soldiers in the Close Combat games were smart 
 enough to know when they were running low on ammunition and to reduce their rate of fire, but there's 
 no sign of this kind of behavior at all in Squad Assault. And while Squad Assault borrows many 
 of Close Combat's interface conventions, it also omits a few of the really useful ones. For instance, 
 you can't click on a message to center on the unit it concerns. You'll be told a soldier is running 
 out of ammo, but unless you happen to remember which squad he belongs to and where that squad is 
 currently on the map, it's pretty much useless information.  

  Squad Assault is an engaging, realistic tactical wargame, but it also doesn't stray far from the 
 Close Combat formula. While there's nothing wrong with that, there is a definite sense that we've 
 played this game before. It would be nice to see some innovation in the gameplay. Though the 3D 
 engine does represent an advance, it's hampered by the poor presentation. There is certainly potential, 
 though. Developer Freedom Games plans to turn Squad Assault into a series of games, like Close 
 Combat. Hopefully, they can build on the groundwork they've laid down in Squad Assault.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LVMPDawg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2003 7:31 pm PT
Review:  William Trotter's (a trusted Grognard) review of this game was dead-nuts on. It is a complete joy 
 to play, and has taken much of my free time in the last week or so, since I had to wait 'till Christmas 
 for this one. Being a fan of the Close Combat series, this was a must-have, as the developer Eric 
 Young, was involved with that label. His last effort left something to be desired, so I was a little 
 hesitant. Lay your worries to rest, as this game has brought back the flair of the origional and 
 more! Obviously it is in 3D, meaning not only the terrain, but the character models as well. You 
 can see incredible detail when zoomed in. Gameplay is frantic, exciting, and sometimes funny. On 
 one map I had a sniper that I was concentrating on (I just wanted to get his stats up) , targeting 
 a few straggling enemies etc, when he stumbled into a house where 2 Fallschirmjager were hiding. 
 He went to melee, but panicked and ran. These Germans apparently went ape (fanatic) on him and 
 chased him across the whole map until I could direct a squad nearby to stop them! The game is filled 
 with moments like this, and you find yourself actually rooting for your guys, hoping your favorites 
 will make it through the battles. The only niggles I have are trivial, such as: The British accents 
 are hoaky at best. The routed soldiers stay on the map and hide in the open where they can be wiped 
 out. Tanks sometimes sit with their rearends pointed toward the enemy. No popup bubbles to tell 
 you what each button will do (of course I know what they do now!) . Those are my only complaints, 
 other than the fact that I need to brush up on my tactics and stop getting my men killed! If you 
 like stretegy games, you need this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2003 1:45 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few problems with this game. Let me start off with mobility... sad.. indeed you 
 start the game a level such as omaha if you barrage them like twice they sit and move there and 
 sneak foward crawling slowly and yoiu cant even shoot at them your line of sight isnt good enough 
 but I dont see how there on an open beach you got like 10 mgs and they cant seem them on a open 
 beach yea right! Another thing firing it is pretty easy to kill somone but I mean this is kinda 
 pushing it its realistic but still even though like on another beach level you have houses for 
 beach heads not the tiny little sucky bunkers they give you so better for ya right.. wrong they 
 shoot from the beach nailing your guy right in the eye killing him but what I dont understand is 
 how your mg-42 cant nail a guy on an open beach when they can hit you with a fricken sub machine 
 gun. Beside these small flaws this game is great its fun to play but if you get the slow levels 
 where they creep to your pos which takes like 15 mins this game is worth buying if you are hard 
 core wwii stradegy games because you could probably get pass all the little problems its not as 
 bad is it really sounds but its pretty noticable all in all this game is good but not that good 
 but probably worth buying if you love these time games like close combat. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
