-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Squad Battles: Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/squadbattlesvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: HPS Simulations
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 2, 2001

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Squad Battles: Vietnam has plenty of meaty, flexible scenarios that represent wargaming at its best. 
 

 HPS Simulations' Squad Battles: Vietnam is the latest wargame from one of our most talented wargame 
 designers, John Tiller. As such, it doesn't quite live up to what it should be. There are parts 
 of the game that have an unpolished feel, as if this were the work of someone new to the business. 
 But overall, it's a refreshingly visceral wargame set in a conflict that other designers have shied 
 away from.           The North Vietnamese Army shells a Marine firebase.    

  It's hardly surprising that there haven't been many wargames set in Vietnam. It was a conflict 
 without the clarity of the American Civil War or World War II. The dynamic wasn't so much the division-to-division 
 clashes of conventional wars. Instead, it was the firepower of the United States pitted against 
 the determination of the Communist Vietnamese. The lines of battle were blurred. The fighting was 
 so mobile that there was no real front. The enemy lurked in the jungle and took shelter among civilian 
 populations. There's an argument to be made that this wasn't even a war. So how do you approach 
 the subject matter in a wargame?   

  The answer is, "you zoom in." As you might guess from its name, Squad Battles: Vietnam is intimately 
 tactical. It presents the Vietnam conflict as a series of close encounters fought primarily with 
 small arms. While the basic look and feel are similar to those of Tiller's Campaign Series for 
 TalonSoft (East Front, West Front, Rising Sun, and Divided Ground) , the gameplay is different for 
 a number of reasons.   

  The scale is the most immediate difference. The Campaign Series played out with platoon-sized units 
 (approximately 50 men) moving across 250-meter hexes, but Vietnam uses squad-level units (approximately 
 10 men) moving across 40-meter hexes. In the Campaign Series, units have an abstract strength value, 
 but in Squad Battles, individual soldiers and guns are tracked. An infantry unit consists of a 
 specific number of men and the things they carry. It feels concrete and personal. A marker isn't 
 just a bunch of numbers, it's men and the weapons cradled in their arms.   

  Every man and weapon is given an effectiveness rating that's represented by a percentage. Your 
 men become less effective under fire, and so do their weapons. Guns break, jam, and run out of 
 ammo. The percentages make this accessible. Here are 10 men with M16s, a few grenade launchers, 
 and an M60 light machine gun, all functioning at 100 percent. Then they're under fire. They take 
 a few casualties. Suddenly you've only got eight men functioning at 75 percent. The light machine 
 gun is gone and the M16s are down to 85 percent. It all feels much more immediate than trafficking 
 in strength points or firing values.           A lieutenant and his RTO call in air support.   

  In keeping with the personal feel of the game, there's a strong sense that artillery and air strikes 
 are off-site forces tenuously connected by radio contact and command structure. To call them in, 
 you need a leader and a radio, which is usually being humped by an RTO, or radio/telephone operator. 
 Even then, it takes precious minutes between the call for support and its arrival. The amount of 
 time is randomly determined (something that Squad Battles should have done with the arrival of 
 reinforcements) . When support arrives, you'll want your leader to be able to trace a line of sight 
 to the target, which can be dangerous. It's not a simple matter of opening a dialogue box and selecting 
 a target. Squad Battles leaves you waiting and vulnerable while you hold out for the aircraft or 
 artillery shells to arrive. It adds a welcome new level of tension to the gameplay.   

  Helicopters, which really came into their own during this era, are similarly handled. Helicopters 
 are as vulnerable as they are powerful. Their speed and firepower can tilt the balance of a battle, 
 but you have to use them carefully. Because Squad Battles models the difference between hovering 
 as an easy target and making high-speed passes, you have to keep your helicopters moving. But when 
 you're flying in troops, you have to bring your helicopters into a hover and land them. You'll 
 want to use firepower to suppress any enemy positions before you touch down, which also adds tension. 
 The situation with armor is similar. The terrain in Vietnam rarely allowed armor to fire from a 
 safe distance. So inching your tanks forward when there could be recoilless rifles and antitank 
 rockets in the nearest rice paddies is a nerve-wracking experience. When playing as the US, Squad 
 Battles is a wargame about putting men and their powerful but frail toys in harm's way.    

 
 Battles also play out very differently than in Tiller's Campaign Series wargames. This isn't a 
 matter of just spending action points to run around. It isn't dashing from hedgerow to hedgerow 
 or charging machine gun nests. Each battle tends to split into two phases. The first phase consists 
 of carefully advancing on a position. Once you make contact and the firing starts, the second phase 
 begins. From then on, all your men are crawling on their bellies and the game is no longer about 
 movement. Instead, it's all about concentrating firepower. In this respect, the game feels very 
 much like a turn-based version of Atomic's Close Combat series, which drove home the point that 
 pinning a man under fire and breaking his morale is just as effective as killing him outright. 
           A hot landing zone in the rice paddies, marked by wrecked helicopters.    

  Although Squad Battles has its share of "chess puzzles" -- hard-coded situations in which you have 
 to figure out the solution -- it also has plenty of meaty, flexible scenarios that represent wargaming 
 at its best. Scenarios like Con Thien, LZ Blue, and Ap Chinh An afford a lot of mobility and, therefore, 
 a wide range of choices for how to play. "Here's a vast map, here's a lot of men, here are your 
 objectives," says Squad Battles. "Now let's see what you can do." There's no ongoing campaign here, 
 but there are battles represented as a series of scenarios. There are also scenarios with alternate 
 setups that give them some replay value.   

  The basic engine has some shortcomings that are surprising coming from someone with Tiller's experience. 
 As in his Campaign Series, moving units is a matter of either guesstimation or tedious calculation. 
 The game doesn't show movement costs until you commit to moving a unit. If you want to be precise -- and 
 of course you do, since this is a wargame -- you'll have to look up various tables and do some math. 
 This isn't a huge problem once you're familiar with the system, but this is the sort of thing that 
 the computer should do for you. It would certainly have made the game easier for new players. This 
 has been a shortcoming in Tiller's games all along.   

  What's more surprising is the way Squad Battles completely ignores the importance of enfilade (from 
 the flank) fire or being attacked from the rear or multiple directions. These are fundamental elements 
 of combat that are nowhere to be found in Squad Battles: Vietnam. Without them, the game partly 
 undermines its attempts at realism. There are rules to take into account morale, command, armor 
 penetration, fatigue, cover, range, and so forth. So why would Tiller omit one of the most crucial 
 aspects of a firefight -- namely, the direction the bullets are coming from?           After the 
 Tet offensive, the Marines drive back the Viet Cong in Hue.    

  Finally, Vietnam should have offered more information. The Campaign Series allowed for detailed 
 reports on the effects of each shot. Seeing the numbers laid out was a helpful way to learn the 
 system. You could easily quantify how dangerous it was to be caught in the open, how powerful certain 
 weapons were, and when you were outgunned. But in Vietnam, all this is under the hood. Tracer graphics 
 give a rough estimate of how effective an attack is, and casualties are displayed using little 
 explosion symbols. Perhaps Tiller wants to re-create the uncertainty of combat, but it would have 
 been helpful to have more options. Also, the way the units are displayed on the map isn't always 
 helpful. Short of manually clicking on every unit, there's no way to see which units are disrupted, 
 whether a squad is depleted or at full strength, or where your leaders are. Also, the lack of control 
 over opportunity fire during the other player's turn is too easily exploitable. You'll find yourself 
 using distant units to draw your enemy's opportunity fire while it's ineffective. Then, once it's 
 been spent, you can move closer units with impunity. This is one of the shortcomings in the artificial 
 intelligence that should have been addressed.   

  If you'll forgive the reference, these problems keep Squad Battles from being all it can be. It's 
 still a superlative wargame, but it's not Tiller's best. It is, however, perhaps his most accessible. 
 Because of this, Squad Battles: Vietnam is another feather in his cap and the promising debut of 
 what looks like an exciting new series.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dazooz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The Squad Battles series by HPS Simulations is a group of squad level combat games that cover a 
 variety of time periods and theaters of operation. There are now 8 Squad Battles games including: 
 -Vietnam
  -Tour of Duty (Vietnam)
  -The Proud and the Few (Marines in WW II in Pacific)
  -Eagles Strike (US invasion of Western Europe in 1944)
  -Korean War
  -Advance of the Reich 
 (Early war in Russia in WW II)
  -Pacific War (Covers the rest of the war in the Pacific in WW II)
  and most recently
  -Soviet-Afghan 
 War (Covers Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979) .
  
  Gameplay: This series is a turn-based squad level game. The units include leaders, squads, weapon-teams, 
 and individual vehicles. The game is played on a 2D map (though some of the games in the series 
 have 3D maps) which are adequate for a wargamer. The game uses many similar calculations to a boardgame 
 such as terrain values and combat values. If you are familiar with Squad Leader or Advanced Squad 
 Leader board games, the Squad Battles series is probably the closest thing you will find in a computer 
 game. The squads carry a number of different weapons which can be fired separately at different 
 targets, or fired all together at one. There are a large number of different types of weapons including 
 rifles, AT weapons, satchel charges, and even wire clippers! The vehicles also have a wide variety 
 of weapons that can even change their load. This is not a quick-fix, shoot 'em up game! To be successful 
 in the Squad Battles series, one must study the terrain, the units and weapons available for each 
 scenario and must have an understanding of squad tactics that one can incorporate into the objectives 
 of each scenario. Because of this, the game is very realistic in its results. If you run across 
 an open field in full view of a Machine Gun nest, you are very likely going to be cut down and 
 pinned, of no further use. But if you concentrate firepower, approach carefully and assault with 
 numbers and fire superiority, things will go much better! The game does take a lot of patience 
 though. While there are a large number of vehicles in the game, it is an infantry game at heart 
 I think. Graphics: They do not WOW an individual necessarily, but they are adequate and actually 
 quite pleasing for the type of game it represents. The 2D graphics are actually superior to the 
 3D in my opinion. Sound: Adequate. The different weapons sound correct. This is a wargame though, 
 and not a lot of unnecessary music or other sound is added. Multi-player: The games really shine 
 in the PBEM (play-by-email) realm. Playing against a real opponent can be very satisfying as you 
 both study the battle and match wits. The system in rock-solid in this area. Overall: This is a 
 great system to study squad tactics and to get a taste of a wide variety of different theaters 
 of war. The cost of the series is somewhat high, but if you are a student of this kind of wargaming, 
 it is worth it. The game can be modified with graphics and new scenarios can be made. I rate the 
 series very highly. There are a number of Wargame Clubs with a Squad Battles section to join others 
 with similar interest. The games do take a lot of effort to learn and be able to play well, but 
 the satisfaction of doing so is also very high. I recommend the series highly. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
