-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stacked with Daniel Negreanu
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/stacked/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging poker AI that learns based on your play style.
 Some generally good, solid advice from poker pro Daniel Negreanu.
 A long career mode with lots of tournaments.
 Online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The AI can occasionally be exploited.
 Negreanu's tips are periodically way off base.
 No poker variants beyond Texas hold 'em.
 Presentation is lackluster.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 5.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Myelin Media
Developer: 5000ft
Genre: Casino
Date:     May 30, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Stacked presents itself as a typical game of poker, but thanks to a pretty intriguing artificial 
 intelligence system, it plays things much smarter than your average poker title. 

  For the average person, it would be pretty easy to dismiss the vast majority of console and PC 
 poker games available at retail price as hackneyed cash-ins on a trend that, as of now, is kind 
 of falling by the wayside. For serious poker enthusiasts, it's even easier to dismiss most of these 
 games, since they all tend to suffer from the same silly issues. The presentation always sucks, 
 the opponent artificial intelligence is frequently exploitable, the list of features is never deep 
 enough, and so on and so forth. Stacked with Daniel Negreanu is the first poker title from developer 
 5000 Ft., and a quickly hacked together poker game this is not. Stacked takes a laserlike focus 
 to the game of Texas hold 'em, exclusively building its multifaceted artificial-intelligence routines 
 around the workings of that specific variation of the game and then building a video game around 
 it that functions pretty well as a learning tool for would-be hold 'em players. By no means is 
 the system perfect, but compared with the dregs of what else is out there, Stacked stands out as 
 the most engaging and smartest game of poker currently available.  

          Stacked's AI knows when you've played bad or good, so be good for goodness sake!     

 
  The basic premise for Stacked is that the game's artificial-intelligence model is built off of 
 a system called Poki. It's some kind of superscientific computer system that doesn't just react 
 to your play style using a few different canned reactions -- it's actually built to learn what you 
 do as you play and react based on what it learns from you. For example, if you throw in a bet with 
 nothing, the AI comes back over the top with a big raise, and you bow out, it'll learn that you're 
 not necessarily the type to throw down when you don't have a made hand. Conversely, if you play 
 things a little bit recklessly, throwing out big bets on lousy hands to try and make a bluff, the 
 AI will start to challenge you more and more to the point where it simply won't buy your load of 
 malarkey.  

  There are purportedly eight different AI bots in the game, each of which plays a little bit differently, 
 though you'll have a hard time discerning all but the most extreme personalities. There's always 
 at least one guy at the table who plays superaggressively and one who plays a Dan Harrington-esque 
 tight game. Everyone else is somewhere in between and tough to pick apart. Though Stacked includes 
 both cash game and tournament-style play, the AI seems built more specifically for tournament games. 
 Low-stakes cash games with small blinds yield the type of cautious play seen more often in high-stakes 
 tournaments with frequently increasing blinds. Of course, that also means that the AI plays those 
 tournaments superrealistically, but if you're the type that just wants to play a leisurely cash 
 game for little money, you might be a little flustered by the AI's frequent tendency to fold out 
 before the flop even comes down. There are also some ways to exploit the AI's learning tendencies 
 by basically playing like a complete jerk for long stretches, going all-in constantly, raising 
 like a lunatic, and so on. But even then, the AI will only react improperly if you're magically 
 successful at this methodology. If you start getting called on your nonsense and lose frequently, 
 no exploits present themselves. So if you play the game like your chips actually matter, you won't 
 run into any such troubles.  

  All told, despite a few quirks, Stacked's AI is the best currently available in a console or PC 
 poker game. It plays a smart and varied game that can be pretty challenging if your game isn't 
 tight. Fortunately, after enough time spent with the game, it will almost certainly teach you a 
 thing or two, both through its basic gameplay and through the helpful hints provided by cover boy 
 Daniel Negreanu. Negreanu's presence is felt throughout much of the game. There's a poker-school 
 feature with pretaped educational segments hosted by Negreanu, as well as a number of in-game hints 
 that advise you on what you ought to do for a hand. For the most part, this advice is great. Negreanu 
 gets fairly detailed on what kinds of actions you should take. For instance, if you get a small 
 pair dealt down, he'll tell you to take a stab at the pot with a bet, without building you up too 
 high on your hand. After the flop, if someone else comes over the top with a sizable bet, he'll 
 advise you differently depending on whether you hit the flop or missed it entirely.  

  The advice doesn't get terribly granular, in that he doesn't go out of his way to explain why you 
 should take a specific action, but for the most part he's usually right -- emphasis on  usually . 
 There are moments where he'll inexplicably tell you to go all in with nothing but rags at totally 
 random times, and others still where he'll fail to recognize someone trying to push you all in 
 and simply tell you to call on the hope that you'll get something on the turn or the river. But 
 these incidents aren't necessarily the norm when it comes to getting advice from the pro, and usually 
 it's good information.  

  The other ancillary elements of the game are mostly pretty good, if a bit slow and clunky in spots. 
 The general interface is a good one, with a one-button pop-up to show you your hole cards at any 
 time and a quickly accessible bar menu that lets you access Negreanu's tips, as well as display 
 a couple of different emotional reactions when you want to. These smiles and frowns are basically 
 an extremely rudimentary tell system that really has next to no impact on the game, and they're 
 just not worth using. One nice feature the game includes is the ability to see a percentage meter 
 that measures your hand strength against the general card odds and the number of people still in 
 the hand. It's not like it tells you what everybody else has, or anything, but it gives you a sense 
 of where you likely stand in the hand.  

  Getting through a hand that you've folded out of quickly simply involves pressing a button to quickplay 
 through it (although you might miss out on some key intel by doing this) . However, as a whole, 
 Stacked is a very slowly paced game. Tournaments can sometimes take in upward of a couple of hours 
 to complete, which is a little taxing given the lack of any real background music or useful banter 
 to keep you entertained while you're sitting around. The player dialogue only pops up in short 
 bursts at random intervals, and it's all pretty mindless, terrible stuff. The Xbox version doesn't 
 even support custom soundtracks, making the audio experience largely worthless and the game itself 
 a little duller than it would be otherwise.  

  Stacked's tight focus on making a realistic offline game of Texas hold 'em is entirely admirable 
 and mostly successful. However, those who have come to expect much in the way of features in their 
 poker games might be a little disappointed with Stacked's package. The requisite career mode and 
 online play are available, with the career spanning a whole host of tournaments and cash games 
 against no-name players and a few licensed pros, and the online play includes similar types of 
 games to be played against real-life opponents, as well as a number of hosted tournaments. The 
 career mode and online play are sure to keep players busy for a good long while, but beyond them, 
 there's just not much here in the way of variety. The character-customization element of the game 
 is pretty underwhelming, only letting you change the basic hairstyles and clothing-color schemes 
 of a little over a dozen different character models. There are also no variations of poker available 
 apart from Texas hold 'em. Yes, it  is  the Cadillac of poker, but even having a few draw or stud 
 variants would have been nice. Perhaps Poki hasn't learned those games yet.  

          Negreanu's influence is stamped all over Stacked, and that stamp helps make Stacked a better 
 than average learning tool.     

  Graphically, Stacked isn't much better or worse than any of the other poker games on the market. 
 The character models found in the game are a little more detailed than you tend to find in poker 
 titles, but the animation is still kind of stiff. There also aren't an awful lot of casinos or 
 different environments to play in, so you tend to see a lot of the same poker rooms over and over, 
 and they're not really that great looking. Worst of all, the chip stacks are awful looking. You'd 
 think a game called Stacked would at least get the chip stacks right, wouldn't you? The game has 
 a couple of available camera angles, but the frame rate does occasionally bog down, especially 
 on the PlayStation 2 version of the game. The Xbox version looks slightly better than the PS2 one, 
 and the PC version predictably looks the best. It's also the easiest to play, as the interface 
 seems a little more geared toward mouse-and-keyboard controls than a controller setup. Not to mention 
 that the game defaults to a windowed mode method of play; this actually works best for this type 
 of game.  

  What it ultimately comes down to with Stacked is just how much you want to play a realistic, offline 
 game of Texas hold 'em. There's certainly no shortage of ways to play this game for free on the 
 internet, but playing against random online players doesn't always provide you with much tangible 
 feedback on how your game stacks up in a real cash game or tournament environment. Admittedly, 
 Stacked's AI system doesn't always pull this off either, and there are holes in Stacked's game, 
 but far fewer than most other poker titles, and it's the best measuring stick for your personal 
 poker skills available in the realm of entertainment software.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maak27
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a shot of lightning in the a hole. You sit there for 10 hands getting dealt garbage 
 and then you pull a 3 of a kind, just to be bwaten by a full house. This scenario will play itself 
 out over and over again. I tortured myself for 4 hours before finally giving up. I am a pretty 
 good poker player and found myself getting beat consistently every time I played. The only redeeming 
 quality to this game is that some of the chicks in here are really hot. Bottom line, save your 
 money and get a pokerstars. net account for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  I have probably every poker game out there, searching
  for a good video game, that's not "cheesy" or "hokey".
  
  My search has ended, this has to be 
 one of the better
  poker video games on the market at this time.
  
  Daniel Negreanu stays true to the poker community
  with his first entry in the video game market.
 
  
  The gameplay is as close to "real" poker you can get.
  The graphics are way more superior than his counterparts.
  The A. I. way more smarter than you 
 would expect, they will
  figure out if your an agressive, timid or safe poker player.
  
  The online play is worth it and stacks up to Absolute Poker
  and Party Poker as far as gameplay, etc. There 
 isn't too
  many gamers online at the moment but hopefully by
  word of mouth about this game. More players will purchase
  this PC version and come online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: politude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing stacked for a few days and i wanted to tell the community what this game is 
 all about.
  
  Gameplay:
  A fairly easy game to learn and play. Although kinks may have to be worked out I found that playing 
 this at home on my pc is a very good thing. I have played for 3 days and already i will never play 
 poker the same way again. The difficulty keeps you on your toes and the learn with daniel negreanu 
 feature is great for new players. The game has online capabilities that if they work they can propell 
 thi game to the next level. I am honestly hooked on this game and i hope you will be too.
  Gameplay score: 8
  
  Graphics:
  Im going to blatendly say it the graphics are not that good. 
 The fact that the chip amounts just skip around ruins the atmosphere from time to time. It may 
 just be my computer but the player models look just a little bit like a games traight out of 2002. 
 The feature that lets you be first person need some work because when you lets say check the camera 
 goes back to your face. There isnt as much costumization as we have seen in the videos and that 
 kinda ruins the atmosphere of the game.
  Graphics:6
  
  Sound: 
  The music... well other than the menus there isn't any. You cant add music into the game and that 
 ruins it for me. I usually listen to music when i play on the internet so why not here?
  Sound:3
  
  Value: 
  For 30 bucks you get the poki engine which helps your game a lot. Whereas 
 you could but a poker trainer for 130$ so this is a very great value.
  Value:9
  
  I am enjoying this game and I reccoment that you buy it for 30$... its a bargain.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Offspring153
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  The AI in the NL is pretty impressive, but as far as the it goes for the limit games, it is almost 
 laughable. Ex, in a pot 2 limped, 1 raised, another re-raised, and i re-raised, 2 more smooth called 
 4 bets pre-flop, 1st limper raised, called around to me, i make it 6 bets, and called around.
 
  
  The winner of the hand called another 4 bet on the flop with nothing, a 3 bet on the turn with 
 a gut-shot straight draw, and came out betting on the river when it hit.
  
  I've never seen a rookie play like that let alone a pro, and i understand that there are different 
 levels in terms of aggressiveness at the table, but if anyone played like that in a casino, they 
 would get laughed out of the place.
  
  It seems once the AI decides to play a hand in limit it does so to the bitter end, regardless of 
 cost, pot odds, or down right common sense.
  
  For a game I have looked forward to for a long time, I think its a waste of time and money, if 
 i could sell it for $5 I would think i was getting a deal, don't waste you money.
  
  My 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  ... though with the lack of real competition, that doesn't make this an awsome game
  
  The good:
  
  - This is the poker game with the best atmosphere I've played (in graphics and 
 sound) , but there's enough room to make it better
  - The AI is better than in most poker games
  - The 1st person view gives you a better overview 
 on the game, than the standard "fixed camera" in most poker games
  - The controls for betting/folding/etc are easy (just use the up/down and enter keys)
  
  The 
 bad:
  - When in normal camera view, it can become difficult to keep track on what goes on, as the camera 
 keeps jumping around
  - When in 1st person view there's some bugs: Now and then the camera looks away from the table 
 (happens each 10 minutes... goes back to normal shortly after though) . Moving the camera in 1st 
 person view is hell (you have to hold right mouse button and move the mouse to do so... unfortunatly 
 it almost never works as intended)
  - The interface is not userfriendly for most parts (Can't remember the last time I saw a menu that 
 badly done, and when playing you can't see all the interesting info all the time)
  - It resets your ingame-visual settings each time you start a new game (talking about switching 
 back to normal view and opens up the chat-box)
  - They only have Texas Hold'em
  
  I haven't played online yet, so I can't comment on that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stawar1126
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  There are certain things that make the game of poker intriguing and entertaining. The most obvious 
 is the gambling aspect. Since in a video game version of poker you can't gamble real money, the 
 game needs to key in on the other aspects that would make the game fun. I'm referring to the awesome 
 Las Vegas and European casinos, the colorful characters who play the game, and the adrenaline rush 
 that comes with outsmarting your opponent and taking down a huge pot.
  
  It's surprising that a commercial game can't pick up on a single one of these attributes. The environments 
 are bland are there are only 3 casinos to choose from in the game. I've seen skins for online casinos 
 that are more vibrant and exciting.
  
  The interface is horrid and clunky. There doesn't seem to be a way to input the amount you actually 
 want to bet, so you're reduced to sliding through pre-set amounts. There's some kind of smile/frown 
 implementation to give off certain intentional tells to fake out your opponent (I guess?) , but 
 it just doesn't seem to work and is mainly for laughs. The most fun I got out of this game was 
 smiling and frowning repeatedly until I was called out on my another one of the players thining 
 he figured out my tell ("You obviously don't have the cards. Your lips move too much") .
  
  The characters and character models are downright annoying and irritating in how they've tried 
 to ghetto-ize the game. Three quarters of the characters look like former thugs who are too cool 
 to be out on the streets and therefore must resort to a life of playing poker. Some of the fat 
 and balding models are funny and more appropriate for a game like this, but do most of the people 
 have to look like rejects from a Jay-Z video?
  
  Not only do they look pretty bad, but the voice and animation is worse. It really doesn't seem 
 like 5000ft put any effort into jazzing this game up. The voices are mainly monotone and pretty 
 repetitive. It gets a little grinding every time someone bets, checks, or folds for them to make 
 an auditory announcement of it. Kind of ruins the feel and tempo of the game. There's nothing like 
 hearing "I'm out!" every time someone lays down a hand after the flop for me to remember I'm just 
 playing a crappy computer game. The animation is rigid and obnoxious. Guys push in gigantic stacks 
 with both hands half the time even if it's a small bet and they're not going all in. Chips aren't 
 indicative at all of the amount of money you have and are just there for the aesthetics and the 
 same goes with the chips you're putting into the pot. It all just seems arbitrary rather than looking 
 realistic. The characters only seem to animate when it's there turn and their chip interaction 
 is limited betting (it would be nice to see certain characters playing with their chips during 
 a decision or while waiting for their turn to act) . When they do animate, it's robotic and limited 
 to hand movement pushing in chips and little celebrations when winning a pot. The whole atmosphere 
 of the game has been completely taken away.
  
  The career mode is half decent. Like most other poker games, you're given a beginning bankroll 
 and you start playing in small cash games and tournaments and eventually build up your bankroll 
 to get into the VIP games with the pros. Given how the actual poker playing isn't that fun to begin 
 with, there wasn't much initiative for me to go very far.
  
  One of the most disappointing aspects was the multiplayer. If you play any kind of LAN or online 
 game, you're limited to single table sit-and-go's or cash games and only with the people you're 
 playing with. There's no ability to use bots to create a full table. It's quite disappointing that 
 if I want to play with my brother over LAN, we're limited to heads up play only. The ability to 
 play a sprawling multi-table tournament with your friends at different tables struggling to stay 
 alive to meet up at the final table would have been fun and visceral. Hell, the inclusion of bots 
 at all would have made the experience better. As it is, it sucks and seems thrown together at the 
 last minute to say "Hey! We've got multiplayer too!" Pitiful.
  
  There are some tutorial videos which are pretty decent in teaching you how to play the game, but 
 only the very basics are included. If you're putting down money to buy a poker game, odds are you're 
 already familiar with the basics. Daniel Negreanu is a great personality to watch when he's at 
 the table and he brings absolutely none of it into his tutorials. They're not very informative 
 for anyone other than a true beginner and non entertaining to watch either.
  
  It's obvious this game was geared towards beginners and people unfamiliar with the game. Bland 
 animations and monotone voice acting put together with a crappy interface and uninteresting visuals 
 makes me wonder how this game took more than a week to be put together. I hope Negreanu got a very 
 large check for putting his name on this because it's sad to see the poker great in the same package 
 with this terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Poker video games tend to give you just the hold'em poker atmosphere only as enough to be one. 
 Stacked with Daniel Negreanu changes the formula slightly with tutorials that maybe help improve 
 your poker game. The career mode will also make newbies improve their game as u move up the ladder 
 to hopefully face the pro players that act like actual pros. The multiplayer serves its purpose 
 of online poker like other online poker games for the PC and consoles. If you need a new poker 
 video game to master, or improve your skills at hold'em poker, Stacked is a solid choice. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
