-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starshatter: The Gathering Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starshatterergatheringstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting blend of space action and simulation.
 Dynamic campaign lets you feel like part of a bigger war.
 It's like a modern-day flight sim in outer space.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Flight-sim aspects may turn off space-combat fans.
 Mouse-and-keyboard controls are very cumbersome--get a joystick if you want to play.
 Production values, while improved, are still relatively rudimentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Destroyer Studios
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is an enhanced version of 2004's Starshatter that adds improved AI and production values, but 
 that's about it. 

  It's a bit difficult what to make of Starshatter: The Gathering Storm, the "follow-up" to 2004's 
 ambitious space combat sim. That's because The Gathering Storm isn't really a new game; rather, 
 it's an updated version of the original Starshatter with enhanced artificial intelligence and better 
 production values. Starshatter remains something of an interesting throwback to a time when space-combat 
 sims like Wing Commander and X-Wing were the first-person shooters of their day. But to its credit, 
 Starshatter does a lot more than simply mimic famed predecessors. In many ways, Starshatter feels 
 like a cross between Wing Commander and Falcon 4.0, combining the fast-paced action of the former 
 with the depth of the latter to create a dynamic space combat game.  

          Fly that stellar highway to the danger zone.     

  Rather than have a campaign comprising 
 a linear set of missions, Starshatter features a dynamic campaign that lets you feel like you're 
 participating in a wider war. You can select your mission from a group of available missions, determine 
 a flight plan to and from your target, and customize the payload on your fighter. It's a process 
 that feels very similar to a traditional flight simulator. Old-school flight-sim fans will love 
 this amount of control, though it might feel a bit daunting to newcomers. Thankfully, you can stick 
 with the default mission options and not worry too much.  

  The mission types should feel familiar to flight-sim fans, as Starshatter ships modern air combat 
 to outer space. There are fighter sweeps, patrols, and suppression of enemy air defense missions, 
 and all of these could fit into any modern-day flight simulator. Even the fighter designs and designations 
 all seem inspired by the Air Force's inventory (there's an F-22 and an F-35 in the game, for instance, 
 that look to be taken from the next generation of US fighter craft) .  

  Thankfully, unlike Falcon 4.0, Starshatter doesn't force you to master hideously complex cockpit 
 controls, though the controls are still detailed and you'll do a lot more than simply blast every 
 fighter in your sights. There's a fair amount of flight management, and the focus is as much on 
 simulation as it is on action. You can issue various commands to your wingman or your flight squadron, 
 such as break and attack. Or when you land, you need to request clearance and fly your ship into 
 a hanger, a process that's similar to a carrier landing. The game has two flight models. The first 
 is an arcade flight model for fans of Wing Commander, and the second is a Newtonian-based flight 
 model, if you think that ships in space should possess qualities such as mass and momentum.  

 
  Unfortunately, while Starshatter ships with support for mouse-and-keyboard controls, you will 
 most definitely want to use a joystick with the game. The mouse-and-keyboard controls are unwieldy, 
 to say the least, and it requires a lot of juggling between the two to do basic maneuvers. For 
 instance, if you want to roll your fighter, you have to enable the mouse steering by hitting the 
 tilde key, and then if you want your mouse cursor back, you must release mouse steering by hitting 
 tilde again. You don't have these issues with a joystick, though casual gamers will most likely 
 not have one of those. So if you want to really enjoy the game, you'll need to invest in a good 
 stick. We tested the game with a gamepad, and the results weren't as pretty, as the controls failed 
 to remap to the analog sticks on the gamepad.  

  If you were expecting Wing Commander-style combat, where you can get into a raging dogfight, take 
 a lot of punishment on the shields, and survive to fight another day, then you're in for a different 
 experience with Starshatter. This is a game where fighters have no shields and the king of the 
 battlefield is the missile. Thus, the winner in an engagement is usually the one who locks on and 
 looses a missile first. Guns are available should the engagement turn into a dogfight, but the 
 danger of becoming embroiled in one is that you'll become so focused on one enemy that others will 
 be able to pick you off. The improved AI can be challenging in this regard, as you'll need to constantly 
 be aware of the lock-on warning, at which point you must dump a countermeasure and break into a 
 sharp turn to avoid the missile heading your way.  

  In addition to fighter combat, Starshatter lets you command capital ships in battle, though this 
 remains a fairly dull experience thanks to the slow speed of capital ships and the  
 nature of the battles. The main tactic is to close with the enemy, unload everything into them, 
 and hope that you inflict more damage before they do. Still, it can be cool to witness these colossal 
 fights as they happen in the distance, as it creates the feeling that you're in a much larger battle. 

  Most of the action in Starshatter unfolds in the four dynamic campaigns. The new voice-over work 
 and the cutscenes do their best to introduce you to the political machinations at work in this 
 universe, though it's so confusing that you'll probably end up ignoring it and just focusing on 
 achieving your missions. The dynamic campaign is nice since you can select your missions. There 
 are a handful of stand-alone missions if you just want to jump directly into the fight.  

          You can fly planetary atmosphere missions, but what the game really needs is a sense of 
 speed.     

  The improved visuals certainly boost the look and feel of the game, as ships now have bump-mapped 
 textures and look like metallic objects. The Gathering Storm won't blow you away, though there 
 is a solid workmanship to the graphics. And considering that Starshatter remains the work of mostly 
 one very dedicated individual, it's an impressive achievement. However, what the game sorely needs 
 is a sensation of speed, as you never really feel like you're moving that quickly, whether you're 
 in space or flying a planetary atmosphere mission.  

  When you get down to it, The Gathering Storm is basically Starshatter 1.5. There are some welcome 
 improvements to it, but the flight-sim-meets-space-action formula and gameplay remain much the 
 same. That's likely good news for the small cadre of space-combat fans out there, though that's 
 an audience that's been shrinking for years. Starshatter is a game designed to appeal to those 
 space cadets, though everyone else need not apply.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rayven998
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:10 pm PT
Review:  First let me say (because so many people have asked me) ; Starshatter: The Gathering Storm is NOT 
 the sequal to the original Starshatter! The original was a great looking, highly ambitious sim 
 that was unfortunately marred by a lot of bad code. Rather than issue tons of patches (or one very 
 large patch) to fix the problems, Destroyer Studios simply decided to rebuild it from the ground 
 up. The result is (in my opinion anyway) the finest space combat sim on the market today. Now, 
 you'll notice I keep using the word "sim". This is not an arcade style "game" by any stretch of 
 the imagination. Those looking for fast and furious thrills ala Space Interceptor, Tachyon or Darkstar 
 One should probably look elsewhere. You'll also need a pretty robust system to run TGS well. It 
 recommends a 2.4 Gz processor and 2 GB of RAM. When I first bought TGS, I was running a 2.8 Gz 
 (since upgraded to a 2.5 Gz dual core) and 2 GB of RAM (since upgraded to 2 GB DDR) and, before 
 the upgrades, the frame rate still dropped to a crawl when a large number of enemies were onscreen 
 and the cut scenes would sometimes run kind of jerky. As stated in the "official review", a good 
 joystick is almost essential to play well, though I must admit that, contrary to the "official 
 review" I found that controlling my ship with the mouse wasn't that bad at all. Granted, it aint 
 Freelancer good but it will suffice in a pinch. TGS is unique in the fact that it models combat 
 both in space and planet side. In this, it's a combination of the sim Independance War and a modern 
 jet combat sim. Probably the greatest feature of TGS is the robust modding system. The online modding 
 community for TGS is HUGE. At Matrix Games site alone you can find mods covering BSG (both eras) , 
 Trek, Wars, Babylon 5 and just about everything in between. Overall, a fantastic sim that any Luke 
 Skywalker or William Adama wannabe should have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purehydro
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Fact of the matter is, Ive been playing this game for the past few days... at first memorizing the 
 controls is a little daunting... and I was annoyed with the controls of steering with mouse and 
 hud clicking... but still nothing like the number of controls in Freespace 2. Took me about an hour 
 to get the hang of the controls for this game effectivelly. This game has a nice blend of controlling 
 space fighter combat as well as controlling large capital ships. But my all time favorite is controlling 
 a carrier where you can organize your fighters in groups, launch attacks on multiple capital ships 
 with bombers, while giving fighter escorts to your own capital ships and bombers. A nice feeling 
 to Battlestar Gallactica realistic space combat, which is also btw one my fav shows ever. I also 
 like the realistic political and military feel. No crazy alien races, no fantasy ships with super 
 weapons or walking space travelling bugs. Its a realistic future, with rival factions and politics. 
 You dont actually see anyone, but you know they are all human.
  
  The truth is there are not many games like this anymmore. Gone are the days of really great space 
 combat sims. Granted the fighter combat is not as good as Darkstar one, or even Freespace 2, a 
 game that was way ahead of its time way back when. But it makes up for this with the capital ships 
 and carriers. That alone is worth a try if you liked games such as Startrek: Starfleet command 
 1,2, and 3... or Nexus: jupiter incident, or even Bridge commander. Those games are fun games to 
 play with large capital ships pounding at each other. However in this game the battles unfold rather 
 quickly, not giving you much time to form a strategic flight plan to bear all your weapons in an 
 effective manner, such as the Starfleet command, where tactical maneuveres to face a down shield 
 is paramount. I would even mention Homeworld 1, 2 and cataclysm... but really those games are in 
 their own class.
  
  The sound is ok, and I like the sense of explosions happening so far you can barely hear them... and 
 yes we all know there is sound is space. Well I mean at times a carrier will go down and you can 
 barely hear the explosion depending on where the camera is, and soon as you shoot from a fighter 
 the shots are cranked. Kinda pissed me off I suppose. The graphics are not quite up to par with 
 todays standards, nothing like x3: reunions graphics which are amazing... too bad that game is impossible 
 to get into. But the graphics look and feel good enough at the highest settings to give you that 
 realistic space feel. Gameplay is nice where you can choose your missions as you see fit, start 
 off as a grunt fighter, work your way up to bigger ships with more important missions. Somthing 
 to remember though is that inertia is a very real thing, takes getting used to controlling your 
 ships. Unlike other games where you can turn on a dime. I give the value an 8 for the ambition 
 that was obviously put into this game. Support the indie developers, they never follow the band 
 wagon and pump mediocre cookie cutter products like so many others. Try this game out if it sounds 
 interesting to you in the least. Bottomline: Realistic space conbat sim with alot of potential, 
 using fighters, bombers, capital ships, and carriers at your disposal. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
