-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jediknightdarkforces2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.7, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,042 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Arguably the best single-player first-person shooter since Doom. 

 Designing a game set in the Star Wars universe seems like a no-brainer. The look and sounds of the 
 game - from the Imperial gray of walls, to the elephantine squeal of a TIE Fighter engine, to the 
 squeaky "pew, pew" of a blaster shot - are already set in stone, so designers just need to think 
 of a genre and use the existing elements to build a game. This formula has been both successful 
 (as with X-Wing, TIE Fighter, and Dark Forces) and not so successful (see Yoda Stories or Shadows 
 of the Empire) . Jedi Knight falls squarely into the former category, and is LucasArts' first truly 
 great Star Wars game since TIE Fighter. The designers have done a commendable job of creating an 
 immersive environment and have come up with what is arguably the best single-player first-person 
 shooter since Doom.  

 Jedi Knight dispenses with many of the negative traits of its predecessor, Dark Forces. The game 
 is longer (though it still feels a bit on the short side) , you can save your game at any point 
 and not just in predetermined areas, and LucasArts has corrected the single most criticized aspect 
 of Dark Forces by adding multiplayer options to the sequel. But the gameplay in Jedi Knight is 
 very similar to Dark Forces and borrows heavily from console games. Jumping from one small platform 
 to the next is as important as blowing away Stormtroopers and Imperial Guards, and there are plenty 
 of bosses to fight along the way.   

 The bosses in this case are Dark Jedi, a group of diverse baddies trying to help a super-evil Jedi 
 named Jerec (who, conveniently, also happens to be responsible for the murder of your father) find 
 a place called the Valley of the Jedi, where he will be bestowed with unlimited power. You once 
 again take on the role of Kyle Katarn, who has now learned that he is a Jedi. As Katarn you must 
 follow Jerec and his henchmen across a good deal of territory, from Imperial bases to your father's 
 house and, ultimately, to the Valley of the Jedi itself. Along the way, you'll encounter the regular 
 collection of Star Wars creeps, including Stormtroopers, Imperial Guards, Bounty Hunters, and the 
 like. The decisions you make during the course of each level help determine your fate, and a point 
 comes late in the game where you become aligned with the Dark or the Light side of the Force, and 
 the storyline unfolds from there.  

 The branching between Light and Dark isn't as significant as early reports promised, and the storyline 
 is a little cliched, but it does a fine job of providing links between the levels - and that's 
 where Jedi Knight really excels. The majority of the levels are massive, both in size and scope. 
 They contain enormous environments and some truly dazzling feats you must perform. For instance, 
 at one point you must run across the top level of a huge space station, avoiding TIE Fighters trying 
 to take you out with bombing runs. You make your way to the top of a large beam, where the only 
 apparent exits are huge gaping air shafts that lead down hundreds of feet into nothingness. In 
 one of these shafts, you can barely make out a small ledge. You must slide down to that ledge, 
 then make your way through air ducts into the station itself. Another level has you trying to run 
 through a falling cargo ship to the docking bay and escape, all the while trying to keep your balance 
 in the unsteady environment and avoid the huge crates sliding around the hull. The game is full 
 of these exhilarating moments where you think to yourself, "I can't believe I have to do that." 

 The level design makes you feel as if you are in a real environment, and the game is given an even 
 more realistic sense by the incredible sensation of control you have over the character and the 
 intelligent behavior of your foes. For example, when you jump, you actually feel like you are jumping 
 (and not the sort of wimpy, twelve-inches-in-the-air jump of Quake or Hexen II) and when you walk 
 backwards, the rate of movement changes to a slower, more cautious gait. Together, the level design 
 and excellent control combine to give you the feeling that you can go pretty much anywhere you 
 want in a level without artificial constraints. Enemy behavior also adds to the suspension of disbelief. 
 While it doesn't necessarily make them any harder to kill, enemies will gang up on you and run 
 for cover as you fire at them. The Tusken Raiders even do a little victory dance when they kill 
 you, throwing their arms in the air and roaring with glee.  

 But not everything is new in Jedi Knight. The weapons selection doesn't vary much from Dark Forces. 
 You have the basic blaster and the Stormtrooper rifle, as well as more powerful weapons such as 
 the rail gun and the concussion rifle. But the introduction of the Jedi elements, which bestow 
 a host of new abilities on your character, makes it a very different game. You have the assortment 
 of various Jedi powers at your disposal, which become stronger and more numerous as you gain experience. 
 There are twelve powers in all, four basic, four advanced for the Light Jedi, and four advanced 
 for the Dark. The basic powers add to your movement, allowing you to jump higher or run faster. 
 Advanced powers give you various offensive and defensive abilities, depending on the road you choose. 
 Light Jedi powers include healing and protection, while the Dark powers allow you to strangle opponents, 
 throw objects, or fire lighting bolts. Then there's the Lightsaber. It's amazing that a melee weapon 
 can be so useful in an action game. Once you gain experience and become more proficient at blocking 
 enemy shots with your saber, it will likely become your weapon of choice.  

 There are some elements that will inevitably put some off, mostly in the aesthetic arena. The choice 
 for full-motion video cutscenes is perhaps the most obvious complaint and seems like a misguided 
 decision. While the rendered aspects of these scenes are great, the acting is typically mediocre 
 and often just plain, old-fashioned bad. The actor who plays Katarn, with his beauty parlor blow-dried 
 hair and too-neatly-shaved beard, looks less like a Jedi Master than the Marketing Director for 
 The Force (tm) . The wall textures range from bland (the gray walls of the Empire, hardly the designers' 
 fault) to downright ugly (the grass textures in level three are the most notable example) . The 
 3D accelerated version looks fine (Jedi Knight is Direct3D compatible) , but the unaccelerated version 
 can't compete with Hexen II or even Quake.  

 Many will also be disappointed to learn that the distinction between the Light and Dark sides, once 
 the choice has been made, is not as striking as one would hope. Which side you take is determined 
 by your actions, with the rampant killing of non-enemies being the quickest route to the Dark Side. 
 The Light Side is obviously the path you are supposed to take - you get more cutscenes and more 
 narration throughout the last few levels. But apart from this and the different Force powers at 
 your disposal, choosing the Dark Side only leads to one really shocking plot element, a slightly 
 altered level, and a completely different ending (which is, in many ways, far more satisfying) . 

 On the graphical upside, the character animations are great, and provide a great deal more than 
 in other first-person shooters. The game can be played from a third-person or first-person point 
 of view (and switched on the fly) . With the external camera, Katarn's movements match the action, 
 and it's a nice touch when he reaches out to push buttons or actually appears to be swimming underwater. 
 The sound effects are equally appropriate, and a remixed version of John Williams' Star Wars score 
 provides a suitably epic backdrop for the action.  

 The only other notable complaint is the somewhat mediocre multiplayer implementation. Early reports 
 have declared the game virtually lag-free, but the combination of Force powers and high-powered 
 range weapons often make for a strong imbalance (though this can be fixed by limiting the available 
 weapons in the set-up screen) . More frustrating is the limited number of multiplayer levels and 
 the inability to use the single-player levels for multiplayer games.   

 But harping on these flaws is a little unfair because, as a single-player game, Jedi Knight simply 
 can't be beat. The level design is great and the sense of control is unparalleled. From the third-person 
 perspective, it plays like a more action-oriented Tomb Raider, and from the first-person view, 
 it's a more puzzle-oriented Quake. And either way, it's an amazing experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The first fps game that I truly dug myself into was Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. After hearing 
 so many people scream about the awesomeissity of Jedi Knight, I decided to give it a go.
  
  Meh.
  
  I'm sure this game was amazing when it came out. The modified Quake engine ran well, 
 though I had major troubles playing on WinXP Home until I turned off my antivirus. Until then, 
 I was scrambling with compatability mode just to keep this game from crashing. Unfortunately, saving 
 a game (not quicksaving) still caused frequent crashes. I couldn't even use hardware accelerated 
 graphics.
  
  In terms of gameplay, I'm also sure this was astounding at release. It featured force powers and 
 realistic-looking lightsaber combat. 
  
  But after playing the more refined sequal, I threw this puppy on "easy" and cruised through - playing 
 just to soak in the story.
  
  Play it for the story, play it to experience a part of PC gaming history, but definitely don't 
 play it for a good time: not now anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suomalainen_66
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing Dark Forces II when it first was released, I was stunned by how amazing of a game 
 it was. Even after 10 years and several hours of playing the game, I still feel that this game 
 is amazing. Lucas Arts made a game that had everything hardcore Star Wars fan could want. The story 
 was far superior than any of the movies. The short movie clips were a nice addition.
  
  One of the main things that made the game amazing was that you didn't have to play the game mainly 
 using your lightsaber. There were several cool weapons, each with alternate fires. Killing several 
 Gammorean pigs with your blaster rifle can be even more gratifying than using a light saber.
  
  The force powers in the game were quite good for an early game, which helped pave the way for 
 newer games like Academy, and Unleashed.
  
  Boss battles were a very important factor in the greatness of the game. From fighting the padawan 
 sith to the Sith Lord Jerec. All the battles were epic.
  
  Gameplay: 10 
  Great combination of first person lightsabers, force powers, and guns. Non-stop action.
  Graphics: 
 9.5 
  Great graphics for its time.
  Story: 10
  being able to be choose your path from the light side to dark side was very cool. Movie clips were 
 a fine addition.
  Sound: 9.5
  Tusken Raiders roaring, and great sounds from lightsabers and guns.
  Characters: 10
  Kyle Katarn, 
 a floating Sith, and two freak twin sith.
  Overall: 10
  Amazing overall. Katarn is by far the greatest Jedi ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterb5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Fists
  Effectiveness: 3
  Cajones Factor: 10
  Ammo Used: N/A
  A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, people only had their fists to defend themselves with 
 - that is, before they invented the Lightsaber and blasters. You too might find yourself facing 
 foes with nothing but your bare knuckles to protect yourself, and believe it or not, you can take 
 out a few enemies with them. But if you find yourself pounding Stormtrooper armor or the tough 
 hide of a Gran, you'll end up hurting yourself more than your opponent. To be used only as a last 
 resort.
  
  Modified Bryar Pistol
  Effectiveness: 6
  Cajones Factor: 7
  Ammo Used: Energy Cells
  This pistol is actually a Bryar rifle with the end chopped off. You'll 
 find it will serve you well when all your other weapons have been spent. It's accurate and uses 
 common energy cells, but it doesn't have a secondary fire mode and is not very fast. Over long 
 distances this weapon will serve you better than a Stormtrooper rifle but loses a bit of its punch. 
 If you want to take someone out without wasting a lot of ammo, this is the weapon of choice.
  
  Stormtrooper Rifle
  Effectiveness: 5
  Cajones Factor: 6
  Ammo Used: Energy Cells
  After 
 you get your hands on one of these, you'll begin to realize why Stormtroopers have such a hard 
 time hitting unprotected members of the Rebel Alliance. This weapon is woefully inaccurate, and 
 if you're firing from more than a few steps from your opponent, you'll waste plenty of ammo trying 
 to take him out. But it does come in handy for close-up firefights, as it can spit out about four 
 shots per second.
  
  Thermal Detonators
  
  Effectiveness: 7
  Cajones Factor: 7
  Ammo Used: N/A
  They may be tough to master, but the wallop they pack makes it well worth the 
 practice. This is one of the better long-range weapons, since they don't have to be right on target 
 to take care of business. However, if you plan to use them up close, you better find something 
 to duck behind, as you may do yourself more damage than your opponent. It takes some strength to 
 use one, so it's a good idea to hold the fire key down a little extra long to avoid underthrowing. 
 Thermal detonators are also great for getting through doors or weakened gates. They have two modes: 
 One makes them explode on impact and the other makes them go off after three seconds.
  
  Tusken Bowcaster
  Effectiveness: 6
  Cajones Factor: 5
  Ammo Used: Power Cells
  This favorite 
 among Wookies features two modes of fire. The primary mode fires a single shot, which you can build 
 up to fire three or five bursts in a horizontal spread (a nice way to clear a room) by holding 
 down the fire button. The secondary mode fires a reflective burst that bounces off the first surface 
 it strikes, making it great for taking out enemies around corners. Avoid using this at close range, 
 as it explodes when it hits an enemy.
  
  Imperial Repeater
  Effectiveness: 7
  Cajones Factor: 5
  Ammo Used: Power Cells
  This weapon is great because it's accurate over 
 long distances and very fast. With its rapid-fire primary mode, you can clear a room by sweeping 
 the area. Just be sure to watch your ammo level as this weapon eats ammo like popcorn.
  
  Rail Detonator
  Effectiveness: 8
  Cajones Factor: 4
  Ammo Used: Rail Charges This Assault 
 Cannon replacement fires off rail charges that either explode on impact or (better yet) stick to 
 an opponent for three seconds before detonation. The enemy takes damage not only from the initial 
 hit but from the explosion as well. Naturally you don't want to be standing too close with this 
 kind of weapon, unless you have an escape route. You don't need to be too accurate over long distances 
 with the rail detonator, just be sure you have plenty of space around your shot path.
  
  Sequencer Charges
  Effectiveness: 7
  Cajones Factor: 6
  Ammo Used: N/A
  Sequencer charges 
 are great ambush weapons. The primary setting explodes after two seconds, and the secondary setting 
 allows you to plant the charge on a wall, a door, or on the floor with an activated proximity sensor. 
 One warning: These things are pretty touchy and can go off even from a nearby explosion or the 
 smallest movement. If you see a flashing red light, it's best to stay away. Set it off with another 
 mine or a long-distance rail charge and the concussion rifle (primary mode) .
  
  Concussion Rifle
  Effectiveness: 8
  Cajones Factor: 7
  Ammo Used: Power Cells
  The concussion 
 rifle fires a bullet of compressed air that explodes upon impact or at 50 meters (whichever comes 
 first) . While deadly at long range, it can be equally hazardous up close, unless you're going to 
 use its secondary mode.
  
  Lightsaber
  Effectiveness: 8
  Cajones Factor: 9
  Ammo Used: N/A
  What can be said that hasn't been said before? There are those who will play 
 the entire game armed only with a Lightsaber. While it is primarily a defensive weapon, adept at 
 taking out opponents at close range, you can also use it to cut through grates and walls. Once 
 you have it, it really should become your primary tool, as the name of the game is Jedi Knight. 
 Just keep in mind that when it comes to the Lightsaber, practice makes perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffboardin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  As the years have gone by the graphics have gotten outdated and maybe the sounds aren't as sharp 
 as they seemed all those years ago but the things that made this a great game are still very much 
 intact.
  When this game first came out I was amazed at the scope, the game just feels big. Well more than 
 ten years after this game was released I still get that feeling of granger everytime I pop it in. 
 The levels are big, even by today's standards, there are plenty of hours of game play here. If 
 you just play through without taking your time to take in your surroundings it will probably take 
 you ten to twelve hours. But you'll really want to take you time and get a good look at the world 
 around you. Even with the technical efficients of great next gen games such as Halo or Call of 
 Duty 4 this game still stands above them in the immersive feel that you get from it.
  
  The story is pretty stock but the two available endings, which you see is determined by whether 
 you are on the dark side or the light, give you a good sense of closure and you will definitely 
 want to play through at least twice to see both endings. 
  
  There is also a good deal of replay value to this game. The single player game is immersive enough 
 that you'll want to play through it several times to see the different endings or just to see everything 
 again. There is also a great multi player mode. While not as grand in scale as the single player 
 game it is still very entertaining. You have all the standard modes: Free for all, Capture the 
 flag, Team Free For All, etc. And while you get all the same weapons that you do in the single 
 player game you'll probably spend most of you time dueling it out with light sabers. 
  Even though this game is pretty old by now the last time I was on I still had no trouble getting 
 into a game with several people in it.
  
  In conclusion, this is a great game. If you've never played Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II or if you're 
 a seasoned vetrine you will find a great deal to occupy your time with. And if you can look past 
 the out dated graphics then this is a refreshing break from modern FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebender
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts broke the boring mold that the fps genre had become at the time.
  This game was the first that allowed you to choose your path, the light or dark side. It also opened 
 up the Star Wars expanded universe like never before. You play as Kyle Katarn, several years after 
 the events of Dark Forces, as you embark on a journey on the path of the Jedi. You will battle 
 9 dark Jedi, finally leading up your final confrontation with Jerec, their ruthless leader who 
 is bent on galactic conquest. Every movie sequence is done in live action, with actors, and amazing 
 special effects.
  This game is a break-through title that revolutionized fps's, video games, and Star Wars itself.
 
  This game, in many ways, laid the ground-work for KOTOR, and of course, all of it's sequels. Jedi 
 Knight beat out quake in so many ways that it's hard to name them all.
  To wrap this up, if you haven't played this yet, do so asap!
  
  
  Graphics: 9, great graphics 
 and effects for the time (better than Quake)
  
  Sound: 10, the sound sfx are so amazing, they're movie-quality, and the voice acting is outstanding!
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5, the game is downright fun! It's a great shooter, not to mention the lightsaber combat, 
 and the various force powers. Along with the ability to choose your path, the live movie sequences, 
 and the alternate endings that come from choosing your path.
  
  Replayability: It's hard to get tired of this game, play it as long as you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I played this game more probably than any other game I ever played. It was great 
 for a couple of reasons. Not to mention the fact that the graphics were great for there time, the 
 music and sound effects were all great. What made this game so great was the fact that the single 
 player was worth while in lenght. It has a great star wars story playing out where you leveled 
 up in force powers as the game progressed and then you had to fight the bosses in the end. I lost 
 at the very end and was just not a good enough gamer to beat the guy at the end but I accepted 
 it and just let that be the outcome of the game. Then I turned to why the second reason why the 
 game was so great. It was the multiplayer death match. You had this one level called Oasis and 
 then another that I can't really remember but I spent more hours playing people online than I did 
 the actual single player game. So here is why this game was great. It had a great single player 
 that was not real short. And a great multiplayer for deathmatches if you like that sort of thing. 
 It was worth the time and the play in its day. Its a 9, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to Dark Forces, although it was built on a different engine. There is a 
 fantastic storyline where the main character, Kyle Katarn, has to follow the path of the Jedi to 
 discover what happened to his father, and will choose whether he will serve the Light side or the 
 Dark side of the Force.
  
  With the inclusion of lightsaber combat, force powers, moral choices and everything Star Wars, 
 this is quite simply an excellent single-player game and definitely a classic.
  
  While some of the acting in the FMV cut scenes is a bit cheesy, the production values are high 
 and the game overall oozes quality. The graphics may look dated today (particularly character models) , 
 but this should not detract too much from the excellent gameplay on offer.
  
  The choice of becoming a Light or Dark Jedi by killing or protecting the NPCs adds a great challenge 
 to the game play  and a great moral dilemma. In how many other games have you felt guilty for 
 accidentally slicing that woman in half? This was one of only a few games at the time that included 
 passive NPCs, i. e., bystanders whom you could chose to protect or destroy, and that choice would 
 determine which path of the Force you would follow.
  
  The levels are all very well designed, and include many secret areas. Uncovering all of the secrets 
 in a level will award you extra points to spend on upgrading your Force powers, so there is a good 
 reason for exploring every nook and cranny. In a way, Force power choice and progression is an 
 RPG-lite element of the game that gives it a bit more depth.
  
  At the time, the AI of the enemies was well done, with Stormtroopers reacting to hearing you by 
 asking Did you hear something? and creeping forward to find out who is there. They also run away 
 to fetch help. Of course the AI in this game is not as advanced as that in Half-Life or Unreal 
 Tournament, but Jedi Knight was released a year before those two games.
  
  The ability to easily switch between first and third person perspective views, the selection of 
 weapons, inclusion of lightsaber combat and the ability to use an extensive range of Force powers 
 all contribute to making the game very replayable. I certainly replayed it many times, even once 
 simply using fists to box opponents. The animation of the character in third-person perspective 
 was far better than anything out of the Quake or Unreal stables at the time.
  
  With enemies as diverse as Dark Jedi, AT-ST Walkers, Stormtroopers, the flying Mailocs and droids, 
 the game always seems to present new and fresh challenges. The range of weapons mostly conforms 
 to the usual FPS lineup (you have your pistol, your machine gun, your rocket launcher) but the 
 inclusion of the lightsaber, wookie bowcaster and thermal detonators give it a unique Star Wars 
 flavour.
  
  The only things that seem to be missing are dynamic shadows/lighting, or coloured lighting (which 
 had been used effectively in Quake 2) , and not enough aliens considering this is the Star Wars 
 universe.
  
  The lack of a crosshair in third person mode also makes aiming a bit more difficult (though not 
 impossible) . When it was released, the game was very stable out of the box, and when I finally 
 got a 3D graphics card the game looked far superior to what it had been in software only mode.
 
  
  The sound is excellent throughout (the game supported Aureal 3D at the time) ; the weapon sounds 
 are authentic to the movies, and the voice acting is also very well done. The Star Wars music playing 
 in the background also lends an air of authenticity to the proceedings.
  
  Needless to say, this remains one of my favourite games of all time, and that's not bad for a game 
 that is 10 years old.
  
  *Design - 9 out of 10
  Sound - 10 out of 10
  Gameplay - 10 out of 10
  Replayability - 9 out of 10
  Value - 9 out of 10
  
  *note - design 
 includes not only graphics, but level/environmental design and puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimblimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Despite games like Jedi Outcast, Jedi Academy, KOTOR I and II being readily available to me at 
 any given time, I will always come back to Dark Forces II. Time has not hindered it's ability to 
 recapture within me that spark of pure joy as I run through the Gran-filled corridors of Nar Shadaa 
 or wipe the valley floor with Jerec's blind ass. It's in moments like these when you realize, no 
 video game to date has captured that sense of power and beauty in such a revolutionary way. I still 
 can't wrap my mind around just what it might be that makes this game so awesome. The first thing 
 that comes to mind however, are the cut scenes. I laughed, I cried, I was transfixed and to an 
 extent transported into the very emotional core of each and every character within the game, despite 
 the often cheesy acting and rather dated graphics. Then again, it could be the magnitude of the 
 levels. The fear instilled in me by those flying talon equipped bastards in various levels has 
 remained unmatched to this day by any other game I've ever played. Regardless, everyone on the 
 face of this planet owes it to themselves to allow their own personal transportation to that galaxy 
 far, far away in what may very well be the best video game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteninjaz88
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 14, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game back in 2001 and from the moment i saw the first cutscene ( tell me what it 
 is so these gentlemen won't have to expose their darker side ) ( the dark side? I've been there. 
 Do your worst! ) i knew this game was something special and that i would have no more free time 
 left on my hands till i finished this true masterpiece. I Know it can be hard to go back and play 
 old games with graphics like these when the glam and glory of next-gen visuals is within our grasp. 
 But hear what i say, since playing this game i have probably played 8-10 newer star wars games 
 with perhapse better graphics but NONE of them can come even close to how great the gameplay is 
 in this game. The graphics at the time of release were some of the best around however, and even 
 today get the job done. the cutscenes being live actors was both awesome and hilarious, lets just 
 leave it at that :) Playing through both Jedi outcast and jedi academy as well as KotoR 1 and 2 
 i realized something was missing from them that was permeating and drenching every stormtrooper, 
 every pixilated tileset, every glow as you use the force in jedi knight: dark forces 2. that something 
 is called fun. and this game is so full of fun to be had i have officially deemed it my second 
 favorite game of all time. It took me somewhere between 20 and 30 hrs to beat it and a couple puzzles 
 can be pretty hard (it's not some lame-@$$ move this block over this panel on the floor type of 
 puzzles) with these you actually have to use your head. The greatest things about this game is 
 the lightsaber combat, force powers, and story. the guns are pretty fun too but didn't stand out 
 compared to the other stuff. I'm still mad at myself for losing my copy of this game... so later 
 on today i will go buy it again. thats how good it is! If you have a Hastings entertainment store 
 nearby that's great, because they're the only place i've seen this game in the past 6 years or 
 so. if not then you'll have to order it online i suppose. It is worth the effort to track down 
 a copy trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmxbox
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  this star wars game is the best ever i bought it for my 6th birthday and i was mesmerized by the 
 great graphics and gameplay but seeing as i ws young and didnt have much game experiance i found 
 it hard however i managed to complete it, anyway i know that this is the best star wars game ever 
 the depth in it is great with 2 alternate ending and the choice to be on the dark or light side 
 and was extermly long the only thing is that now it looks quite dated. but still it remains as 
 one of my favouret games and i hope that it may be remade one day with extra levels and emproved 
 graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to review since it came out so long ago, but when it did it had a definite impact 
 on the gaming industry. This was a follow-up to Star Wars: Dark Forces which was heralded as one 
 of the best first person shooters of its time so expections were high for the next installment.
 
  
  Luckily, Star Wars: Jedi Knight: DarkForces II came out and brought not only a solid first person 
 shooter, but more importantly a third person (or first-person, however not as good) perspective 
 on a lightsaber wielding Jedi! The lightsaber is only half of the pie when it comes to Star Wars 
 though, with the other half belonging to the force. Luckily, this game lets you use force powers, 
 but also allows you to choose whether you wanted to be a Sith OR a Jedi, leaving it open ended 
 where things you did during the course of the game would change depending on the way you acted 
 (and who you used your lightsaber to slice through) . This strengthened the replay value of the 
 game as you would want to play through it as a Jedi and also as a Sith. Multiplayer was also very 
 fun, with people who preferred laser guns over lightsabers still being able to feel involved in 
 a big brawl.
  
  All in all, this gave Lucasarts a permanent stamp on the gaming market as serious game makers that 
 could deliver the goods, and gave us the first look into what it could be like to play as a Jedi 
 for the first time, making it seem as fun as it looked in the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Everything I loved in the first Dark Forces is better this time around. In addition to being able 
 to be IN Star Wars, I get to be a Jedi.
  
  I'm also a sucker for full motion video games. I love the characters. I love the world. I love 
 the music and the places. It's just brilliant to be in Star Wars. I've played this game again and 
 again. As the newer trilogy of movies has let me down, this is one of the things I go back to to 
 make myself remember what I DO love about Star Wars.
  
  As I recall, this was one of the first first person shooters to give you options other than shoot 
 at stuff . The force powers were rudimentary and lightsaber combat wasn't that deep. These things 
 would be perfected later, but they were new and exciting here. In many ways, I think they still 
 achieved perfection in this game, because nothing later had the same mood and feeling that this 
 one did. Nothing can recapture the sense of wonder I had when I first played this game, and when 
 I still play it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Sentinel11
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  There you go. The first Star Wars game where you become a true Jedi Knight ---- and master the skills 
 of the Force. Jedi Knight offers you the perfect choice between the the light and the dark. Which 
 is one of the reasons why this game can make to your top 15 even to this day. Well, okay , the 
 graphics may not be THAT good (this was the 97!) , but still, a good game is judged not by its graphics 
 anyway.
  
  In Jedi Knight, you once again play as Kyle Katarn, a grumpy, middle-aged mercenary, who , throughout 
 the game, learns to use the Force, and the lightsaber (take that, Doom & Quake!) . The storyline 
 is..... well there's no other way to describe it ---- SUPER COOL! And movies....... they just makes 
 you feel like Episode 7 is here. Believe me, I've played Jedi Outcast and all those, but those 
 are nothing compared to the storyline and gameplay in this one. 
  
  Overall, the graphics and ganeplay all meshes together to make one of the coolest Star Wars games 
 in this galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarcofin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics (12.5%) - 7
  Controls (15%) - 10
  Variety (25%) - 10
  Replay (25%) - 10
  Sound (7.5%) - 7
  Depth (15%) - 8
  
  OVERALL - 9.1
  
  Graphics - 7
  For their time, 
 the graphics for Jedi Knight were okay. It was nothing great though.
  
  Controls - 10
  The controls are somewhat complex, but you get used to them pretty quickly. There are about five 
 controls you definately want to change, so that it's much easier to fight.
  
  Variety - 10
  There are so many great weapons and levels in this game. And SO MANY mods and player-made 
 levels online. It also includes a level editor to make some yourself. There are mods out there 
 from snowboarding to ghostbusters.
  
  Replay - 10
  I played this game online for over a year and didn't tire of it.
  
  Sound - 7
  The game features 
 all the Star Wars sound effects you remember from the movie, such as the lightsaber and pistol 
 fire noises. Most of the other sounds are just average, though.
  
  Depth - 8
  I really only played this game online. The single player wasn't that great in my opinion. But the 
 game features lots of characters from the movie, and a good story.
  
  OVERALL - 9.1
  This game is worth picking up just to play online. Although now that JK: Outcast is out, nobody 
 really plays the original JK much any more. If you and a friend can find a few copies for $5 (or 
 buy one and burn one) , you will have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game, is just too brillant to not give a perfect score too, its addictive, its got the 
 best storyline for Kyle Katarn than any of the others, its got that Old Schoolness of Live Action 
 Actors playing the characters for the game. Its just too cool.
  
  You got the Moral Choice to make which had never been done before Choosing to Save Jan Ors and 
 defeat the Dark Jedi Jerec and the other 7, or choose to kill everysingle one of the people you 
 see, good or evil. Back then, nothing like this had ever been done before, espeically in a Star 
 Wars game. though we see it all the time now. 
  
  JK is classical, and once again I'll judge the graphics as if it were brand new and if we were 
 living 10 years earlier. This game is a Masterpeice, Basically its The Empire Strikes Back game 
 for all the Kyle Katarn, Dark Forces and Jedi Knight series of games. Its "The Standard" for a 
 good Kyle Katarn Game. nothing in this series has come close to beating it except for Mysteries 
 of the Sith. 
  
  Jedi Knight Dark Forces II is buggy and choppy in some video cut scenes but like in its expansion 
 pack it can be forgiven. and demissed like they never even happened, If you played this game back 
 i nthe glory days of it, you will find that everyone loved it, everyone. 
  
  This game has the best storyline of them all. it has revolutionary saber combat for its day. it 
 had everything you could want back then in a game. 
  
  Even by todays standards I love this game, and will forever be a classic masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildWorlds
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I know this is an old game and i have played it for years but now i am finnaly reviewing it. 
 Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 2 was a great improvement over the first game. Graphics, sound, 
 story, gameplay are all much better, and the awesome online battles will keep you busy for a long 
 time. The 1 player story mode is very well done, and nicely challenging. Creating you own multiplayer 
 character and giving him the force powers of your choice is extremely fun. The online mode was 
 very glitchy at times, but when it stays smooth, the game becomes an intense, addicting, awesome 
 playing star wars game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars was a great movie because of its action, and great story. But could there be a Star Wars 
 game with a different story, yet just as good as the movie's? YES! This is the game. Although the 
 graphics may not seem great, the perfect gameplay and excellent story make the game completely 
 worth it.
  
  Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 2, is the sequel to Dark Forces. In this game you play the role of returning 
 character Kyle Katarn. In this game Kyle tries to avenge the death of his father by finding the 
 murder, plus doing something much more.... Many of the past characters from Dark Forces return 
 as well as Kyle, some, even who are holding grudges from the previous game.....
  
  What is unique about this game is how it can turn out. Depending on how you make choices in the 
 game will affect the future. For instance, if you kill everything you see, and are very vicious 
 throughout the game, then you will become a dark jedi, with a sithlord's power's. Plus, the story 
 changes around, and the scenarios are different, including new objectives. If you are calm and 
 patient, you will receive light jedi powers, and the game will turn out in a nice peaceful way....
 
  As for the dark side ending........
  
  Battle through many long, and hard levels with a huge variety of weapons, including the lightsaber, 
 which you will achieve on your fourth mission. The weapons are very great too, and there are many 
 different moves with the lightsaber which can be preformed. Detailed cut scenes feature real actors, 
 which bring the story to life. But really, and truly, the story is amazing. It almost makes the 
 game. The sound is great too. Featuring detailed weapon sounds, slashes, voices, and most of all, 
 the classic Star Wars music. The game overall is very long, and the puzzles are very hard. So don't 
 expect a run, hac-and-slash run through of the entire game, which may seem what it's like in the 
 beginning of the game, because if you do so, you are in for a rude awakening, because more strategy 
 is required later than meets the eye. Play in a first person or third person view with any weapon. 
 What most prefer is guns/grenades/etc. in first person, and the lightsaber in third. But either 
 way, any way, is perfect. It really has good gameplay.
  
  Plus, you can play online, by duels, training, and many other types of games. Also, there are great 
 cheats with which you can mess around with, and have a little less-serious fun. The levels in the 
 game are all different, and the environments are unique and various. But I say that all Star Wars 
 fans must play this game. The replay value in this game is perfect, you will play it over and over, 
 and this game is very addictive. You will have so much fun youll forget what time it is. Although 
 it may seem old, and the graphics are average (they aren't that bad, they are actually pretty good) , 
 if you look past the misfortunes of this game, you will be pleased and enjoy one of the most exciting 
 and fun Star Wars games ever invented.
  
  Thank you George Lucas, and LucasArts Entertainment for making such a wonderful game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I know I am going old school here, 1997 was the year of JK: Dark Forces ii and by far the best in 
 series. 
  
  The game continues to follow the adventures of Jedi Knight and rogue Kyle Katarn as he searches 
 for the map to the valley of the Jedi whist he fights the evil Dark Lord Jerec and his six dark 
 Jedi acolytes Boc, Gorc, Pic, Sariss, Yun and Maw, whom are all looking for the valley as well.
 
  
  Jerec already has a jump on the situation. After killing Kyle's father Morgan, Jerec, with the 
 help of the information selling droid 8t88 find the valley of the Jedi. To make a long story short, 
 Kyle kills all the dark Jedi and manages to finish off Jerec, thus saving the galaxy etc.
  
  Now for the particulars of the game. The graphics vintage 1997 suck nuts. For instance the 
 outlines of all the enemies including stormtroopers and friendly NPC's are jagged and motley. The 
 skin color of the poor folks that you run into throughout the game have the same color of creamed 
 corn and dog crap. And the clothes they wear look like they were spark welded to their skin. On 
 another note all of the cut scenes were done in live action, which at the time was pretty innovative 
 considering it has never been done again in most of the SW games.
  
  The environments are huge and for the time well animated, In the first missions when you are making 
 your way through the dark vertical cities of Nar Shadda you actually feel like your there as you 
 walk, jump and crawl through the dark alley ways of the kilometer high skyscrapers and old refueling 
 towers. The city of Barons Hed on Sulon looks rustic and fits the part of a dried up backwater.
 
  
  The gameplay is great from the weapons and the semi-puzzle solving. However lightsaber combat is 
 about as fun as drinking mouth wash and hot wing sauce at the same time. Its something you don't 
 want to do but are at times forced. The auto camera does not really help more than hinder.
  
  Go and buy this game, regardless of how bad my review is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  The game doesn't have the best graphics. The game has many elevators but no ladders. The game does 
 not have very good cutscenes but the girl who plays Jan Ors is pretty hot. 
  
  Despite these minor shortcomings, Jedi Knight is an extremely fun game to play. Even in 2006. JK 
 comes at a time when flat green textures were enough to let you know, "Hey, I'm stepping on grass".
 
  
  The graphics, although simplistic, still work very well in the game. During a time when FPS was 
 dominated by the outrageous violence of Duke Nukem and Quake, Jedi Knight (JK) gave the player 
 the ability to feel what it's like to have the powers of the Force - dark or light. Even better, 
 you get to do what most Star Wars fans have always dreamed of doing - handling a lightsaber. JK 
 was less about body count and more about bringing a personal single player experience. 
  
  JK was a very long game that brought so much to the table. It concentrated on story and gameplay. 
 The graphics weren't the best when you were indoors but when you were outdoors it was enough to 
 make you feel like you're in a vast world you can explore in. The game gives you an attachment 
 to the main character through building his force powers and uncovering cutscenes. In some ways, 
 the game has some RPG elements that make upgrading your force powers very satisfying. As you build 
 up force points, you realize that there more than one ways to solve a puzzle or situation and when 
 you find a solution, it is very rewarding. There are even parts of the game where you are encouraged 
 to find secret areas in each of the levels by performing creative feats of the force or by simplying 
 thinking "outside the box". The use of force powers and the lightsaber are a huge part of the game. 
 It really puts you in the shoes and the game makes you feel what it's like to deflect blaster fire 
 and harness the power of the Jedi. Add branching storylines for replyability, a really memorable 
 soundtrack and all of a sudden... you have the makings of a very playable classic.
  
  Despite JK's engine limitations, JK has some of the most creative levels you will ever explore 
 in the Star Wars universe. Each of the levels have purpose and are plausible parts of the story. 
 You don't just have these random switches you turn on and off and there is no reason to make the 
 level extremely vast just because it can. The level designers went out of their way to make everything 
 sensible and believable in the levels. You don't end up at a boiler room for nothing and somehow 
 find yourself connected to a senator's palace. The puzzles are also very creative and make alot 
 of sense. They were not simply "added" on to the level. The other wonderful thing is that you always 
 seem to know what to do. I'm not sure how the developers accomplish this but through sensible little 
 hints, you'll know what to do. There are even levels where you are in a ship that has lost control 
 and the level starts to twist and turn in the game.
  
  The other thing that JK does so well is make use of grand fights with the bosses of the game such 
 as the Dark Jedi or Sith, etc. Each of the bosses have a unique background and fighting style. 
 The fights are so enjoyable that you'll want to mark a save game slot before meeting the boss. 
 You will enjoy force jumping above your enemy and slashing from above. The other beauty is that 
 you can actually switch to third person mode so that you can enjoy some of the animation in beating 
 those bosses to the pulp while keeping the FPS side of the game fresh and usable. 
  
  Despite JK's old age, I really recommend this to those who want to try something different. It 
 is part FPS, part-adventure, and part-fighting game. It is a huge cry compared to FPS games of 
 today. It is a great experience that shouldn't be missed and it is satisfying all the way down 
 to the last level and cutscene.
  
  On the multiplayer side, it is pretty fun too. Each player can differ greatly on playing each other 
 simply by allocating points to different force powers. You can even be different characters and 
 have different lightsaber colors. Some of the most satisfying experiences in multiplayer is force 
 jumping over another player, "force pulling" the weapon from his hands and firing back with the 
 same weapon you stripped from him... or even better... use your lightsaber.
  
  JK was a very revolutionary for its time and continues to be a very classic example of a game that 
 can stand the test of time. If you're a real PC gamer and/or a Star Wars fan, you must have this 
 game in your collection. Nothing beats playing a game in super high resolution with no slowdown. 
 The game is old but the game is so compelling to play over again.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  What can be said that hasn't already been said about this classic? The game was simply one of the 
 best games of 1997. I can still remember playing it for the first time and saying to myself, "wow, 
 this is one ugly looking game. What in the helk were they thinking.. LIVE ACTION?" But what can 
 I say, I kept playing and it was a wonderful experience. I loved Dark Forces, it was the only reason 
 I bought a computer. So having DF II was a no brainer. Sure the graphics sucked, but hey, the game 
 play more than made up for them. The expansion pack was a great thrill as well. Over all this game 
 was an instant classic and still is even by todays standards, say for the graphics, one of the 
 best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  When most people think of Kyle Katarn they think of the Jedi Knight series, and often forget or 
 just plain don't realize that the original Jedi Knight is a sequel to Dark Forces which had nothing 
 to do with the Force, or the Jedi. Kyle Katarn's first romp as a Jedi is arguably his best yet.
 
  
  Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight is set several years after Return of the Jedi, and before the New Republic 
 is finished establishing itself. With the death of Palpatine one of his followers, Jerec, and his 
 six loyal Dark Jedi turn their attention to finding the Valley of the Jedi so they can restore 
 the Empire as its new rulers. After prying some vital information from one of the last Jedi of 
 the Old Republic Jerec sets out to find the Valley. Standing between Jerec and the Valley, however; 
 is Kyle Katarn, a force sensitive son of a man that Jerec murdered. The plot is rather simplistic 
 like the one found in Dark Forces, but it still manages to be entertaining.
  
  In JK the gameplay is a lot like most first person shooters with one exception. You get a lightsaber, 
 and can learn and use Force Powers. While mowing down Bounty Hunters and Stormtroopers with your 
 large assortment of weapons, you can choke your enemies, or even protect yourself from projectile 
 weaponry. The system works quite well, but more often or less the Force Powers are unnecessary 
 unless you need to reach a high place with Force Jump. The game could have worked fine without 
 them.
  
  The graphics are outdated obviously, but even for their time they were... interesting. The characters 
 are all extremely blocky, and Kyle seemed to shave after every FMV sequence which made little sense 
 in terms of continuity, and some of the textures (particularly grass and sand) are quite bizarre. 
 Still the levels are large and have excellent architecture.
  
  The sound is okay. The voice acting is decent, and the sound effects are mostly from the Star Wars 
 sound library. The entire game uses the classic John Williams score that is in CD audio format 
 on both of the JK discs, so the music isn't interactive and doesn't really pick up when you enter 
 battle like in Dark Forces and JK's sequels.
  
  Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight is the best in the JK saga and second best in the Dark Forces series 
 as a whole. If you liked Jedi Outcast and\or Jedi Academy then you owe it to yourself to play Jedi 
 Knight. It's long, has impressive level design, and like Dark Forces an impressive amount of atmosphere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperpenguin53
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Well i haven't played the first one this one great. So in this game you basically shoot slash blow 
 stuff up... great! the enemies are some sort of tuskens, greedo species, droids , sith and more 
 ( i can't remember their names.) They have cheats. the weapons range from blasters, mines, grenades, 
 and light saber. you play as klye katan or somthingat one piont in the game you end up as good 
 or bad from how many people (who aren't evil) you kill. The more you leave alone the more good 
 you are. the more you kill the eviler you are. the environment changes the places you go from a 
 space port to the lush green grass of Dantoine. Theirs also a online games i think. so buy this 
 game when you find it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight's armor shines brightly in the heavily crowded field of first-person shooters. By giving 
 you the ability to use Force powers and to direct your actions towards either the Dark or Light 
 side, JK offers gameplay diversity that just doesn't exist with any other first-person shooter. 
 Add to this, the option to play in the 3rd person and LucasArts has taken action gaming to the 
 next level.
  
  Besides unique gameplay elements, the other area that deserves major kudos is the level design. 
 The immense size and detail that make up the majority of the levels are every gamer's dream. The 
 ones that really stand out are the "Fuel Station Launch" and "The Falling Ship". The "Fuel Station 
 Launch" is unbelievable in its size and scope. "The Falling Ship" is also exceptional in its ability 
 to simulate the instability of a crippled ship that's about to blow. Too bad the element of racing 
 against a countdown (before the ship blows) wasn't included in more levels - it definitely picks 
 up the pace and helps to keep the game fresh.
  
  Onto weaponry, which is not all that much different than the first Dark Forces with the major exceptions 
 being the light saber and the rail detonator. Major indeed - the addition of the light saber is 
 worth the price of the game alone. One can really master this weapon and with the help of increasing 
 force powers, it gives you an uncanny ability to ward off lightsaber blows from your Dark Jedi 
 enemies. You can even deflect enemy fire back at the source. Touche! If you'd rather put the big 
 hurt on your enemy with a pyrotechnic touch then the rail detonator is guaranteed to meet your 
 needs, especially when using the secondary fire key. Nothing is more satisfying than watching a 
 Stormtrooper run around with a rail charge stuck to him before he meets his maker.
  
  The one area that is subject to mixed opinion is the quality of the graphics. Overall, the graphics 
 are on an "expected" level but you get a feeling that certain areas such as some of the characters 
 will soon look dated. Let's face it, Kyle looks like a blockhead and you can't help but notice 
 it. The other area that is somewhat bothersome is the clipping of Kyle's head and arms into surrounding 
 objects such as walls and boxes, when he gets near them. These aren't show-stoppers but they lend 
 themselves to scrutiny since Quake II and Unreal are now the points of reference when it comes 
 to graphics quality.
  
  But in the grand scheme of things, these are minor quibbles when you consider the overall gameplay. 
 LucasArts has made the first-person shooter fresh and innovative with its incorporation of morality 
 and force powers. These elements help to make Jedi Knight an instant classic and will hopefully 
 set a new standard for the future of action gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  I can natter on when writing reviews, so I'll keep this one short and to the point:
  
  GAMEPLAY: A lovely mix between arcade shooting and control over your actions. The keys defaulted 
 are nicely placed, but can be changed. Unfortunately, although lightsaber combat is a skilled process, 
 moves are very limited. Still great fun though!
  
  GRAPHICS: I honestly can't see the fuss about JKs graphics. The textures look great for an 8 year 
 old game, although it can seem like everything has very sharp edges. The water looks dodgy, but 
 apart from that it's all retro eye-candy. The real-action cutscenes are something you don't see 
 often either. Modern computers can easily play everything on high, although my only qualm is a 
 glitch that makes small grey gots appear on my screen when the crosshair is turned on.
  
  SOUND: This is Star Wars. Awsome sound effects are guarenteed!
  
  VALUE: I'm not too sure yet, 
 but it seems like a game that'll keep you coming back for both the single and multi games. You 
 can chose the light or dark side too, so I suppose that there are really 2 games in 1.
  
  REVIEWS TILT: This is THE classic Star Wars shooter. Shame that it's not set in a more familliar 
 time (JK plays after episode 6) , but you can't help but love it to bits. For around $5 dollars, 
 you honestly can't go wrong.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moffe12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  This was my first computer game ever and i still like it today. Ive played this game a lot of times 
 and it is after my opinion one of the best star wars games ever. I dug it out of the shelf not 
 long ago, mainly because i got a feeling of nostalgia. But when i played it i had just as much 
 fun as with any new game. This game is one of the few games i think i will never stop playing. 
 The music is all from the star wars movies wich is great and the storm troopers will say lots of 
 fun things to give you a in-movie feel. Okay the graphics is by todays standards terrible, and 
 the gameplay is wery simple, (no headshots, Ai, well it really dont exists) but this is a classiacal 
 game, if you can stand old games, try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is the most valuable franchise in all films history so it is certain to make loads in 
 the video game industry this game proved that theory once and for all. That game takes place after 
 Star Wars Episode VI but turns away from the Skywalker story and follows young Kyle Katarn a former 
 Imperial and Rebel soldier who is now trying to find his fathers murderer. Upon finding out that 
 his father's killer is a Dark Jedi he sets out to learn how to use the force and confront the band 
 of Dark Jedi responsible. This story is not very original but is does well with this game. Learning 
 the force in this game can have one of two consequences depending on which powers you learn (basically 
 you can be good or evil) , but very rarely did I ever need to use them. The variety of weapons are 
 good and you can have fun using the different types. The game play is a little difficult to do 
 compared to todays standards and the graphic are a little warn out (but the live-action video are 
 great) . The Star Wars sound are all there but sound off since its original release. The value is 
 alright for a game like this as there are two different ending that can be viewed plus there is 
 a worth while multi player in there. The originality of this game cannot be beaten by any of its 
 descendants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celery_Man
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  It's been 8 years since the release of Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 2, but that doesn't stop the Jedi 
 Knight community from playing it. There are stil many people who play and many games are organized 
 and played each day.
  We use the mIRC chat client that can be found at www. mirc. com. The server is irc. holonet. org and 
 the channels that the players can be found at are #jk and #nar. So if you miss playing Jedi Knight 
 and want to get back into the community, there's how. Also if you're new and don't even own Jedi 
 Knight visit http://www. nkm-xtreme. com/ for some helpful information that will allow you to play!
 
  
  Don't be afraid to try the 1997 game of the year!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well then play this game.
  
  AND THEN... go play ever other one in the series. YOu get to use teh force to pick people up and 
 throw them off cloud cities! you can strangle scumbags... blow up driods. Oh and instead of dressing 
 up and feeling like a jedi all you have to do is click the icon on yoru desk. Now isnt that easier?! 
 
  
  You can wield a lightsaber to deflect blaster bolt! All teh while playing a 3d first person shooter!
 
  
  Did I mention you can push thinsg with the force?
  
  You get little portable turrets to put down so if your in a jam and dont think u have teh firpower 
 to take out everything at once set a couple down and let the enemy come to you. All the while you 
 blast, slice and explode yoru way through teh entire game. 
  
  If you like the books. Want a good story from lucas as usual. THEN PLAY THIS. And every one in 
 the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treep78
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  The game departs from the classic FPS and allows for more variation in the gameplay. The addition 
 of the lightsaber, 3d graphics, force powers, third person camera, and multiplayer support give 
 the game an almost compete upgrade. The guns, however, take a blow. The game focuses toward the 
 lightsaber a little to much for a game with it's mechanics. I forget what the old weapons were 
 called, but weapon 9, 0, and th one with all the pipes are sorely missed. The darkside ending made 
 me feel so guilty that I started over, skipped all the levels, and wached the lightside ending 
 to make me feel better. All said and done, the game offers more than the origonal and any gamer 
 without it in thier collection is lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II is an excellent game, or, was, in the '90s. Now, you can 
 play it for fun because it's a classic. Holding it up to up-to-date standards, it would not get 
 a good score, so I'll hold it up to "Classic" standards. It was a very advanced game for it's time, 
 you must know this. In the '90s, this game had amazing graphics, gameplay, AI, everything. I actually 
 only played this a few times in the '90s, I bought it recently. But the game was the most addicting 
 game that I had ever played. So if some of you disagree, think of this as "Classic" rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacardin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Why else would the games in this series drop the Dark Forces title and use the Jedi Knight title 
 instead?
  
  Dark Forces was a great FPS back in 1995, I upgraded my computer just to play it. It blew Doom, 
 Duke, and Heretic away. But in 1997, Jedi Knight was released, and yes, you could now swing a lightsaber. 
 And, it used a full 3D environment with acceleration.
  
  On the surface, it was like any other FPS, only now, you got a lightsaber. Lightsaber combat by 
 today's standards (8 and a half years later) , was very simple. But then, you had three basic types 
 of attacks. Your primary, standing still attack had a full range and light damage. Your primary, 
 while moving, had a condensed range with light damage. Or, you could "Z" attack and do quad-damage 
 with two swings (only one swing can hit though, if the first hits, the second misses) .
  
  The single player game was good, but it was the multiplayer aspect, the thought of real Jedi dueling 
 real Jedi, that spawned thousands of JK clans all over the internet. And I still play, every week. 
 ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harvester_0009
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  I had hoped for a good shooter but it was terrible. The game story isn't that followable during 
 game play. And there is stuff in there that was never in star wars. Like in mission 5 you can find 
 this BUNNY called Max. Since when are bunnys with guns that are invulnerble and can fry everything 
 in their path in star wars. And there is just too much jumping around and trying to get onto boxes 
 to cross a place. And there is too much swimming. The weapons are good and are easy to use. But 
 the lightsaber is too hard to use. I think this game needs much better configuring. This is a horrible 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great level design; immersive sound; addictive combat; smooth controls and interface
  BAD: Cliched story; bad graphics (even for its day)
  
  Excellent game! This game was released 
 in 1997 and is still extremely fun. The gamplay is excellent, even revolutionary for its day in 
 age. Although the graphics suck, even for 1997, everything else about the game is awesome. The 
 sound is excellent, even for today, although the voice acting is terrible. The game is just plain 
 fun to play.
  
  The best part of the game, however, is the excellent single player campaign. Although the AI isn't 
 very good (look, it's 1997) , and the voice acting is terrible, the levels are immersive, realistic, 
 clever, and just plain BIG. Even for today the levels are huge and clever. You just don't get a 
 great mix of combat and puzzle-solving like this anymore. It is beginning to show its age, however. 
 Besides the graphics, such simple, automatic things like shooting someone in the head don't give 
 benefits anymore (shooting someone in the head is the same as shooting someone in the foot... yes, 
 it's that old) . This is a genre that has died with the passing of time. The game is a classic, 
 and anybody who likes old-school shooter/puzzle games and haven't tried this out should definitely 
 give it a try. You could probably buy it for $10 bucks or less now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morbidgamer
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I'm a huge Star Wars Expanded Universe freak, but this game is not that great. 
 For one thing the controls are really annoying. The graphics aren't great, even for then, but I'm 
 not complaining about that. They gameplay is extremely repetative and frankly, quite boring. It 
 feels kind of like the same level over and over again. One of the only redeaming factor is the 
 awsome, live action cutscenes, they were great. I might have liked this game more if I wasn't expecting 
 so much. It was very disappointing. It's one of those games that aren't all that people say they 
 are. I give it a 4.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game where kyle gets a lightsaber and faces seven dark jedi. The graphics 
 are ok for the time it came out but now since it is the 21st century, the graphics are old, really 
 old. In the game you come across 4 major dark jedi and 3 minor ones. The main dark jedi whose name 
 is Jerec, tries to get the power of the Valley of the Jedi. You start out without a lightsaber for 
 the first three levels. You start out on Nar Shadda-Vertical City. You meet a character named 8t88 
 who so happens to have your fathers disk the one disk you want and need. You get 8t88 mad and he 
 sends his weird looking goons after you. Some of the games levels will make you fell like your in 
 the game, take level 15-The Falling Ship for instance, your trying to make it back to your ship which 
 is captured in the hangar bay. the gravity is busted and it is super hard to move, but you need to 
 move as fast as possible before time runs out. when you try to move, the player would be thinking 
 "oh no!"The game is highly recommended for star wars fans and action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chosen_frozen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2005 5:03 am PT
Review:  Ive had this game for several years. I finally played through to the end. While the graphics engine 
 shows its age, it is still very playable. I played at the second hardest difficulty level and only 
 cheated (jediwannabe on) in the boss battles. It just wasnt satisfying enough to die again and 
 again while trying to wear them down. I loved the cutscenes and the music. Light saber play and 
 moves are not as responsive and both the Outcast and Academy games. 
  The key to enjoying all these games, old and new, is to have the system that can handle it. Part 
 of my reason for never finishing until now, was a low end system. This time, DF2 played flawlessly 
 on a xp2600 and Radeon 9800.
  I also love searching for secrets. There are lots in the game. A good walkthrough can help in the 
 tough spots. 
  Overall, one of the best fps Ive played, not counting Half-Life 1 or 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Unlike the original Dark Forces, Jedi Knight allows you to use the mouse to aim your 
 crosshair over an enemy and let loose on him without any hassel. It also gives you the option to 
 have the 'auto aim' of Dark Forces enabled just incase you want to play with just the keyboard 
 if you want to play it like that.
  
  The multiplayer is quite fun, but the single player campaign is where this game truly shines. Its 
 15 mission campaign plus 6 lightsaber battles will provide countless hours of gameplay. The lightsaber 
 is amazing and the weapons seem alot more useful than the original game's. You'll find yourself 
 utilizing every weapon in your arsenal at least once throughout the game. Force powers are aquired 
 ala RPG style where you spend points earned at key points of the game to get the powers you want.
 
  
  Graphics - While not as nauseating as Dark Forces, Jedi Knight's graphics are by no means pretty. 
 With the resolution maxed out, there will be no problem with getting sick with rough textures and 
 the like, but everything is still way too boxy compared to today's games. Still, they're not bad 
 and the lighting effects are spectacular.
  
  Sound - No complaints here at all. The sound quality on everything is top notch. All the voice 
 acting is excellent. Jason Court is the best actor to have potrayed Kyle Katarn and it's obvious 
 that the actor who potrays him in Jedi Outcast and Jedi Academy tried their best to imitate him.
 
  
  Value - The single player campaign's excellent and all the options you have in tactics (Force powers 
 can't all be aquired to their full extent so you can replay it with several different combos of 
 powers) . There are two endings to the game, lightside and darkside, that while don't really alter 
 any of the levels in any way (save for one of the duels in which your opponent will change) , the 
 cutscenes do and they're worth playing through the game twice.
  
  Multiplayer is quite fun, but most people probably would rather play Jedi Outcast or Jedi Academy. 
 I personally enjoyed this alot more, but I won't bother convincing you all why. The numerous hackers 
 I ran into while online turned me off eventually and it was hard to find mod-free games. MP was 
 a bonus for me, not this game's shining point.
  
  Excellent game worth playing! It's only $10 or so today so go out and buy it! If you can snag its 
 expansion, Mysteries of the Sith, with it, do so! That's also a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHardTWB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 22, 2003 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is the first Lucasarts game that allows you to wield a lightsaber and use powers of the force. 
 To put a tilt on that, the storyline and your actions in the game, will sway your relationship 
 with the force between the light, or dark side. 
  
  The graphics for the era are realtively good. The sounds are what are to be expected from any Star 
 Wars game, as is the music score. The story begins as Kyle Katarn, the very one who aided in the 
 battle against the evil empire in Star Wars Dark Forces. 
  
  During the course of the game, something very tragic happens that leads Kyle to take up a lightsaber 
 and seek out help to learn the ways of the force. As such, your decisions will determine whether 
 you get the light side or dark side of force powers.
  
  The mulitplayer mode is also fairly good. From memory, I don't think it has a matchmaking service, 
 but I do know that you can play it for free on Microsofts Internet Gaming Zone. 
  
  This is a solid, fairly bug free, well rounded product. It's a definate classic now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
