-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Control 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starcontrol3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 198 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Accolade
Developer: Legend Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Control 3 is a vast oddity, integrating real-time strategy and actionelements with the exploratory 
 playability of an adventure title into one game. 

 Doogs, Ktangs, Spathis, Daktaklakpaks? After playing Star Control 3 for a few hundred hours, 
 these will be household names to you. In fact, the four interstellar races mentioned above are 
 but a few of the motley cast of characters that you're either allying with or warring against in 
 this epic space oddity. And Star Control 3 is a vast oddity, integrating real-time strategy and 
 action elements with the exploratory playability of an adventure title into one game. It may take 
 up eons of play time to finally solve, but one thing's for sure: you will become absorbed in the 
 Star Control universe that unfurls before you.  

 An adventure game is nothing without an engaging plot and the premise of Star Control 3 is infused 
 with such a complexly woven history, you're bound to become engrossed in its narrative. Following 
 the storyline established in Star Control 2, Star Control 3 casts you as the leader of the League 
 of Sentient Races. Your mission takes place in the Kessari galaxy, where you are exploring strange 
 inter-dimensional anomalies which you think may have something to do with the universal cessation 
 of inter-space travel. Ostensibly, the only thing standing between you and resolving this mystery 
 is an enemy alliance called the Hegemonic Crux.  

 Your ship is a Precursor vessel (invented using the technology of the proverbial Precursors, an 
 ancient founding race) and is the only ship known to exist which can circumvent the current inter-space 
 travel restrictions. On board is a sort of HAL 9000 computer called ICOM that helps you out with 
 tips during your mission. Armed with this equipment, you start on a colony founded on an Earthlike 
 planet. You explore the Kessari by pointing and clicking on a rotating star-map interface. During 
 your travels, you will encounter other race colonies, friendly and otherwise, who are either members 
 of the League or else potentially complicit with the Hegemonic Crux. These races can offer you 
 ships and items to be used later in the game. You have the option of picking up friendly colonists 
 to form new colonies on other planets. At the colony interface screen, you can adjust sliders that 
 control the emphasis of your colony's production, skewing it toward ship, fuel, or resource production. 
 There are seemingly a hundred different solar systems, all with colorfully rendered planets which 
 can and, in many cases, must be explored. Many of these yield artifacts left behind by the Precursors, 
 which can be researched to add exciting new resources to your space navy.  

 To like any adventure game, you have to like its characters. So it's a good thing that the creepy 
 critters and droids who inhabit Star Control 3 are its strongest point. There are 24 different 
 races you can interact with, all of them animatronically controlled renderings, and each with its 
 own distinct personality. From the slouch-shouldered, cowardly Spathi, to the brazenly bellicose 
 Ur-Quan, to the haughtily omnipotent Arilou, each personality must be judged correctly, for some, 
 if not all, of the races you encounter might betray you. Most of the characters have pretty delicate 
 temperaments, and your replies, which can range from obsequious to rude, must be chosen wisely. 
 All is not what it appears to be in the Kessari, and often you will find yourself going toe-to-toe 
 with an erstwhile ally.  

 Actually, the fun really starts in Star Control 3 when things come to blows. You continually generate 
 ships and add them to your ever-expanding armada, employing them when need be. When one of the 
 enemy wants to rumble, the game immediately goes into combat mode. Choose a ship from your fleet 
 and off you go, into a real-time space battle. Each type of ship has its own weapons, maneuverability, 
 and special abilities. After a while, you start to figure out which of your ships is strategically 
 suited to take down a particular adversary. You'll need to keep a pretty formidable fleet because 
 if your Precursor vessel is ever destroyed, the game's over.  

 The fact is, Star Control 3 is basically two games in one. If you finally solve the game and no 
 longer are challenged by the adventure aspect, you can still customize your own fleets and play 
 in Hyper Melee mode (just combat) against the computer or a friend over the network. One could 
 go far enough to say that this one of the best titles to come out this year. If you're one of those 
 game fanatics who doesn't mind living a cloistered existence in your room, playing space commander 
 into early hours of the morning (and carrying on excited conversations that make your friends worry) , 
 consider picking this one up.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Valaggar
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Alright, gameplay is as linear as it could get - in total contradiction to Star Control 2 -. Hyper 
 Melee is only a faint reminder of the Star Control 2 Super Melee - the removal of the 16 angles 
 of movement contributes greatly to this.
  The story is anything but Star Control. All that witty dialogue from Star Control 2 is gone (or 
 in the worst case there are some fragments copied directly from SC2!!!) .
  Graphics are NOT Star Control - where's the color, the pixel art, everything?!
  They've taken 
 off HyperSpace, QuasiSpace, manual movement of the Flagship, EVERYTHING!!!
  The starmap is impossible to use, I got stuck on numerous occasions trying to find the star I searched 
 for. I never could find Picus. This makes the hard difficulty, because the puzzles are... gone! 
 As is the Ultron (another rehashing of Star Control 2 storyline!) .
  Sound - horrible! The beautiful Star Control 2 music - gone!
  The only good thing is the presentation 
 - Star Control 3 has an excellent in-game help system. Sort of what should be implemented in The 
 Ur-Quan Masters (enhanced port of Star Control 2, has also voices and better graphics and multiplayer, 
 go get it at http://sc2. sourceforge. net) too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game was a major disappointment to me, I don't know what the hell they did with this game. 
 I remember the first 2 games, and they rocked. (Part 2 being my fav) I loved how in part 2 you 
 had to cruise through the galaxy finding allies as well as stuff on planets to make money and fly 
 to certain locations to find planets or space ships.
  
  The story takes place after part 2 when you try to destory your enemy with a ship, but the explosion 
 cause a blackhole causing you to travel through time and space to a new location of the galaxy. 
 Also, your other allies (Spathi, Syrren, etc.) have also been sent to new locations of the galaxy. 
 Now you have a new enemy that threatens the galaxy.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  I will say that the graphics are pretty good, that is, if you like talking to PUPPETS. Seriously, 
 when you find new allies or talk to your own kind, all the creatures you talk to are pretty much 
 just hand puppets made to look like your allies or enemies. I do not like this kind of interaction. 
 I think they were better off making a whole new set of animations or making 3D characters. Plus, 
 some of your allies look totally screwed up. The SYRREN look like they have been drinking one too 
 many times, theyr faced is all squished up and the humans don't look much better. Some of the monsters 
 you meet look just as bad if not worse. Other than that, the combat grahics look pretty good, the 
 galaxy map is very impressive and some of the deisgned for planets and galaxies are very well detailed. 
 THey did put a lot of effort into the game, no arguement here, but I just think they used the wrong 
 approach when making the characters you talk to.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  One cool thing about this game is that everything is user friendly by using the mouse. Very little 
 Keyboard use. So that makes this game very simple to play. Now this is where I am totally confused 
 on. They added a sense of strategy to the game very similar to MASTER OF ORION. You can make buildings 
 and stuff on your planet as well as help other allies make and live on other planets as well. Course, 
 like any strategy game, the more people on your home planet, the faster you can build things. What 
 I don't understand is the strategy element. This is suppose to be more of an adventure game where 
 you find clues and solve puzzles, but that is not the case for this game. Plus, unless you know 
 what you are doing and know where you are going, it takes a while to get to know the galaxy as 
 well as where to go to find your allies. Course, once you do know where things are, the rest of 
 the game is fairly easy. Plus, don't forget you have to find special artifacts to help your allies 
 become more powerful.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  Overall this is not a bad game, I just don't think they thought out what they wanted to do with 
 this game. It starts out as a strategy game, but then you find out that it's more of an adventure 
 game. As far as I am concerned, you would only get this game if you were a fan of Star Control, 
 nothing else. The game itself is not relaly worth playing because of the way it was designed as 
 well as created. To make puppets for each of the allies or enemies you face is not impressive, 
 especially if the puppets were badly made. The Syrren should have been much sexier looking, not 
 tramp or drunk looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdboy272
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  This 3rd addition to the star craft franchise does not have the same feel as its predecessors. 
 My thinking is that they tried to change the game to much and the single players is not as in depth. 
 If they would have kept the game more straight forward and easy to understand I believe it would 
 have got a much better rating. The weird view it has as a default is just awful so if you play 
 it a strongly suggest that you change it back to 2d it is much easy-er to play that way. All in 
 all Star Control 3 was a decent game but not nealy as good as star control 1&2. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
