-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsempireatwarforces/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The new criminal faction offers a different approach to conquering the galaxy.
 corrupting missions let you choose your own racketeering.
 campaign deftly weaves in many different elements of the Star Wars universe.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There are performance issues, particularly in some of the larger battles.
 the campaign ends a bit abruptly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,880 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Petroglyph
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Forces of Corruption is a great addition to the Empire at War saga thanks to an interesting new 
 faction that offers up a different way to conquer the galaxy. 

  Many true Star Wars fans had been waiting years for the strategy game Star Wars: Empire at War. 
 Forgetting all about Jar Jar Binks and the prequel trilogy, Empire at War plunged you into the 
 heart of the Galactic Civil War seen in the original trilogy, with its Imperial Star Destroyers, 
 Rebel scum, and popular characters, such as Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader. Thanks to epic land 
 and space battles, as well as an intriguing strategic campaign, Empire at War is one of the best 
 strategy games of this year. So it was perhaps inevitable that we come to Forces of Corruption, 
 an expansion pack that plunges you deeper into that galaxy far, far away with a distinct new faction 
 and new content that allow for whole new strategies.  

          Crime doesn't pay unless you're a criminal overlord in the Star Wars galaxy, and then it 
 pays very well if you can corrupt planets.     

  Forces of Corruption explores the seedy side of the Star Wars universe, the place inhabited by 
 crime lords, bounty hunters, smugglers, and, yes, even Han Solo. You play as Tyber Zann, a criminal 
 overlord with a grudge against Jabba the Hutt and the Empire, with no love for the Rebels either. 
 After busting out of Kessel's infamous spice mines, Zann has to build a criminal empire to take 
 down his enemies. Whereas the Empire fights for order and the Rebels fight for freedom, Zann fights 
 for profit, which means that you tackle the campaign of conquering the galaxy in a unique way compared 
 to the strategy that the Rebels and Imperials pursued in Empire at War. While the Rebels and Imperials 
 fought for control of planets by engaging in epic land and space battles, you have another option 
 open to you.  

  The consortium doesn't really seize planets but instead "corrupts" them, which lets you siphon 
 off cash from their coffers. These corruption missions are one of the neat elements in the game, 
 because to corrupt a planet, you have to execute a special type of criminal act, such as space 
 piracy or kidnapping, which means you get to engage in a unique land or space battle. For example, 
 you might need to take out a key vessel that is defending the planet or destroy a certain number 
 of structures on the planetary surface. Once a planet is corrupted, you can launch sabotage missions 
 to cripple the planet's defenses, unlock new ships and technologies by purchasing them on a black 
 market, and more. Also, consortium fleets can slip past corrupted planets through bribery, which 
 means the consortium is capable of launching strikes deep into enemy territory.  

  This corrupting style of gameplay takes a bit of getting used to, but thankfully the expansion's 
 campaign does a good job of introducing you to all the basics while immersing you into the rich 
 lore of the original trilogy and the aftermath as told in the various novels. Familiar faces, such 
 as the bounty hunter IG-88, Prince Xizor from Shadows of the Empire, and the popular Grand Admiral 
 Thrawn from the Timothy Zahn novels, make appearances. However, there are new faces as well, such 
 as Silri, a Force witch with an agenda of her own, and Urai Fenn, a lethal alien sidekick. Also, 
 Zann makes for an interesting antihero because he's incredibly ruthless but with a bit of a humorous 
 streak in him.  

  Forces of Corruption weaves these characters into a campaign that's more cohesive and better told 
 than the campaigns found in Empire at War. The expansion is set just prior to and after the Battle 
 of Endor, and with the death of the Emperor and Darth Vader, there are opportunities for those 
 who are strong enough to seize them. The plot takes you on a virtual tour of the galaxy, where 
 you'll engage in various quest missions in orbit around planets and on their surfaces to uncover 
 the secrets of the Emperor's vaults. One mission requires you to salvage data pods from the wreckage 
 belt of the original Death Star, while another mission has you running through the Emperor's personal 
 museum. This lets you explore some interesting parts of the Star Wars galaxy, though some of these 
 missions are a bit drawn out. Thankfully, the speed buttons let you accelerate the gameplay, which 
 makes it less annoying when you have to wait for your units to weave their way around the map. 

          The new corruption missions give you some leeway as to how to exploit a planet.     

 
  As you might expect when dealing with smugglers and criminals, intrigue and skulduggery abound 
 in the plot. However, coming in at under 10 hours, we wish that the campaign weren't so short and 
 that it didn't end so abruptly because the game leaves a number of plot threads in the air and 
 gives you the feeling that there's a second expansion in store. The bigger issue, though, is that 
 there's a price to be paid for some of the huge battles and missions that you'll undertake. The 
 performance of the game is terrible at times, and the frame rate can be slower than Jabba the Hutt 
 running a marathon. Even with most of the graphical detail settings set to low, the expansion had 
 frame rate issues running on a midrange machine that ran Empire at War just fine with the details 
 set to high. Of course, your mileage may vary, and on a high-end system the frame rate smoothed 
 out nicely.  

  In skirmish and multiplayer mode, the consortium is a formidable faction, even as jumbled as it 
 may seem. You can have destroyer droids (as seen in  The Phantom Menace ) , mercenaries, Force witches 
 that ride rancors (like the kind that tried to eat Luke in  Return of the Jedi ) , and the ewok 
 handler, which should be a favorite as this unit straps bombs on those cuddly ewoks and then sets 
 them loose. In space, the consortium features an array of incredibly powerful ships that can slug 
 it out evenly with the best the Empire and the Rebels have to offer. In fact, skirmish games against 
 the consortium proved to be a lot tougher than anything we experienced in Empire at War. And then 
 there's the awesome Super Star Destroyer and the Eclipse, a massive new type of Super Star Destroyer. 

  There's a fair amount of new content in Forces of Corruption to keep you busy, even if you're a 
 fan of the existing Rebel and Imperial factions. There are plenty of new units and abilities that 
 you can bring into play. For example, each faction can call upon orbital bombardment to soften 
 up targets during ground battles, assuming that faction has ships in orbit. The Empire now has 
 speedy TIE Interceptors as well as Dark Troopers, which are elite infantry units clad in power 
 armor, while the Rebels get the cool B-Wing fighters and the Jedi master Yoda, to name just a handful 
 of the new units. It's also now possible to place your planetary structures, so you can position 
 your key buildings behind layers of defensive turrets. You can also build bunkers and special transport 
 vehicles to garrison infantry in, and in the case of the latter you essentially get a mobile bunker. 
 All of this shines in the galactic campaign, where you can control any faction any try and conquer 
 the galaxy. Adding the third faction suddenly changes the cat-and-mouse game of Empire at War into 
 a cat-and-mouse-and-dog game, upping the challenge considerably. If you exhaust yourself going 
 after one faction, the other will take advantage of that.  

          The space battles are as cool as ever, though unfortunately you barely get to play with 
 the Super Star Destroyer.     

  Meanwhile, the excellent production values from Empire at War remain the same, and you'll once 
 again be immersed in the frenetic space battles and intense land battles of the Star Wars saga 
 while the familiar and soaring Star Wars musical score plays in the background. And the battles 
 are even larger than before, or at least, they feel that way when the Super Star Destroyer is on 
 the screen. You can't help but be impressed when it hyperspaces in with a flotilla of Star Destroyers 
 and smaller escorts.  

  Most expansion packs either add much more of the same content, or try to shake up the gameplay 
 by introducing new ways to play the game. Forces of Corruption offers a little of both, as you 
 can still enjoy controlling the forces of the Rebels and the Empire, but you can also have fun 
 being a criminal, too. Aside from the performance issues, if you put it all together, this is a 
 great entry in the Empire at War saga.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Finaly, I can destroy planets with the Death Star!
  
  Star Wars EAW's expansion brings 15 new units as well as many new official maps and unlimited amount 
 of fan created maps.
  
  Forces of corruption gives players a new take on galactic control. Instead of Imperial Might or 
 Rebel Morals, The Zahn Consortium takes the role of the Criminal background and its Corruption 
 of the estlishment through bribery, piracy, blackmail, and spying. Lead by yourself its up to you 
 to chose sides, corrupt the galaxy, save it, or rule it.
  
  Featuring both epic space battles and titanic ground invasions, Empire at War and its Expansion 
 give star wars RTS fans a new ability to control the planet or starve out its enemies through blockades 
 and orbital bombardments. So its a must have for fans of Battlegrounds as it expands the players 
 military reach across the Star Wars universe.
  
  Forces of Corruption also has two new campaigns, Rebel and Zhan. The rebel campaign expands of 
 already established Star Wars lore and the Zhan created all new stories of adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameRuler1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first playing Empire at War, I enjoyed the gameplay style. It was a nice 2 layered RTS as 
 explained in GameSpot's Review. I myself am a fan of RTS Gaming and When I saw this game I thought: 
 Star Wars - My Favorite Legacy, and RTS - My Favorite Game Type = Uber Game! 
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  This expansion presents new units for land and space, maps, 
 planets, a new faction and campaign, and new heroes. The game provides a new Strategic option in 
 which you can corrupt planets like: Bribery, Kidnapping, Corrupt Militia, Black Market and more! 
 You can also Sabotage land structures with a bribe. I Won't reveal any of the story but the campaign 
 is extremely short in my opinion. The goals although in the campaign take you a long time to accomplish 
 depending on your "strats". There are some new units also added onto the Rebel Alliance and the 
 Galactic Empire. The Mods you can also download can improve the game drastically. Now taking this 
 information here is a final judgment.
  
  FINAL JUDGMENT: "Worth it and a Great Buy/Expansion" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War: Forces of Corruption is a great expansion adding another faction to the 
 war for the galaxy. In the campaign you get to play as the Zann Consortium, a criminal gang that 
 rivals the influence and power wielded by the Hutt clan. You have to break out the leader of the 
 Consortium Tyber Zann from a max security prison-world. You then set about reclaiming your empire. 
 The new faction handles really well, you can intimidate planets into giving you more money or stopping 
 their special ability by performing some form of criminal activity, be it pirating, kidnapping 
 or slavery. There are new units to play with for all races, making the ground and space battles 
 more fun. The units from the Zann Consortium work really well, as they are quite an eclectic mixture, 
 ranging from Rancor riding Sith, to explosive ewok handlers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorPalpa
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Standard Empire at War was good. Nothing really ground-shacking, but solid. It had advantages (great 
 space battles) and disadvantages (boring and dull land battes)
  
  I've been expecting FoC to be just an addon with few new units and crazy non-starwars faction. 
 I was wrong. The Zann Consortium is definitely great addition to the game. It gives chance of non-linear 
 gameplay. Maybe it's a bit overpowered, but Empire and Rebelion have new cool units as well. Campaign 
 is really interesting, more than standard EaW campaign. Also, with addition of new gameplay elements, 
 ground battles are much better and playable than in original game. Graphics aren't the best I've 
 ever seen, but can make it. I've played updated version, so I haven't had any bugs. 
  
  I recommend this game, I've spent much time with it, there are variety of modification, which make 
 this awesome game even better. If you are Rts and Star Wars fan, this game is your must-have :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Now the best addition to the already great game Empire at War is the currupt side, they have less 
 units but overpowering, like the Kebalbe Class capital ship, the campaign is great also the cutscenes 
 are great but the ending is stupid, Tyber Zann has got the most powerfull ship in the galaxy and 
 he don't need it anymore and he don't want to become the new emperor, In the galactic conquest 
 there are new scenario's and new planets a new faction and new units, but it is incredibly frustrating 
 if you don't play as tyber Zann because he will corrupt your planets and thats so annoying and 
 you must remove it be one of your heroes and it costs a lot and if your 30 seconds to late they 
 sabotage 1 of your buildings and you must wait 5 minutes before ithe building is finished, and 
 they will corrupt a planet like every second so that makes it so annoying and the Tybber zann units 
 are so overpowering like the nightsisters they have a tank witch destroys an AT AT with ease, they 
 have the best economy in galactic conquest, you can build a palace on any of your planets and your 
 income on a day will be 30 times as big as that of the enemie, so i want to play just as a rebellion 
 against the empire galactic conquest because if you play againts Zann your planets will keep getting 
 corrupted and you need to keep removing the corruption and if you are a second to late they will 
 blow up your structures witch is soooooo annoying and you must build your structure again but you 
 need to have the money and then you need to wait 5 minutes, and you can't do a 1 vs 1 in galactic 
 conquest, you cannot play with the rebellion and empire only and the most stupid thing is that 
 in online you can choose how mush players there are and if Tyber Zann is also there, so if you 
 can online why yuu can't do that on single player that is the most stupid thing ever, and the makers 
 should have did that singleplayer as well but no, that ruins tha galactic conquest in the game 
 if you want to play a galactic conquest where you don't need to remove corruption every second 
 and repair your destroyed buildings you should play empire at war without this expainsion but that 
 also isn't fun because you want the new units, also incredebly annoying is the millitia corruption 
 when you remove it, you lose control of the planets and your units evacuate the planet and your 
 structures are destroyed. this is much to overpowering.
  But skirmish is a lot more fun with new maps witch are 30% bigger and new units and a new faction 
 and online is also cool.
  But also something that is stupid is the enemy A. I. it is so dumb they didn't improve it at all.
 
  The new units are cool and their special abilliteis also like carbonite missiles, the graphics 
 are a bit better and the sound is still great.
  If your a fan of the first game you should get this also its a lot more fun with a new campaign 
 and faction but they ruind the galactic conquest and the A. I. is still stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ArchAngeL-777-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  This is an expansion to Empire at War, and probably makes it a truly complete game. I'm not crazy 
 about the third faction, but its a decent twist. The real good part is in the expansion of the 
 units for both Rebels and Empire. For the Empire, you can now play... the ECLIPSE STAR DESTROYER 
 LOL. This is unbelievable fun!! It is massive, it is devastating, and it is the hammer that cuts 
 through defenses. The space combat is top notch in Empire at War, and seeing the Eclipse warp in 
 with a support fleet of Star Destroyers is bliss :) A nice ground addition is the Juggernaut. You 
 might recognize it from Star Wars Episode III. It is a great troop transport with a pinpoint laser 
 defense system against missiles. Dealing with missile batteries was very difficult in the original 
 game.
  
  For the Rebels, the MC-30 cruiser is a God-send. Its batteries of proton torpedoes bring down star 
 destroyers in no time. A couple of these can expect to even take out an Imperial Star Destroyer. 
 The new fighter classes are excellent at dealing with the masses of fighters that spew from star 
 destroyers in battle. As for the ground combat, Garm Bel Iblis and his gargantua is the AT-AT counter 
 for the rebels and makes things quite interesting. I prefered to play the Empire in the first game, 
 but the Rebels get the nod after these additions.
  
  Finally Empire at War is complete!!! A first-class RTS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_man
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Star Wars, Empire at war, Forces of corruption is the expansion pack to the very good Star Wars, 
 Empire at War. The game offers good visual details and good sound effects, but ultimately does 
 not bring a lot new to the game.
  
  The new campaign, Corruption, is a minor challenge. Although it is quite fun to begin with and 
 does teach you how everything works, as well as give a bit of background information to the game, 
 the campaign is not new in any ways or forms. The now fraction to the game, the Zann consortium, 
 is a disaster. It does not change the game in any significant way and if you are playing it, it 
 is basically the rebels with a few destroyer droids and a few new ships. The campaign quickly looses 
 interest and all intention to play it. The only reason you might want to play the campaign is that 
 it is the only place which offers the super star destroyers. They are a wonder within, but when 
 the Eclipse is so powerful, you kinda wish they were available in the skirmish game modes and the 
 multiplayer modes too.
  
  The land battles are not worth playing. Average graphics, battling everything out with something 
 like 10 units, no worthwhile tactics to use all take away from what is the best out of an ordinary 
 crop of Star Wars RTS.
  
  The space battles, however, are a delight to behold. First contacts are small and if carefully 
 managed, fairly painless and quick. However, you just can't help but wish that the game had a higher 
 population limit or like the Command and Conquer series, no population limit at all. One star destroyer 
 takes around 20% of your population, meaning you can only have around 4 or five star destroyers 
 on a map at one time. These beauties are the best part of the game, especially when there is a 
 three fraction game when there are up to 10 star destroyers all battling at the same time.
  
  The system requirements for this game is fairly low, especially since computers are updated 
 so often these days. With a midrange system, all the special features can be turned on if you are 
 willing to give up a bit of performance.
  
  SW, EaW Forces of Corruption is essentially a worthy add-on to the EaW game, however, you can't 
 help wishing for just a little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y07hci0107
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  I would have given 10/10 for this game if not for some buggy issues. Firstly, the game builds on 
 the old Empire At War plot, and adds in a new faction with more than 30 new units for all three 
 factions. Rather fittingly the battles get bigger and better. The graphics were as good, if not 
 better than the first game. Forces of Corruption tied up some issues faced on the original one 
 for me. For example, the original tended to lag insanely at the start screens, while FOC does not. 
 Unfortunately, FOC has not reduced the miserly unit cap, which is rather irritating to fans of 
 huge, graphics-intensive battles. Pity Pity Pity. Hopefully a mod comes out in future to fix this 
 problem. Some issues that have to be further looked into are mere nitpicking, such as the loading 
 screens being rather slow. The graphics ran quite smoothly on my computer, which has a 128MB dedicated 
 graphics card. With the excellent plot, gameplay, new units and features, this game definitely 
 deserves a high rating. Apart from the little performance issues mentioned earlier, Star Wars: 
 Empire At War Forces of Corruption Expansion should provide many hours of fun and not bore you 
 after two hours like the original one. Performance issues aside, I easily give this game a full 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown: 
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2221,0. html
  
  Strategy games based on the Star Wars universe had usually not been very great, with the franchise 
 being most successful in the action-adventure and RPG front. Fortunately, Lucasarts decided to 
 hand the reins to Petroglyph, a collection of veteran RTS designers who jump-started the Empire 
 at War series, their best attempt at the RTS genre. Recently, they released the Forces of Corruption 
 expansion pack. Is it worth getting for fans of the original?
  
  Forces of Corruption explores a darker side of the Star Wars universe. Your whole role in the campaign 
 is as the leader of a criminal organization, your name being Tyber Zann. You have a grudge against 
 Jabba the Hutt, with no love for the Empire or Rebels. The opening mission has you busting out 
 of Kessel's spice mines. Eventually, you build a criminal empire named the Consortium.
  
  In a gameplay twist, the consortium doesn't seize planets but "corrupts" them, stealing cash from 
 these planets. Within the campaign, there are corruption missions, involving space piracy or kidnapping, 
 meaning you get to engage in a uniquely-built land or space battle. Once a planet is corrupted, 
 you gain the ability to sabotage the planet's defenses, unlock new ships and technologies by purchasing 
 them on a black market, and more. Also, you can easily bribe planetary defenses, meaning the consortium 
 is capable of launching strikes deep into enemy territory.
  
  The game manages to follow Star Wars lore, all while adding in new elements and storylines. Some 
 familiar faces: such as Prince Xizor from Shadows of the Empire, and the popular Grand Admiral 
 Thrawn; and unfamiliar faces: Silri, a Force witch, and Urai Fenn, a lethal alien sidekick, appear 
 in the game.
  
  The campaign is surprisingly more focused than the one in the first game. It takes place before 
 and after the Battle of Endor. It takes you on a virtual tour of the galaxy, where you'll engage 
 in various quest missions in orbit around planets and on their surfaces to uncover the secrets 
 of the Emperor's vaults. The campaign is filled with intrigue and double-crossing which adds a 
 lot of depth to the story. It is slightly short at under 10 hours, and ends abruptly, but overall, 
 the campaign is quite decent for one included in an expansion.
  
  The consortium really adds another dimension of gameplay against the Imperial and Rebel sides. 
 It features some unique units such as destroyer droids, rancors, witches, and the ewok handler, 
 which hilariously uses ewoks as suicide bombers. In space, the consortium fleet consists of some 
 pretty powerful units. In fact, skirmish games against the consortium proved to be a lot tougher 
 than anything we experienced in Empire at War. And then there's the awesome Super Star Destroyer 
 and the Eclipse, a massive new type of Super Star Destroyer. There are some gameplay tweaks such 
 as the ability to actually place your planetary bases so you can more easily defend the surfaces 
 of your planets. You can also build bunkers and special transport vehicles to garrison infantry 
 in, and in the case of the latter you essentially get a mobile bunker. The Rebel and Empire factions 
 haven't been left out in the cold. Rebels get some nice units such as B-Wings and even the hero 
 Yoda. The Empire gets extremely fast TIE Interceptors and powerful Dark Trooper ground units.
 
  
  The production values in the expansion match those of Empire at War. The ground and space battles 
 are simply invigorating with the Star Wars theme blaring in the background.
  
  Forces of Corruption manages to add to and improve on the Empire at War formula, mixing things 
 up with the Consortium side and tight and gripping campaign. It's a great entry in the Empire at 
 War series and is recommended for Star Wars and RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the___pope
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Expands on the already excellent original empire at war game. And does it. The new faction is very 
 ingenious and creatively created by the team at Lucas arts. I enjoyed it quite a lot but it still 
 leaves more for the gamer to want, that being really only in the story mode. Excellent expansion 
 that should be expanded on again in my opinion, I'd like to see what else could be included in 
 the Jedi saga!!! The original was excellent and the expansion is almost in the style of a common 
 modding team than the original company but only to a point. To see the amount of detail in place 
 throughout the game and the developed story line is something everyone reading this should buy 
 the game for if not anything else. I recommend this game to anyone who appreciates the star wars 
 saga and anyone who loves the RTS style because this game and the "prequel" will be in your top 
 3 for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  10 - 1 = Single Mission ends abruptly. There are performance issues, particularly in some of the 
 larger battles 
  10 - 1 = No more expansion for the darkside girl.
  10 - 1 = Skimish Ais are DOG poo mind! & Multiplayer mode is lousy.
  10 + 1.5 = A new style of 
 simple, easy RTS game play except not very happy with the lmitation of units creation to wars. 
 Corrupting missions let you choose your own racketeering. Campaign deftly weaves in many different 
 elements of the Star Wars universe. 
  Therefore 10 - 1 - 1 - 1 + 1.5 = 8.5.
  
  RTS alway & USUALLY MEANT to be PLAYED on Storyline Single Player Game!
  
  Do u know why the 
 old and classic games are alway better than today's game? Because nowaday it's DOGs' poo of WORK 
 and DOG's mouth speaking. That's why today games are more sucking up than the past and old game 
 yet very expensive to OWN it a piece of JUNK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  EaW was good, but this game was even better. One of the only complaints I have about this game 
 is that there wasn't any story for the Empire or the Rebellion, even though they were covered in 
 EaW. The graphics were pretty good up close, too, but they could've been better. Another thing 
 that didn't really appeal to me was the skirmish mode.
  
  The sound was good aswell, and I loved the battlecam. One bad thing about the battlecam was that 
 it sometimes didn't even view the battle. I don't know why, but I never really used the battlecam 
 that much. You really won't since you'll be too busy commanding the battle.
  
  Also, the fact that I couldn't put a building anywhere I wanted and that I needed to take control 
 of build pads. Little things like that were a bit annoying, but they were easily overlooked because 
 the rest of the game was so good. As I said before, a great story made this game what it is. And 
 I recommend this game for anyone who likes Star Wars at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmbowers98
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The original Star Wars: Empire at War was a noble effort of a game. In many ways it was the sprawling 
 "conquer the Star Wars galaxy" dream project that strategy game fans had been waiting for since 
 the botched release of Rebellion way back in 1998. Some unfortunate design decisions (such as the 
 inexplicable choice to make the galactic conquest map real-time rather than turn-based and a nightmarish 
 UI) made it significantly less fun than it could have been. That's what makes the game's first 
 expansion pack such a pleasant surprise. Forces of Corruption does exactly what it's supposed to 
 do: adds enjoyable new content to the game. On another level, though, it remixes and rebalances 
 Empire at War, making the whole game a far better experience than before. 
  
  The "force of corruption" indicated in the title is one Tyber Zann. Zann's a galactic criminal, 
 rogue and smuggler -- but not in that boyishly charming Han Solo kind of way. He's actually more 
 your scarily thuggish Tony Soprano sort. Zann only cares about two things, making himself rich 
 and getting vengeance against the Empire. That hardly makes Zann and his outfit, the Zann Consortium, 
 friends of the Rebellion. This third new faction in the game cheerfully steals from and sabotages 
 both sides in the Galactic Civil War and steps on anyone they have to -- including the Hutts and 
 the infamous Black Sun organization -- in order to make themselves the most powerful criminal cartel 
 in the universe. Zann's story is the subject of the game's excellent new single-player campaign. 
 
  The Zann Consortium is a terrific addition to the Star Wars universe. As a criminal organization, 
 the Consortium doesn't initially have access to the kinds of specialized military equipment that 
 the Empire and the Rebels have. They're instead forced to rely on older, weaker, commercially available 
 spacecraft such as the Skipray Blastboats for bombing runs and mercenary squads as basic infantry. 
 They make up for that by being endlessly creative, stealing from their enemies and combining unusual 
 assortments of Rebel, Empire and forbidden technology to create a hodge-podge military force that 
 can stand against both sides. 
  
  The result of the Consortium's fictional underpinnings is that Petroglyph designers had a license 
 to go to town, and they took full advantage of it. The Consortium's military units, both space 
 and ground, are enormously creative and fun to use. They range from the Keldabe-class battleship 
 that actually leaches enemy shields to power its own weapons, to the Ewok Handler. This fat fellow 
 with a bag over his shoulder releases an Ewok in combat, straps a bomb to its chest and sends it 
 on a suicide run against enemy targets. This guy alone is almost reason enough to get the expansion. 
 Somehow watching those little fuzzballs squeal and explode just never gets old. 
  
  The mere addition of the Consortium isn't what makes this expansion special; it's the way the new 
 side completely re-jiggers the strategic balance of the game, turning the binary struggle between 
 the Rebellion and the Empire into a vastly more complicated three-way fight. Key to this is the 
 concept of "corruption." The Zann Consortium can conquer planets the way the Empire and the Rebels 
 do, but they also have the option of "corrupting" a planet. Corrupting a planet doesn't change 
 the planet's ownership but instead siphons off a portion of the planets' credit production to Tyber 
 Zann. Corruption missions also allow the Consortium player to monkey about with planetary conditions. 
 Missions range from denying a planet's bonus to its owner to sabotaging a building before a ground 
 assault to secretly corrupting the planet's militia so they'll fight for the Consortium during 
 an invasion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cayden
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  First, when I heard that Lucas Arts made a RTS game I had to check it out. So I downloaded the 
 demo and was instantly disappointed. However, once the price came down I picked up the gold edition 
 bundle of Empire at War and Forces of Corruption. After playing the full version I realized what 
 a good buy this was. It is worth the extra coin to spring for the expansion. The additional options 
 make game play much more satisfying. My personal favorite are the droidekas - which will make quick 
 work of enemy soldiers and minor vehicles. 
  
  The Good: game components and functions are easy to learn, and strategy can become very complex. 
 There are various ways to play the game: space, land, or conquest (mixture of space and land over 
 galactic map) . Single player is fun, but can be repetitive. Online play is where you strike gold. 
 The expansion is the best for online play. There are maps with three (3) team combat! You can save 
 your multiplayer games and review how your strategies panned out. Online games can become very 
 challenging when your opponents know what they are doing.
  
  The Bad: graphics are mediocre for this current state-of-the-art. When playing online with many 
 people the game will lag tremendously making it supremely frustrating to command your units. There 
 are a limited number of games available, which are limited ever further because not everyone has 
 the same version. One last thing: the user interface is buggy, and sometimes units are not selected 
 or don't do what you command. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Fresh off a several-week conquest in Team Fortress 2 -successor to my most-loved game of all time- 
 where I pride myself in a game I reached 247 points as a sniper, I chose to relive the glory days 
 of Star Wars with the expansion pack to another of my favorites. Having been a Star Wars geek or 
 fan or whatever the commonly-applied term is these days in my youth (read: early teen years) , I 
 booted up Forces of Corruption and saw some of my fondest and nigh-forgotten beasts scream to life 
 in the main menu battle movie; I was overcome with joy. I had played Empire at War a year or so 
 ago, but I neglected to review it and I've lost most of my memories, so while I procured FoC, I 
 played through the first half of the Rebellion campaign, which features my favorite Star Wars vessel: 
 the Nebulon-B frigate. 
  
  Once FoC was installed, I gleefully began the new campaign, which tracks a pirate by the name of 
 Tyber Zann. Yes; a very strange name in the galaxy of strange names, but passable. Instantly, I 
 noticed a switch from strict movie lore to more of the novel and graphic-novel content: StarVipers 
 being the prime example. This switch is perhaps the best feature of Forces, since it allowed Petroglyph 
 to explore more entertaining plot threads - which makes for an enjoyable, non-forced campaign.
 
  
  The base game pitted the Empire and Rebellion in strict space -  land battles, which while enthused 
 and dynamic, were lacking in originality. Enter corruption, a tool which Zann's Consortium wields 
 to cripple planets before a single turbolaser is fired or TIE fighter launched. One thousand-credit 
 Defilers (a hefty price in early-game situations) can be sent to opposing worlds to corrupt them, 
 which can be done through a smorgasbord of options. You may insert the Defiler to bribe local commanders 
 into the cessation of new unit-building, steal technology to further your own (for minimal effect, 
 and it's expensive, which makes it seem more of an afterthought addition) , and even sabotage structures, 
 eliminating their garrisoned troops and providing for a simpler ground invasion. In addition, corrupted 
 worlds may be bypassed completely by your fleets, which allow you to jump rungs in the galactic 
 ladder and move on to more tantalizing targets of your choosing.
  
  As far as Tyber's campaign goes, it is far more satisfying than the original two from Empire at 
 War, although the finale, while tense and exploiting the far-superior space battle system, ends 
 abruptly without presenting an option of continuing the conquest. Allow me to repeat: no matter 
 how far into conquering the galaxy you are, once you proceed to the final mission (a hint: it takes 
 place at Kuat) , the game is over. Individual missions are a blast to play, however, and the sum 
 of Forces of Corruption's parts far outweigh the entire product. For example, in one of the latter 
 missions, the game tasks you with retrieving an ancient Sith artifact from the Emperor's vaults 
 deep within Coruscant. While the mission itself is fairly straightforward, the small homages to 
 Star Wars lore is incredible. There are statues of the three stages of Dark Troopers (which become 
 nothing more than a nuisance in the end) , a replica of the Death Star II, and more tasty treats 
 for the inner Star Wars geek in all of us. The new units presented in Forces of Corruption are 
 also fantastic, even if you encounter them very little (I am, of course, referencing the new Imperial 
 and Rebel units) . The Rebellion receives the B-Wing bomber, which is a fun little unit to deploy 
 in skirmishes, along with Admiral Ackbar's MC85 cruiser, which for its size and representation, 
 is underarmed. The Empire gets, of course, the Super Star Destroyer, which makes its cameo in the 
 final mission along with another lovely surprise: Palpatine's pet project, the Eclipse Super Star 
 Destroyer. All of these elements, plus allusions and components including Prince Xizor, IG-88, 
 and a run-in with Darth Vader serve up a complete Star Wars platter which more than satiates my 
 galactic real-time strategy hunger.
  
  Unfortunately, like any game, Forces of Corruption is not without fault. As with every RTS I have 
 ever played, there are numerous pathfinding issues which serve to bug the hell out of me. Maneuvering 
 rancors around trees, buildings, and other units is frustrating to say the least. Hulking cruisers 
 in late-game segments take what seems like millennia to reach their destinations, and if you passed 
 over a small sulking unit, you have to hunt them down before victory may be obtained. Finally, 
 mission variety is lacking. What missions there are definitely are provided creatively, 85% of 
 the missions are ground-based, which in my opinion is the least-best of the two, and harkens back 
 to the days of Force Commander and the over-hyped Battlegrounds (which was nothing more than new 
 paint on the decrepit Age of Empires II engine and formula  don't get me wrong; good games, simply 
 not as great as they were received) .
  
  In the end, Forces of Corruption is an excellent expansion to a superb game. It is a wee short, 
 as I beat the campaign in a bit under seven hours, and easily-accomplished with only one or two 
 defeats, but every minute was outstanding. I hope modders explore new territory such as the Yuuzhan 
 Vong or additional units (Dreadnaught or Carrack Cruiser anyone?) , but as it is Forces of Corruption 
 is a delectable morsel on any gamer's plate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at the same time I bought the old one so the game was pretty new to me but it 
 is very easy to learn how to play. I played the campaign in probably 2 days, and it wasn't the 
 best. Most of it is extremely easy but some parts can be pretty hard.
  
  The new army the Zann Consortium is easy to play as, and that's probably because it is extremely 
 unfair. Their ground troops own really quickly and their spaceships are really good to. Overall 
 they are just too good! That's the main reason I rated this game an 8.5 instead of a higher rating.
 
  
  The map of the universe is really great. You can easily move troops from planet to planet and it 
 is really overall a great way to have a war. Going from one planet to the next, first fighting 
 in space then on the ground.
  
  The space battles are really fun but the ground battle is not my favorite.
  
  Overall this 
 is a pretty fun game. Not completely balanced but is worth giving a try, but don't buy it unless 
 it is fairly cheap because it is not worth paying allot of money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Empire At War and honestly.... I felt they should have just added on to the Empire 
 vs Rebel fight with newer units, more planets, new campaigns, etc instead of adding a 3rd faction. 
 This new faction is highly over powered and it's very very easy to dominate the battlefield. Even 
 on "Hard" there is very little effort to win the campaign and there should have been some serious 
 balance test with the units. The story itself with the new faction and campaign is done really 
 well... however the voice acting has taken a slide and was just VERY VERY poor in some areas. Each 
 faction has new units. Imperials have Dark Troopers (in each phase: one, two, and three) and super 
 star destroyers and new hero units. The rebels have some as well however I always play as the Imps 
 so I'm unaware and a bit biased :P 
  
  All in all it's a decent game, it's just the campaign mode is ONLY for the new faction and it's 
 very very easy to complete. Galactic Conquests always puts you up against the other two factions 
 which is VERY VERY annoying if you play as the rebels or imperials because then your constantly 
 spending time removing corruption from your planets.... and that costs credits as well. Needless 
 I think the Galactic Conquest side took a big nose dive by not letting you choose your opponent. 
 It's more tedious now with the corruption side and just makes battles not as fun. This wouldn't 
 be a big deal but Galactic Conquest mode is basically the content giver that allows the game to 
 stay fresh for a longer period of time. Take that away and the game becomes more stale. 
  
  So it's a decent game, but not really a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santiago_Loco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  When i first played the original Empire at War i was shocked, but still wanting for more. When 
 i heard there was an expansion pack I couldn`t wait to the release date to get my hands on it. 
 Well the time i wait for the release was worth the time, Forces of Corruption is a great game ( 
 but too short compared to Empire at War) , one of the new things that this expansion added, the 
 one that caught my attention, was the orbital bombardment, yes you can now blast away an enemy 
 base if you have capital ships in orbit and you don`t have to worry about anti-air turrets or units 
 and besides is far more powerful than the bombers.
  Another good thing is the new Consortium faction that gives a lot of new tactical options (and 
 the corruption ones) , that you can experiment both in the campaign and in the galactic conquest 
 mode.
  
  
  Well as a closing commentary i must say that Forces of Corruption is a great game but it has an 
 abrupt ending lets wanting for more, it would be a greater game if it added a new rebel and imperial 
 campaign.
  
  
  
  
  Thats all folks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  The original Empire At War was a solid strategy game. The galactic conquests took up a lot of time 
 and made for a lot of replay value, and the skirmish battles were always fun-and this was enough 
 to overcome the fact that the campaign was incredibly short and not really satisfying at all. It's 
 definitely a game that's strong because of it's value-with some nice online multiplayer action, 
 which is fun and generally easy to get into-and the expansion, Forces Of Corruption, expands on 
 it, giving you an entire new faction and additions to the others.
  
  So now you can play as the Empire, Rebellion, or the Zann Consortium. The Consortium differs because 
 they get their resources from corrupting other planets, and buying their technology from the black 
 markets they establish on the various planets. All in all, it's an entirely new way to play, but 
 at the same time is still the same gameplay, but gone about in a different way. 
  
  Because of this new way to play, you'll find that playing as the Zann Consortium is considerably 
 easier than playing as the Rebellion or the Empire. The Zann Consortium was made incredibly powerful-it 
 makes both of the other factions seem very.. small. They have access to illegal weapons that the 
 other factions can't get a hold of, like Mass Drivers that devastate fighters and plow through 
 shields. A lot of times, there are some even matches, but a lot of the time-The consortium dominates. 
 It's much easier to get a lot more money a lot faster, and though they make pretty much everything 
 for the consortium much more expensive, it still gets to a point where you can pretty much afford 
 to build entire fleets consisting of nothing but like 50 expensive capital ships or something. 
 
  
  Playing against the consortium, especially if your not too experienced, is a joke. One of the new 
 frigates not only has amazing fire power but also very VERY durable armor that can withstand anything. 
 
  
  Now it's not really the consortium that's overpowered, it's a few of their weapons and ships that 
 are way stronger than they should be. Some of their resources like their corvette, and their unbelievably 
 slow pulse cannon tank things, that are so easy to take out because of their slowness and the fact 
 their only weapon is this huge pulse cannon that can only fire after being charged for about 30 
 seconds. 
  
  The other factions have unbalanced units too. Most notably the rebellion, whom have two major problems: 
 The new "Capital ship destroyer" which has two proton torpedoes that fires something like six torpedos 
 EACH. It can take out a Star Destroyer in a couple of minutes with ease, and also seems to have 
 very capable shielding AND can jet away in no time if in danger. The other is something that was 
 in the last game as well and is the biggest problem in the game I think. It's basically a giant 
 rocket launcher on wheels, that can fire MILES away and kill an ARMY of infantry in one blast. 
 They're easy to take out.. if you can get close to them, which is no easy feat, because it normally 
 blows you up first. 
  
  Another major problem with the expansion is that it gives you no option to play a galactic conquest 
 with only two factions present. With all three, it gets pretty chaotic and you don't have much 
 downtime, which is a lot of fun and a lot of excitement sometimes, but can be tedious at times. 
 So can taking out these ridiculous units like the capital ship destroyer and the stupid rocket 
 launcher.. These were some cruel developers, man. They like the sounds of people screaming their 
 lungs out as their getting an entire fleet or ground force reduced to a joke by one unit.
  
  But despite all of these issues, Empire At War: Forces Of Corruption is still a very enjoyable 
 and very addicting game. Hours go by extremely fast as I play this game-I could do it all day without 
 much problem-although I always go through a session with a lot of screaming.
  
  If you don't value your vocal cords much, don't think twice about getting this game. I know I focused 
 a lot more on the negatives, but it really is a great strategy game that's very accessable and 
 very addicting, and the third faction adds even more value to a game that could already eat up 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I had a little difficulty playing this game and none of the gamers I knew were big into any of 
 the Star Wars games. I was able to figure some of the required moves out without any cheats or 
 walk-throughs, I did not look for any either. I enjoyed the game anyways. This one I may have to 
 wait upon purchasing until I have tried out a few others prior to this one's release date. I will 
 probably purchase it eventually, but not at this time. From the time I have played this I have 
 noticed that some battles are a no-win situation or that I loose more troops than I had expected 
 to loose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Good - A different take on the Star Wars Saga, new abilities, new ships, additions. Corruption 
 allows for many differences
  
  Bad - Short, Graphics Review - Forces of Corruption adds some new things to an already great RTS 
 in the Star Wars Universe. It allows you the player to dwell into a totally different story arc, 
 allowing you to play in the dark seedy world of criminals. So you don't capture planets you corrupt 
 them. The style of play of corrupting planets takes a little getting used to, but is very fun none 
 the less. I recommend this game, if you like RTS, Star Wars, or both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the expansion pack that all fans of Empire at War were expecting. Lots of content 
 that lacked on the original game is bundled in the expansion adding a complete overdrive of star 
 wars goodiness.
  
  Wanted the Executor? Got it.
  Death Star 2? Check.
  IG-88? You bet!
  
  Lots of expanded universe units and locations are included and the new Zann 
 Consortium faction adds tons of new gameplay options, proving that expansions don't always just 
 give more of the same.
  While with the empire and rebels the strategy was basically the same, the Consortium uses agents 
 to corrupt planets gaining advantages and profit from them. This is done sometimes by playing special 
 objective based tactical missions that are great fun.
  
  The story campaign is more interesting this time around but I still prefer the freeform game provided 
 by galactic conquest.
  
  The new graphics are a small step above the original game with more detailed units and visual effects. 
 The new sound effects created specifically for the game are also very effective and surprisingly 
 star wars like.
  
  However, after the game is played for a while, problems start cropping up everywhere. There is 
 a great deal of bugs to be found both on units and on the general strategy. A particullary catastrophic 
 one nearly made me shelf the game permanently. There is also a certain shallowness to the campaign 
 missions and some plot devices for the introduction of the new units and heroes are just plain 
 silly.
  
  It seems that the developers had the idea for the expansion just right, introducing lots of features 
 to the game and many things that the fans wished the original had but it was executed with shamefull 
 sloppiness (perhaps they were already with minds set on Universe at War?) .
  
  All this said, this could have been one of the best expansion packs ever for a strategy game, but 
 the clear lack of polish makes the game fall short, just like in the original EaW, even if to lesser 
 extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brodoin15
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Another wonderful Star Wars RTS game. I love how you can be a crime faction rather than just rebel-empire 
 or republic-CIS like most SW games. I just hope they make another one since it ended on a cliff-hanger 
 sort of ending. But since Lucasarts is busy with The Force Unleashed I won't be surprised if we 
 don't get another Empire at War for a while. That's... uh .... all I got to say. Man why do we got 
 to type 100+ words to post reviews? Really? a a a a a a a a a oh come on. more more more more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Sci-Fi Real Time Strategy games I have ever played. This is a great game 
 for any star wars fan.! This is a very good expansion for this game. It is alot easier then just 
 the regular game in my opinion. The graphics looks amazing. A good detail environment. If you don't 
 like this game then your crazy. I has a great story to the real star wars movie return of the jedi 
 only there is a corruption. Trust me lucasarts makes the best star wars games. I hope that you 
 liked my review. by agordplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say about this one just loads of new content; new faction the Zann Consortium (who 
 are pretty badass if you ask me) , new units, new heroes, new ships, etc. Yet, no improvements everything 
 seems the same rather than just the new faction and everything else mentioned above so not much 
 else to say but it still pisses me off that the campaign and conquest modes are practically unplayable 
 for me but as usual I stick with skirmish modes. So in conclusion, a very solid game not much flawed 
 but not much improved.
  
  So now let's talk about the Consortium this I just don't understand. It's similar to a mafia (i. e 
 criminal organization) yet they manage to have millions of soldiers at their disposal and fleets 
 of ships and everything so that just strikes me as odd and don't really feel in place with the 
 star wars universe but they are pretty hardcore with droids, grenadiers, tanks, secret weapons 
 and everyhting. For an average criminal organization they have it all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I played Star Wars Empire at War and i enjoyed it. Now i just started Forces of Corruption and 
 after some cutscenes i said: this game would be very interesting. So it was.
  You`ll take control of Tyber Zann a bad guy from the Star Wars Universe and you need to take an 
 artifact. But to do that, you`ll build some Defilers and you`ll Corrupt other planets to see their 
 units and also you can Sabotage some of their structures. When you corrupt a planet, you have to 
 choose from 2-3 possibilities of corruption. Also you need to have the requirements, i enjoyed 
 Black Market because you can buy unique technology with Tyber Zann and unlock special weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I played the original one and then this expansion and i was not at all disappointed .... it introduces 
 a new story and new missions ... not much has changed since the original game but this one adds 
 a little fun to the original .... All new story and missions ... new multiplayer maps and graphics 
 and sounds are good . Got a little bit hard in the end but that added to the good experience ... 
 This game is a must have if you have the original its worth playing. Will run fine even on the 
 older systems and offcourse it has all the favorite characters of the star wars universe . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jean1707
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Went I first looked empire at war I realized that it was one of the best rts game out there, but 
 went I played forces of corruption I think why they mess up my game the consortium suck Its is 
 an not interesting, overpowered and boring to play fictive faction from a crazy mind, the game 
 new units for empire and rebels were good enough but really I hope they never again do a rts so 
 bad from a good movie like star wars.
  
  The graphics are very good, improvements too, but nothing of that matters because the damaged the 
 game severely went they created the consortium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alien345
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  When i saw the demo of Star Wars empire at war, i sad to my self this game is stupid. But of course 
 i must try the demo. But it was'nt enough, so i waited for the full version. Finally February came 
 and i saw the real game. It was magnificent. Then i sad to my self: Could it get any better? And, 
 of course, Lucas Arts never fails me. I waited day and night for the expansion. Finally it came. 
 October 24. Star Wars empire at war forces of corruption was released. I immediately bought the 
 expansion. When i saw the criminal organization The Zann Consortium, again i sad to my self: now 
 would it get any better? I like mostly The Zann Consortium, but of course the empire and the rebellion 
 are'nt bad, specially the empire With their executor. So i say this is the best game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  This is a simple strategy game with simple tactics that is made more complex by the abundance of 
 options. This game succeeds, like it's foundation game (SW: Empire at War) to an extent, in providing 
 truly dynamic gameplay based on diverse faction, unit, and resource application. Playing as the 
 Rebellion is a very different experience, both tactically and strategically, compared to playing 
 as the Empire or the Zann Consortium. It's also loaded with great renders of interesting and reminiscent 
 Star Wars icons, each with their own practical purpose within the spectrum of the gameplay.
  
  If you like Star Wars, get it. If you like strategy, get it. Easily one of the best strategy 
 single player modes I've ever played (beats the living hell out of Supreme Commander) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiamiFIns42
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I kinda wished this expansion was used for a different era, such as the sith war, clone war, or 
 new republic era war, but it wasn't. Especially after watching the opening scene in SW episode 
 3, i was DYING for a game with something like that, but ofcourse lucasarts failed me...
  But don't get me wrong... This whole corruption thing was very fun though and i greatly enjoyed 
 it, but deep inside i really wished for something different. crossing my fingers for a different 
 era EaW!
  
  *taking up space so i can post review**taking up space so i can post review**taking up space so 
 i can post review**taking up space so i can post review**taking up space so i can post review**taking 
 up space so i can post review**taking up space so i can post review**taking up space so i can post 
 review**taking up space so i can post review**taking up space so i can post review**taking up space 
 so i can post review* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  An other Star Wars game? Good, it was about time. Expansion, you say? Oh, that's OK, let's see it than. 
 The graphics are somehow the same, only that the game doesen't run as good as the original EAW did. 
 Sound? Perfect, like every Star Wars game. Better sound effects, a magnificent but yet original soundtrack 
 &amp; again high quality voice acting. Could it have been better? Now, for the gameplay. After freeing 
 Tyber Zann from an Imperial prison &amp; betraying Jabba the Hut, you must tell the world that the 
 Zann Consortion is back. Kind of a criminal organisation, that are agains both the Empire &amp; Jabba. Republic's 
 presence is not important. They almost do nothing. The land units are very good, the lizard hero 
 with two blades is almost as good as The Emperor, but the space units kindda suck. You must corrupt 
 planets, which does not mean conquering them. But there are too many ways of doing it &amp; some 
 require others to be done, specific units, etc., which gets annoying. Story is totally f***** up. It's 
 like a gang or so recruits troops &amp; conquers Earth, but in FoC it conquers the whole f****** 
 galaxy, both Empire &amp; Rebellion. Not nice at all. Well, an other Star Wars game. It's a good one. Next... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  RTS games have come a long way since the days of Command &amp; Conquer. I can say that having battled 
 my way through various gaming universes as a battlefield commander or general. FoC steps outside 
 the conventional RTS game in the case of Tyber Zann and the Zann Consortium. He is a relative newcomer 
 in a sense, but as the leader of a criminal organization, he is not the type to let things slide 
 or be so-called equals.
  
  His right-hand man, Urai Fenn, with the help of Han Solo and Chewbacca bust him out of the penal 
 colony prison on Kessel. After that the galaxy is yours for the corrupting and conquering if you 
 wish to take over worlds completely. I corrupted then conquered various star systems on my rise 
 to power. The missions in the single player campaign, Tyber's rise to power, were not terribly 
 challenging except for Dathomir and Bespin.
  
  The ultimate payday is getting the Eclipse. It is incomplete, stationary, but possesses one of 
 the fastest regenerating super lasers in the galaxy. Your allies are enemies kept on your side 
 by credits and assurances for personal fulfillment. The Eclipse is far too tempting so by story's 
 end it will be heading towards another fate while the weapon remains intact.
  
  The artifact taken from Jabba offers a strange omen for the future as Silri decodes its secret, 
 a Star Map to a vault where an infinite number of Sith Troopers have been frozen in carbonite for 
 unknown centuries. A somewhat sinister twist for the future as a page from the past may return 
 as an unknown is also frozen in this vault alongside this sleeping Sith army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty20447
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  we often wonder when will lucas stop with star wars well not today , empire at war is back ,once 
 you thought you had beat the empire for trhe last time their back with new weapons, ships and troops 
 its a fight worth fighting, you play as the consortion lead by tyber zann and some alians ,with 
 new and improved campain you pick up right before the death star was destroyed. OVer time your faction 
 gains new ships or u buy them with the black market ,just as the realworld it aint cheap ,u must 
 must rain the hero needed and pray that you are not out gunned or its a heft anout of credits down 
 the drain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  So we've played Empire at War and it was awsome. had some bugs some gameplay issues and other problems 
 but will this help? i dont know i just review it so maybe something will pop up soon.
  
  Gameplay
  Same stuff as the old one. an RTS thats starts you with structures you produce troops 
 and you assault your enemies. its great but i could use more troops and something added in to the 
 skirmishes... This time they added a new faction called the Consortium. there some Criminal masterminds 
 who hate the Empire and Ignore the Rebel's power to struggle. Tyber Zann leader of the pack has 
 evil motives and tricks up his sleave and his greatess and most use weapon Corruption. it adds new 
 gameplay to the Galactic Conquest yet feels more like you conquered a planet temporarily. it adds 
 bonus and the Corruption options are Bribery, Racketiring, Kidnapping and so on. unlike the rebels 
 who feed technology made by the Imperials and unlike the Imperials who Discover new techonology 
 by there own Facilities and Projects the Consortium refers to old techonolgies dating back to the 
 Clone Wars and the Black market where Ilegal Technology is found. they have units unlike others 
 feels a bit overpowered at times but can also fail and perish sometimes depending on who plays 
 and who plays against. But the dont forget the Rebel sumbags and the Dirty Empire they too get new 
 toys to play with and spam the idiots who fight them. Empire get those dark troopers yet no arc 
 caster like Battlefront 2 but its sad yet.. whatever. Rebels finally get Yoda who chickened out before 
 the release of the original Empire at War core game. but there are some issues such as the battlecam 
 camera has not been fix because you can see some frigates stick inside each other with such an 
 Impure fact in public is really annoying and disqusting. other glitches invole some units getting 
 stuck some reapper then disappear and worst of all orbital bambardments all over the map XD. but 
 lets not say it sucks these rarely happen but exceptions for the battlecam glitch which dosent 
 affect gameplay but experiences of the young audience only. they added some tiny features like Infantry 
 paths unaccesible to veichles and more realistic weather and terrain effects.
  Graphics
  They arent very good but aren very bad the robots and other Technology look good but the humans 
 like ugly cubish and hard as a rock which make cutscenes odd to look at.
  Sounds
  the sound of the Orbital Bambardment dosent sound so much like a BOOMBLAMMOOOKABOOOWEEEE but more 
 like some EMP wisper..
  Value
  Value its cheaper then the core game but still around $20 so you so it depends on you $20 is not 
 what i would call cheap just umm extra for me.
  Overall
  its an expasion that adds more pezaz and more of the bugs they use to have.. What the Hells is up 
 with that?! its annoying yet it dosent bother the gameplay much just the experience so but this 
 you star wars geeks and may the force be with me only and none for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal_Shock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Forces of Corruption is an excellent game. It is expansive and its many maps allow you 
 to play over and over again without losing any fun. All three factions are excellent in their own 
 right, however I believe that the Zann Consortium is the strongest. The new corruption options 
 when playing as the Consortium open an all new way to win the game. Every faction gets new ships 
 and heroes added, some of them being quite powerful. There are certain things I don't like about 
 the game, such as the slowing down during large battles. The campaign also ends to quickly for 
 my tastes, however it is an excellent game overall. I would recommend SW: Forces of Corruption 
 to any strategy gamer, or a Star Wars fan, but if you are both then I believe this is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golden_eagle93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War: Forces of Corruption is an expansion to Star Wars Empire at War. This 
 time around you can play as an all new faction: The Zann Consortium. The story is epic. The game 
 also gives a new mode for The Zann Consortium: the corrupt ability. This adds good new game play. 
 The corrupt ability is really interesting. After you are done with the story missions you can play 
 the galactic conquest. When playing you have to control all of the planets. When playing galactic 
 conquest you get all new units, heroes, and ships. Star Wars Empire at Wars: Forces of Corruption 
 brings all new gameplay and is a great RTS for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astafar
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Two years ago my computer blew up so I've been out of the loop for a while (college kid who doesn't 
 have $750-1,000 lying around for parts) . I've been obsessing about Star Wars: Empire at War and 
 Forces of Corruption since I learned it came out. I finally got my computer a couple months ago 
 and ran out to buy them both. I'm not much of a single-player person, I like Skirmishes and Multiplayer, 
 so I dove right into a Galactic Conquest game.
  
  After playing for a while I began to get bored of all the maintenance involved in the game. There 
 are no front lines so if you don't want your planets in the rear to be conquered you have to distribute 
 some units to the planet surface and orbit to defend. The Consortium can be somewhat annoying with 
 corrupting your worlds, they can just sneak past your defenses. Only the Emperor and Palpatine 
 can remove corruption so you have to fly them all over.. not to mention it costs 1500 credits each 
 time you remove corruption (stormtroopers cost 300 for a squad so not too bad but a little annoying) . 
 Technology is kind of interesting. The Imperials research it, the Rebels steal it, and the Consortium 
 obtains it through pirating and black market. The rebels have smugglers that infiltrate enemy planets 
 and siphon credits back to the rebels. The biggest problem, in my opinion, is the game is entirely 
 based around rock-paper-scissors. The space units are a perfect example of this. Tie Fighters are 
 strong vs X-wings but get torn apart by Corvettes. Corvettes are strong vs Tie Fighters but weak 
 vs Cruisers. Cruisers are strong vs larger ships but get torn apart by bombers. Rock, paper, scissors. 
 Half of the time I don't even bother to bring smaller fighters because they just die instantly 
 to space station or larger ships. One cool feature about large ships and space stations is you 
 can destroy individual turrets. Like if you don't want a Star Destroyer to escape you can blow 
 up it's engines or if it's torpedo launchers are tearing up your own cruisers you can destroy it 
 leaving it with only lasers to fight back. There is hardly any unit interaction at all. Basically 
 it's a bunch of rocks, papers, and scissors clashing against each other. There aren't really an 
 buffs, enhancements, or units that complement each other. The only real example there is of this 
 is if you have an artillery vehicle with smaller troops stationed around it to guard it... but 
 then a tank would just come in and run over the troops and blow up the artillery.
  
  The space battles can be exciting, they can be really huge and epic with lots of big ships pounding 
 away at each other while smaller ships zoom around, you get about 25 unit slots but some of the 
 larger ships can take up 3 slots. Ground battles aren't nearly as interesting. On each map there 
 are around four points you can capture that increase your troop capacity by 2-5 points and let 
 you deliver reinforcements to. I find that most of the time I'm limited to about 9 unit slots, 
 which, if you're defending, doesn't leave you with a whole lot. There are plenty of turret points 
 to capture and bunkers and such.. but most of the time you need to leave some units stationed around 
 to guard critical areas like mines and factories. You're also limited to certain build points so 
 you can't just build a defensive structure anywhere you want. Another thing I don't like is how 
 blurry the graphics are. I just got an nVidia Geforce 7600 graphics card, not top notch but nothing 
 to sneeze at. You can barely make out the details in the stormtroopers helmets/armor and the ships 
 are pretty chunky without much detail. I never really had much trouble with the game becoming sluggish 
 or choppy. Overall, this games fun to poke around with but if it wasn't for it being Star Wars 
 I probably wouldn't bother with it too much. Even loving Star Wars as much as I do, it barely limps 
 out from under a big don't waste your time . It has a few unique aspects to it but overall it doesn't 
 live up to what I thought it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Before I purchased EAW FOC I did some homework. I made sure the SSD was available for actual play 
 and it was, but only in Galactic Conquest. As for the Eclipse, it is only available in Campaign 
 for the Zann Consortium and can only be used in the last stage in Kuat. The ship is just a massive 
 unusable graphic mass that can only fire its super laser. This was no big deal for me because I 
 didn't even know what the Eclipse was until I read about it in a players guide.
  
  Being a fan of Star Wars I also read about the new units for all 3 factions and was curious about 
 the Zann Consortium. The Zann Consortium is really the ONLY campaign for the FOC expansion and 
 offers nothing new for the Imperials and Rebels other than some new units and a few in-game changes. 
 I previously played the FOC Demo awhile ago, visited some web sites and ultimately decided to buy 
 a used copy of FOC at EB Games. The Zann Consortium campaign is fairly short, but is pretty fun 
 to play. I didn't even mind that the Consortium is overpowered to the point where I almost felt 
 sorry for the Imperials and the Rebels... almost. The units for the Consortium are unique whereas 
 others are just downright hilarious such as the exploding Ewok! I actually got fairly immersed 
 into the campaign, but felt somewhat cheated after I completed it because it leaves behind some 
 loose ends. It obviously leaves you with the impression that Lucas Arts and Petroglyph will come 
 out with another expansion because of this. I really think they should have taken more time with 
 FOC and completed it because it feels like your playing more of a MOD instead of an expansion pack. 
 The addition of new Imperial and Rebel story line campaigns would have been ideal! EAW is an awesome 
 title that was just plain fun! FOC was thrown together too damn fast and shipped with too many 
 glitches that I didn't experience with EAW! One of them being a quick save that periodically gets 
 corrupted, which you have to delete, and gives an exception error that crashes the game and makes 
 you rely on either your manual saves or your auto save. There are other bugs also, but you can 
 read about those in the forums. Hopefully another patch will address these issues along with Darth 
 Vader's voice acting because he seriously sounds like he's being strangled and is hard to take 
 serious at times.
  
  Ultimately FOC is fun to play! However, when you play as another faction such as the Imperials 
 or the Rebels as in Galactic Conquest then the game gets downright frustrating! Your constantly 
 housecleaning your planets because the Zann Consortium is always either corrupting them or blowing 
 up your buildings and structures. Most of your time will be spent removing corruption at 1500 a 
 pop and rebuilding structures at a cost too! Some forms of corruption are fairly harmless and are 
 actually beneficial at times, but pretty much ALL of your money will be spent removing harmful 
 ones turn after turn after turn making it very difficult to build fleets, ground forces, space 
 bases and ground assault forces! Keep in mind that while your doing this that the Zann Consortium 
 and the Rebels/Imperials are always attacking you too! It comes to the point that when you finally 
 get enough to build a Death Star that all you want to do is just blow up every enemy planet. Playing 
 as the Rebels in Galactic Conquest would just seem to be a nightmare. It's because of this issue 
 along with the glitches that I encountered that I gave it the rating I did. Other than those it 
 really is an entertaining game to play.
  
  So if you enjoyed EAW as I did than you'll probably enjoy its expansion, FOC. Especially if your 
 a fan of the franchise. But if you thought EAW was mediocre at best then you'll probably want to 
 steer clear of FOC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidsquirrel1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Well the latest expansion for Star Wars Empire at War is out and although I love the new units, 
 I am disappointed with the blatent one-sidedness for the Consortium, the newest addition to the 
 Star Wars universe. Perhaps it's for the best to improve the flow of the game but when it takes 
 the rebels and empire ten seconds to retreat from battle and the Consortium five there is an obvious 
 problem there. We also can't forget the ground units and how the Consortium gets shields on ALL 
 of their buildings. Now on to the good things. Dark troopers are cool, really really cool. When 
 you combine that with the addition of the new Tie fighters the empire can finally keep up with 
 the rebels in space. At the same time I almost feel sorry for the players that loved the rebels. 
 They seem like they got the short end of the stick. Yes I know Yoda and Luke are awsome but they 
 only get two new ships in space and they take away the best power Obi-wan had (force heal) and replace 
 it with jedi mind trick, a power that makes things run in random directions away from you and they 
 still can shoot at you. Other then the addition of the troop transports, mobile build pads and 
 new heroes they get no new ground troops. Compare that to the three new imperial ones and the Consortiums 
 new units and it almost feels that the developers just don't like the rebels. As a fan of RTS games 
 I truly hope that the next expansion takes a look at these flaws and fixes them. Personally I would 
 like to see them implement the Yuzan Vong in the next expansion for this series and make things 
 a little more even when it comes down to the armies and draw some more from the rich universe that 
 is Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited with Forces of Corruption when I saw that it would allow Super Star Destroyers 
 etc. But when I booted up the game a played a skirmish, I had the unfortunate discovery that SSD's 
 would not be available in skirmishes (which are the meat of the game for me) . If I can't use the 
 cool new ships in multiplayer skirmishes, then this expansion ends up being just more of the same 
 old, same old.
  
  The new faction is pretty cool. The Destroyer Droids kick ass. But I'll just play the campaign 
 once, then only play skirmishes (usually just space skirmishes) , so none of the new features in 
 the campaign are all that useful.
  
  Plus, the new titles screen and music suck (just like the expansion for Civ IV) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithphil87
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The Campaign is real nice. It's kind of a let down to us fans who want to play with the Eclipse 
 Super Star Destroyer in Galactic Conquest as the Empire. Only the Consortium gets it in Campaign, 
 which to us fans, makes no damn sense. It's an Imperial vessel and should be available to use in 
 the Galactic Conquest mode. If anyone knows how to get the Eclipse as the Empire let me know by 
 posting a link on here. But the game is nice. You just have to be willing to give it a chance and 
 play with a open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSpam
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Empire at War, but I have a few big issues with this expansion. First of all 
 it makes it very hard. Dealing with Tyber Zann and the Consortium adds a huge level of dificulty 
 and frustration at times. To me the mechanic worked a lot easier in the standard Empire vs Rebellion 
 setting but now you have to contend with forces that will randomly sneak past your blockades and 
 attack not to mention that they constantly blow up your resources until you remove the corruption 
 which adds a lot of running around housekeeping. 
  
  I was disappointed with this offering to say the least. I'm hoping that through continued patching 
 (hopefully better then the last one which added even more strict Securom features joy!) they will 
 add more options such as the ability to play a straight 1 on 1 game like in the original but with 
 using the updated units which I do like for the most part. The ability to pull in the original 
 maps and play using the FoC units would be a nice feature as well. Here's a tip Lucasarts. Run 
 out and buy a copy of Dawn of War with its two addons and see how they did it. See that? That's 
 how you make an addon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  The EAW expansion pack, Forces of Corruption, adds some nice new features, but, an uninteresting 
 new faction and new features do not work in original campaign game.
  
  What about a Clone Wars campaign? Or the Old Republic? I would much rather have seen some more 
 of the Star Wars history than a make-believe faction like the Consortium. The new campaign adds 
 some new strategic options, but, I would much rather have had a chance to play through the rise 
 of the Empire than the rise of some never-heard-of crime syndicate.
  
  I was mostly dissappointed that all the news ships, characters, and game elements introduced only 
 work in the new campaign and skirmish maps. They simply do not appear in the core game , since 
 you launch the expansion pack with it's own .exe file and has it's own seperate folder in the Lucas 
 Art's directory on your PC. So, you use the original disk for playing EAW, and the new expansion 
 pack's disk for playing the new campaign. All the new content STAYS with the expansion pack. Why 
 make an expansion pack like this? It's supposed to EXPAND the original game. Instead, it's more 
 like a seperate, new game.
  
  All in all, the new units and features are nice, but, the fact you can't use them in the core game 
 destroys the expansion pack for me. Plus, even the new faction is uninteresting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burymyhead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  FOC improves the EAW formula by adding in new units, maps and gameplay features, not forgetting 
 the largest addition, the new third faction, the Zann Consortium. The original EAW let us conquer, 
 or liberate the star wars galaxy planet by planet and in the new expansion you can now corrupt 
 your enemies planets to increase your credits, give strategic information for a upcoming battle 
 or disable an effect of the planet. FOC also adds 13 new planets and units to the EAW equation, 
 mainly clone wars era planets, which may be a disapointment to those who did not enjoy the newer 
 trilogy. In the field of new units, the Allaince gain only 2 new land units, one of which every 
 faction has, although it does gain classic Jedi yoda, and luke sywalker, ROTJ style, B wings and 
 Rouge squadron are added for space battles. The empire seems to have been more evenly balanced, 
 gaining the Death Star II, the Executor and Thrawn in space, while acquiring all 3 phases of Dark 
 troopers for land batles. Several small improvements have been made to the game, including transport 
 units, alloing units abilities to automatically activate, saving time in a battle, outpost pads 
 which allow special structures to be built and the mighty orbital bombardment, which can be activated 
 if a capital ship is present in orbit. Multiplayer has also been improved by adding 3 way battles, 
 mirror play and clan organization, which isnt in my experience the easiest thing to set up.
  
  Obvisouly if you have played EAW and enjoyed it you will not need any practise with getting 
 grips to FOC, but a small time is needed to master the corruption process.
  
  The new Consortium campaign is preety solid, albeit a little short but offers a good storyline 
 and generally good gameplay, showing off the new units , but players of the EAW campaign may be 
 disapointed compared to its predescor.
  
  The Two main letdowns of FOC are That there are no new Alliance or Imperial campaigns, which would 
 have been intresting, fighting in the battle of Hoth, or destroying the Alliance at Endor, though 
 the growing EAW modding community can help this. The second letdown is the fact the Eclipse, the 
 immense star destroyer seen in the trailers, is not available as a full unit inside the game and 
 only its superlaser is used in the final mission of the campaign. A full eclipse is availble in 
 mods and the map editor, but is still only the superlaser and movement.
  
  Overall FOC gives new features to an already brilliant formula, though does have some flaws, still 
 carried on by EAW. Overall a nessecary expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Villain
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Forces of Corruption is the latest, official addition to the popular Star Wars RTS game, Empire 
 at War. The expansion pack introduces a fictional new faction, new characters, new ships, and new 
 super weapons. An additional single player campaign is also included, but only for the new faction 
 known as the Zann Consortium. Personally, I would have found playing as Empire or Rebellion through 
 a fictional storyline after the events of Return of the Jedi to be far more fun and rewarding. 
 Sadly, only the Zann Consortium gets a campaign in this expansion pack, and you can easily play 
 though it overnight.
  
  While the idea of commanding the criminal underground in Empire at War may sound good at first, 
 you will soon learn to hate the new Zann Consortium more than anything else. For starters, they 
 have the best fighters, space stations, credit generation, and best unit abilities. They are needlessly 
 overpowered, and can cripple enemy space stations with their starfighters alone. Instead of being 
 the game's greatest asset, the new faction ends up making Empire at War frustrating instead of 
 fun. When under the control of the game's AI, the Zann Consortium will corrupt every planet in 
 sight and proceed to blow up important structures in systems you control without having to initiate 
 space or ground combat. As you move the Emperor or Mon Mothma hopelessly around the galactic map 
 and drop 1500 credits on each system to remove the Consortium's corruption, you will soon find 
 yourself far behind in technology and military power.
  
  The Empire gets it's fair share of improvements, but unfortunately the new ships, weapons, heroes, 
 and Death Star II can only be used in skirmish and galactic conquest games. The Rebel Alliance 
 gets far less, and is left with only handful of new ships and hero units to help it compete with 
 the over-powered Zann Consortium and the improved Galactic Empire.
  
  After only a few days of steady game play, you will have likely seen all the new bells and whistles 
 that Forces of Corruption has to offer. It just feels like more of a mod than a true expansion.
 
  
  The expansion is also plagued by strange bugs and glitches, such as the game announcing Reinforcements 
 en route whenever you load a saved game.
  
  The original Empire at War is fun and rewarding, and does not suffer from the insane, unbalanced 
 game play created by the addition of the Zann Consortium. With so many flaws one is left with the 
 impression that Forces of Corruption was rushed to store shelves in order to earn holiday sales. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goonplatoon1032
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is a significant improvement to Empire at War. Gamespot should really revaluate 
 this game and take a closer look at how gameplay strategy has changed and how Galactic Conflict 
 scenarios can be a bit more difficult now that there is 3 sides. You can often be engaged in a 
 two front war which can challenging but exciting.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same and straightforward except for the idea of corruption. This 
 is coming from someone who hasn't paid attention to the campaign by the way, mainly just the skirmishes 
 and scenarios. The Empire now have a lot more toys, such as the TIE Interceptor (which are quicker 
 and more aggressive than T/F's) and TIE Defenders. Also the Dark Trooper Phase III are handy because 
 they are slightly more mobile than AT-AT's. The Rebel's have the B-wing which can be a pain in 
 the arse to deal with. Most Consortium units are weak but have intense firepower. I don't typically 
 lose ships to the Rebellion in space battles in Galactic mode but I definently lose a handful of 
 cruisers whenever I engage the Consortium.
  
  Graphics remain above average in land battles and amazing in space battles. Sound is realitisic 
 (for Star Wars) and more musical tracks, including some tracks not from the movie's
  
  Lows include redundant gameplay, minor bugs and some lag on some maps over detailed maps
  
 
  OVERALL a very quality game, very well made. Fun to capture planets and watch large capital cruisers 
 blow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Star Wars: Empire at War Corces of Corruption is a good expantion for Star Wars: Empire 
 at War. There is a new fracion as you know which is the Corruped fraction. So Forces of Corruption 
 explores the seedy side of the Star Wars universe, the place inhabited by crime lords, bounty hunters, 
 smugglers, and, yes, even Han Solo. You play as Tyber Zann, a criminal overlord with a grudge against 
 Jabba the Hutt and the Empire, with no love for the Rebels either. After busting out of Kessel's 
 infamous spice mines, Zann has to build a criminal empire to take down his enemies. Whereas the 
 Empire fights for order and the Rebels fight for freedom, Zann fights for profit, which means that 
 you tackle the campaign of conquering the galaxy in a unique way compared to the strategy that 
 the Rebels and Imperials pursued in Empire at War. While the Rebels and Imperials fought for control 
 of planets by engaging in epic land and space battles, you have another option open to you. For 
 the Multiplayer still fun but It has not improved much at all and though it's fun it still needs 
 work because it just seems very jambled together. Graphics: The Graphics are good, The Space battlles 
 and the Campain map with all the planets look very nice like in the movies. The Graphics when your 
 on the plants are allright though I would of liked to see more wild life and stuff like on a planet 
 that can hold life.
  
  Sound: The sound are good, Everything from the voice acting to the blast of the lazer sounds the 
 way they should sound.
  
  Value: There is quite alot of replay value to this game, your can play the campaine a number of 
 times either on the large map or the small map as one of the three freactions and usually take 
 over 10 hours to complete depending on how much you play. Also the multiplayer is fun enough to 
 play over and over again.
  
  All in all this game is a good game though it dose have it's flaws. It has good replay value and 
 any Star Wars fan should have this or if your just a casual gamer and want to play something quick 
 then this is your game. This game resembles the Command and Conquer or the Pretorians game with 
 the Total war campain maps put it but it's not a Total War game but I would like to see a Total 
 War, Star Wars game in the near future. So I give this game 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is is pretty much better than the first one. I like the new corruption faction and the 
 new units to use in space and land battles. I like playing as the Underworld and the Empire, the 
 skirmish is awsome for space battles. Its a bit laggy in land battles but in space battles the 
 lag is gone and I have alot of fun with getting tons of ships and destroying the rebels and the 
 empire. I like the new SSD, the Eclipse, and I haven't tried the DS II yet but I know what it can 
 do. Tyber Zaan is the leader of the Underworld faction and he has the ability to bribe units on 
 land to come work for him. The campaign is good and the ending got me confused because they say 
 those are the sith from KOTOR that were under control of Revan. Other than that, this game is an 
 amazing RTS for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeperoni
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I used to play Rebellion way back when. I loved how that game came with posters full of detailed 
 descriptions of ships and heroes. HOwever, the game just sucked. It wasn't fun. It was really hard 
 to play and annoying.
  
  However, this game is a lot better. Read all the other reviews. I love how there is a full campaign 
 mode ,a storyline mode, and three skirmish modes for people who just want to play battles.
  
  Oh, and the heroes are so fun to use. The Emperor actually fries entire battalions of troops 
 with electricity, and Darth Vader can crush giant vehicles. It's really fun.
  
  I just don't like how Darth Vader and Obi-Wan have to duel everytime they see each other, and you 
 can't help them. I also don't like how the heroes keep coming back. I keep killing the blasted 
 mon calamari of the rebels, and it respawns in a few days (it's a free unit) . Both sides get them, 
 but I think that makes everything a little weird. Otherwise, a fantastic game. Get it since it 
 is so much cheaper now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndlessGame
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is an awesome game. The new faction, the Zann Consortium, brings new elements 
 into the gameplay, and creates an entirely different way of playing the game. The original Empire 
 at War, which dealt with the Rebels and the Empire fighting all out with one another, is vastly 
 different to the Zann Consortiums methods of combat.
  Taking over the galaxy with under-handed corruption tactics has never been so much fun. Its instant 
 gratification to see an enemy world become corrupted as you prepare your army for invasion. While 
 you would expect such an organization with these powerful stealth tactics to be lacking in firepower, 
 its quite to the contrary. While their earlier ships are weaker than the starting Empire and Rebel 
 fleets, their capital ships easily combat even the largest of the Empires war machines.
  The graphics are the same as the original Empire at War, but that certainly isnt a bad thing. 
 The space battles look magnificent, and the sound effects only add to the action. All of the visuals 
 flow seamlessly, and the explosions as large ships and space stations fall apart are mesmerizing 
 to watch.
  The vast differences between the ship classes makes strategy all the more important, as your shielded 
 ships try to block the damage to more vulnerable ships, and your rear ships attempt cover fire, 
 in the end boiling down to an all-out firefest, and the last ship standing wins.
  Ground battles arent quite as spectacular, and tend to drag on a bit longer than necessary. They 
 are also much more difficult in comparison to the space combat. The new heroes will be instrumental 
 in most of your ground assaults, as their powers and hitpoints are much stronger than any normal 
 troop.
  The sound effects are what you could expect from a Star Wars game. With a brilliant orchestra playing 
 dramatic music in the background, the game can easily draw you in. The sound effects match the 
 graphics, making the explosions and gunfire seem all the more real.
  The strategy level at the galactic view is well done. With stealth fleets that can simply slip 
 by enemy defenses, and the very helpful new option to bribe your way past enemy planets with large 
 fleets, it all becomes very complicated, and micromanaging each planet is a necessity, while still 
 managing to maintain control over your borders. All of this happens in real time, and makes the 
 game seem much more like actual galactic war, than just a turn-based game.
  While days do pass in the galaxy, as in the first game, most significantly granting income, they 
 usually go unnoticed unless you are running low on funds. (With the amount the Zann Consortium 
 can siphon off its enemies, that wont happen very often if you play your cards right.)
  While Star Wars fans will definitely get more enjoyment out of this game that regular players, 
 it is also a very good RTS game even if you have no particular interest in Star Wars. I definitely 
 recommend that everyone tries this game, of course, youll need the original Empire at War as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computermania
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire At War Forces Of Corruption is quite a fun game to play. It has tons of new content 
 and galactic conquest is more fun while versing 2 different teams. Although even on hard difficulty 
 the game seems to be lacking a bit. It should be easy to learn all of the controls and how to operate 
 the new corruption system. The Campaign is quite easy and unfortunately you can only play as the 
 corrupt side during the campaign. This was quite a let down because it would of been a lot better 
 if the player could of played as all 3 factions during campaign. Galactic conquest is a lot more 
 fun than the campaign which leaves it hanging for another sequel. Hopefully if they make another 
 expansion then they will do a campaign for all sides 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pahvilaatikko
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of Star Wars (especially the old ones) and I would like to play good Star Wars games. 
 This isn't it. Well, might be if you're desperate hard core fan, otherwise it's just average. There 
 is very nice ideas, like sort of old style Total War where you build your area and war machine 
 to conquer more. There's spies and thieves etc which spice up things a bit. But still sadly, the 
 end result is like said before, average. And what makes it average? -graphics are very rough and 
 simple compared to other modern strategy games
  -map design is flat, boring, ugly and very simple
  -actual battle map fights is nothing much 
 else but spamming your large enough army you created against the enemy, so not much strategy there. 
 Strategy game doesn't have to be pretty to good imo, but it has to have punch in it, just mention 
 one of my personal favorites is combat mission BB, not pretty but so good. This game is ok, but 
 really nothing has nothing relevant to add in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etrouy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire At War Forces of Corruption is a truly addictive game. I am very impressed with 
 it. Although, never having the original game made it cost quite a bit more. But it was truly worth 
 it. I'm not much of a Campaign guy, so I never played it. But I love the skirmish battles. I had 
 hours of fun with those. When I got good enough at it, I tried Multiplayer, and at the moment, 
 I am forcing myself to not minimize this window and play it right now. It is incredibly immersive 
 even without playing the Campaign. The Consortium is a great addition. Gameplay - The gameplay 
 is absolutly amazing! Although, I really don't like the Land Battles. So I take a few points off 
 for that. But the Space Battles are amzingly awesome. Graphics: These are the best RTS graphics 
 I have ever seen. Even with my horrible graphics card, the game is beautiful. Sound - Gotta love 
 Star Wars music. And to turn it up a notch, they added some even cooler new theme music. Sometimes 
 I just turn on the game just to listen to that.
  
  Multiplayer - I can't describe to you in words how absolutly amazing this is. The only flaw is 
 that sometimes it lags really bad. Other than that, it is amazing. Even when I suck horribly, I 
 have a lot of fun just watching crap blow up. All in all, it was definately worht 50 bucks. I highly 
 recommend you buying it. It is superb. So what are you waiting for? Get off your lazy butt and 
 go buy this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fg3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Anyone who loves RTS games and loves star wars, this is the game for you! its engaging play and 
 tactical quilities make it so addictive, you may not want to stop! Anyone who loves RTS games and 
 loves star wars, this is the game for you! its engaging play and tactical quilities make it so 
 addictive, you may not want to stop!
  
  Anyone who loves RTS games and loves star wars, this is the game for you! its engaging play and 
 tactical quilities make it so addictive, you may not want to stop!
  
  Anyone who loves RTS games and loves star wars, this is the game for you! its engaging play and 
 tactical quilities make it so addictive, you may not want to stop!
  
  Anyone who loves RTS games and loves star wars, this is the game for you! its engaging play and 
 tactical quilities make it so addictive, you may not want to stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassus_Fett
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  They took an excellent game and made it even better. By adding the corruption they improved multiplayer 
 by a lot, and gave the game a new campaign which takes place during the original Trilogy. They 
 also added many new heroes for all teams and redid some of the old heroes. One thing that was somewhat 
 disappointing though was that they leave the campaign at a cliff hanger. I also highly recommend 
 patching the game before playing it, because there are a lot of errors such as sound, heroes, unit 
 issues, ect.. that are fixed. The only thing the game leaves you asking is when will another expansion 
 come out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  this game is a startegy game but is better than any other one out there on the maker so gamers 
 it is time to buy the gameplay is great i wish they would put some other things such big time battles 
 but other than that this game is very very very very very good i will conclude to say this game 
 is really really good so everyone u will like it i like it the only people who dont like it is 
 a crazy person lol this game is great best strategy game ever this is the reason i love this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Ok this is the single greatest Star Wars RTS game in the world.
  This game has great graphics and the classic Star Wars songs so there is nothing wrong with it 
 or maby one thing the lack of campaign. The Zann Consortium is a great faction with hyper good 
 units and Heroes.
  
  Conquer the galaxy as the Empire.
  Liberate the galaxy as the Rebellion.
  Corrupt the galaxy as the Zann Consortium.
  
  A easy 
 RTS game with minimum flaws that is a must buy for any Star Wars fan that knows the difference 
 between a Sith and a Jedi. May the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that is good about this game? Not much I am afraid. It looks great, has all the 
 feel of a star wars reality, but in the end it just doesn't deliver the fulling fullness that I 
 want or need from a true star wars game.
  
  While I think the game is generally a very good game, I just walk away feeling that the game I 
 just played was more like a game of tic tac toe as aposed to game of chess.
  
  The game is to simple, lacks any true depth, and replayability is really not there.
  
  I find 
 myself wanting far more than this game delivers. I want more control, more depth, more levels and 
 control of the game. Right now the game just feels like a light weight childs game. My eight year 
 old nephew plays this game and finds it easy. It just lacks depth.
  
  Now I know that simple sell more than complicated, so the game was designed to appeal to a larger 
 market and it does do that very well. But for hard core 4x gamers, such as myself, this game is 
 about as much fun as playing pong. It doesn't even measure up to GalCiv I or II. I wanted more. 
 The game just aroused my hunger but did little to fill it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  As an overview, the expansion is pretty much as I mentioned in the one line. The game is finally 
 complete and with enough detail to keep you occupied for a long time.
  The single player campaign deals with the rise of the Zann Consortium (ZC) against the Empire with 
 a little dabbling of competition against Rebels. The ZC is quite a decent side to play. their space 
 units are strong enough to hold back ISDs and their land units (heroes as well) are pretty tough 
 themselves. Mass drivers probably help out a lot but overall the units are pretty resilient. That 
 coupled with some units having cloaking technology gives the ZC teeth that could take a bite out 
 of any faction. That said, the ZC also has a major advantage in raising credits through illegal 
 operations by corrupting different systems.
  The Empire of course has Vader being deployable in space and land as usual, except in space now 
 he has his SSD. Other heroes include a factory ship and Thrawn's SD. The best part of course is 
 the new Death Star. Its Enhanced Targeting lets you make short work of any ship or Space Station 
 and recharges fairly quickly. Specially helpful against ZC stations which seem way overpowered. 
 On the Rebels side, I personally wasn't impressed. The only new hero worth mentioning IMO is Yoda. 
 He is a must in land battles.
  Overall, there seems to be unbalancing with the amount of strength that the ZC has relative to 
 the other factions. The Empire's heroes, while powerful, can be taken down fairly enough by the 
 ZC (except for Vader and his monstrous SSD which sticks out halfway in the map) . The DS is THE 
 weapon to have that can turn the tide of any battle fairly early.
  Overall though this completes the Star Wars experience and in that regard is a worthwhile product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  They took an awesome game and almost made it better! Well with the addition of new Imperial units 
 and the whole new faction known as the Consortium. You definately have a slew of new toys to play 
 with! I personally LOVE the addition of so many new Imperial units especially the TIE Interceptor, 
 the Armored Juggernaut (aka Clone Turbo Tank) plus DARK TROOPS! The Rebel Alliance pretty much 
 got the shaft with very few additions to their ranks except for the much vaunted B-Wing and some 
 type of new Arsenel gunship (name escapes me) that will play havoc with your capital ships if you 
 don't watch it!
  
  I thought some bugs still mar this game. I did notice the loss of audio on key effects like space 
 battles fighting without sound on some areas and also the loss of sound for some lightsabre effects 
 w/ some of your heroes. I have yet to play any of the campaign or Galactic Conquest modes (sorry 
 I'm an impatient person, I go right to Skirmish mode) but I wish they had allowed a person to be 
 able to play the awesome Eclipse Super Star Destroyer and the Executor which I read have only fleeting 
 roles in the new campaign. Which I ALSO read is too short! Hahaha I guess they can't all be perfect 
 games!
  
  The presentation is ALL here, all Star Wars and then some! $30 bucks is a little steep for a great 
 but limited expansion! ($ 20 should've been the norm but this is Lucas- Arts, get real!) I went 
 and got it, I WAS going to wait but nah the pull of being able to command the Executor got to be 
 too strong! I say BUY today!
  
  Asteroids ahead! Evasive manuevers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  If you played the first Star Wars: Empire at War, than you would expect nothing less than this. 
 If you havent, which would mean you missed out on a very good new title, then you are in for a 
 tasty new surprise. The graphics are awesome and if you have an up-to-date computer with a decent 
 video card, than this game works like clockwork at everything but the highest of graphics. The 
 empire and rebellion are still here, and both have some new ships, but the new faction is corruption. 
 Their ships and ground units look cool (although a bit expensive) , but the weapons they use border 
 on insane. They have mass drivers, which are new to this game, which are like photon torpedoes 
 with &frac14; the strength and are launched at literally 10x the speed. They have mega weapons 
 too. If you use Tyber Zann (the faction main hero) or their Aggressor- class destroyer, they fire 
 a huge ion bolt followed by a huge shield-piercing bolt. The new Keldabe-class battleship can drain 
 the shields of a target ship with a big purple beam. If you watched the 3rd star wars movie, you 
 would recall thebig ships that the clone troopers used when battling general grievous in the space 
 over Corisant. Corruption can buy those from a hutt asteroid or that other funny building that 
 you buy pirate stuff from. The corruption space stations special weapon is a plasma cannon. Unlike 
 the rebels or the imperials, the plasma cannon has to be bought once, and by continually fired 
 without having to be re-bought. The campaign and galactic battles are still cool and the corruption 
 replaces the black sun pirates. The corrupting part of the corruption takes some time to get the 
 hang of but in the end, it adds another twist to this already exhilarating game. But there are 
 still some minuscule problems. 1 All of the wording for corruption was taken from the rebels. 2 
 Once in a while, the lost parts from ships will instantly return, only to fall off again, which 
 is distracting and kinda weird.
  
  3 You will randomly be able to see the whole map for the rest of the game after a certain random 
 time.
  
  Other then that, it is a game that anybody should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  FoC is a superb addition to Empire at war. The addition of the Zann Consortium adds a more fun 
 and diverse twist to the gameplay. The ZC campaign is for one very short but overall a very enjoyable 
 experience. A major problem with the EXP is a big bug for the rebels. Many people are aware of 
 this bug, because for some reason Garm Bel Ibis, luke skywalker and the new rebel Spaceships dont 
 come up in GC. Another problem is balancing. The ZC is FARRR to overpowered, killing other people 
 space stations and bases seems much easier than the Imps or Rebs. All this aside FoC is an outstanding 
 addition to the Empire at war franchise and makes the game that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bounty_hunter99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Intro: Star Wars: Empire at War Forces of Corruption is the awesome expansion to Star Wars: Empire 
 at War. In this expansion there has been a new addition to the factions playable in the game, the 
 Zann Consortium, or Underworld. This faction is based upon the more corrupt members in the Star 
 Wars Galaxy. Tyber Zann is the main character in the Zann Consortium Campaign. After you brake 
 out of the famed Kessel Spice Mines you set off to establish your own empire of corruption. But, 
 instead of conquering worlds like the Empire and Rebels do, you corrupt them. This new form of 
 capturing planets adds a hole new element to Empire at War.
  
  Pros: With all new units to play with youll be playing this game for quite a while. There are 
 also new units and heroes for the Empire the Rebellion as well. The graphics of the game have also 
 been improved, such as improved textures and particle effects. Sound quality is still as awesome 
 as it was in the original. Land battles have been improved and space units have been sped up a 
 bit so you dont have to wait for them to meet the enemy for so long.
  
  Cons: The game can be a little sluggish on slower and more out-of-date computers. Battles in Galactic 
 Conquest mode can get a little repetitive when facing a computer opponent. Some units are far too 
 outmatched against other units (ex. Bomber vs. Corvette) . $30 price tag could be a little too pricey 
 for the average gamer. (EDIT: Now has a $20 price tag. GO BUY IT!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James5556
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Firstly down to the graphical effects at the end of the Zann Consortium 
 Campaign which are absolutely stunning, Game play, just like the Original Star Wars : Empire At 
 War are superb following the movies and the Extra Universe content. Multiplayer wise is fantastic 
 reaching a huge maximum of 9 players on a Space map and the maps are huge. Amazing Game to play. 
 This is an amazing game. This is an amazing game. Firstly down to the graphical effects at the 
 end of the Zann Consortium Campaign which are absolutely stunning, Game play, just like the Original 
 Star Wars : Empire At War are superb following the movies and the Extra Universe content. Multiplayer 
 wise is fantastic reaching a huge maximum of 9 players on a Space map and the maps are huge. Amazing 
 Game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_efc
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  this game it just terrible i didnt even bother compleating it, it wasent worth it i hated it and 
 that is why i sold it on ebay dont get me wrong iam an HUGE star wars fan and didnt mind empire 
 at war but this one is just ****
  The worst thing in it is the way you corrupt planets it is so complicated and frustrating and dont 
 even bother with the tutorial because that is crap aswell.
  If your looking for an excellent star wars game you wont find it here try KOTOR 1 or 2 or the jedi 
 knight series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rook033
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  The game is possiably the greatest expansion I've ever played, but was let down in several ways. 
 One was the short campaign and the lack of new imperial and rebel missions. Also, there was a lack 
 of action by which i mean in EAW the rebels or imperials would launch massive attacks, they didn't 
 in the Consortiums campaign. Other than that the game was fantastic and the missions were well 
 structered and satisfying. Intreasting ending left me waiting eagerly for the next, if any, installment. 
 I'd like to point out my diffuculty rating is based on Normal diffuculty. Might be hard or very 
 hard on Hard diffuculty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Earlier this year Empire at War was released and finally provided an excellent strategy experience 
 for Star Wars fans who were disappointed with Lucasarts' earlier releases. Still, Empire at War 
 wasn't perfect with it's uninteresting story mode, and the lack of unit variety which are two of 
 the issues that Forces of Corruption tries to correct.
  
  The story of Forces of Corruption is set shortly after Episode IV; I'd say Empire at War's Rebel 
 Campaign except I blew up the Death Star at Kessel. Anyway, a criminal mastermind named Tyber Zann 
 tried to backstab Jabba, and it backfired sending him to the spice mines of Kessel as a prisoner. 
 His faithful sidekick Urai orchestrates an escape with Tyber Zann. After Zann escapes Kessel he 
 and his lieutenant begin to look into the Sith Holocron they recovered from Jabba, and begin a 
 quest to search for the Emperor's hidden vaults. The story is nothing special, but it's more compelling 
 than the original Empire at War's fairly bland campaigns.
  
  Naturally Forces of Corruption plays like EaW, but FoC introduces some welcome new features. The 
 new Zann Consortium is the biggest addition, and a very interesting one. Instead of simply building 
 a military machine and conquering the galaxy one planet at a time the Consortium focuses on using 
 tactics such as kidnapping, bribery, intimidation etc. to further its goals. The Consortium also 
 features a lineup of powerful, but expensive units such as Mercenary soldiers, and the Canderous 
 Assault Tank.
  
  The Consortium isn't the only new feature in FoC, however; both the Rebels and Imperials get new 
 units and heroes for use in Galactic Conquest and Skirmish that focuses on technology from the 
 rest of the Galactic Civil War as the original EaW only had technology that was used up until Episode 
 IV. From the dreaded Imperial TIE Defenders, and Dark Troopers to B-Wings, Luke Skywalker, Yoda, 
 Admiral Thrawn, and the powerful Executor and Death Star II FoC will allow fans of the Rebels and 
 Imperials to use new technology and heroes in their conquest of the galaxy. The only other notable 
 addition to the gameplay is the ability to customize your base layout on the Galactic Map in Galactic 
 Conquest. You can change where buildings and garrisoned troops are placed in the case that that 
 particular planet is attacked by enemy forces.
  
  The graphics remain fairly the same. The new units look excellent and fit in well with the original 
 lineup, but overall the space battles still look beautiful and the land battles still look a bit 
 sub-par.
  
  The audio is a both good and bad, the voice acting is occasionally terrible (I laugh everytime 
 I hear Zann shout out ATTAAAAAAAACK! ) , but the music is once again exceptional. FoC features some 
 new music tracks by Frank Klepecki which center around the new Zann Consortium, and most of the 
 music tracks are very good.
  
  Forces of Corruption is a must have if you were a fan of the original game. It features new units 
 to use in your battle strategies, a more interesting campaign, and of course an entirely new faction 
 to play with. This expansion gets two thumbs up from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinrman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  In single player, the campaign is much much too easy, even on HARD difficulty. It is quite short. 
 If they had thrown in a new Empire and new Rebellion campaign in this expansion, it would have 
 been much better, and I would be more understanding of the short Consortium one.
  
  In multiplayer, the Consortium is ridiculously overpowered in Space. Most every will play Consortium 
 if they want to win. Hopefully they will address this via update SOON. In Campaign, the corruption 
 abilities (Piracy, Bribery, etc.) is a complete waste. The second you corrupt a planet to get an 
 advantage, your opponent can easily uncorrupt it in a matter of seconds. It costs you more to do 
 so than your opponent ot undo it, so why even bother? Otherwise, Consortium is fun and tough to 
 beat. In Land, Consortium can hang with Rebellion and Empire. I find them all to be fairly even.
 
  
  Overall it's not GREAT, but it's a nice addition. There are still ongoing issues that Lucasarts 
 STILL has not addressed, such as not all rated games being accounted for in multiplayer. Ridiculous... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This new expansion adds a whole new twist to Empire at war but i feel that it could have been better. 
 For one the lack of new missions for the rebels and imperials was very disappointing and the fact 
 you dont get to play the battle of hoth and attack the second death star is upsetting, still those 
 battles have been done so many different times you cant complain to much.
  
  Despite the lack of rebs and imps campaigns the criminal campaign is a real treat and defiantly 
 enjoyable despite it being to short.
  
  Graphics on the game are pretty high standards and i have seen one or two bugs the biggest is the 
 second death star not firing it lazar but still blowing up the planet and with ships still having 
 no mass they tend to fly through each other a lot more.
  
  The music as always is stunning nothing bad at all there.
  
  The one problem with new faction 
 is they make the rebs and imps look really boring and simple if they had something similar to corruption 
 it would improve it a bit.
  
  This new expansion is good but doesnt have a long enough life span so i would wait before buying 
 it let the price go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casperaiki
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Great expansion for an awesome strategy game. Great heros, good story line, and a unique situation 
 where it isn't about the Rebellion or the Empire. The focus for once isn't really on the force, 
 Jedi's, or the Sith. Granted the items are in the story with some great twists, but it's more about 
 the theifs, bounty hunters, and the most vicious scum in the galaxy!!!!! Who'd of thought to make 
 characters with whip like lightsabers? And some of the space combat ships that are available were 
 just awesome. The only downside which is probably due to my older computer is the cutscenes graphics 
 are iffy at best. But, the in game battle graphics are awesome! Just an all around fun game with 
 some great new characters and some items pulled from the original and expanded universe. Well worth 
 the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: condan1993
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is pretty nice. What would you expect though? Have you been corrupted yet? Star 
 Wars Empire at War Forces of Corruption is a great expansion to the already excellent Empire at 
 War. The addition of the Corrupt forces of the Corrupt is a great. The game mechanics haven't changed, 
 allowing you to outbuild y our opponants, if you have the right resources. The corrupt units cost 
 more than other faction units, however as an offset, you can produce more money quicker into the 
 game through corrupting planets. The downside to corrupting the plant means you still keep a small 
 force unlike the Alliance or Empire which can build fleets and armys quickly to defend or attack.
 
  
  This great game however, is not without its flaws. Some in the game mechanics, some in the graphics 
 systems - I noticed more than once, if I was prompted for battle while I was moving units into 
 space, they would get hung there. The other downside to me was that the campaign mode seemed to 
 short.
  
  Overall, the game is still well planned and well built. I've played through the campaign mode more 
 than once, and played many Galactic Conquests as two of the factions so far. The new units for 
 the Empire and Alliance make great additions all in themselves.
  
  Hopefully, someone at LucasArts is thinking of a new story for the next expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: new faction really adds complexity, interesting yet familar campaign story, adds alot 
 of content (units/worlds) that should have been in the original game, fixes alot of the problems/restrictions 
 in the original, $30 price tag
  
  Bad: still a few small bugs here and there but nothing really worth mentioning, only a hand full 
 of galactic conquest senarios
  
  if you love star wars then buy this game because its the best star wars rts out there, the others 
 dont even really qualify. the original empire at war was great but it had a few problems, for one 
 only two factions empire and rebels. well now you have the corupt side which fits in well the the 
 other two. the campaign is only about the corupt side and its not super long but then again its 
 time length is really determined by how quickly you want to finish. and the campaign takes you 
 to really familar places like a gas mine near cloud city, and treasure vaults on courasaunt. you 
 also get word of certain battles like the one over the moon of endor (the final battle in return 
 of the jedi movie) , and then the campaign ends shortly after that event with a ending that makes 
 sense, yet theres also some hints of a sequel or another expansion pk, yet if you know how the 
 last movie ends (unless you dont watch movies) you cant really see the empire really having any 
 steam left for more. but the last mission is really fun and you get to control the eclispe ship 
 but its incomplete with only an operational main gun, which has the ability to destroy a space 
 station or any ship with a singal blast. the eclispe is not aviable out side of campaign, but if 
 you want the same firepower than just buy the death star 2 which can fire on planets, ships and 
 space stations, ohhh god its fun to wipe out a level five enemy space station with one shot, and 
 then see the enemy turn tale and run. the new faction is very different from the other two, for 
 starters the leader unit is used alot more than the leader of the rebels or the imperials because 
 he is meant for combat. the ships are very different looking and in purpose as well. some ships 
 have mass drive weapon hard pts that is basically a laser that goes through shield and inflict 
 damage, some ships can cloak and so can some ground units too. and the corupt have two very powerful 
 capital ships that can really make your life hell, they can take on most vessel even when outnumbered. 
 this faction has only a handful (literally 4 or 5) of structures to build for its ground production 
 needs. no mines here because the corupt side's secondary income besides owning planets is to corupt 
 other worlds and if your fighting as one of the other two factions then you will be quickly annoyed 
 at how many of your worlds become corupted, and then the defiler unit can destroy your ground structures (for 
 a price) but the main difference for the corupt is money. you will be very rich very soon able 
 to play war with you enemies while they wage war againist you, or try to at least. units from the 
 clone wars make there appearance like the new verison of the driodekas under corupt control along 
 with some new deadly tanks etc.
  
  but the corupt are not invincible, i'm playing the big galctic conquest sceanario on hard as imperials 
 and i must say having two enemies, corupted planets, etc. it was a little overwhealming, until 
 i dug in and built the death star along with darth vader and his ship the executor super star destroyer, 
 then things got alot easier, once i blew up a few planets.
  
  theres alot of new units for the rebel and imperials too. the imperials finally get the tie interceptor 
 which replaces your tie fighters as garrison units in your capital ships from the victory star 
 destroyer and up. plus the tie phantom a new fighter (which you must build) that has shields and 
 can cloak and can be a stealth fleet in enemy space (galatic view) , then theres the supreme fight/bomber 
 the tie defender which you must build to have, and they have shields and a hyperdrive, etc. then 
 to ground units like the dark troopers phases 1, 2, 3. each phase is a different unit meant to 
 handle different enemies, and they can only built when general rom (new hero) is in orbit (his ship 
 is a factory ship that makes these guys) . theres now an imperial answer to the snow speeder the 
 lancet air unit (ground battles only) .
  
  the rebels get a new bomber the b wing, and a new capital ship the mc30 frigate a very fast ship 
 with mostly proton torpedo hard pts on it (meant for taking out heavy capital ships. luke skywalker 
 is now a ground hero along with master yoda, but rogue squadran is still the death stars worst 
 nightmar. last but not least Garm Bel Iblis is a hero unit that is a huge ground unit thats literally 
 is a hovering fortress/tank that can take on anything and then some unless outnumbered.
  
  new worlds offer great variety like kamino, mandalor, mustafar, and some you havent heard of.
 
  
  alot of problems in the first game are fixed like the one where when you start in a space or ground 
 battle you cant choose what your starting unit or units are, but now you can with the pathfinder 
 square located in the upper left corner of any fleet window full of units, so if you want a star 
 destroyer to jump into combat all you need to do is have one in the pathfinder slot before the 
 battle starts. then you can call in what ever ships you need for the given situation from your 
 reinforcement pool. this stops the game from sending a random assortment of ships into combat that 
 maybe you didn't want yet. next issue is the size of the battle fields (land and space) , they are 
 now much bigger for more manuverability. land battle are now more fun with the ability to organize 
 your ground force on your own planet before a battle, meaning you can move around structures and 
 units to give you more control before battle.
  
  all in all this game really adds on the the core expierence making it more full and well rounded 
 and the new heros and units that where missed in the first game are here and are very welcome in 
 the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordTravanix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War Forces of Corruption is a great expansion to the already excellent Empire 
 at War. The addition of the Corrupt forces of the Corrupt is a great. The game mechanics haven't 
 changed, allowing you to outbuild y our opponants, if you have the right resources. The corrupt 
 units cost more than other faction units, however as an offset, you can produce more money quicker 
 into the game through corrupting planets. The downside to corrupting the plant means you still 
 keep a small force unlike the Alliance or Empire which can build fleets and armys quickly to defend 
 or attack.
  
  This great game however, is not without its flaws. Some in the game mechanics, some in the graphics 
 systems - I noticed more than once, if I was prompted for battle while I was moving units into 
 space, they would get hung there. The other downside to me was that the campaign mode seemed to 
 short.
  
  Overall, the game is still well planned and well built. I've played through the campaign mode more 
 than once, and played many Galactic Conquests as two of the factions so far. The new units for 
 the Empire and Alliance make great additions all in themselves.
  
  Hopefully, someone at LucasArts is thinking of a new story for the next expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Being an expansion pack Forces of Corruption did not alter the game play all that much from the 
 original game. It introduces a new faction the Zon Consortium. The game still has all of the same 
 game play modes with no new additions. There have been several planets added to fight for in the 
 galactic conquest mode, and there are new maps to use in single player skirmish and multiplayer.
 
  
  Zon's units &amp; strategy differ from the Empire and Rebels, in that the Zon use Stealth and corruption 
 to fight their battles. Overall the new faction fits into the Star Wars universe fairly well, and 
 is a well balanced opponent for the Empire and Rebels to fight.
  
  The Rebels received a couple new Weapons, most notably the B-wing and a light Mon-calamari assault 
 ship. They also recive Luke Skywalker and Yoda
  
  The Empire received Tie Interceptors to be launched from their Star Destroyers. Tie defenders, 
 &amp; Tie Stealth are also added, but are purchased at any space station. The 2nd Death star is 
 a build able unit since the first one is supposed to be destroyed in the game, and the Superstar 
 Destroyer is Darth Vader's in game space Avatar. There is also the Eclipse Super Star destroyer, 
 which the single player story mode focuses on, but it is not available to purchase in multiplayer 
 or galactic conquest modes. 3 types of Dark troopers are also added to ther Empire's build list.
 
  
  Although you cannot build you base on a planet as you could in a traditional RTS, There has been 
 a planetary setup screen which allows you to move buildings and units around to different predetermined 
 starting points. This is helpful for setting up a defense, but is not total control over you base 
 layout.
  
  Overall Forces of Corruption improves on Empire at War, and if you are a fan of the original game, 
 Forces of corruption is a worth while purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Star wars: Forces of Corruption is an example of one of those games that really represents the 
 talents of it's production team. When I heard that the original creators of the Command &amp; Conquer 
 franchise were going to contribute their talents into Empire at War I was extremely excited. Although 
 I was happy with the original Empire at War their just seemed to be something missing from the 
 product. The game was great but aside from the titles many good qualities the game seemed to lack 
 a little in depth. Also some of the tech seemed a little standard. Empire at wars new expansion 
 pack Forces of Corruption seems to fill the small holes of the original game and adds loads of 
 new original content that practically makes it a brand new game in it's own right. This expansion 
 pack turns a great game into an epic masterpiece. This is one of, if not the best Star Wars games 
 ever released and one of the best RTS games of all time. The new faction is great and plays totally 
 different to the other previous sides in the original game. Star Wars fans are going to flip out 
 as we can now use the Super Star destroyer as a fully working unit. This is probably the highlight 
 of the game and it adds so much to the mechanics of the already awesome naval combat. Don't worry 
 rebel fans the other sides get their own beasts to play with. All in all if your a fan of the franchise 
 or not this games worth getting even if it's just for the original RTS game-play. May the force 
 be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffulor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  why does this always happen we tend to get a great star wars game then a sequel or expansion is 
 released for it and they just seem to mess everything up and have very little improvemnts over 
 the original, it happened with rouge leader on the Gamecube, and Battlefront on the PS2/Xbox and 
 now its happened again wiith Empire at War...
  
  the expansion was a nice idea and they added a few things to the game that has improved it like 
 been able this time round to select what units you want to have for a space battle out of your 
 fleet by using a pathfinder unit which jumps in before all your other craft then you bring in what 
 ones you want, but one problem with this is that if you do this you cant bring in fleet commanders 
 on ships they come in shuttles which just doesnt help, being able to set up the lay out of your 
 base and where you want your units to appear on the map for land based battles is good as well 
 and is another good improvement...
  
  now for the new playable faction the Zann consortium, they are no fun to play with they have some 
 nice looking units but they just dont fit into the star wars universe and mess it up imo. there 
 are some major problems with this game in terms of story and other things that star wars fans will 
 not like, for some reason they have changed the voice of darth vader and have made it more robotic 
 which has just p*ssed me off, other flaws are the empire for some reason has dark side force users 
 loads of them and they all look like palpatine but with a red stripe on the sleves of their clokes 
 and they can teleport around the place, and i thought these people who made this expansion worked 
 really closely with lucas arts so that this game could fit into the star wars universe WTF...
 
  
  the campaign was no good the only good mission in it was the last one and there is only one campaign 
 game there is no new one for the empire or the rebels which is a big let down, for the galactic 
 conquest games there are only 6 i think to pick from and none of the ones from the original have 
 made it in which again is a bit sh! t...
  
  graphic as well dont look as good as the original all the ships seem to have been slimlined for 
 some reason there are no levels to them as there should be and was in the original..
  
  so in the end if your loved the original game i dont think your going to like this especially if 
 your a big star wars fan also if you are thinking of getting this game i would advise you to wait 
 a month and then get it because hopefully by then there will be some good mods out for it that 
 will make this game more like the original but with the extra good features... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTSFanatic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have to say, FOC kicks butt. The selling point for was the third faction in multiplayer and skirmish. 
 I did play through the campaign on Hard, which I found to be very fun and more in-depth than the 
 original game. All the new enhancements like base customization, fleet pathfinder slot really make 
 a difference. Its good to see the developer listen to the fans. Corruption has to be one of the 
 more fun game play additions I have played with in recent. Bering able to choose the type of corruption 
 I want to enact on a world is awesome. You can literally customize your criminal empire. wOOt!
 
  
  Multiplayer is a blast, its great to have replays now and be able to select your starting location 
 and do mirrored matching. I would have to say the ZC is a bit overpowered, but Im expecting a 
 few balance patches, like most RTS games, to even things out. My buddy and I also edited the XML 
 so that the Empire can have the Executor Super Star destroyer in multiplayer skirmish. Man that 
 fricken kicked ASS! It is even more intense if you do Empire vs Empire.
  
  All in all I would say this is a great expansion pack for 30 bucks. On my comp with all settings 
 set to high, the game runs flawlessly. There were a couple bugs here and there, but none that detracted 
 the game-play for me. For only 30 bucks, this is a great game to get for any fan of Star Wars and 
 strategy games
  
  I do have one general gripe not pointed specifically to EAW. Almost all LucasArts games as of recent 
 seem to be more buggy than usual. Im going to go out on a limb and say that their GAME is really. 
 Either their testers dont know how to test or they just dont test. Either way, Lucas should remedy 
 the situation by either firing all their testers and getting some new ones or bringing in some 
 experienced guys. If they dont, its only going to continue to hurt them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crodrig6
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  A classic example of a game that put all its cards on the table in its previews and trailers but 
 had squat to show for it when it came time to put the cards on the table... not that it was a terrible 
 game because there have been far more improvements over the original but still very glitchy..... no 
 eclipse (what da hell) ... and atrocious land battles that at times make you wonder if you would 
 have done it all over for $20..... in the end i would say that you should stay away from this game 
 especially if u dont have the original yet which would mean you would be wallowing in $40 of disappointment 
 but if Star Wars is your thing it may be another game to add to the collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hushlb
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I played a little bit of the Galactic Conquest mode as the Empire and the game was very enjoyable. 
 However, there are some serious technical issues holding this game back.
  
  1) I am using a brand new PC, I'm not using any cloning/ghosting programs or CD cracks. I was able 
 to install the game just fine but half the time I try to play SW: FoC I get an error that the original 
 disc could not be detected. A little research shows that this isn't an isolated problem. I'm concerned 
 when glaring technical issues like that are included in a shipped product and there's no patch 
 to fix it yet.
  
  2) Playing single player I am unable to build the new Rebel Alliance units. Another glaring technical 
 problem that shouldn't have been around when the discs for this game were manufactured.
  
  3) The Eclipse, one of the biggest selling points of this expansion, is only available in one mission 
 of the campaign mode. Further, it isn't even completely built/operational for that mission.
  
  Given that the Eclipse was shown in the official trailers and gameplay movies, and that it 
 is listed as a new Imperial unit that can be built in the manual, this is a gross misrepresentation 
 of the game.
  
  All in all it is still an interesting expansion for Star Wars fans, but the technical issues and 
 misrepresentations I've seen in such a short time aren't forgivable. SW: FoC offers little more 
 than was already available from free fan based mods that have been available for some time. I've 
 played this two days and I think I'll go back to Dawn of War already. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
