-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek Generations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/startrekgenerations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 28, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 83 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MicroProse
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's beginning to look like there will never be a truly great Star Trek game. 

 It's beginning to look like there will never be a truly great Star Trek game. Despite the best efforts 
 of design teams from a number of topnotch companies, re-creating the Star Trek experience in a 
 computer game has proven to be an elusive goal. MicroProse's Generations is no exception. While 
 arguably the best Star Trek game yet released, Generations ultimately falls short of delivering 
 what it promises - namely, an immersive adventure that will appeal to both gamers and Trekkies 
 alike.  

 Generations closely follows the plot of the movie of the same name, and as such, is able to incorporate 
 copious footage from the film (some of which hasn't been seen before) and voice-overs by the actual 
 actors, including Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell. As in most Star Trek titles, the production 
 values in Generations are quite high, and the interface graphics, audio tracks, and noninteractive 
 cutscenes combine to create a fully authentic Star Trek atmosphere.  

 Unfortunately, the authentic atmosphere is Generations most compelling element - the game itself 
 is solid but unspectacular. Not that MicroProse didn't try its best to make things interesting. 
 Generations features a unique hybrid design, with three distinct game modes. These modes - Stellar 
 Cartography, Tactical Combat, and Away Missions - offer you the chance to take part in three of 
 Star Trek's most popular pastimes, namely galactic navigation, starship battle, and planetary exploration. 
   

 Stellar Cartography is the weakest of the three. Essentially a variation on solitaire, this mode 
 requires you to visit and scan star systems in a search for the game's primary villain, Dr. Tollian 
 Soran. This is accomplished by locating the planet that matches an audio clue, such as "Find a 
 planet with a high level of Theta radiation." While this is mildly entertaining the first few times 
 around, it becomes repetitive and tedious as the game progress. The problem is made more severe 
 because the game does not allow you to store the results of your scans, meaning that unless you 
 physically record every result, you'll find yourself scanning the same areas over and over again 
 (an unthinkable occurrence in the actual Star Trek universe) .   

 The Tactical Combat mode is better. Here you take command of the Enterprise's weapons systems, engaging 
 in real-time battles with various Romulan and Klingon vessels. Commands, such as "Close on Target," 
 "Evade Target," and "Full Stop," provide a reasonable degree of strategic freedom in battle, while 
 phasers and photon torpedoes supply the firepower. Depending on your skill and the nature of the 
 opposition, battles can result in a quick, surgical dismantling of enemy ships, or in hectic, toe-to-toe 
 slugfests. While not perfect - the actual display of the conflict is somewhat lackluster - this 
 combat system is the best yet in a Star Trek game, and it provides a welcome respite from the drudgery 
 of Stellar Cartography.  

 But the real heart of Generations is its 12 Away Missions, and unfortunately, these first-person 
 perspective levels are a decidedly mixed bag. On the plus side, the missions offer you a wide variety 
 of challenges, from rescuing injured scientists to cutting off Solan's supply of Trilithium crystals. 
 The environments themselves are also nicely balanced, including Klingon bases, tropical planets, 
 and sterile cities occupied solely by robots.   

 Each mission combines action and adventure elements. As with most first-person games, the primary 
 challenge lies in finding certain objects or locations, and in surviving the continual attacks 
 of hostile inhabitants. But Generations takes things a step further, introducing complex, inventory-based 
 puzzles to the mix - in fact, these are among the most sophisticated puzzles ever found in a first-person 
 game. Even better, many of the puzzles are quite novel and require a fair amount of creative thinking 
 to solve.   

 What, then, is the problem? Let's start with the graphics. While Generations is not attempting to 
 compete with shooters such as Quake or Shadow Warrior, its graphics engine will inevitably be compared 
 to both. And in such a comparison, it does not fare well. The graphic window is letterboxed (similar 
 to Terra Nova) , severely limiting the amount of viewable space, and thus the level of player immersion 
 in the game. Yet despite this limited view, the frame rate is quite choppy, even on a 200MHz MMX 
 system. In the indoor missions, the visuals are generally too dark (even with the brightness cranked 
 up) and most of the objects and enemies are rather nondescript. The graphic engine also exhibits 
 an uncommonly high degree of pixelization and image break-up, especially in the outdoor levels. 

 To accompany the lackluster graphics, the Away Missions use a rather unwieldy control system - notable 
 chiefly for its omission of a mouse-look button - that makes the game much tougher than it needs 
 to be. Experimentation with literally dozens of different keyboard assignments failed to produce 
 a satisfactory control setup (although a number of them were better than the default setting) . 
 Even worse than the controls themselves is the intermittent lag between issuing a command and seeing 
 it executed, resulting in an unacceptably high number of deaths that can legitimately pinned on 
 the computer, rather than the player.  

 These problems become significant in light of the fact that you can't save progress within a given 
 mission. Death (via early beam out) is a common occurrence, one that begs for the ability to save 
 your progress along the way. But this option is not offered, and the result is mind-numbing repetition 
 of the same sequences over and over again.   

 As 'save while you play' options have been around at least since Doom, one can only guess that the 
 designers willfully chose to leave it out, perhaps viewing repetition as a means of extending the 
 gameplay. Or perhaps they took a cue from Generations the movie, which contains a rather lengthy 
 crash scene that is played once and then later repeated (and even that was a little tedious!) . 
 Either way, they made a serious mistake, one that greatly detracts from the overall experience 
 of the game, keeping Generations in line with its predecessors when it should have risen above 
 them.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Its all about playing the first few missions over and over again and loving them, because thats 
 as far as youl get, this is hard. in time before cars computers and evedently quicksaveing youl 
 be putting in the hours on each level to make it through.
  
  the game gave you a never before seen mix of fps and roll playing puzzle, with a little inventory, 
 complete with your own communicator and scanner thingey, picking up things as you go. found a dead 
 romulan, oh he has a trycorder, oh its scanning for trilithium, wonder why, clues lead you through 
 this game, and to some rely very clever puzzles. but the enviroments so harsh that you barely have 
 time to work them out. The game is kept interesting with the sceenes inbetween away missions, in 
 stellar cartography, a simple tatical map where you put together the pieces you found on your last 
 away mission and figure out where to go next, with other ships coming and going, you get some variety 
 of gameplay here. and then maybe you go to a planet and the other ship their aint too friendly, 
 you get shoved in to tatical ship to ship combat, never did i have so much fun, fully loading out 
 tupidos and talgeting the klingons engines so they cant run away.
  
  today its nothing special, even when it was relieced the graphics stank, but, especially if ur 
 a startrek fan, their is nothing better than this for transporting you in to a fiction, its startrek 
 through and through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 1.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The game was all around lame. There were lots of problems functionality-wise and the storyline 
 was boring. I had to stop ultimately because of the dysfunction and choppiness of the game. Half 
 the time I would get a fatal error and the game would shut down, and I'd lose a save. Having to 
 quit because of this was fine because I wanted to stop anyway and the fact that the game was broken 
 was a legit excuse. The graphics were awful, only slightly better than the old Commodore 64 days... 
 Sound wasn't too hot. Plot? What plot? Was there a plot? I really can't remember. Uggg... this 
 game sucked. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
