-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starship Troopers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starshiptroopers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A fairly lengthy single-player campaign.
 Lots of bugs onscreen at once.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical issues plague practically every part of the game.
 Missions are dull and repetitive to the point of frustration.
 Archaic graphics.
 Seriously awful voice acting.
 Completely botches any attempts to relate itself to the film's tone and style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 4.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 1,178 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Strangelite
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 15, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Starship Troopers has little dedication to faithfully re-creating the things that made the film 
 unique, and it's a pretty lousy and technically deficient shooter to boot. 

  Chances are that you had one of two very distinct reactions the first time you saw  Starship Troopers 
 . You either loved it for its great special effects, hysterically cheeseball dialogue, and obtuse 
 political commentary. Or, you loathed it for pretty much all the same reasons. Regardless of your 
 opinion of the film, you will hate Starship Troopers, the PC first-person shooter developed by 
 Strangelite more than seven years after the film's release. This ugly, cumbersome, and downright 
 inept shooter contains none of the things that made the film so charming. And even if you have 
 no prior experience with the name, the unbelievably repetitive gameplay, awful graphics, horrendous 
 voice acting, and myriad of technical problems will have you screaming for the hills before you 
 make it through a full hour of this nonsense. This is a purely unnecessary game that offers no 
 justification for its existence, and it should be avoided.  

          This game sucks. Would you like to know more?     

  Starship Troopers takes place five 
 years after the events of the movie, and humanity is still very much at war with the Klendathu, 
 a race of nasty bug aliens that may or may not actually be the bad guys, depending on how much 
 you want to read into the film's subtext. You play as a nameless grunt in an elite squad called 
 the Marauders. Or at least it's supposed to be a squad. You really don't run into other marauders 
 on any kind of regular basis, and mostly you're working with faceless mobile infantry soldiers. 
 Anyway, the plot doesn't really go anywhere. You go from mission to mission, shooting bugs, occasionally 
 performing other objectives that require lots of shooting in between, and eventually you start 
 to wonder how woefully inept this military of the future must be, since it constantly seems to 
 find it useful to send in small groups of soldiers (and in some cases, just you) into these incredibly 
 overmatched battle scenarios. Are we really that much more stupid than the bugs?  

  However, the biggest problem with Starship Troopers is that it only seems to have the vaguest sense 
 of what its source material is really all about. The developers seem to have completely missed 
 even the most surface-level points of Paul Verhoeven's film, because the game is completely bereft 
 of the things that made it enjoyable -- namely the subtle-as-a-brick-to-the-face musings about American 
 politics, and its so-bad-it's-awesome dialogue. Even worse, the game tries desperately to tie itself 
 into the film universe by tacking on footage from the movie in between missions. This footage is 
 presented in the same style as the Federation news reports in the movie, with a cheesy narrator 
 spouting government propaganda, but it just comes across as completely lazy. The narrator doesn't 
 seem like he's in on the joke, and he just kind of flatly delivers his lines without any chutzpah. 
 And the scenes from the movie are barely edited in any way, making it seem like the developers 
 just didn't want to bother rendering out their own cutscenes. In what could be the missed opportunity 
 of the year, despite the fact that the news reports end with the trademark "would you like to know 
 more?" line, at no point are you given the chance to click on the button and learn more. It's just 
 all cutscene with no interactivity. How detached from the original source material do you have 
 to be to not realize the folly in such an oversight?  

  On the gameplay front, Starship Troopers is an achingly generic FPS that revolves almost exclusively 
 around the concept of throwing lots of enemies at you at once. Or, to be more accurate, putting 
 you in a situation where lots of bugs are floating around, having anywhere between 5 to 30 of them 
 come at you at once, waiting until you've killed all of them, and then tossing more at you... lather, 
 rinse, repeat. The bulk of the bugs you'll go up against are extremely easy to kill with just about 
 any weapon in your arsenal, but the sheer number of them can be overwhelming at times (provided, 
 of course, that you can't find some random nook or cranny of the scenery that they can't get to 
 you in, in which case it's basically like shooting fish in a barrel) . Seriously, we know these 
 are insects, but they're basically all begging to be killed, and quickly. They just run at you 
 in packs, blindly waving their front legs in a threatening manner, and the only way they can actually 
 damage you is if they're practically on top of you. Granted, they're quick enemies, but as long 
 as you have rounds in the chamber, it shouldn't be hard to just mow them all down in one big, green-blooded 
 mess.  

          OK, this game really sucks. Would you like to know more? No? Good.     

  Other bug types will be thrown at you on occasion, like big plasma bugs that shoot nasty blue 
 plasma bursts out of their butts, and flasher bugs that temporarily blind you while simultaneously 
 signaling other bugs in the area to come rushing in. But apart from these occasional wrinkles, 
 the game seems largely content with sending wave after wave of meaningless grunt bugs at you, with 
 the occasional big bug lumbering behind to act as a mediocre boss fight. The really irritating 
 thing about this setup is the way in which the bugs attack you. The game claims it can have hundreds 
 of bugs onscreen at once, but they don't come after you all at once, save for very rare and very 
 frustratingly overwhelming situations. Even worse is that you are often tricked into thinking that 
 you can move forward. You'll kill a wave of bugs, move a few feet forward, see another wave coming, 
 back off, shoot them all, move another few feet forward, and so on and so forth. It's a gigantic 
 tease, and some of these missions just drag on for ever  because of this insipid methodology.  
 

  It doesn't help matters that you're rarely given much assistance while going through these bug-riddled 
 environments. The artificial intelligence-controlled Federation soldiers all have a major death 
 wish, and they are physically incapable of running away when a horde of charging bugs are coming 
 at them. They'll just sit there, firing their guns mostly ineffectively, clearly accepting their 
 inevitable doom. While there was certainly plenty of soldier slaughter in the film, the soldiers 
 were at least adept at killing bugs now and again. These suicidal morons couldn't hit the broadside 
 of a barn. Ultimately, this leads to too many scenarios where you're lone-wolfing it past ridiculous 
 numbers of enemies, once again making the whole process an overly lengthy and tedious bore.    
  

  Even the weapons mostly fail miserably. There are a few decent guns, like the default Marauder 
 AK4 assault carbine, which has unlimited ammo and is especially useful for blasting through the 
 grunts. But then there are other weapons that just feel completely useless. The rocket launcher 
 is just about the most pathetic thing ever. It'll blow up a few bugs so long as it explodes right 
 at their feet, but the explosions have about as much impact as a bottle rocket and look weak as 
 all get out. Then there's the sniper rifle with a scope that does nothing to improve visibility 
 in a dark environment (of which there are many) . It's the future, and we can't even get decent 
 night vision? And then there are the completely worthless grenades. When you pop one out, a little 
 computerized smiley face appears on the grenade's display screen and starts to count down out loud. 
 OK, that's kind of funny, but it also feels like it comes from a completely different game than 
 this one. Not to mention that the actual damage a grenade does seems to range from "not much," 
 to "broken." Seriously, we actually ran into a bug during a training mission where we were supposed 
 to use grenades to clear debris. Every time we launched a grenade, the explosion would simply fail 
 to register with the aforementioned debris.  

          Damn bugs whacked this game, Johnny.     

  That's hardly the only glitch you'll encounter 
 while playing. The stability of Starship Troopers is highly suspect. Every now and again the game 
 will simply crash out to Windows for no discernable reason, and some of the unlockable video clips 
 in the extras menu will crash you out every single time you try to view them. There are issues 
 you'll see in-game too, like the aforementioned random physics disappearances with the grenades, 
 and occasional situations where soldiers or bugs will just get stuck in the environment and start 
 doing incredibly wacky things. It's quite clear that more QA time was needed to get this game running 
 properly, and that time wasn't taken.  

  Starship Troopers does offer a basic multiplayer mode, with deathmatch, team deathmatch, and cooperative 
 missions available. Unfortunately, the odds of you finding someone else to play it against are 
 somewhere in the negatives. We spent days trying to find an online opponent for some kind, any 
 kind of multiplayer match, and found little more than a desolate wasteland of a server browser. 
 But considering how bad the offline play is, it's hard to imagine there would be a particularly 
 thrilling multiplayer experience based off this gameplay.  

  Starship Troopers also happens to be a severely ugly looking PC game. The models for Federation 
 soldiers are laughably awful, consisting of the same two or three horrific-looking faces spread 
 across a single squad, and a scant list of cheap-looking animations. The bugs all look the same, 
 of course, but they don't even look particularly good or fearsome. They just look like cheap interpretations 
 of the same bugs you saw in the movie, and the ones that are new just look dumb. Environments are 
 a little better, at least the ones set in daylight. Everything done at night is simply too dark, 
 and there are no gamma settings in the options menu. There are certainly games that can do dark, 
 unpleasant places well -- take the recent King Kong game, for example -- but Starship Troopers doesn't, 
 and what you're left with is a confusing, ugly place to be. While it is reasonably impressive that 
 so many bugs can attack at once, it'd be a lot more impressive if the frame rate didn't go to hell 
 every time a group of bugs got up in your grill. It's also not particularly impressive considering 
 how insanely long the premission load times are, not to mention that every time you load a quicksave 
 you have to sit through the same loading time again. Even the process of making a quicksave hangs 
 the game for four to five seconds.  

          Is it a man or a mutant? Thanks to this unpleasant graphics engine, we may never know the 
 truth.     

  The audio is simply a cacophonous mess. The voice acting is as bad as you can fathom, and it's 
 not that wonderful brand of cheesy dialogue from the movie, either. It's just painfully uninspired 
 work, and the actors all ham it up really poorly. The guy who acts as your commanding officer sounds 
 like he's really trying to do his best Michael Ironside impression, and he fails miserably at it. 
 Even crazier, Casper Van Dien shows up to reprise his role as Johnny Rico. But he's barely used, 
 and in the cases where he is used, he sounds like he's desperately trying to recapture the magic 
 of the only film role in recent years that anyone could possibly recognize him from, and he ultimately 
 screws the whole thing up. What's even worse than the acting is the editing. There are times where 
 you'll join up with a group of soldiers, and one will start talking to you about where you need 
 to go next. Then some stray radio dialogue from one of the ships in orbit will cut in and drown 
 him out. Then your commanding officer will cut in and drown both of them out. The bugs apparently 
 have one or two vocalizations total, and that just makes things even noisier and repetitive. Apart 
 from all that, it's just generic-sounding guns and music, none of which can even hope to stand 
 up against the awful voice work to try to improve the overall audio quality.  

  Your opinion of  Starship Troopers  doesn't really matter when it comes to deciding whether or 
 not you should play this game. If you are a fan of the movie, you'll find yourself distressed by 
 the utter lack of attention the developers paid to the things that made the film such a goofily 
 enjoyable sci-fi epic. If you don't have any prior knowledge of the film, and you're just on the 
 hunt for a good first-person shooter for your PC, this is most definitely not where you want to 
 be looking, due to the plodding mission structures, technical gaffes, weak action, and half-baked 
 presentation. If you hated the movie, then why are you even considering this game in the first 
 place? Just know that no matter who you are and where your interests lie, Starship Troopers is 
 not the game for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  I'm going to try and keep this one somewhat concise so I don't end up blathering on for an entire 
 page. And in risk of being booted off of Gamespot for my comments, I have to ask this: 
  
  Does anyone else feel that, many times, the reviewers on Gamespot/IGN have gotten to the point 
 where so many treat their reviews/opinions as holy gospel, and in turn have shown rather unforgivable 
 arrogance, and a mean streak in tune with the snobby high school girl who makes or breaks others 
 reputations with a single line of gossip?
  
  Seriously. I own this game, I play this game. And while I can agree that the cut-scenes showing 
 stock footage from the original movie can be annoying, the narrator isn't as bad as he is made 
 out to be.
  
  This game was meant for one thing, blowing the crap out of everything. Mr. Navarro sees 'trite, 
 insipid, and pointless' battles with the bugs, and any -true- fan of Starship Troopers (the movie 
 AND the novel) see an opportunity to look at their friends and say. "I bet I could survive alone 
 better than they can" and then friggan prove it. 
  
  Mr. Navarro's complaint on the grenades: Read the novel, particularly the BEGINNING when Juan Rico 
 is on a smash and dash operation against the 'Skinnies'. He has a bomb that counts itself down, 
 in the Skinnie's language. 
  
  CLEARLY the people at Strangelight must have read the books, and for those who paid attention to 
 what they read, rather than apparently skimming through the cliff-notes edition, would get the 
 in joke. 
  
  Yes the graphics could have been improved, as could the AI. But many people wanted to kill bugs, 
 not play Hamlet With A Machinegun. 
  
  Get a grip on reality, and try to enjoy a video game for what it is, a game, not your life.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinl2046
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Shooting. Killing hundreds, thousands of space bugs. That is the essense of this game and I think 
 it does a wonderful job at that. I had loads of fun tearing up huge swarms of alien bugs. The bugs 
 die/bleed pretty cool and the guns are fun to use. Its nice that you are equipped with an automatic 
 space rifle with unlimited ammo. Firing the weapons pack a nice punch and the sound is nice too. 
 
  
  Downside of this game is that the graphics are a little bland. Level architecture may feel a little 
 boring, and some of the textures could be a little more interesting. But the levels are huge. The 
 outdoor levels were actually done surprisingly well. You really feel like you're fighting on another 
 planet. 
  
  Great shooting and killing action. I can't stress that enough. Pick this game up if you feel like 
 going on an all-out alien bug killing spree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  lets face it, there are very few games based on movies that are any good... especially when the 
 movie never really stood out that much. 
  
  The film starship troopers was one of those movies that you would hear about and say "that can't 
 possibly be any good" then watch it and fall in love with it.
  Starship troopers: the game is exactly like that! 
  
  
  the first thing i thought when i 
 saw this game in the bargain bin was, "wow, a starship troopers game... how lame..." but because 
 it was only 10 bucks i decided i would give it a go. this turned out to be the right choice! 
 
  Mind you, i wouldn't pay any more than about ten bucks for it, but if you come across it cheap 
 i would defiantly recommend it.
  
  
  the gameplay is solid, yet repetitive at times even at its most action packed moments. I found 
 myself actually pausing the game in the middle of a major fight just so i could get a few seconds 
 of rest to my tired trigger finger. 
  The storyline is about on par with the movie... lacking substance and filling the gaps with action, 
 which is done very well. 
  The game really captures the feel of the movies in that you feel really overwhelmed with the sheer 
 number of enemies! you find yourself having full ammo with every weapon and STILL wondering whether 
 or not you have enough to kill all of them...
  The graphics in the game are pretty outdated but they still do a good enough job to keep you happy, 
 and the bugs are modeled very well when compared to the rest of the game.
  
  
  the pros: 
  - gameplay and weapons are true to the movies
  -a real feeling of vulnerability
 
  -fights can get very desperate at times adding to the authenticity 
  - graphics are adequate (not great)
  - actually really good online co op and basic deathmatch
 
  - overall one of the better licensed games out there
  
  
  the cons:
  -very repetitive... the only objective is to kill bugs.
  actual objectives vary, but essentially 
 stay the same.
  - graphics on everything except the bugs are outdated
  - sometimes there is TOO MUCH fighting... 25 min of straight action is awesome, 26 min is too much...
 
  - while coop is fun, vs. is not so much...
  - once again we have to play a super soldier... robbing us of the thrill of facing a worthy opponent
 
  
  
  the verdict: worth every penny... as long as you didn't spend many of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigpoppa
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Been awhile since this game came out but I had to give it a try since I thought I conquered and 
 mastered every fps to date. Somehow this sleeper hit slipped under my radar.
  
  Its no walk in the park but its a helluva ride. The swarm AI is incredible and second to none. 
 Wiping out legion after legion of bug in the face of overwhelming odds was a challenge for even 
 my lightning reflexes. Dont let this pass you by if you stumbled onto this page and your looking 
 for something to kill some time until the next current fps is released and ready for pwnage give 
 this one a look. Not only did it keep me sharp by keeping me on my toes. This game has the sheer 
 depth to immerse me in this fantasy world of starship troopers. If you like challenges or are good 
 at FPS this would be the game for you. Then again if your just looking forsome adventure this game 
 def offered that in spades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Look dont blame me about this review, i mean come on if the graphics were slightly more polished 
 it wouldve been something great, and who here actually cares about voice acting i mean come on 
 yeh its not hollywood or shakespear but its good and thats fine by me.
  
  This game was beaten so bad by critics it almost cried so i bought off a friend for cheap (thanks 
 karl!) and was dissapointed by the graphics but if you just do for gameplay thats where this excels, 
 people say its the same task but then you can tell gamespot dont play their games for too long 
 because there is a wide variety of weapons and missions and most importantly of all: bugs. It even 
 keeps that classic line bugs! BUGS!
  
  So final verdict? yeh id say 8, yeh you heard me an 8 it outdoes itself and if you email me saying 
 you hav bad taste then you can go f**k yourself you nerd. Yeah thats right go back to your overated 
 half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Empire did okay on this game. It's really a fun game to play, fighting hundreds of enemies at once 
 and all, but Empire could have done better. They should have stuck to the original concept of the 
 game more and not take out as much as they did. For instance they could have kept some of the better 
 large scale levels in, thrown in a couple of vehicles, and made the main character a little more 
 spartan like instead of the slow moving, low jumping, juggernaut with near to no story line or 
 background to speak of. If Empire had put in more of an effort they could have made this game hit 
 close to the standard that the first Halo set when it first came out for the PC. The game also 
 feels too confined and scripted, but there are some exceptions. And the large scale combat is pretty 
 fun, plus it's always fun launching a nuke.
  Over all it's an alright game and I would'nt be against you if you decided to purchase it. Just 
 remember, if you have a slow or outdated computer don't expect much from it; the lag on mine when 
 I tried to up the graphics a little was staggering. If you do have a good PC that can take it, 
 though, the graphics will come out nicely, if a little flashy with not to much substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  I recently picked this game up from a bargain bin at the local EB games only to discover that I 
 should've left it there. This game has had mixed reviews and I thought for a tener that I should 
 to. Drawing from the limited success of the movie, your mission is to blindly unleash zillions 
 of bullets into zillions of bug hoping that your ammo doesn't run out ... but it does.... 
  
  As part of a military elite the "Marauders" your given some special equipment to fight off 
 the bugs and stop them from eating everyone alive. 
  A nice helmet, some body armour, a selection of weapons, to give the advancing horde something 
 to remember you by. Your missions will range from blasting everything in sight, to helping other 
 personnel complete missions to being the only person to take on 153,000,000 bugs with a can of 
 mortein. You'll find some handy ammo packs laying around but unfortunately this ain't enough. As 
 you graphics card lumbers under drawing the bugs, your quickly outnumbered and soon join the thousands 
 of other dead soldiers. Your ability to stop the bugs is achieved by shooting the nerve stem at 
 the bas of the neck, but I assure you that it doesn't matter where you shoot them, the effect is 
 the same, in other words, accuracy does not count, only vast amounts of bullets. When you finally 
 face off against a plasma bug, you might as well go home cause your going to go thru all your ammo 
 and then some and it will still keep on coming.
  There's 3 levels of difficultly and to be fair I did select normal play (level 2) in a chance to 
 give the game a chance after reading GS's review of the game.
  There's a mission where you must shot flying bugs but unless your carrying a giant fly swatter, 
 the ammo goes to waste. I couldn't really play this again as its simply a mindless FPS with no 
 story and really not enough campaign to keep a single player entertained.
  The graphics engine is looking a little dated and does slow alot when it has to draw all those 
 polygons, the voice acting was done at one of the local bus stops and is appalling, the music , 
 well time to fire up that media player in the background as it doesn't add to your atmosphere whilst 
 playing. Controls are the usual keyboard and mouse movement interaction. Oh I forgot, the "Extras" 
 menu item is to watch all the bits of movie they've ripped to show between each level and straight 
 away you know why you lose 6.5GB of hard drive space for this one.
  Do your self a favour and buy the Starship Troopers movie instead of this game please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  OK, I've read a few reviews on this game and people mostly complain about graphics, craches and 
 boring missions. 
  
  I have to say that graphics are excellent but you gotta have the machine to support them. I am 
 writing this review years after playing the game and I still remember liking the game quite a bit. 
 I experienced no crashes, so crashes can be an individual thing and are no reason to give a bad 
 review unless you see they happen to everyone. 
  
  As for the boring missions, well of course you; re gonna have tons of bugs you gotta kill and it 
 does get a bit frustrating sometimes but that's the point of the game, there's billions of bugs 
 and you can; t kill them all alone. 
  
  The missions are truly long and enemies and levels ideas are very interesting to say the least. 
 You are a marauder and your missions vary in many many different ways, from defending a base to 
 actually going "out there" to kills the pests. If you loved the film, you will truly love this 
 game. I loved the film starship troopers although some bits were a bit over the top but all in 
 all i absolutely loved it, because i like games and films with millions of brainless enemies. 
 
  
  Starship troopers 2 the film was for me really disappointing as it was completely static with nothing 
 happening and could have been shot with two cameramen and 4 rooms. 
  
  Anyway this game is honestly underappreciated, and I'm assuming this might be because of some disappointed 
 players who don; t give the game a 4 or 5 when disappointed but just give it 1. There are many worse 
 games than this one and they for sure did get more than 3.8 instead of 1 or 2 that they deserve. 
 
  
  Personally, I was cautious when starting the game because of bad reviews, but I liked the film 
 so much and love the idea of thousands of bugs and many different ways to kill them that I decided 
 to give it a shot and I wasn't as all disappointed. 
  
  The game could have many and I mean many many improvements but they would be small ones, a tweak 
 there and a tweak here, to push it up to 9. Major improvements would be needed to go beyond that 
 but 9 is a pretty good mark I thinbk you'll agree.
  
  However, as I said these small tweaks haven; t been done which is a shame since the game could have 
 been a legendary one.
  
  So, in all reality the game length is brillaint and there's days of playing which is unusual for 
 a shooter. It would deserve at least 7.5 and I don't think it should possible go below that and 
 even if you don't like the game, i don't think it can go below 5 for those who didn't like it. 
 
  
  Personally, I liked it and will give it 8 because I think it is a very very well done game, could 
 have been better but I hope this is built upon and I hope the developers don't give up on an idea 
 of a sequel just because of a few bad reviews. So, I will give it 8. 
  
  I even played some of the missions again and again because there are so many bugs and you just 
 wanna kill as many of them before finishing a mission.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Starship Troopers is possibly a game with a great idea although some features of the game might 
 have been included in a wrong way. Whats great about Starship troopers is the amount of enemies 
 you can see in the game. Some of the games weapons are quite unbalanced. The games graphics isn't 
 that good though the game's lighting is great. Starship Trooper's frame rate is also quite stable 
 even with the amount of enemies that appear on screen at once. The animations too are great although 
 animations of characters or objects isn't that good at far away. The sounds though are one of the 
 best parts of the game.
  
  The game may not be that great but it should be great for fans of the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  First watch the movie and if u don't like the movie don't play this game and say this is a bad 
 game. Starship Troopers, a great sci-fi movie of Man versus
  'the Bug'. If you watched and enjoyed the 1997 film of the same name then you will most definitely 
 enjoy this game!
  
  Play this game with high game settings or else u want see all the details.
  I first played this 
 on my 6600GT card with 512 RAM and i could only run this game with low settings. after i had the 
 1650XT with 1024 RAM, i clearly notice the different. this game deserved at least above 5. if u 
 saying this game is bad game well i have seeing more worse games than this and have a score of 
 above 4. 
  
  so pick it up and don't listen to those who whine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: younesboul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  OK, I felt compelled to review this game because it seems to have gotten a pretty bad rap from 
 Gamespot and several other players, but I just don't understand why!. This game might not be at 
 the graphic standards of Doom3 or Half-life2 but, in my humble opinion, it is still pretty enjoyable 
 particularly since the massive graphics and gameplay patch 5.24 (200Mbits and some...) . It is possible 
 that the game was pretty crappy before that patch release, but now, fully patched, I'm having a 
 blast!. My machine is not a uber gaming computer but it is still decent (Intel Duo Quad core with 
 a Geforce 8600 GTS) . I'm running the game a near max options: it is smooth, great display of several 
 100's of bugs, fast paced... I have nothing to complain about.
  Now, most people seem to have some beef with the scenario... well I have to admit that it is not 
 exactly deep and thoughtful but HEY! these are the Starship Troopers!. And this means bug guts 
 flying everywhere and soldiers getting maimed, vaporized by plasma bugs, picked up by flying bugs.... If 
 you are familiar and love the lore of the CGI series: Roughneck Chronicles (and I do!) , you are 
 going the absolutely love this game!. You'll feel like Rico and the crew going at it like in the 
 series.
  I personnaly I like the game for what it is: a frantic shooting gallery, always wandering what 
 type of bugs are going to show-up next! I love the diversity of the critters and the movie/score 
 pieces inserted in the game. It is not a groundbreaking game but it still deserve some attention. 
 Get it, you will not regret it especially if you liked the Roughneck Chronicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Has you all know Starship troopers the movie whas exelent and it whas probably the best movie to 
 be released that time.
  But the game hmmmmm well not that great it has nothing to do with the movie.
  instead of playing 
 has John rico you play has a spechless marauder.
  throught the campaign you do prety much the same thing in every level, kill bugs, kill bugs and 
 kill more bugs yes it has objectives but its prety much all the same its either to find or destroy 
 something.
  the game has bad graphics not the worst graphics ever but theyr prety bad the models of the human 
 npcs are terrible they all look the same and they dont even look like humans theyr faces look like 
 some mutant creature that camed back from the dead.
  the voice acting is terrible besides allways using the same voice actors with dozens of soldiers 
 they had the briliant idea of making the voice actors talking at the same time.
  for example a trooper is talking to you and then a gjuy starts talking to you in the radio and 
 then another woman starts speaking in the radio whell thats 3 people talking at the same time making 
 voice overs each others wich is fustrating and confusing at the same time because you cant understand 
 what theyr saying.
  the dificulty is easy in the first levels but in the middle of the game things get really hard 
 since you start getting rushed by 40 to 50 bugs at the same time now thats another problem it seems 
 that most of the bugs prefer to atack you instead of your teammates it gets fustrating when you 
 have arround 30 bugs arround you constantly atacking you and when you try to run away you have 
 no chance because you cant see where your going and there is no place to hide.
  the bug models in the other hand are quite impressive they are really detailed and look like the 
 ones from the movie.
  the AI is terrebly bad the bugs just rush you and your teammates but thats normal were not talking 
 about the bugs AI were talking about the human AI sometimes i mean all the time when they get rushed 
 by dozens of bugs theyl just stand there shooting at them whaiting for theyr death instead of backing 
 off.
  the sounds are bad the guns dont sound has the guns fired in the movie and the weapon details isnt 
 very good.
  the only good side of this is prety much when you see hundreds of bugs coming down the hill to 
 atack you.
  the game still fails at that point because your frame rate drops drsticly.
  overral this game is really really bad no 1 should play it it looks awesome but it isnt.
  JUST 
 STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitocorleonelol
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the critic's reviews for Starship Troopers, i was curious why it got such bad grades. 
 I thought this game was fine and is worth the $20 bucks it sells for. I guess minor faults count 
 too much to make a game above a 4/10. I think this game is just about right.
  
  Graphics - In most places the graphics are welldone and in others they could use improvement. Character 
 models leave something to be desired, but the terrain and bugs are welldone. 7/10
  
  Sound - I have to admit, some of the voice acting is pretty bad and the mk2 rifles reload is almost 
 silent. On the otherhand its fine. 7/10
  
  Gameplay - Somewhat repetitive, but some elements mix it up a bit. The boss fights are awsome and 
 blowing up stuff for a good cause is always a good time.
  
  Value - Ten bucks at the store? Buy it. Four bucks on Ebay? Buy it. Having fun while wasting bugs? 
 Priceless.
  
  "DO YOU WANT TO LIVE FOREVER? THEN BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!"
  
  Would you like to know more? Yes No 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The funnest thing ever. Killing hundreds of bugs never gets boring or old. The missions 
 are soooooo long. If you thought GRAW was long these missions are like double the length. It only 
 has 12 missions but it has the ability to give 24+ mission time since each mission is so long. 
 Multiplayer is dead which is soo disappointing. How can ppl be so dumb!!! I would love to defend 
 outpost whiskey with other real life players! how cool would that be! ppl say the gameplay is repetive 
 cause all you do is kill bugs and then they say it isn't faithfull to the movie... hmm. 1) If starship 
 troopers don't kill bugs then what the hell do they do??? 2) Starship troopers isn't an exact replica 
 of the movie but is rather set in the same universe 3) Movie had about 4 types of bugs (air, ground, 
 tanker and brain bug) this game gives you HUGE amount of bugs and even if there aren't much weapons 
 thats all you need!!!! Sound - Music A+, Effects A- cause guns sound the job but aren't loud enough 
 and the explosions aren't that loud either. Voice Acting B, not half as bad as everyone says , 
 the only bad part is when they scream or shout but 90% of the time they just make comment or brief 
 you.
  
  Graphics - Half amazing half O. K. The bugs, everyone of them, look awesome and they look and feel 
 exactly like the real thing. You can blast off their mandable things and their lower jaw. It feels 
 sooo satisfying killing lots of them at once. Your soldiers??? pretty bad BUT even still, you don't 
 want them to die or get masacared and try to protect them. terrain looks like clay but after a 
 while you get use to it.
  
  Value - For &pound;4 on Ebay when it should be price like &pound;20 it is a bargain!!! tons of 
 idiots (no offence) rate it sooo badly cause they find it too hard or something small and stupid 
 (again no offence)
  
  Other - Okay this bit is mainly the bad parts. Your guys die in the most boring way BUT it doesn't 
 matter, the Bugs die in an amazing way that is soo convincinly real and I have never actually seen 
 them die cause I'm too busy holding back swarms. The only time I have seen them die is when I let 
 them die on purpose so I have more to kill :) No dismbowlement but I'm gonna say this real simple 
 Bug disembowlment= good Human disembowlment= wrong and bad. Bloody but you can't see blood with 
 the flashlight on : ( cause it is too bright. Technical bugs are that sometimes grenade does not 
 explode but u can just shoot them or pick them up again. There are NO crashes at all. I use Vista 
 Basic (WELL MORE BUGGY THEN XP) and I play this fine while alt-tab in and out, there are no crash 
 issues with this game! This takes a while to get us to but when bugs die they suddenly turn into 
 a corpse but it is satisfying somehow. U know in BF2142 when u hit ppl a bar comes up but your 
 target doesn't bleed or any indication that they got hit? thats what its kinda like and soon you 
 won't mind it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Starship Troopers is pretty much a failsafe product. Killing a swarm of bugs without any morale 
 issues... well minimal ethical issues anyway is always a good thing. Originally the story started 
 out as a novel in the late 50s then a board game was released followed by TV adaptations, comic 
 books, a RPG and what the heck a PC game. Actually two of them and this is one.
  
  Now to those who never heard of Starship Troopers, where have you been? Planet P?
  
  Anyway, 
 to those who know Starship Troopers will know one thing for sure; there are bugs, millions of them! 
 And that's what the game is all about. And what comes with millions of bugs, millions of dead bugs; 
 and only a good bug is a dead bug right? And the new 'swarm' engine does that quite well with minimal 
 declining in the frame rate. Ironically enough it's not the swarm engine that drops the frame rate, 
 it's the actual size of some of the maps and some are h-u-g-e. If you have played any of the Serious 
 Sam games you know what I mean.
  
  When I first set eyes on the movie I was asking myself the age-old question... what's with the re-load? 
 There were none. Out of ammo - yes but only in a few occasions however no reloads. However when 
 playing the game it actually answered my question. Your first weapon, the Morita Mark 4 has unlimited 
 ammo however does has the tendency to overheat and your second weapon the Morita Mark 2 can hold 
 a maximum clip of 800. During the course of the game you have the opportunity to collect more weapons 
 that makes G. W. Bush proud. Other weapons include the rocket launcher, shotgun, sniper rifle and 
 the (in) famous nuke to name a few.
  
  The bugs arrive in a variety of flavours which typically resembles what the military uses to employ 
 for mass combat. Some examples are the warrior bug: foot soldiers; the cliffmites: snipers; the 
 chariots: scouts and the tankers: tanks.
  
  The missions even though it takes place five years later from the first movie, most of the missions 
 tend to replicate both movies. On the surface this may be a little lazy on behalf of the developers 
 however how can you not resist in playing say the Outpost level. In saying that, there are many 
 newer missions but once thing is for certain; killing stacks of bugs; yum yum yum.
  
  Graphically it's a mixed bag. The bugs look and feel good. Again referencing back to the movie 
 I loved the part when the troopers fire on the bugs, the bugs legs will fly off and eventually 
 will stagger and die. In the game this replicates very well. You fire on the bugs, the bugs legs 
 will dislodge, stagger and then fall; simply brilliant! The overall landscape appears decent however 
 at times it looks like the land has been carved straight out of clay, especially the mountains. 
 The soldiers on the other hand are little off-putting. However I really don't care about looking 
 at the soldiers - I'm here to kill bugs... zillions of them!
  
  The soundtrack to the game is great. It plays well and suited admirably for the situation; especially 
 when the track 'Klendathu Drop' is playing in the background. The sound for the weapons, explosions, 
 bugs roaring and everything else is clear but nothing to write home about. Acting wise is a little 
 flat as there was no real feeling in their voices and even Casper Van Dien's voice sounded like 
 a flat tyre. The female 'flight jockey' voice on the other hand is presented well.
  
  The game does have that typical difficultly levels of low, medium and high settings and does support 
 campaign, multiplayer and coop modes. The campaign mode is quite lengthy and can be exhausting 
 because of the mass onslaught of bugs. I personally like spraying the enemies down however at times 
 I was glad when the game slowed down when it did. It actually gets your senses back into order 
 waiting for the next big mass assault. During the campaign mode you will have the opportunity to 
 unlock the bonus materials for your viewing pleasure. Unfortunately when I jumped in the multiplayer 
 option there is nothing more than a whisk of sand shifting.
  
  There are some really bad elements in this game. The most noticeable are the cut scenes. When a 
 new mission is being rolled out, the game will reel parts of a poorly coded film 'digitalised' 
 from the actual two movies. Seriously the film is heavily pixilated. It would be much better if 
 they invented their own cut scenes using their own game engine.
  
  Being a PC game the developers should make it more interactive. The movie famous saying 'Would 
 you like to know more?' is only shown as a poorly digitalised clip straight out of the movie, yet 
 again. Shame on them. It would be a lot better if there was a page solely devoted to this when 
 you progress through the missions and use this option to learn more about bugs, weapons and whatever 
 else.
  
  And there are bugs. And I'm not talking about those killing machines either. At times you can hide 
 behind a wall and suddenly you will be slashed by a bug as it attacks you through the wall. Again 
 this can happen if you are standing above them. They simply materialise through the floor and swipe 
 at you. A friend of mine provided a good explanation to this miracle feat. They have sharp teeth. 
 This however did not deter me of not playing the game. Actually it made it better and more humorous 
 as it's like the bugs are saying 'You can run but you cannot hide!'
  
  However there is one thing I really missed in this game that the movie and the novel portrayed 
 very well. It's about the politics. In the movies and books the story was based on the idea of 
 fascism and pro-military. These and the ideas of citizenship, pro-democracy and acts of meritocracy 
 didn't appear at all in the game. The game however is based on combat. Not that is a bad thing 
 however I was hoping better cut-scenes which delves in these issues.
  
  Overall, looking on one side of the coin, the game is seriously fun and aggressive. The swarm engine 
 served its purpose very well as the constant wave of enemies attacking you will put the hardiest 
 FPS fan to their knees. As there are bugs in the game and the game can be more interactive will 
 of course will boost the game play however it's about different strokes for different folks. If 
 you like the in-your-face action and/or like the movies don't miss this game otherwise you're not 
 a true FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  Starship Troopers is just fair for me although I like it except for its large system requirements. 
 Its game engine actually failed to make the game look good. Only the entertaining thing in the 
 game is that you get to shoot a lot of bugs but you will be the only one that will have to shoot 
 them. You have friends but are pretty weak and are not that smart but can be a help but not much 
 and their faces are not pretty well done. The gameplay is nice since theirs a lot of bug you get 
 to shoot at and the game is pretty long although still the graphics do not mesh up the game and 
 just lowers it. When bugs are at far range, they don't move smoothly and move just like virtuals 
 which move roughly. The sounds is also something I hate, when your officer is talking, the sound 
 sometimes becomes weaker and only gets back to normal after you finished the mission. It's kinda 
 dissapointing that the Publishers or developers didn't do their best on making the game a good 
 one although they didn't use up that time. If they did though, the game could have been better 
 but could have been released in 2006 or 2007. Its not worth buying it but for those complete fans 
 of Starship Troopers, it is but I recommend not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Starship Troopers was a amazing movie in 1998 the game that came out then ( the RTS) was good to. 
 But this is not. You start out as a special forces soldier tasked with special high risk jobs It 
 starts out buggy right at the beginning. You are in your room on your ship and they call your name 
 over the loudspeak to come to the commander for a special mission to turn the power back on by 
 pressing the f key. After that you are deployed to the ground. Then the game crashes. 3 patches 
 AND IT STILL HAS NOT BEEN FIXED!!! You can bring the game back up after that. One very cool thing 
 about this game is over 1000 bugs coming at you at once. Very good graphics and guns and bugs are 
 detailed. Take a look at your friends. There faces are small blocks with a 2 dots and a line for 
 a mouth. WTF is wrong with the designers at Stranglite where they high when they made this game. Sounds 
 sucks. The guns sound like water pistols the people have the same voice and the bugs make one sound. 
 The game is a cheap 20 bucks and comes with a cool poster and art book.
  
  The good. 100s of bugs at once, lots of gore
  
  The bad: everything else accept what i said 
 above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  I hadn't read any reviews of this game when i got it along with a graphics card bundle - had I 
 done so I would not have bothered to even try it. I found it did not install properly and required 
 me to copy some files of the DVD to fix this. Found when I ran it a huge number of problems, from 
 slow downs, graphical bugs to crashes. At one point it managed to make a mess of the desktop upon 
 quiting, not a good sign. I applied the patch pretty quickly and it improved slightly. Still get 
 crashes, some slowdown and many graphics problems. I do understand the problems of game compatibly 
 with so many variations of PC hardware out there, bugs are to be expected and are normally fixed 
 by responsible publishers/game houses after release (Bioware for example) . However this games displayed 
 so many problems it sets other buggy games I have in to a new and better light. Given the above 
 I'd have uninstalled the game after the first few problems but for being a fan of the Starship 
 Troopers book and film. I struggled on with it. Graphics are not very good, voice acting is not 
 great (but it's not alone here, even some otherwise good games suffer from this) . You do get lots 
 of bugs to kill and I think that had they stuck more to the film/book and sorted out the bugs/problems 
 before release this game had potential (even with the graphics and voice acting) to be good at 
 least. To be honest I can only say avoid this one, it is a shame but really I was only left feeling 
 the game had taken a small part of my life away and I wanted it back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanDare007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  ' StarShip Troopers' is a game well- worth playing!
  
  It gives all the scenes ( Mostly ) With Intence, worth while gameplay with a thrilling enemy to 
 fight. The graphics are pretty good and it is a most enjoyable game.
  
  You play as a Marauder, Special Op's, battling your way through Bug filled level's along with a 
 few extras. With your trustee Marauder M4 rifle, you blow the brains out of four legged vermin 
 to reach your targeted Objective. Some levels can be hard as ammo is sometimes low or you dont 
 have the right weapons to kill the more armoured bugs ( Tiger Bugs Mostly ) , also some darkness 
 that is in certain levels can really give you a disadvantage, especially seeing that you surrounded 
 by the enemy. You have many varieties of weapons in which to put a bit more fun in killing your 
 enemy. Some of the wepons are ShotGuns, Rocket Launchers, Marauder M4's , Grenades and the Morita 
 rifle. Of course only the Marauder can use the Marauder M4 rifle.
  
  If you are a fan of StarShip Troopers, you will enjoy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Jim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't get what people are saying about this game. Maybe it's because I love Starship Troopers. 
 Okay, let's get the bad stuff out of the way: The graphics. They suck, but with the massive level 
 size and all the bugs, what is there to expect? You could either have a bunch of Starship Troopersy 
 bugs attacking a base (hundreds can appear at a time and there are many different kinds of bugs) 
 or you can have great graphics, and I'd rather have fun than see a pretty picture.
  
  Next, we get the voice acting. The Mobile Infantry buddies you have typically have cheesy voice 
 acting and the squadleader has bad voice acting. There are some good lines, though. The German 
 Psychic Guy's voice acting sucks, but the female dropship pilot who flies you around has good voice 
 acting and Casper Van Dien's voice acting isn't really remarkable. But hey, it's voice acting, 
 who cares. If you think it sucks, you can let the guy talking die. Some of the soldiers do have 
 memorable lines, like I'm so badass I scare myself or (while throwing a grenade) OPPOSABLE THUMBS, 
 BITCH! 
  
  The Music: Not memorable until the end of the game. In a massive battle, the Klendathu drop music 
 starts playing and it can get you pumped!
  
  The other sounds: The bugs roar and squeal can get unnerving, and the explosions and gunshots sound 
 cool.
  
  The Gameplay: Some of the most fun I've ever had. Your allies are pretty good at taking out normal 
 warrior bugs but ith the more advanced guys they may need some help. They will retreat sometimes 
 and in one memorable level backed up to the center of a base while being besieged by bugs. The 
 troopers backed into a wall but kept firing. The men will also use grenades and I don't know where 
 the reviewer got the idea that the soldiers' grenades can hurt you and the other troopers, but 
 they don't. There are also engineers and medics but they just act as soldiers in different uniforms 
 save for a few times where you defend an engineer repairing a power beacon or something. There 
 are lots of guns. The major gun is the one from the movie, the Morita, but it has many different 
 varients, like one has a shotgun for a secondary attack, another has a grenade launcher for a secondary 
 attack, one has a scope, I could go on. There is also a mini-rocket launcher which can launch weak 
 rockets but can launch MANY of them and you can shoot them rapidly! You get to use the nuke launcher 
 from the movie and you also get a normal rocket launcher, (it packs more punch than you'd expect, 
 it's really a mini-nuke!) a shotgun, a railgun, and some other guns including one that doesn't 
 run out of ammo. Also, your allies from the game don't die really gorily except in some scripted 
 events. However, they can get swarmed, blown into the air, and more. In one event a guy gets melted 
 by a Tanker, but in the game when people get swarmed they just fall over dead.
  
  The game takes tips from the movies and the book. The talking grenades from the book are there 
 (sometimes they speak German!) and characters from the book that weren't in the movie are mentioned, 
 like Blackstone.
  
  I guess the gameplay can get a little repetetive but some special objectives keep the game fresh. 
 Plus, what do you expect from Starship Troopers other than massive battles between hapless humans 
 and bugs?
  
  The game should be only $20 now, but when it came out it was $30-35 at most places, so it's got 
 great value!
  
  I'd think you should pick it up if you thought the movies were fun and need to let off steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjeder
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Like GS says the non player characters look awful but if you consider that they were maybe not 
 meant to look as realistic as possible in this game it will be easier on yourself. On the other 
 hand the hives in one mission got me impressed how beatiful they were graphicaly. The bugs are 
 very well made and true to the movie, no complaints there whatsoever. Sadly It has a very poorly 
 optimized game engine performance wise.
  
  Sound: Great because it ties you closer to the Hesperus campaign.
  
  Gameplay:
  Slightly 
 repetetive but great missions: duh :) .
  And yes like GS said, it doesn't follow the story of any movie or book, but it has alot of bug 
 squashing and adds awesome things to the ST universe.
  
  Misc:
  - The last boss isn't the best.
  - No female soldiers.
  - Multiplayer community extremely close 
 to nonexistant.
  
  Drum Roll:
  I didn't like the book and havent seen movie 2 but there is no denial the first is a Hollywood 
 all time classic, ask anyone. I think this game is very underrated. It resembles Halo somewhat 
 but i think this game is more fun. (I don't say better because that depends what qualitys one consider.)
 
  This reviews looks like one of a fanboy and that may be correct i guess, I Iike the movie alot, 
 I give the reviewer's tilt score in relation to the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunuto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Don't know what you all are moaning about, all of your problems are the fact that your not true 
 FPS. Going round blowing the crap out of bugs is very addictive. What did you expect the film had 
 one main bug (the warrior) as they call it and you want more that would just move from the story 
 and not be starship troopers. This game is for people who are fans of starship troopers. I agree 
 on the servers but for singleplayer this game rocks. The game is hard and the only reason why you 
 want to smash up your own comp is cause you have no self control and just suck at the game. The 
 guns are a bit repetetive but lets face it most FPS the guns are similair anyway or you just use 
 one gun most the time anyway. Also who the hell cares about graphics, i would rather play Doom 
 (legenadary game) than the awesome graphical crap gameplay bollocks that you lot play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well I don't have much to say despite buying it cheaply at Best Buy. Graphics are decent, especially 
 the bugs but the soldiers are a mess; lowish poly and stuff like that. Even Morrowind (a 2002 game) 
 had better detail on the humanoid characters..
  
  Sound was average/sub-par. Guns and bug sounds were good but the voice acting was cheesy and poorly 
 done
  
  AI was on mediocre terms, especially the troopers not backing off when hordes of bugs come their 
 way.
  
  Have not tried the multiplayer and probably not will.
  
  Overall, it's not really worth it unless you're just bored and need something new to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelson3300
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I am a veteran of the mid 90's strategy epic (hehe) of Starship Troopers. Recently, I was at best 
 buy and noticed... starship troopers, the PC game.. I was like, huh, did they re release it or 
 something? It was 20 bucks, and I'm on workman's comp from my back pain (aaah...) , so I figured 
 I'd try it out (I also bought the movie, because I just finished the book... it was a long day) .
 
  
  I figured my computer could handle it, I mean it was only 20 bucks!
  (gig of ram, 2.8ghz, 128mb geforce4...)
  Choppy as bloody hell, to begin with! I had to run the 
 game in 800X600X32 @ 75hz with everything off to make it run smoothly, and it looked like crap. 
 I could imagine, on a new system it would look mighty fine, but I don't have that... so nown goes 
 the score.
  
  The gameplay itself is rather redundant, but it does bring a certain nostalgia that was from the 
 movie, and a hint of book-like substance with the Cap trooper (Well, kind of..) . The player character 
 is part of some uber commando team, badass like the roughnecks, but more specialized. In this way 
 too it is like the book, where soldiers are spread out over a broad range, rather than en mass 
 as if they themselves were bugs (message!) .
  
  Its fun, but... eh.. if you're a fan, try it out. you won'd be dissapointed, unless of course you 
 have high expectations, which I will assume you won't considering most of these reviews. Very barren, 
 compared to oblivion review pages... lol
  one last thing, its only got 12 sp missions, and they can blow by quick if you have any idea how 
 to play an FPS. 
  -Trick Nelly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely terrible. There isn't a single hint of an interesting story (most of it 
 is the same as the movies but placed in different places, as if people won't notice) . Sound is 
 irritating at least, and graphics are awfull. It manages to be a tremendous system hog and still 
 have 20th century graphics.
  
  Gameply is absolutely boring. Sometimes the ammount of bugs you have to kill on a single spot without 
 even moving is ridicoulous, and larger bugs take forever to kill without every putting you in serious 
 danger. Thank god for the basic weapon of the game that doesn't run out of ammo! That means that 
 for large bugs you'll run out of ammo in seconds and then pass half an hour spitting fire with 
 your smallest weapon wondering when will the ordeal end. It's the first time ever that a FPS got 
 me bored. I'm not kidding, I actually felt sick for looking at the same scenario, same bug, listening 
 to the same weapon sound for such a long time. And speaking of weapons, there are less than ten 
 (not bad right?) but three of them are exactly the same weapon with a different alt. fire! And 
 it's not like SW republic commando where you put different attachements on the main weapon, it's 
 actually three seperate weapons with individual ammo! (I have no ammo on my moritta with shotgun, 
 better switch to my moritta with scope!) .
  
  If you even consider wasting money on this, run, run away as fast as you can and don't dare looking 
 back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bingbashbosh
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Right, so in a nutshell Starship Troopers is a frustrating shooter that has no effort put in to 
 gameplay whatsoever.
  
  So first up is the story you are a starship trooper who is sent out to fight giant bugs just like 
 in the film if you have seen it. You don't really get much info out of the story. It is dull and 
 pretty much boring. Plus the ending isn't worth finishing the game to see it.
  
  The gameplay is really frustrating, making you want to smash your comp to tiny pieces. It is hard 
 and repetitive and the guns in the game are pretty much useless against the aliens. It also gets 
 really boring just shooting at the same aliens over and over again.
  
  The graphics are very bad and you get a constant framerate drop when load's of enemies enter the 
 fight. there was also little effort in there to. It would probably be better if there was an auto-detect 
 system that could make the graphics suit your comp best.
  
  Finally the multiplayer is very simple and is not really worth playing. it includes the basic deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch modes and also some other ones. Also there are not many servers online most 
 of the time anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhao_lei
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the Starship Troopers movie and the book's for the longest time but when 
 i played this game it made me cry inside. It was so buggy it lagged every few second's... EVEN 
 ON SINGLE PLAYER. That and it was a poor trial to create a cell shader that failed miserably graphics 
 wise and gameplay. On the gameply side it created things that never existed such as shield's and 
 things of that nature, it also created the bugs to be some soft shelled weak little garden beetles. 
 If my opinion holds any merit then i would like to dissuade you from buying this game, save your 
 money for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orc_Master12
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/About: I found this game to be real enjoyable at times. Lots of bugs comeing at you in 
 the same dirction which makes the bugs easier to kill. While the game is petty much about your 
 an elite marauder in the mobile infantry sent to battle this big bad bugs. I was really glad they 
 made the second Starship game a FPS becasue it really feels like your a trooper sent to an alien 
 planet killing the bugs. The game is based on both movies (great movies by the way) so you met 
 travel to levels that was from the second movie like the frist mission then do a level that was 
 in the frist movie like the outpost.
  
  Graphics: When I frist bought the game my comp or my dads comp could not handle the system requirements 
 so that was a real drag. But luckily my friend just bought a new comp so i went to his just to 
 play it. When I frist saw the graphics I was kind of disspointed because I thought with all the 
 other games coming to the pc like call of duty2 and quake 4 with some nice graphics that starship 
 troopers could have the same. I'm not saying the graphics were bad but the shades, darkness controled 
 all the worlds that you travel in the game. Alot of the same colours were used in the worlds it 
 wasn't bad becaues most of the worlds in starship troopers the moives were ethier night or a wasteland. 
 The coloures of the bigger stronger bugs were good looking like the Royal Warrior bug.
  
  Sound: I have two things to say about the sound. The sound of the grunts bad (when they are talking) 
 It sounds they used two guys to do all the vocies for the grunts. But when grunts get attack with 
 all the sceaming and yelling that kind of scared me because your walking though a wastland to hear 
 all of this sceaming helps nothing better then hearing that. Also the gun fire sounded the same 
 to me but that didn't stop me. My fav thing about the sound of the game is for the bugs. They was 
 like only two sounds for each bug but there were really good it even scared my older brother.
 
  
  Muiltyplayer: I found it hard to play with anyone on starship troopers with all of the bad reviews 
 going on. So I just had to play with my friend. We took his bro's laptop and played togather. It 
 was fun playing toghter killing bugs on the co-op levels on LAN. Standing side by side will hordes 
 of bugs come from all sides and your blasting by the million.
  
  Overall: Good game, nice graphics, sound somewhat of good muiltypayer but its a game That I think 
 shooter fans should try out. ( this was my frist review)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaunlin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I have no clue why GameSpot rated it a 3.8? Thats pretty mean.
  
  Gameplay: Very repetitive, fun when you have barely any ammo and theres over 3 dozen of them trying 
 to eat you, MI Friendlys are hopeless and seem to only rush to their deaths, not enough fun watching 
 your friendlys getting killed (they should have made the bugs rip them apart and play with their 
 limbs lol) , what the hell is up with the darkness? rather its too bright or too dark, having armour 
 with the health made the game seem to easy because you can easily pick them off from a distance. 
 Gameplay overall is fine because the game was designed to overwhelm you, give you not just a taste, 
 but a bowlful of what its like as a Mobile Infantry Grunt, except for your MI friendly's because 
 I'm about 100% sure that they were chosen to fight bugs because they could... but they dont.... very 
 sad.... lol
  
  Graphics: Environments are too plain and dont have enough texture to make them look like realistic 
 terrain. Arachnid blood looks a hell of alot fake! Framerates drop when close to alot of bugs (download 
 all patches to fix that) . Bugs have a slick chrome texture added to make them look texture-rich. 
 MI friendlys faces are really badly done. I once almost killed a friendly once because I saw his 
 face and I fired at him becuase he looked scarier than the bugs LMAO! I like the idea of the bugs 
 breaking through walls and ground. Overall the graphics (at maxiumum detail) look good.
  
  Sound: The sound pissed the crap outta me! Bugs only had only 2 things to say and was repetetive, 
 the MI friendlys were shouting and saying rediculous
  comments during a bug battle and after and becomes annoying after a while because they repeat the 
 same things. The guy in the radio that talks to you pissed me off because while your fighting for 
 your life to survive he is calm and collected, and he thinks this is fun or something! Overall 
 the sound sucks.
  
  Artificial Intelligence: The A. I. is vary bad. There is only one tactic that your fellow combatants 
 know: Kill anything that has more than 2 legs. Basically thats what you're doing throughout the 
 whole game, but theres gotta be a bit more to make it fun right? WRONG. Your MI friendlys dont 
 care if they die and dont get me wrong they're brave and all, but theres no point in going suicidal 
 for no reason. They like rushing the bugs: They are slowing shifting forward towards them and firing 
 with only a burst fire-rate (3 rounds) . The Arachnids arent are a bit more stratagetic on the battlefield: 
 Warriors and Tigers will gang up on one enemy, kill him and then advanced to the next target. However, 
 if you happen to see a wave of bugs with at least 3 different kinds, then you're in a world of 
 pain. Warriors + Tigers + Hoppers may give you a hard time: while trying to deal with alot of gound 
 troops likes warriors that are perhaps weak in defense and tigers that are fierce, you are also 
 watching out for those Hoppers you may come by and chop you into 2. Overall I'm disapointed about 
 the fact that you have no other option (s) of playing as a different character or maybe even as 
 an Arachnid.
  
  Weapons: Not a whole great deal of weapons, even though they only showed 3 in the first movie. 
 I think the sniper is useless. However the nuke gun is wicked! Both Mortika Rifles are awsome and 
 the shotgun is somewhat aprehensive. Plasma gun? *nuff said*
  
  Storline: hmmm.... The storyline is more based on a command: "Kill anything with more than 2 legs" 
 The voice acting is terrible. The objective of the game is repeated.
  
  Value: Right now its out for 19.99$ Certainly worth buying if you are a great Starship Troopers 
 fan and cant wait.
  
  Tilt: Worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudmanalben
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Eh. Not bad, especially if you download the patches. While there are still some bugs 
 (no pun intended) , it's not as bad as the Gamespot review makes it sound. I did not encounter any 
 of the glitches that they described after the patches. As for the rest of the gameplay, it's pretty 
 fun actually. I mean, the only times I encounter lag is when there are too much things going on 
 screen (e. g. Three tanker bugs and a royal warrior, as well as hundreds of regular warriors, and 
 then me shooting a nuke in the middle of them all... yeah, that'll bring your frame rate down a 
 little bit) . In the movie, the soldiers were always fighting hordes of bugs. You do the same in 
 the game. As for the voiceacting, nothing special. Too bad they didn't use Casper Van Dien as much 
 as they should have. Your commander sounds God awful, but other than that, it's okay. Your pilot-friend 
 sounds fine and the other soldiers sound decent. As for the bugs, well, they're bugs. Who cares? 
 The gameplay was fun and somewhat interesting. 'Nuff said.
  
  Graphics: Nothing to brag about. I'm not a total graphics whore, so I didn't really care about 
 this one. It's true, however, that the soldier's faces look absolutely horrible, but then again 
 you're not exactly going to be staring in their faces while you're trying to mow down hordes of 
 bugs. The weapons/ships/buildings look oversimplified however. They just look plain. But that's 
 okay because they look like the weapons in the movie, so that's good I guess. As for the bug graphics, 
 they're decent. The only beef there really is to have with the graphics is how the humans just 
 seem to "fall apart" when they die from the bugs. If graphics isn't that important to you, you'll 
 probably like this game. If you're totally crazy about graphics, this wouldn't be the game for 
 you.
  
  Sound: Not much to say. The guns sound like guns, the bugs sound like bugs. I already talked about 
 the voice acting. The music is the same as the movie soundtrack composed by Basil Polidouris, and 
 is pretty good.
  
  Value: There is a multiplayer, but I don't even think it's online anymore. I figure the only way 
 to play multiplayer is on a LAN cable with other friends. That being said, once you complete Single 
 Player there isn't much to do except play it again and try to unlock all the extras. As long as 
 you download all the patches, the game shouldn't crash when you play the movies in the extras (nor 
 should it crash during gameplay) . Some of the levels are fun enough to replay, but some of the 
 levels you vow to yourself that you will never play again.
  
  Overall: Good. Decent. Not bad. Could have been better. The game as it is, is worth it, especially 
 for only $20. If they kept working on it for a couple more months, it could have turned out much 
 better than it is now. No sense in complaining though. If you find it, and got the extra cash, 
 pick it up, especially if you're a big SST movie/book fan (I've read the book and saw both movies, 
 and yes, I liked BOTH movies) . If you don't have the extra cash, don't worry, you can wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevo-magnifico
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  the game features content from both movies and has some of its qwn. its fans are hard to come by 
 and few in number unlike the cult favorite movie. the game features a 300 unit smorm engine that 
 puts you in an epic campaign to save mankind from destruction. the game is presented just like 
 the movie with mission breifings and fed-net broadcasts. it also features new bugs. such as poisen 
 psitting warriors and giant rihno bugs. if you enjoy games that put you into great battles and 
 dont have great graphics than this is the game for you. so go play and decide for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasssa
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  as soon as i heard about the upcoming release of starship troopers, i was ful of excitement and 
 every hour of the day i was checking if some more news was released. finally after all the waiting 
 i ran out and bought starship troopers, i thought to myself 'finally i can live the films' ( well 
 the first one anyway) . while i was installing i could remember all the little goodies that were 
 SUPOSE to be in their, such as the cinamatiic deaths etc, at that point i jus couldnt wait. After 
 installing and finally starting up the training mission i droped my jaw in disapointment.
  
  first of all the gamplay, can be quite fun, but what really got up my nose was that i was a 
 super human marauder who could take out a basic aracnid with about 4 or 5 shots from the marauder 
 gun, i may be whinning but I WANNA BE A GRUNT!!! why the hell do i wanna be some over powered guy 
 who has to go off solo all the time, it jus took away the atmousphere that you get from the first 
 film, aracnids are suppose to be confronted by groups and even in a small group, bringing down 
 one takes a **** load of shots, but this game had to go all halo didnt it!!!! 
  also another thing i didnt like, was the delayed reaction when you move the mouse or use the movement 
 keys, which can make gameplay harder than its worth.
  the last thing on gameplay i hated was how they tried to make their own story up, which really 
 was jus coppied from the films, but instead they got all smart and changed the name of the planet 
 your on. good job their....... not.
  but other thatn that it was alright. oh and where the ....... was the cinematic deaths eh?? the 
 fact is i could go on all day about this crap but its late so il move on.
  
  graphics..... SST has some nice graphics to try and cover all that ****ty gameplay, but in truth, 
 it carrys a few glitches. it seems the devs went all mad with the shiny effects lol, cus even rocks 
 n stuff seem to be glossd up. Also the troopers faces are pretty dam ugly, bad modle work. other 
 than that they good it going for em, bugs look god, MI gear etc.
  
  the sound isnt really god at all, the bugs only make one type of noise, voic acting is poor, espectally 
 johnny reco's little 2 second apperence. he was hanging on to somthing that just aint their imo. 
 the best thing about the sound is some of the music taken from the films.
  
  Multiplayers the worst, seriously ive never played somthing as perfetic as the online co op missions, 
 good luck finding them is all i can say.
  
  All in all this has been made by the wrong producers who clearly have no passion in SST so you 
 end up with a buggy , **** game, that cant keep you interested, i mean im a pretty big fan, and 
 it couldnt keep my attention, but i suppose it wasnt made to be a classic and i wasnt expecting 
 that. i would of made it being based on the original film, allowing you to actually be the main 
 character, as a grunt in a big conflict between bug and human.
  
  very disapointed, i doubt noone will come to aid now, even if your a did hard fan, dont bother, 
 all your get is greif.
  
  'You dont do your job il shot ya myself' (blows hole through sst game)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  One of the main points of this game is to give the player a firsthand experience from the perspective 
 of the characters of the movie Starship Troopers, which was definitely acheived. The first level 
 of the game does a good job imposing the sheer scale of the battles on the player. But with the 
 scale of the battles comes a few concessions from other areas. 
  
  The animations of the bug hordes when they're seen from a distance is choppy, but they look fine 
 when you move close enough to shoot them. The enemy AI is not advanced in that they will not take 
 cover under fire or anything like that, but rather they move and act like they do in the movies, 
 like a horde of living weapons with a single goal. 
  
  Although some parts come close to becoming tedious, the game offers enough fresh obstacles to keep 
 the average gamer interested. The enemy types are many and varied, and they have a lot of different 
 tactics in their employ. In the end Starship Troopers' number of enemies, fun gameplay, and cool 
 environments add to a gritty futuristic war game with killer bugs that satisfies.
  
  I picked my copy up of of ebay for $10 and it was a great buy. It kept me excited and I enjoyed 
 every minute of it. Of course I am a big fan of the 2 movies and hope to see more sequels too.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  In my personal opinion, this game is more fun then most people say it is.
  Now this game is no Half life, ill say that first but its really fun nether the less.
  The Graphics 
 are actually alright, nothing deeply wrong with them, sure they're not up to standards compared 
 to games like Oblivion, HL2 and DOOM3, but i think they're ok, limbs and blood fly off bugs, Effects 
 are good IMO, Textures could be a little better but it makes up for it with loads of bugs.
  Sound is alright, nothing special here but its still solid, Gunfire, Bugs screeching and Marines 
 shouting are all ok.
  Hmmm... Gameplay, well if you just want a quick blast with some bugs, sure you can do that, and 
 there's really nothing like seeing a whole mass of bugs come charging over a hill with all you're 
 Trigger-Happy buddies having a blast at them and its got a pretty lengthy single player campaign 
 too.
  I believe i picked this game up for quite cheap, 9.99 it was where i got it, and that was when 
 it was first released, but i think that was a special deal that the online store was doing. :)
 
  I'd recommend this game to anyway who likes the Film of Starship Troopers (like me) or to anyone 
 who likes First Person Shooters in General, however don't except to see any Human Enemies in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The game has really good graphics and its not really up to date but its still good and the misiions 
 offer lots of really fun killing space bug ass i mean its really fun to kill those things and actually 
 Ive love their movie but i dont like starship troopers 2 that suck! starship troopers, THE FIRST 
 ONE!, was great i mean the troopers get to kill the aliens and that was so cool i mean i had dreams 
 to you know i always wanted to be those troopers and kill the heck with those darn ass alien 
 
  
  The game alows you to kill as much alien as u can which is great because its worth wasting your 
 darn bullets but when i see the weapon to the movie weapon there similar in fighting i mean they 
 dont really do much effect on the alien but still dought this game is worth you dam money!
  
  and commander rico the voice for him its actually the same rico for the starship trooper1 if 
 u dont balive me check "IMDB" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardTo
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 9, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I realize that this game has been regarded as trash, boring, and a bad recreation of the movie.
 
  
  That can be very true, depending on your opinion of what is a "good" game.
  
  For me, a typical "good" game is a game like this. I love blowing things up... who doesn't?
  
 
  The graphics are not "horrible" as many people describe it, the only renders with fairly limited 
 quality are the troopers... however, you will quite easily forget about their appearances when 
 there's a horde of bugs charging at you and your men.
  
  I rated the gameplay 9 because this is simply an easy pick-up-and-go shooter. The gameplay is very 
 straight-forward most of the time, no puzzles, no nothing... and that's one of the reasons why 
 it's been disregarded. I, personally, think it's a relief... no more wandering around in the dark 
 with a flashlight and a tiny pistol, just good ol' action.
  
  Value is also a 9 because, as I mentioned earlier, this is a pick-up-and-go shooter. Just load 
 the auto-save from the beginning of a level you like, and start blasting bugs.
  
  However, I admit that the sound brings the overall game enjoyability down. I don't mind the cheesy 
 voice acting, I am only concerned with the music. The music itself is not bad at all, it's just 
 that in some cases, for instance when you've been engaged in a long fight with a boss, the music 
 will automatically stop at the end of a track and all you'll hear is the boss thumping around and 
 swiping at you until you kill him.
  
  Overall, I am enjoying (I still haven't beaten the game, the game features a lengthy campaign... 
 another plus) Starship Troopers, and I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a "good" 
 game like I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 4, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you don't agree with this review due to fact that you enjoyed this game more than 
 I did, tell me what you think I was out of the line saying or if I said something that was incorrect. 
 Don't just dissagree with this review due to fact you are a 'fanboy' and think this guy has no 
 idea what he is talking about. This review is absolutely just for the members of Gamespot that 
 have not played this game and wants too.
  
  ---
  
  Starship Troopers, when you hear this name... you think of the one of the greatest Sci-fi movies 
 ever made. But when it comes to the games... you think different, way different. Starship Troopers 
 HAS SO MUCH potential, but the developers just hasn't felt that area too much. When you first play 
 the game, you will have fun, no doublt about it. But as you play through the game... you will feel 
 let down.
  
  The gamplay of Starship Troopers is pretty simple and basic. You walk around, follow a trail and 
 shoot bugs. But this is one thing the developers really did good on, there was lots and lots of 
 bugs on one screen at once. 
  
  However, the AI in the creatures was good... well, compared with the movie's standards. The bugs 
 AI has one purpose, to kill. The bugs will just charge at you and attempt to kill you and of course... 
 they fail. The one thing that could have been changed was that in the level Outpost 29, when the 
 bugs swarm the outpost, the bugs would jump on the side and come up and just attack you and just 
 go back down and do the same exact thing over again. The marines were NEVER pulled over, the flying 
 bugs never came and took off heads. Dissapointing. While you play through the storyline, you are 
 actually really never forced to fall back. And when you get the Carbine, you can just mow down 
 over a hundred bugs and keep moving. You were over twenty times more powerful than the bug and 
 the game just got boring after awhile.
  
  A minor plus to the game is that there was alot of different enemies and weapons. But the fact 
 that most of all the weapons were the same but each had something different on the weapon, example: 
 scope, grenade launcher, ect. There wasn't alot of different things to choose from. Also, the fact 
 that some bugs can have 'Bullet Proof' armour is just retarded.
  
  The storyline is about one lone soldier named a Maurader. Or a super soldier in a way with special 
 armour and has a rechargable shield. You can be put unto the battlefield at anytime anywhere. You 
 first start out landing on the dirt in a canyon, and its night, with about thirty or so comrades 
 around you. You push forward and move into battle, and here you get your first kills. The assualt 
 rifles are powerful, and are personally too powerful. The bugs has little or pretty much no strength 
 at all. It only takes a couple of shots to bring down one of the bugs, very disloyal to the movie. 
 
  
  As you beat one mission after another, you will end up seeing actual clips from the movies from 
 Starship Troopers. The footage is not very good either, its almost like its in low-qualtity form 
 when they ported it. The fact that they didn't put enough effort into creating a new story with 
 in-game cenematics is just dissapointing. They should really just sell the rights to this game 
 as quickly as possible.
  
  The storyline is very lengthy though, the only good thing about the storyline. You will end up 
 seeing that your Marines are very helpful because they are hard to die, something extremely terrible 
 is that there can be over ten bugs surrounding, and I mean surrounding one Marine; it would take 
 the bugs over a minute or two minutes for that lone Marine to die. And dies so simplistically its 
 laughable. He falls to the ground. Movie fans, such as myself, will be greatly dissapointed by 
 this feature because why? We want to see some marines get mutalated. In the movie, you see blood, 
 you see gore, you see limbs flying; in the game: You Do Not See Any of that.
  
  The developers took off the Online mode because of all the bad reviews the game got. When I played 
 online, I experienced some heavy lag all the time. The only thing that was close to being a little 
 fun was the co-op mode which actually doesn't last long though since its too easy. The deathmatch 
 mode I didn't even try due to fact the online mode didn't even last long. Nor did alot of players 
 play online because they didn't like the game. The best thing for the developers to do is sell 
 the rights for this game to some larger company that can actually create a good game. You know, 
 maybe Ubisoft, or Activision or even Microsoft Game studios.
  
  The graphics in the game is average, nothing near amazing or nothing near special. The blood in 
 the game is bland and looks terrible. The body parts look poorly done and is squared. The environment 
 is boring and simple. The characters are just plain ugly to look at. The good things is that the 
 weapons and bugs look pretty decent. The detail in the weapons and bugs wasn't too bad; it was 
 fair.
  
  The sound is the worst part of the game, absolutely terrible. The voice acting was laughable funny 
 due to fact it was so bad. The weapons sound weak and multiple gameplay bugs can have you not hearing 
 your weapon at all. The bugs sound horrible and the marines screams were absolutely pathetic. I 
 actually didn't think a game could have such bad sound. I was wrong.
  
  So, if you enjoy Starship Troopers; You 'may', notice how I said May not will, like this game. 
 And if you have never seen the movies or read the book, just pretend this game doesn't exist.
 
  
  + Lengthy Singleplayer
  + Lots of bugs
  - Sound is terrible
  - Voice Acting is terrible
  - Marines don't die like in the movie
  - Multiplayer is boring
 
  - Gameplay is repetative
  - Lots of gameplay bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amarkdab
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I will state my personal bias first, I loved the book, and I thought the first movie was an interesting 
 take on that book. That said, speaking from long experience with FPS games, this one falls into 
 the middle of the road. The graphics are not cutting edge, but not terrible. The missions are very 
 'Serious Sam' in that it's just waves of bugs, and not much else. That's OK with me, I like the 
 bugs and I like SHOOTING the bugs. The only problems that I've experienced were some 'popping' 
 of the sound, minor clipping of the bugs from time to time, and an occasional 'hitch' in the framerate 
 (a one second freeze once in a while) . While annoying, those things haven't ruined it for me by 
 any means. It's not a really immersive game like Half Life or Far Cry, it's just run and gun. Since 
 you can buy the game cheaply now, you don't have much to lose. I can't speak to the online experience, 
 since I don't play online much. You, dear reader, will have to find out on your own. I have a 3ghz, 
 1 gig RAM, 128 meg video gaming machine, and it runs adequately at 1024x768. I'll edit this review 
 if I find anything like a 'fun killer', but on the whole, it is not the piece of s**T that many 
 reviewers say that it is. It stacks up poorly against some of the best games, but if you liked 
 the movie, you'd probably like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game was quite good despite what people say. There is just something about ripping apart 1000's 
 of bugs with a automatic weapon. 
  One problem is the weapons in the game there all the same just modified versions. 
  The graphics 
 are quite poor at times like textures on people and the ground but the special effects are nice. 
 
  The ai in the game are really how can I put this stupid your better of fighting by your self
 
  Over all is a good game and can be played for least 10 hours before the boredom set in online 
 play helps this out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveski
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow the gamespy reviewer was really hard on this game. Did the developer kill his dog or what. 
 If this game came out 2 years ago it would've have been a big hit. However now it's just average, 
 but it's not terrible either. Play the game on medium or hard mode for a good challenge. There 
 are some great missions that you'll remember from the movies ,only wish they would've put in the 
 power armour from the books though. If you are a fan of the books/movies and like 1st person shooters 
 then this is a decent game... no one is on multiplayer though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fox_1122
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  i, m a starshiptrooper fan and i liked this game it captured the movie very well whit all the huge 
 bug armys and your men getting sliced in to two and carnege everywere but i only recommend this 
 game to the fans if starshiptroopers is new to you then watch the movie frist then think about 
 buying this game. anyways good overrall game the only thing that i didn, t like was the boring bosses 
 you have to shoot them about 50000 millon billon zillon times before there dead. and some times 
 the game bugs alot uugghh.. _ ps the movie rocks see it now!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Firstly, lets get the negative bits out of the way. Bugs. No, not the aliens, but the bugs in the 
 game. I downloaded patches from the website, and it made the game far more enjoyable and with better 
 framerates. If you keep begging for more patches, they'll release em'.
  I don't see why people complain about the graphics. Yes, they're a bit outdated so what? They're 
 not as good as Half Life, or Doom 3, but they still look great. We all still know people play counterstike. 
 We all still know people play Doom. We all still know people play starcraft, and all those games 
 can be compared with next-gen Halo 2, Battlefield 1942, Doom 3... yet people still play them. Why?
 
  Because of the gameplay.
  I found starship troopers a good game. To be honest, I spent quite a long time playing the game, 
 and its still in my hard drive. The bugs look great, animations are great. Hey, gamespot said graphics 
 were bad. Lets give all the bugs the same quality textures as half life. Goodness gracious. The 
 game needs 100 next-gen computers to run. You run around completing your objectives. Yes it may 
 be linear, but its still so amazing to recreate the battles from the movie. I love playing war 
 games where you are in a battle of epic proportions. Its fun watching the mass of bugs charging 
 to you and a group of troops in a trench returning fire. The AI may be bad, but hey, imaging all 
 the RAM and CPU it needs for calculating all the troop and bug AI! In fact, I was playing the game 
 as I was writing this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When will game developers learn that more enemies does not under any circumstances make a good 
 game, this game throws hundreds of enemies at you at once and expects you to enjoy getting killed 
 over and over. This is not the only problem, the game has many bugs (sorry about the bad pun) there 
 are graphics bugs, gameplay bugs, bugs with the sound effects and many more. Why did they take 
 a perfectly good film and destroy it like that? They actually put footage of the film into the 
 cutscenes too, one of the only actual resemblances to the film. I got half way through the story 
 mode and decided to trade the game in and never speak of it again so you should be happy I plucked 
 up the courage to review it. Suffice to say, this game could go down in history as one of the worst 
 first person shooters ever. Be warned!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverDraggon
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  To sum up this game in one word "overwhelming". Empire Interactive have made a game which follows 
 the storyline of the legendary movie. In Starship Troopers, you take on the role of one of the 
 elite soldiers known as the marauder. Your job, help humanity survive what seems like an infinate 
 wave of crawling, stinging, biting and plasma throwing xeno aliens. Acting as an army of one, you 
 have to shoot your way through up to two hundred insects at once. If you're the kind of person 
 who likes mowing down bug after bug, Starship Troopers is the game for you. Take caution, because 
 if you are the type of person who dislikes the intense rush of adrenaline and the speed of a grown 
 hopper flying towards you at 150 miles per hour, this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizGF
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this game may seem dull, after all the reviews are pretty much bad. When and if 
 you go to play this game go into it thinking only what it should be and that's a shooter. Don't 
 think it will be a Halo or Half-Life 2. Think of it as a simpler Doom. Really it is just a Doom, 
 you go around and shoot bugs, many many bugs. Which is what SST gets right, many bugs on screen 
 at once.
  Consequently it's not as pretty as other games right now, which is why I say don't try and make 
 this game what it is not. There are allies which are intelligent, they shoot bugs and can hold 
 the line, that is until the tankers come, let's just say fried Mobile Infantry.
  
  I highly suggest for you to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tewwie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is one of those love-it-or-hate-it types, and, judging by the current reviews, 
 most people seem to dislike it. However, i thought that this game was actually quite fun and not 
 repetitive at all and definitely captured the feel of the first SST movie's battle scenes. The 
 graphics on this game were pretty good, though not as good as some other recent FPSs (which must 
 have been a sacrifice for putting so many enemies on-screen at once) , but the sound on this game 
 wasn't exactly top-notch; the explosions, gunfire, et c... were all typical for an FPS, but the 
 sounds made by the bugs were downright annoying while the voiceovers often overlapped and sounded 
 uninspired. The gameplay, to me, was the strongest point of this game; the swarm levels, where 
 you mowed down row after row of well-animated bugs, were very satisfying to play and had great 
 replay value due to the Mission Attack mode.
  
  All in all, i would recommend this game to any FPS fans (though i would recommend renting it first 
 due to its "love-it-or-hate-it nature) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallout_red
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I was very exited to see a game based on ST. I thoght it could bee reallt fun too kill those bugs. 
 I had even hoped that we can control bugs but...
  
  -= Gameplay =- 6: OK I give it 6 because I love killing massive enemies bugs and hey I usually 
 love violent video games (Mortal Kombat RULES) . but ST is a medium FPS with lots and lots of bugs 
 (both alien bugs and gameplay bugs) and other elements are do not fit. Anyway killing hordes of 
 bugs can not be dull, wait... can it? maybe??
  
  -= Graphics =- 6: They tried to use a lot of new and cool technologies like shaders and particle 
 effects along with moderate shadowcasting. Well none of them work properly and character models 
 are plain bad. Framerate is another big problem and level design sometimes feels too dated and 
 empty.
  
  -= Sound and Music =- 4: Even celeb cast can not help it. Music has bugs dialogues are weak and 
 effects are awefull. What was Casper Van Dien thinking!!??
  
  -= Value =- 5: Story, Bad. Although game is long enough there is no need to finish it!!. ST book 
 fans will also be disappointed. Rep value can't be found here or can it? Not much content.
  
  Game wasted one great idea of gaming: Fun in killing bugs and being killed by them. Hey atleast 
 I wanted to kill some troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off, don't buy this game for the singleplayer aspect. The only fun part that I've experienced 
 is the multiplayer coop. They have some decent levels where you have to try and get through swarms 
 of bugs to complete your mission (and there's only like two or three coop maps worth playing) , 
 but even then they really missed the mark. In most of them you have to try and protect this dumbass 
 engineer who just stands there as he's being mauled to death! It's ridicuous. And then they didn't 
 even have a good base defense level like in the movie. It's really weak. So basically this isnt 
 worth much, i wouldnt spend more than 10 bucks on.
  
  Pros:
  
  Some of the guns are cool
  Lots to kill in some levels
  
  Cons:
  
  Too many to list! 
 (AI issues, gfx are terrible, no single player and poor mulitplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics, stability issues aside this could have been a very enjoyable game.
  Except now we are still left waiting for that Sci-fi FPS that will move us like Halo
  never will.
 
  
  The concept is there and will probably work. I must first problem was getting the game running 
 for starters. It loaded, and then pretty much hung.
  Driver upgrades and scouring for patches and just general tinkering eventually got this bad boy 
 up and running.
  
  Aside from the obvious this game actually has some potential and I don't doubt
  that version 
 Starship Troopers will be a more accomplished title, but for now
  we'll have to wait and pick this one out of the bargain bin , if we're really want to play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damouk2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant, Amazing, Out of this world. Empire have done a fantastic job in recreating a fantastic 
 Sci-Fi movie. OK some of the levels have pretty dark and very hard to see the bug from the cliff 
 face or the rock and uneven ground. But hey that's one of the best feature of the game. It alway 
 keeps you on the ball of trigger should I say.
  
  Even though I have only played the demos until now, but I have to admit it was the first game I 
 tried we I got my new computer. Empire have brought players right in to the action, and with on 
 of the stupid cam angles that was in the 1999's version by Blue tough.
  
  I just hope they keep bringing on the bugs. he he. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Starship troopers is Very Under rated. Yeah i know The Voice Acting isn't Top Notch like you see 
 on Doom III and that But this game is Great fun to play offline or online. Once you have Beaten 
 a Mission you can go Back to it and replay it to see how many bugs you can kill and Score and Mission 
 Time. This little menu is called "Mission Attack" and its great replay Value.
  
  The Games Graphics are Amazing! Bugs looks cool and Yeah i know also they Might not Put up a Challenge 
 Most times But still they come in the 100s witch often Make you Out numbered and say. OMG when 
 they srat to swarm all over the place. the Other Mobile Infantry do a Good job sometimes and its 
 fun to see how many to can keep alive untill the end of a Level. Most timeas they spot things you 
 dont even See like the Cliff Mites and they can Kill Bugs pretty good sometimes the Graphics on 
 them a Good Looking and Very close to the Films. Levels are Cool and allways Different The Last 
 one i was on was Super They was this Massive Deffence Wall with Turret Guns and M. I infantry lined 
 up. And a Masive Amount of Bugs Like Attacking. Its was Great. Fell of Huge Scale. As i said Levels 
 change from Deffend out post to Bug Nest's to Underground Labs its just great. 
  
  Sound: is Great Theres a few Sound Bugs here and there But who cares Most of the time your shooting 
 Bugs like 20 of them fighting like one of you Those odds and Not Great. Yet when youBlow them all 
 up they all make the sounds from the films. Guns sound great and look great and each has there 
 own use, strength and weakness, Music is also Fun to hear and comes on just when things get hot. 
 like when your being droped shiped the main thmese comeson. and fells great when playing.
  
  Online is good theres not really any body on but if you wait for a Bit some Guys might come 
 on for good game of co-op. Did i say co0op yes i did you and 8 others can blast bugs online and 
 plays cool. 
  
  Personly Please get this game. its great shooting fun and Like the old Saying goes Never Juge a 
 Book by its Covers. since theres a really great game Just Dug deep within all the Bad and underrated 
 Reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDonnovan
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Okay now that multiplayer can be fun but how or when is there ever a server available on the US 
 side. Plenty of UK servers but hey the game was made by them so go figure. Nothing like what EA 
 makes right. This game has been called about everything negative you can think of and its true. 
 The game bites. However, the one good thing is that when you want a game you know you can always 
 beat cause it has so many technical issues this is the game. The only upside I can see other than 
 that is LAN play but its not worth everyone going out and spending even $10 just to play missions 
 that are lame and short. Dont even start on the graphics.... I have seen better flash movies than 
 this game. How sad is that. No one in the UK must be able to program worth a poo otherwise something 
 in this game might have looked good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  With this game getting an unusual amount of hype seeing as the film is old enough for me to forget 
 when it came out I thought I would have a try.
  And that was my first mistake, my second was to think this game could redeem itself later on with 
 good set pieces and maybe a variation in gameplay.
  
  You basically walk around a desert looking environment and shoot bugs.
  And that is it, slight 
 variations include, fighting bugs at night, fighting bugs while protecting a base and fighting 
 bigger bugs. Did I mention this game involves shooting lots of bugs?
  As if this dull gameplay wasn't bad enough they have given you these weird graphics where even 
 the sand seems to shine and reflect light.
  
  Now that is the end of the bad stuff, lets get onto the good stuff...........
  well the game 
 is pretty  and it has the guy from the movie doing a voice  
 thats it really.
  There are a lot of better games out their but if you severely want an FPS then you can check this 
  please don't! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The first thing to look at before rating this game is the DATE of release. It was only released 
 like 2 months ago, so it should be comparable with other FPS out there rite now, such as Call of 
 Duty 2, Battlefield 2, and Half life 2. Here's how Starship Troopers (ST) compares.
  Graphics: 9/10
  Okay, so the graphics aren't horrid. In fact, they're pretty good; although you'd 
 need a VERY good card and cpu to run it. I have a Radeon 9600 XT 256 myself with a 3.0 P4 and it 
 can't even run the darn game at medium res. Either the coding for the game is crap, or the graphics 
 really ARE that good. The details are there, and the guns look cool and smooth, so no complaints 
 in this department.
  Gameplay: 3/10
  The story is rigid, the AI is horrid, and the objectives are impossibly hard. A failing grade is 
 achieved by the story having only ONE, and I emphasize, ONE way to complete a mission. There are 
 simply no other ways of winning a mission, since some of the "bugs" (aka: enemies) cannot be harmed 
 when they're not attacking you. This equals no sniping or planning out your attack in advance. 
 This really decreases the strategy in this game to the point where it becomes a first person shoot-em-up. 
 Nowadays, FPS are always a combination of skill, strategy, and realism. Starship Troopers fails 
 in all the categories. There is no realism, since you can get chomped on, stomped on, and scratched 
 on for a full minute before you actually die. Weirdly, in the movie, the troopers died with 2 hits?!?! 
 The AI is horrid in the way that they can't kill anything!!! There's absolutely no point in them! 
 Well, enough said for this abysmal game...
  Sound: 4/10
  Truly unrealistic sounds stem from no distance from source effect. This equals the same as your 
 commander speaking to you from a kilometer away being as loud as from a meter away. Even if it's 
 on a mic, then how do you explain the fact that the sound suddenly fades away after you leave a 
 certain location, such as the outpost? Also, you can't hear the flying bugs come at you, which 
 makes them really annoying when you can't figure out what's hitting you as you walk across the 
 canyon floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ideout
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of this "starship troopers", been waiting for long time to get the sequel from the first 
 game. Totally disappointed when first time play this game. 
  Graphic is not that good, no story that i understand. no friendly support even you got a support 
 team (i kill them when trying to kill the bugs) , the ai (bugs and friendly team) equal to idiot, 
 you act like servant because there's somebody voice asking you to go "there" or "here", no fun 
 at all.
  i don't think the developers use tester team to test this game before sell it. in some part of 
 the game we try to play like a good. no strategy can use, no medicine pack, and lot of bugs that 
 cannot kill by one shoot (there's a bug that you should shoot in the "butt") . Stress, not fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I am sorry, but this games could have been great if it wasn't for the bad graphics, the weak storyline 
 and the constant rip-off from the Verhoeven film with the same name... 
  
  I was a fan of the film, but shooting those bugs in the game was like stepping back in time, and 
 belive me, I have seen bugs move around on screen more fluently in my favorite game "Lands Of Lore 
 II", but hey, that game came way back in 1997...
  
  So, if you get this game you will be bored out of your skull... Positive sides, well... It's as 
 easy to uninstall as it is to install... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the Starship Trooper movie i was fascinated!
  
  Then, it came the 3D strategy game, and it was pretty hard, but it was great. Then, it came the 
 second movie, which ivent seen actually, everybody tells craps of this movie, but i suppose that 
 i finally going to see it anyway...
  
  And then, ti came this... thing... that we may call game. To review this game particullary ive 
 to take away all the excellent memories that ive from the movie and look at it ugly face in an 
 objective way.
  
  The Difficulty of the game is pretty normal, playing in normal mode, youll encounter some situations 
 in which even your super armor cant withstand the number power of the bugs, and will come across 
 some **** situations when youve to protect someone else, but appart from that, its just right.
 
  
  The gameplay its a strange one, for example, you have a "jump" key, but if when you jump you raise 
 above the ground more than 15 cms its a miracle, it seem more like a complementary key thant an 
 useful one. The another weird thing cames with the weapons; for example, you can kill normal araknid 
 bugs with your plasma MK4 rifle of unlimited supply of ammo, but when a Tiger Araknid appear, you 
 have to use some bullet weapon like the MK2, until this point, everything its allright, the weird 
 thing came when you use a powerfulest weapon like the MK2 against normal bugs, and it takes more 
 time and effort to kill them than the "normal bug designed rifle MK4", it seem like every weapon 
 its specifically designed for a kind of bug. The missions are fun, a bit repetitive like youll 
 expect of a Starship Trooper, but they give you the chance to kill THOUSANDS of bugs (literally) . 
 Its a nice idea to give you the role of a special unit, because the regular soldiers dont last 
 too much and are practically useless on the field.
  
  When you go to the graphics department, you find a very old graphic engine with poor textures, 
 repetitive and barely worked models and not much worked enviroments, but the WORSE of all, its 
 the animation of the movement of the bugs, because when they are close you dont have much time 
 to capture they moving, but when they are far you can see that their movements are like two photos 
 alternating and they look like a shooting range picture of a bug that approaches to you moving 
 in only two positions that flips.
  
  The sound isnt a thing from another world, the background music resembling the movies are just 
 fine and its a great music to some moments of intense battles. The weapons sound are almost continuous 
 from the moment you start to play, they give you a great sensation of a great battle.
  
  Overall, youll have to love the movies and have a great passion for pulling continuously the trigger 
 and enjoying the fact that you are hard to kill, and maybe you can overcome some major details 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Its great iv always thought that the games now are just to stupid its more like a movie then a 
 game well this game is the answer to my prayiers its a massive shoot um up now the graphics are 
 a little bad bought hey this is a fps were you get to fight literly billions of bugs at the same 
 time.
  
  Its great but this game would be supurb if you gave it to some high company such as blizzard, Thq, and 
 Bungie if you gave it to them this game could be a master piece but its still worth playing if 
 you wanta a getta way from the average feature lenght movie/game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batsugun
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The good: Lots of enemies on screen at once. Plenty of fire power. Mindless kill lots of bugs fun.
 
  
  Plenty of different bugs to kill in many different sizes. 
  
  Sound effects are good plenty of squishy bug sounds.
  
  The Bad: The game is glitchey, I sometimes 
 get stuck behind objects after getting bumped by bugs and have to restart level (Bait level mostly) . 
 Download and install patches.
  
  The game goes from very easy in some levels to extreemly hard in other levels. 
  
  Some objectives 
 are repeated in multiple levels.
  
  Graphics are mediocre. But the bug model graphics are good.
  
  Overall: This game is not nearly 
 as bad as the reviewer stated. Make sure you download the latest patch as at fixes many problems. 
 
  
  The game is designed to apeal to us twitch shooter fans. Its not HL2 or F. E. A. R and its not revolutionary.
 
  
  I had a lot of fun playing the game. Its very good game for us Serious Sam/Painkiller fans who 
 like the action fast and nonstop. The graphics are good and get the job done.
  
  Not sure its worth $40 but would make excellente budget game. So if you find it cheep definitely 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnose
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Some people out there, mostly the people who have given this game a bad review just dont know the 
 meaning of fun. How can shooting 200+ bugs to bits with an array of kick-ass weapons not be concidered 
 fun!?
  
  To start of i just want to say that this game really did exceed my expectations, hugely. At first 
 the game seemed a little tame compared to other shooters on the market; but once i got into the 
 action i was addicted to the non-stop slaughter of those damn pesky bugs. This game is incredably 
 fun and always keeps you on the edge of your seat. The game is very very intense at times, this 
 is because you get around 300 bugs charging towards you with the soul intent of ripping your guts 
 out! This is some intense s**t my friends and it gets even more nerve racking when you find out 
 that you have to kill them ALL!
  
  The bugs in the game are very well rendered and are cleverly thought out. The models look great 
 and are fun to shoot to bits. There are around 18 bugs in the game and each one has its own characteristics 
 and abilities; this is a great way to keep you on your feet because you are constantly needing 
 to change your stratergy for each type of bug.
  
  The graphics in the game are alot better than i thought they were going to be. The enviroments 
 often look great whilst the bugs themselves look amazing, especially the big ones. The only bad 
 graphics in the game imo are the other troopers, they look a little crap and move kinda strangely 
 for humans lol. The good thing about the other troops is that they have great things to say; they 
 will often come out with jokes and funny quotes which lighten up the action at points. Some of 
 the voice acting in the game is a little stale, but most of it is acceptable and some of it is 
 really good.
  
  Personaly im really not bothered about the movie footage crammed in before and after missions, 
 because it gives the game an authentic Starship Troopers feel. There are a couple of cut scenes 
 in the game which are pretty cool aswell.
  
  Now about running the game. I have read alot of reviews saying that peoples computers can not run 
 this game for a number of reasons.
  I too found this a task at the beginning of the game, and do you know why this was? Because i hadnt 
 downloaded any of the patches!
  Once i had the patches installed the game ran fine, barely any problems at all.
  
  I hope this 
 review is enough to help some people make up their minds wether to buy this game or not. Personally 
 i dont think you can go wrong with this game, esspecially if you are ST fan like me :D
  
  Thanks for reading.
  Nose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentroidX
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I got this as a christmas present and I can't beleive I actually WANTED this game.
  
  The engine is terrible, I get severe lagging when I enter an indoor environment. The minute I get 
 outside of a room then the lagging stops.
  
  The graphics look good in the screen shots but your eyes will cry tears of blood when you play 
 the game in person. The blood effects are absolutely terrible. The people! Aliens from another 
 dimension!!! The only actual good graphics were the arachnid models.
  
  The gameplay is horrible and so very, very cliched. Here is the whole storyline. OMG!!! BUGS SHOOT 
 THEM!!! That is what I got but then again its my opinion and if anybody can actually see the storyline 
 then good for you.
  
  Overall: I am absolutely scarred by this game and even more scarred by the fact that I got this 
 game for christmas. Gentlemen, I have learned a most valuable lesson in this turn of most unfortunate 
 events. ALWAYS look at the game rating before you buy it and/or ask for it for you birthday or 
 christmas.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  i had to give it a rest for a while. the creaters of this game had a great idea yet they really 
 do not give you an even break at times and the bait level is a perfect example. ive gotten a lot 
 of great advice and used it all. but i still die it takes long for the game to reload then it does 
 for me to die. so last night i deceided to give it a rest. bored. over and over the same thing 
 can get boring rather fast. ive given it every break. ill be back at this when my brain reboots. 
 i enjoy a good challenge but they really dont give you to many options .... they should have given 
 a small break. one solder next to me had his hands on hips in the bait fight made me so mad i shot 
 him. while hes going (great shooting marauder) rocket right to his face. gd luck to those still 
 trying and ya ho to those that made it. i need to play something i can get a chance at for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: this is porbably the best aspect of the game which isnt bad considering its the gameplay 
 that counts, but the game is riddled with far too many literal bugs to keep you playing
  
  graphics: for the most part some thing look good, but everything else is far too washed out and 
 bland to be worthy of a look. the character models are the worst, they look like they were taking 
 out of the original half life from 1998.
  
  sound: bugs and bugs and very poor voice acting
  
  value and tilt: its too bad really this 
 game could have been really good if it had more talented programmers with more care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I have never gave a game back to a game store in my life.
  
  I did with this one and heres why:
  
  Instantly the graphics hit you... they are CRAP!
  Guns 
 are RUBBISH!
  Controls are RUBBISH!
  Bugs move like Ray Harry Hausen puppet models!
  Voice acting is terrible!
  
  But what really did it for me was i was supposed to kill a plasma 
 bug... but for some reason after using ALL my ammo... and the fact you cant see it in the dark... i 
 spent 30mins trying to kill it and it didn't die.
  
  Really retarded game! Dont play or even buy or LOOK at it!!! :S
  
  (note: the Difficulty is 
 only "Very Hard" because its VERY HARD to understand why anyone would make this game...)
  
  (note: Learning curve is 4 hours or more because you'll be 4 hours or more traumatised from this 
 load of rubbish!)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  There's no sense at all how much this game lefts out, there's nothing really giving in it in the 
 first place. 
  
  The briefing before all the lousy missions is just shouted by some crappy american voice actor 
 and the briefing is put like this: "We have a million bad bugs there, kill them, and find survivors 
 or something..."
  And also there's some scenes from the actual movie before all the missions, which seem to be all 
 out of order of the actual events in the movie and whats the mission's all about. 
  
  The AI is extremtly retarded, the soldiers around you rather go right up the face of one of these 
 huge bugs and gets killed real bad than stay with you, but that could be something possitive becuase 
 you never want them to be close to you anyways becuase they makes you even sicker than you'll possibly 
 ever will be over the game in general. 
  
  The arsenal is copied from all the big games out there just to make it even more frustrating, you'll 
 have a basic sub-machinegun with unlimited ammo but it will be overheated just like the Covenant 
 Plasma Rifle in Halo, and it can also, somehow fire some explosive 'things' as well.
  Except for the wierd submachinegun there's also some weapons like a Assult Rifle which is in some 
 form in the actual movie, with a charataristic american cheap action movie sound that is all wrong 
 and gives a feeling of you're firing a paintball rifle rather than a automatic rifle... and somehow 
 it can also shoot some kind of shotgun shells? Or something that absolutley wouldn't be there.
 
  And there's also some rocket launcher with a crazy rate of fire and has around 56 rockets loaded 
 in the same time. And ofcourse they also have a shotgun or whatever they want it to look like, 
 it's just a redesigned version of the shotgun you use to see in the Half Life games with alternetive 
 fire modes, one fires single shots and the alt. fires double shots but has a effect of slower reloading 
 time. And all the weapons you like to expect in a First Person Shooter and some you'd like to trash 
 right there. 
  
  Ok, let's go to the whole use of all this stuff.
  The game turned out to be slow, buggy (in every term you like) , and unfocused. Many scripted secvenses, 
 probably all the enemies are identical to each other but some has a few differenses for instance, 
 the smaller bug that likes to climb walls is flashing you and will draw the attention of all nearby 
 enemies to go on you (as they would do anyway) and there's some bigger bugs that seem to bite you 
 but it feels like they're rather just hitting you a little bit before they got hit with one shot 
 and dies, and there's ofcourse the plasma bug which fires some plasma stuff that doesn't deal any 
 damage at all but they're hardass to kill, and so on. 
  The combat is nothing to talk about becuase it's all extremtly predictable, the enemies or allies 
 will not try to teamwork or flank you or anything like that. As said before, you're allies just 
 run into the enemy and gets killed as you watch them and just walk through that crowd of enemies 
 and just smack them without any problems at all even how many they might get. 
  
  And in terms of health the system is IDENTICAL to the system you see in Halo, you have a small 
 health-metre and a shield metre (which is here some automatic recharging kevlar) but only that 
 in this game you'll never have to think about your health or pick any strategies, when you've killed 
 the most brutal army of bugs you're probably gonna have 40-60% of your armor left which automaticly 
 recharges whenever you're out of combat. 
  
  The interviews with this actor from the movie, Charlie or whatever his name is he dares to say 
 that Halo is a cut-off from the Starship troopers movie, but what they've done here is a direct 
 copy of all the greatest FPSes out there in the crappiest form ever seen. (The review can be located 
 here at Gamespot)
  
  This game leaves just a feel of BETA in it, and is probably the worst game I've ever seen. 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldagama
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  All those other reviews are idiotic , i think this game is definatly worth it. The graphics are 
 good , just because they dont look like freakin xbox 360 dosnt mean its bad , and the sound is 
 disappointing but it makes up in the thrill of kicking some bug ass! Most of the reviews that posted 
 bad reviews was probably because they cant afford a good computer and it runs like **** on theres 
 , this game is for people with good computers and you cant say the game is crap because it dosnt 
 work for you , the only thing that is crap is ur freakin computer! Anywayz its deffinatly worth 
 trying but with the version i have you need a DVD rom to install and play so get that before using 
 it. The game also includes online modes such as deathmatch and co-op so if u beat the game a couple 
 of times go online and kick other players asses , this game is good and is definatly worth a try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahahahago
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This Game was horrible crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Ship troopers is a game that has really horrible graphics and it has poor gameplay and reviewers 
 tilt. But starship troopers has pretty good sound but has horrible value. You shouldnt try starship 
 troopers without first downloading the demo of starship troopers. The weapons you use in starship 
 troopers have awful firing power. Starship Troopers was an awful game that I have ever tried to 
 play. The speed is really slow and you cant fix it. The enemies on the game are just too easy to 
 kill also and they almost never really fight back. Star Ship troopers was a real waste of time 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilley122
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  There is absolutly no reason to play this game
  
  Its a terrible waste of time
  
  Even the demo sux
  
  walk straight past it if u see it at the store dont touch it
  
  LEAVE 
 IT ALONE
  
  the graphics suk and not to mention it cant handle the amount of bugs they say it can
  it takes 
 50 clips to take down one bug
  
  Dont even try this game not even the demo
  not worth it
  
  WASTE OF MY 5 MINUTES
  
  god total let down
  
  play on words
  
 
  dont listen to freaks who actually think this is good
  
  maybe if it was free 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  ZZZZZZZZ. Shrongk! Huh? What? Oh, hi there. I musta dozed off while reviewing this monumental pile 
 of steaming crap: Starshi* Poopers. Sorry 'bout that. On with the review.
  
  Gameplay: You shoot bugs. Except for a few tough spots it's like shooting fish in a barrel, only 
 shooting fish in a barrel might actually be fun 'cause I ain't never done it before. This is the 
 most insidiously monotonous and vapid game I've ever made the mistake of playing. That may seem 
 like a contradiction, but is actually a paradox. The more bugs that rush you the more boring it 
 gets. The bugs are nothing more than annoying pests for you to shoot. Stupid bugs! Yes, it's even 
 more boring than Serious Sam.
  
  Graphics: The sky looked kinda ok. Some of the bugs didn't look too bad.
  
  Sound: Everything 
 sounds weak. And there are glitches that make all the sound in the game turn into a high pitched 
 whine that makes your ears bleed and you have to restart your computer to get it to stop!
  
  Value: Hahahahaha!
  
  Tilt: If you got this game for free, you paid too much for it.
 
  
  The Good: Nothing
  
  The Bad: Everything
  
  Bottom Line: I could have done something useful with my time, like clip my toe nails or do the 
 laundry, and I havent given myself a good scratchin' in at least a week, but noooo, I had to waste 
 my time playing this trash because I paid for it, and Ill be damned if Ill let my hard earned 
 scrilla go to waste. Blah!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy69
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a game where you can get a gun and can just slaughter the enemy over and over 
 whats so bad about killing 1000s of bugs and smearing their bits everywhere?
  though it does get repetitive and you are ment to be a elite unit person thing i would of liked 
 to have seen alot more team play.
  The one thing that bothered me is the semi boss's e. g. tanker bugs, i thought was one of the only 
 challenging parts but after a while seeing them and having to kill another just got annoying and 
 killing a royal was just a pain in the arse and waste of time tbh.
  i think had they done more with each level mission it could of been atleast interesting and made 
 you want to complete it.
  all in all i didnt think it was that bad going back and playing da easy level and killing 100s 
 of bugs is always fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rain07ke
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  OMG!!!! I was expecting a great play from this series, but, OMG!!!! I JUST CAN SAY IT!!!! The graphic, 
 the voice, acting, etc. THIS IS NOT THE STARSHIP TROOPER I KNEW!!!!! THIS IS JUST HORRIBLE!!!!! 
 I JUST CAN'T GO ON!!!! 100 words!!!! FORGET IT I JUST CAN'T WRITE ABOUT THIS ANYMORE!!!! TOO HORRIBLE!!!! 
 IF U HAVE A CHOICE BETWEEN QUAKE AND THIS, JUST GO FOR THE QUAKE!!!! this is just terrible, i can't 
 go on... Well, if there is some value about this game. You can simply waste your money and blow 
 the sh*t out of this crap. Use it as a target practice for your BB gun ot something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lew_yates
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing pc games for 7 years now. i could not think of the worst game i ever played 
 because all the pc games i played was perfect. then one day a game called starship troopers come 
 out. i was so excited to play that game. but when i did it was full of rubbish rubbish rubbish 
 rubbish rubbish rubbish rubbish rubbish rubbish. why did a company built this hell rubbish game. 
 they are wasting time making it and selling it and we are wasting time just buying it and playing 
 it. the game is a total let down. when i looked at the other user reviews they had put 9.4 for 
 score. that person must not know the meaning of the word game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer9965
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The demo of straship troopers was quite fun, you got to kill a load of giant bugs with 2 weapons 
 (yippie) . However, the finished game isn't finished. There really isn't a story and the games graphics 
 seem to detritate throughout it. It can start to be fun to kill giant bugs however, once you do 
 it about 20 times, you get bored and want to do something else. You also need a high spec computer 
 to run this which unfourtunately not everybody can afford or have.
  
  What a disappointment!
  
  Buy a good First Person Shooter like Call of duty 2, anything but 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomNationwide
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  I had such high hopes for this game. One of my favorite movies of the last few years was Starship 
 Troopers, which I felt captured a very Xenophobic Crisis situaton and added such an over the top 
 "Dramedy" flair that I watched it over and over. Prior to release I played this game in my mind 
 time and time and time again, just waiting for the chance to put myself in John Rico's shoes. The 
 day came and all I could say is *sob* : (. From the moment the game started I was cut off by walls 
 that we impassable, AI which was overly aggressive against my weaponry, general choppiness in graphics, 
 and a not fun experience overall. My gaming experience, which has included many many FPS games, 
 was ended abruptly by my need to stop playing and delete the game from my hard drive. I tuly hope 
 that one day someone will capture the sense of danger and appeal that made Starship Troopers so 
 much fun as a movie, but this game is just not it. /salute to the Developer for trying, but this 
 is just a bad bad job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: french_cmm
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't have play a terrible game like this one in a long time, its terrible, i don't want to see 
 this game in my entire life, its really ugly, i expect more of this game......
  The graphics are not so god, neither, the game-play; the sound is regular...
  why 100 words... 
 it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
 
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
  why 100 words... it's too long
 
  why 100 words... it's too long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dododoismil
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game! 
  don't waste your time!
  The worst shooter of all times!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! 
 icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  don't waste your 
 time!
  don't waste your time!
  don't waste your time!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game! 
  don't waste your 
 time!
  The worst shooter of all times!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  don't waste your time!
  don't waste your time!
  don't waste your time!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant 
 believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game! 
  don't waste your time!
  The worst shooter of all times!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought 
 this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  don't waste your time!
  don't waste your time!
  don't waste your time!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant 
 believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very 
 VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game!
  in few words.... very VERY disapointing! icant believe a bought this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewezzy
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is this..... WHAT KIND OF A SICK JOKE IS THIS!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!? THIS IS 
 HANDS DOWN THE SORRIES GAME I'VE EVER SEEN!!!. EVEN Advent rising is better than this. And you 
 know what? Advent rising sucks too! This is just another bad movie game that will only be bought 
 by fan and idiots. While smart people will stay away. Yeah Starship troppers might have been okay 
 movie, but that does't save it from getting a bad score from me. This is without a shut of a doubt 
 a rediculous piece of uncut stank crap! I hope this flushes down the tiolet go because it is going 
 down one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blalatrala
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So i've bought this game and i'm SO happy i have used my parents money. Why? Would it explain enough 
 if i said it should be at the bottom of a box when you move-out from youre parents basement too 
 your friends basement? Yes, it does. The graphics are "enough" but the gameplay is just wrong
 
  I was at the first mission in some base and those bugs where attacking the base again so i had 
 too defend this guy who would put the energy field back. Now i would think, he would wait for me 
 or/and he goes the smartest way too the battery's. Well it seems i've been a little bit dumb on 
 that because he just run's into 30 other bugs and is like a suicidal maniac. 
  
  Not only this above it had stopped me but well... ok its just bad... *end of message* *been eaten 
 by bug* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of hard hitting, violent, science fiction adventure, and few movies delivered that like 
 Starship Troopers. I always thought Total Recall, Robocop and Starship Troopers all took place 
 in the same universe. Director Paul Verhoven's fascination with American "tragedy in New York, 
 news at 11" TV ethic fueled some wild breakthroughs for the genre. 
  
  The demo of the Empire published PC game left me flat, but others who downloaded it liked it. I 
 picked up the retail. 
  
  While definitely a Triple-B title, it delivers a potent Serious Sam like game experience, minus 
 the cartoonish characters. The starting weapon is basically the MG42 from call of duty, ammoless, 
 in this game mobile, and sporting an under barrel grenade launcher. It's got the highest rate of 
 fire of all the early weapons and you can basically fire it straight for 30 seconds before it over 
 heats. 
  
  And even with this firearm of the gods, this game throws so many enemies at you that heat management 
 of this weapon is a critical skill to manage. Its the only one that lets you see a screen full 
 of tiger striped scythes, hold down the left mouse button, tune out the screams of your NPC squad 
 mates, and stagger out exhausted, with Halo-lifted shield system screaming failure, yet alive. 
 I dont think Ive every played a game thats so successfully captured the lawn-mower breastplate 
 from Dead-Alive as some levels is Starship Troopers. 
  
  Even Serious Sam never put this many enemies on screen at once and I really can't think of a game 
 that does since, like, robotron. The animations are crude, and it cripples the finest PCs money 
 can buy, but the blast missions against never ending hordes are pretty bleeding edge simulation 
 FPS. Some missions will drop you against an unending bug spawn, that you must actually push into 
 and move past to advance the story. At night, with your flashlights on, and the bugs essentially 
 black silhouettes, I gotta say it grabbed me as much as anything in FEAR. 
  
  Their LDs get credit for some ambitious set piece levels like the drop ship hanger on the orbital 
 ships and the hot LZ. Even the base assault mission has these great in-game cinematics that respect 
 scale of the level. One thing I noticed was the sardonic, gallows humor of the game. One mission 
 objective was to "follow the trail of my best men's corpses". 
  
  Considering how solid their non-comical ranged mob-slaughter game style is, I'm curious why they 
 paired with Starship Troopers. The game pretty crassly uses the movie itself as cinematic bookends 
 to missions. I never knew if I was "playing the movie" like in Star Wars: Episode III or these 
 were just "atmospheric" cinematics (though denise and dougie and all the rest are front and center) . 
 I almost wish they came up with some suitable new IP about space gladiators or post apocalyptic 
 road warriors. 
  
  Strangelite might have something here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neunet
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  I am disappointed. I am fan of the film and i was waiting this game so much. And when i get it. What 
 the ... Graphics are very bad even on HIGH : (
  The thing i like in the game - its not so easy :) The "bugs" are everywhere and attack from everywhere. The 
 missions are not so bad , but they are just for wasting time. I can say that the game is boring 
 at moments.
  Of Course the game have possibilities like : the sounds, i think they are realistic and the voice 
 of the NPC's is good :) But that is nothing, i still cant belive the game has so ugly graphic. So 
 if you think to buy it ... dont do that are you crazy ? This game is poor : ( !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdiza
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to have my say on this game.
  
  I wish the developers had spent more time on it, the graphics was horrible, the game play got so 
 boring so fast and it really didn't feel like it was in the "Starship Troopers" universe... BUT! 
 had they spent more time on the game itself instead of working on a "technology" or "engine" that 
 would allow 100 bugs on the screen at anytime, they could've maybe made a good game here.
  
  I was so following the game when I heard it was coming out, and like a few other games, I was 
 hyped up, when it was released, I got it and almost cried I was so dissapointed!
  
  I suggest the developors get off their arse, take note of all the complaints and if SST2 can come 
 out, they really fix their bugger ups!
  
  The SST universe is there to be milked... but do it right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zatrick
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost horrible in every way that you can imagine, the only people that could really 
 get into this game are the very few hardcore fans of the movie. It seems like they tried to recreate 
 a halo type shooter but sadly failed in every way. I would advise most to steer clear of this game. 
 The graphics are nothing new, the voice acting is horrible and the story is dull and uncreative. 
 This game is not worth the money in your pocket so if you see it in the shelf of your locale game 
 store...... just ignore it, or you will regret it.... trust me on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is as bad as the sequal to the movie. I am a Starship Troopers 1 fan and when i saw the 
 trailers for the game, I admit that I was pretty impressed. So I downloaded the demo and when I 
 downloaded the demo. it starts out with choppy film fottage of soldiers marching through desert 
 plateau-ish area when they come to an abandoned base. They then aproach it (did I mention the crappy 
 music?) and kick down the doors when the game play kicks in. Then you fight off a bug invasion! 
 YAY FUN! But when the bugs approach the few foot tall base if they manage not to get shot, they 
 will then stand there.... waiting to be killed.... yep. After the extremely short invasion, your 
 are then sent to.... I think to get a transmitter so you may call for back up.... by yourself, your 
 platoon then just sits there not wanting to come with you while they see a massacre of dead soldiers 
 on the trail to where you must go thinking that you can obviously survive on your own... duh. The 
 enemy AI is Doom based where they run up to you, no dodging tactics, and begin to attack you. Your 
 arsenal consists of a shotgun, a machine gun, and another machine gun... WITH UNLIMITED AMMO, Seriously, 
 I havn't seen that trick ever since before Doom. The graphics attemt to be good looking when they 
 are just basicly colored smoothe shade models that are some what pixelated along with the rest 
 of the game. The sound is no different from the graphics with crappy music and affects. The game 
 trys to capture the overwhelming number of bugs on screen making it epic looking like the movie, 
 but some what captures it, yet fails at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D5120
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  You know what, I loved this game !
  
  I am a massive fan of the movie Starship Troopers, and this game is just like reliving the film.
 
  
  From the lengthy cut scenes taken directly from the film, to the mindless destroy anything that 
 moves feel, its just plain fantastic.
  
  I remember when the movie came out at the cinema, it got slated, proper slated.
  
  The game/film 
 seem to have the marmite factor of you love it or hate it, I personally love it.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Loved it, just mindless killing of bugs ! WOW ! Is there any better feeling than 
 being than being sat on a gun turret with hundreds of bugs running at you, and you mowing them 
 down !
  
  Graphics
  
  I was surprised by the graphics, My gaming machine isnt that great, but I was still able to run 
 the game at a reasonable resolution and detail setting. It ran pretty sooth as well, even with 
 hordes of bugs running at me.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound of the bugs, guns and well, anything else seem to be taken from the film, so yeah, I 
 was impressed with these. My only criticism is, that I ran the game at a normal to slightly loud 
 volume, some of the weapons, were a little too loud in comparison to everything else you could 
 here.
  
  Value
  
  Going back to the old Marmite thing, if youve a fan of Starship Troopers, youd have probably 
 paid more for this game, if you dont like it, well obviously a waste of money.
  
  Tilt
  
  My guess on this section is, how different was it from other games ?
  
  If Im wrong, then 
 somebody please message me.
  
  I dont really think this game has anything new to offer, its just a fun game, shoot at bugs until 
 their limbs fall off ! Kinda like an old skool FPS game, not too much thinking and lots and lots 
 of shooting.
  
  Overall, a much enjoyable game, as Ive said twice before now, youll either love it or hate it, 
 I personally loved it !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LivingMachine
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a very thrilling game that has you almost constantly on the run fighting for your life 
 and you fellow trooper's life if you can get to them in time. You are alway out number just like 
 in the movies and the odds always seem against you, but if you are good enough you will make it 
 through... with your troopers. 
  
  Graphics aren't the greatest but the sheer number of enemies on screen at one time is the reason 
 why. Not too mention you are not in some tight corridor fighting one to two enemies at a time coming 
 from one direction. It is just the opposite.
  
  This isn't a game for noob fps gamers but for the detemine hardcorps gamer. Once you play this 
 game, you will feel the characters in the movie did when the guy shouted ''bugs!!! bugggggss!!!! 
 
  
  All in all I give this game 8 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  With this game getting an unusual amount of hype seing as the film is old enough for me to forget 
 when it came out I thought I would have a try.
  And that was my first mistake, my second was to think this game could redeme itself later on with 
 good setpieces and maybe a variation in gameplay.
  You basically walk around a desert looking environment and shoot bugs.
  And that is it, slight 
 variations include, fighting bugs at night, fighting bugs while protecting a base and fighting 
 bigger bugs. Did I mention this game involves shooting lots of bugs.
  As if this dull gameplay wasn't bad enough they have given you these weired graphics where even 
 the sand seems to shie and reflect light.
  Now that is the end of the bad stuff, lets get onto the good stuff...........
  well the game 
 is pretty  and it has the guy from the movie doing a voice  
 thats it really.
  There are alot of better games out their but if you severly want an FPS then you can check this 
  please don't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Starship Troopers isn't a game which, i feel, can be summed up as good or bad; the game is outright 
 bad, but it's a love or hate thing.
  
  It's a blend of poor technology, frustrating computer game cliche, archaic gameplay motifs and 
 uninspired design - but the game, or at least the first half of the game, is simply tons of fun 
 to play. Love or Hate.
  
  I found gunning down huge swarms to be very satisfying and enjoyable, and generally time well spent 
 - and ultimately, isn't that what matters with a game? I sat around thinking 'yeah, this game is 
 really badly made, buy hell, i'm enjoying it... does that make it good? Does it make it not bad?' 
 I don't know.
  
  The 'warmup' period before games start proper has been a gaming staple since Half Life and they're 
 often pretty cool, the ST one is pretty frustrating and awkward, and my first thought was it feels 
 like an afterthought, but most of the game feels like that when you actually play through. After 
 the ship it starts on is swiftly and conveniently attacked, you suit up and fly down to the planet. 
 The first thing you'll probably notice is that you're surrounded by soldiers. The models look terrible 
 but you'll probably get the feeling right away that you're actually fighting a war, which is neat 
 (but fleeting as you quickly find yourself alone against the swarm) .
  
  So you follow a gully around until you reach a wall. A line of soldiers are here, ready to storm 
 the other side. An engineer takes the wall down and you storm through. Bugs. Lots of bugs. You 
 start firing, they start dying. Over and over, more and more. They just keep coming - soon there 
 are so many corpses you can barely see the living. You just keep blasting away. Eventually, all 
 is quiet, the screen is filled with arachnid legs, mandibles and satisfyingly green blood. You 
 move on to a boot camp of sorts, and pretty much do the same thing again, slaughtering huge numbers. 
 It goes on and on like this. If you liked the original doom, or serious sam (and liked it for the 
 hordes of enemies you could slaughter) , there's a decent chance you might find ST a pretty fun 
 trip, otherwise, you'll probably hate it.
  
  The problems with ST really start a couple missions in; the other enemies. They range from incredibly 
 tedious little hopping fly things (thta look like they have human faces!!!) to cliff-dwelling mites 
 which are literally snipers to an insectoid version of a rhino which you have to dodge as it charges 
 and then shoot its rear. All of these enemies, and more - like a missile, yes, missile shooting 
 arachnid (complete with smoke trail) - are simply tedious to fight.
  
  Plus, the mission structure is utterly archaic, and can be summed up simply as 'you're walking 
 over here because _____ - fill in the blank yourself, it makes no difference. Then there's the 
 numerous cliche, like being stuck in a room with a boss and the techie can't get the door open 
 until the exact moment you kill it - these aren't things you expect in 2005. 
  
  But, everything about the game is there to create context for what the game is all about: the slaughter 
 of the swarm, and if you like that kind of thing, there's a good chance you'll get some serious 
 pleasure from ST, if you don't like that kind of thing, steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  gamespot is so wrong on this one. gameplay is good I don't care if it's not hl2 graphics I'm not 
 playing hl2
  
  is there bugs? yes what game doesn't have them. yes gameplay can become dull after awhile. this 
 game is a must buy and for those who say it requires too powerful of a pc. upgrade quit whining 
 about being left in the dust. sound does suck particularly in the voice over area. infact when 
 you look at it all fps are the same shoot wave after wave of enemys. 
  
  so pick it up and don't listen to those who whine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  I think the reviewer was wrong and hypocritical. He wanted the game to be similar to the movie, 
 and it is. The cheesiness of the vocal acting parallels the cheese of the movie's acting/script/etc. 
 The wave after wave of bugs that can do no harm to you unless they're right up against you... is 
 the SAME as the movie. The darkness of the game levels... SAME as the movie. The ineptitude of 
 the mobile infantry.. SAME as the movie. The cheesy one-liners of the movie is there too (the general 
 of psy-ops is named "Howser" as in "Doogie Howser") . The rocket launcher doesn't do much damage 
 unless it's aimed at the ground or a larger bug... duh. This isn't Quake. Of COURSE a grenade is 
 going to do little damage if it's buried in dead bodies and debris.
  
  This game came from a small development team, and it does show (some bugs in the game, less than 
 stellar graphics, etc.) . But isn't that why I paid less than $50, which is still full retail price? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_787
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  When I fisrt heard that they where going to do a game baist on the 1997 movie Starship Tropers 
 I got very exaited when I saw the trailers and the gameplay for the first time I think they were 
 great. Then I play the first Demo it was a bit slow the gameplay was ok but I still like it the 
 I downloud the 2 Demo Plasma Mounten and it was amazing better gafics and a very god gameplay. In 
 my personal opinion I give this game 8.4 I think that all the FPS Fans as my self will defenetly 
 love this game, I will defenetly add this game to my collection.
  
  
  !!!!!!! KILL THE ALL !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darder10
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  It was alright, im disapointed with the graphics and the detail but, I think the story line is 
 ok and i enjoyed playing the demos. The biggest thing that is wrong is the way the troopers look, 
 there is no facial expression really. Also I think it need to be as bloody as the movie was. Another 
 thing is that they only say like 4 lines.. which are inaccurate to the movie. Altogether I think 
 that the gameplay is pretty good, the number of bugs is alright and the game isnt that hard to 
 play (except for the pooping bugs) , it took me forever to acutally figure out how to kill those, 
 I am slow at understanding things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezidor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game tries to throw all Starship troopers genre together in one game. There are aspects of 
 both movies, the book and the animated specials. I would have been better if they had just stuck 
 to one. 
  The grafx are good but system requirements for the pc are high. The difficulty is a bit outrageous, 
 on normal you will be dying alot, not so much on easy but still hard. There are just too many bugs.
 
  I would recommend it to die hard fans, anyone else will just not find it that much fun which is 
 disapointing because this could have really been a great game but it's missing that polish factor.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveyboy163
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  When I saw Starship Troopers i didn't know what to expect. But when I got to play it I realized 
 it was designed to do one thing. To torture, kill, and bomb those stupid little creatures! Now 
 the graphics could have been better and the sound problems are easy to fix but over all its just 
 fun if you love blowing the hell out of stuff! Booyah!!!!
  
  Now the storyline wasnt exsactly excellent it had some turn arounds from the movie which was good 
 by the way. But in the overall stand point if a first person shooter fan than you will probablly 
 love this game. Unless your one of those snotty like creeps that wants every little detail to be 
 perfect or you hate it.
  Well I have some news... Life isnt fair so get over it! Just be glad your not in the stone age 
 man!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro153
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Its GREAT but !!! HARD!!! it took me like 5 minutes to figure out the hole moving
  part and visual stuff its one of those games for st fans!!!!!!! better than the other starship 
 trooper game. this one is like the movie like the starship trooper movie. the hard part of the 
 game is the two briges or something like that the other game i would rate it a 7.7 the grafics 
 are ok. but the game play is hard the plasma bugs are hard and hoopers. it is very hard to kill 
 those things. my favorite level is the ticonderoga base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn0083
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  Fun game. lots of killing and its very enjoyable. for people who doesnt like fsp, then dont buy 
 the game. its a game dedicated to people who likes to play fsp only! this game also tests your 
 reaction, as your sparmed in the later levels by hundreds of bugs from all sides. =D the only big 
 let down to this would be the sound...... the sound is great, but certain guns are way too loud, 
 and certain guns are almost mute. the voices of the people are also hard to hear. the only thing 
 that can be heard clearly besides gun fire is the commanders voice. to be frank, the sound distribution 
 in the demo was much better then the actual game, as everything is balanced and everything could 
 be heard in the demo. the graphics are amazing for such large scale attacks. if F. E. A. R. had that 
 many units on the screen on the same time, then tough luck! it is quite amazing how many bugs are 
 on the screen at the same time, and it can still it quite detailed. the graphics isnt F. E. A. R. 
 grahpics, but you really should consider how many bugs are after your skin. another bad part about 
 this game is that your reinforcements are useless. they only provide meatshield cover... which is 
 actually useful during defense. lol. overall this game is a lonewolf game as 85% of the time, your 
 by yourself. another problem that was annoying for me is that the person cant jump high. he can 
 only hop. 
  overall, this game is great fun and if your flexiable enough, you'll find it to be one of the best 
 games! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDude
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Starship Troopers, a great sci-fi setting of Man versus 'the Bug'. If you watched and enjoyed the 
 1997 film of the same name then you will most definitely enjoy this game! Fans of the book should 
 also enjoy the game even though it doesn't remain entirely true to the SST universe. So, onto the 
 review you apes!
  
  Lets start off with the game engine of SST, code-named SWARM. In my mind the engine is mind blowing, 
 it can (easily) render 300+ bugs, humans and objects at once, all with shadows and high quality 
 lighting with barely a drop in the frame-rate. Not only that but everything it renders is relatively 
 high poly, meaning nicely detailed! Visually I would say the game is almost on par with Doom 3 
 although SST doesn't show off its lighting effects nearly as much as Doom, due to the slightly 
 lacking level design. This is not to say the levels aren't good... just not as good as they could 
 have been.
  
  Game-play wise SSTs campaign is a blast to play (multiplayer is currently not that great an option 
 due to the 'bugs', pun intended, and lack of players at the moment, with not every store having 
 SST in stock) . The AI in the game is for the most part pretty good too; with the Warrior caste 
 of bugs acting like mindless... well, bugs, charging recklessly at you, whereas Tigers and smarter 
 bugs think about what they should do to stay alive whilst bringing you down. Weaponry in the game 
 is also pretty diverse, with everything from the Morita M2 (seen in the first film) , Morita M4, 
 TAC Shotgun, Rail Gun Rifle all the way to a single shot Nuke Launcher (once again seen in the 
 first film) . Another 'bonus' is that each weapon acts and feels as it should with realistic recoil 
 and bullet deviation, with some weapons even overheating when used for too long! 
  
  Audio in Starship Troopers is what you would expect, Mobile Infantry troopers scream orders and 
 battle cries whilst bugs howl their bestial challenges, all the while Morita shots are ringing 
 out their 'songs' into the air. The audio in the game just seems to fit perfectly, and enhances 
 the atmosphere of the game tenfold. Well, I can't really say much else for the sound apart from 
 the fact that you have to hear it yourself to appreciate it! (one last audio treat is the fact 
 that grenades actually speak to you and tell you when they are armed) 
  
  In conclusion I don't think my review has given Starship Troopers the credit it deserves, but, 
 thats life. I strongly advise any FPS fan to go out there and buy this game! (or at least download 
 the TWO demos, the first demo has the best scenario but is from an early build of the game and 
 is slightly unstable) . Join the Federation today, save the world, buy the game!
  
  - Diabetic Dude, much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorswt
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  Not a very awsome game, just enought for one to pass time. the intro seems nice and all. but it 
 still based on the movie. the clips keep on showing up, showing how the movie back then suck so 
 badly... so the horror... other than that the game is just to pass time as i have stated before. 
 it qiite a disapoinment acctually. before i got the game, i over heard someone saying how cool 
 it is. then i guess he just has a lot of time to kill.
  it should be as, the player joining the force. then fight bugs, you can select your team mates, 
 weapon n set up a proper team to handle deep line battles. like the one in starship troopers in 
 animation series. that was a cool one. if it is like that, sure it will gain better perviews. if 
 the game developer does read this. Dear Sir, with the little game idea, it will boose your game 
 rating for sure. but thus far, good work you all. the whole idea is really great. when i first 
 heard of a relise game based on starship trooper it was great... but... the other thing came up... 
 so i am quite at lost for words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skay1uk
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Very unstable. You must need a mainframe to run this game smoothly. The puzzling thing is that 
 the graphics arent good but it reuqires a powerfull pc????
  
  Game is pretty boring too. Same thing over and over and you dont have freedom to move around how 
 you choose. You can only use turret guns when it chooses etc.
  
  Wouldnt recommend at all.
  
  Cant think of much more to say about this rubbish apart from the 
 fact thats its RUBBISH RUBBISH RUBBISH.
  
  Oh by the way I loved the film and was thoroughly looking forward to playing this game so I was 
 certainly the target audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  
  Of course all of us SST fans like would love to see the franchise turned fps, but this game (as 
 far as the demo is concerned) serves SST no justice. Sure, the novelty of it will get fans and 
 some fps fans riled, so did I, but after playing the demo, I must say that the developer needs 
 to polish the game up quite a bit. The sound is barely passable, the graphics seem horribly outdated 
 (though understandable after seeing all those arachnids) , the controls are just ick, and the story 
 seems wholly derivative of the movie plot.
  
  This is a great idea, and I'm thankful for a developer finally producing an fps of SST, but from 
 what I've seen so far... it needs a lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HowdyHowdy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Awesome. Great for all Fps fans. Plus if you read the SST novels then youll be happy. 
 This game has alot of elements from the books. Including the jump suits and how the nukes are suppose 
 to look like (in the movies they were launched from the rifle instead of an actual seperate launcher. 
 Also the amount of enemies on screen are jaw-dropping and the game does not even lock-up (If you 
 meet the minimum sys requirements.) . Online play is okay. Co-op is the best ive played so far. 
 The only thing i have a problem with is online the game lags alot for no reason. But they are working 
 on a patch to fix this on the North American Version. The European version is already fixed. Buy 
 it! Youll love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been a starship troopers fan ever since I saw the movie in 1999. I instantly fell in love 
 with the franchise and this game brings a new twist to the Starship Troopers Universe. The game 
 play is a real challenge and in my opinion even the most experienced gamers will have difficulty 
 beating the game. The interaction with the Arachnids is realistic enough that it takes a whole 
 lot of shots to bring one down. The weapons in the game are the ones you see at the end of the 
 movie and of course the M4 moretta rifle. the game itself is not bad and could have been even better 
 if it was more "trooper-esk". It was originally released in the UK and did so well it was imported 
 into the US where its meet strong opposition. If you are a Starship Troopers fan its a must play 
 but to regular gamers, you wont be really impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: There is something you will find on this game: bugs, bugs and more bugs. I am not talking 
 about alien bugs you have to kill, but about major software bugs you will find from the moment 
 you start loading the game. Random crashes to desktop. Sound bugs with EAX and soft shadows not 
 enabling even when you select it are just some of them. Apart from those, you will find nothing 
 special in this game. The game engine is abysmal for todays standards. No fancy effects and no 
 realistic physics. The voice acting is a joke and the poorly encoded cut-scenes taken from the 
 movie are a laugh.
  
  Graphics: They are ancient. Textures look washed out like a 10 year old t-shirt. The poly-count 
 in the models must be lower than in the Quake 2 engine. The level design is poor and the backdrops 
 are a joke.
  
  Sound: Nothing worth mentioning in that department, apart from the fact that the game will crash 
 to desktop and even will give you the Blue Screen Of Death because of conflicts with a SB Audigy 
 2 ZS. Is this perhaps a problem with EAX compatibility?
  
  Value: Unless you enjoy paying for a game to see how fast it uninstalls, you will basically be 
 wasting your money here. 
  
  Tilt: I did not really expect that much from this game, but being a huge fan of the movie Starship 
 Troopers, I wanted it to be good. Too bad its not even decent. This is an insult to all Starship 
 Troopers fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaStitch
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  I thought it was going to be something, if you don't have F. E. A. R. or Quake IV then start crying. 
 This game was rushed out too soon, there's so many bugs. The models on the creatures are good but 
 the troopers look like someone farted in their faces, the weapons were powerful but still you'd 
 be screaming on why it doesn't do what it's SUPPOSE to do. Taking down a bug is like taking down 
 a level 99 dragon in WoW, and the A. I. is so wrong! You would be shooting all the bugs down while 
 your fellow troopers actually stand there and watch, literally they sit there and enjoy the show!
 
  
  No I'm sorry, this game could've been ALOT better but the developers thought what they released 
 was ok when it's actually WAY off from the good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koolkut1218
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  I will wrap the game up into sections and explain why or why not these parts of the game fail or 
 achieve.
  
  -Gameplay: "attempts" to take after the Original Movie, Some of the film, the book and the cartoon 
 version of Starship troopers. But fails miserabley.
  
  Reason: Story dosn't link at all, no background of who you're character is. It's redicously reptitive. 
 You find you're self doing the same thing over and over. The multiplayer is fun for the first 5 
 minutes, until you realize you're doing the same thing for the 3 Co-op missions this game has availiable. 
 Some levels are very hard, with no "Health Packs" You find you're self dying more then you are 
 playing even on Easy difficulty.
  
  -Graphics: Bad.
  
  Reason: Has problems running Bloom effects, it blurs and looks blouchy when turned a certain direction 
 on certain locations.
  
  -Learning Curve: You shoot bugs, Dodge flame, thats it.
  
  -Sound: The voice acting is worse then listening to 40's old radio talk shows, However the Bug 
 sounds, the gun shots, and explosions are accucarate as they were to there movie counterparts.
 
  
  Value: You will end up playing this game for maybe 2-4 Hours at first glance of this game, due 
 to disencourageing gameplay, and lack of Multiplayer options. 
  
  this game isn't what it cracked out to be and failed to achieve the expectations it had set for 
 itself. The gameplay was Bland, the Graphics were horriable, the Voice acting was terriable, and 
 it's all too repeitive. 
  
  Unless you're a Hardcore Starship troopers fan (And even if you are it might be hard to get into 
 the game) Then this game Isn't worth the price it has set for itself.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
