-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starwarsepisodeithepm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 823 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Big Ape Prod.
Genre: Action
Date:     Apr 30, 1999 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Being a Jedi, at least in this gameworld, is not all it's cracked up to be. 

 While the debate rages on about the quality of the film, there can be little question about the 
 game based upon it: It is bad. Very, very bad.  

 The Phantom Menace, despite earlier reports, is not an adventure game. It is a third-person action 
 game in the vein of Tomb Raider or Heretic II, with a slightly altered perspective. The game closely 
 follows the plot of its motion picture counterpart, though the levels themselves mostly take place 
 between major plot points of the film. You control four of the major characters (Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan, 
 Queen Amidala, Captain Panaka) , running about and accomplishing small tasks that let you progress 
 to the next level.  

 The game starts off promisingly. You are in control of the young Obi-Wan aboard a Trade Federation 
 ship. You run around, fight droids, and push buttons (in later levels this list of requirements 
 will include pulling blocks and jumping) . The game looks good, with lots of color and nice lighting 
 effects. It sounds good as well, with the original film score and solid voice acting that sounds 
 enough like the real actors to be convincing. In the early levels, you only face a handful of enemies, 
 and the game seems like it may be a simplified Jedi Knight-like escapade.  

 With the second level, though, The Phantom Menace's faults begin to show - and it isn't just the 
 introduction of Jar Jar Binks. You begin to see that being a Jedi, at least in this gameworld, 
 is not all it's cracked up to be. Sure, you can roll side to side and do back flips, but that doesn't 
 do you much good when your acrobatics and lightsaber are no match for a row of shrubs. And your 
 only real Jedi power is the force push, which lets you knock down close-by enemies. Clearings full 
 of droids are waiting for you, but the combat (which mostly consists of you hitting the fire button 
 repeatedly or just holding it down when you're tired) is disappointing.  

 Enemies can hit you from offscreen, when you can't even see them. Your ability to deflect blaster 
 shots is a great idea, but it feels ineffectual - like you are at some crazed batting cages where 
 all the machines are set on high and pointed straight at you. In fact, the lightsaber seems incredibly 
 weak in the game, especially considering how fun it was to wield it in Jedi Knight. Here, it's 
 about as elegant as a lead pipe, and as you repeatedly bang away on droids and Tusken Raiders, 
 it's hard not to wonder why it only took one hit to take out Obi-Wan in the original Star Wars. 
 The other weapons are standard fare - blasters, a rocket launcher, an assortment of grenades - 
 but the lack of an auto-aim function (as in Heretic II and Tomb Raider) is a problematic oversight. 
 As is the lack of an always-run option, which forces you to continually hold down the shift key 
 while moving.  

 While levels have some interesting elements - such as leading another character to safety or solving 
 some peripheral task within - too many problems face you at every turn. Characters whom you are 
 supposed to protect will follow for a while, only to stop at predetermined points - usually in 
 a swarm of enemies whom you'll then have to attack. Sure, there are plenty of indoor areas that 
 are absolutely safe, but why should they miss all the action just because they don't want to help? 
 And often they won't follow you even after you tell them to, so you'll run to a safe spot only 
 to find they're still in the midst of the mayhem.  

 The level design sets up some nice action sequences, but the game just isn't up to the task. A horde 
 of droids is ahead, manning a gun turret under a bridge. You can just run up some stairs, flip 
 off of the bridge, take out the gunner, grab the turret, and have at it. Which would be incredibly 
 fun, except for the fact that there are more powerful enemies behind, you can't turn the turret 
 around, and you can't see under the bridge while you're fighting.  

 The viewpoint is constantly a problem, either obscuring enemies you want to fight or obscuring the 
 character you're controlling. And because of the high angle, you simply can't see very far ahead. 
 Unlike other games of its type, The Phantom Menace uses a camera angle that is much higher. It 
 borders on top-down, located above and just slightly behind whomever you are controlling, as opposed 
 to the behind-the-back viewpoint used much more effectively in other third-person games.  

 There's no doubt many of the game's problems stem from the fact that it was rushed, having to be 
 in stores when the film was released. There are some good ideas here, and, with time, they may 
 have become a good game. But The Phantom Menace is just too frustrating to recommend. If you loved 
 the movie, you may bear with the game's problems simply for letting you run around in the world, 
 swinging your lightsaber (if only ineffectually) . If you haven't seen the movie, the game will 
 undoubtedly ruin the experience. Not just because it gives away the story, but because you'll be 
 reminded of it while you watch.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zax360
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Its an awsome game. I actualy think that ten is the perfect score! Sure there are some glitches 
 but it doesn't matter when you get used to everything that does actualy matter like the briliantly 
 engineered last level. I wish the series had gone farther than this and they did not rate this 
 game correctly. But i did wish that there was a cheat to make you darth maul! That would have been 
 awsome.
  
  
  Im that interested because i used to play this as a kid and all of a a sudden got interested in 
 star wars again but couldn't find the game anywhere, but then i went to a game store and rediscoverd 
 it, i was so exited so obviously i bought it and thouroughly enjoyed it as a went through the whole 
 thing! 
  
  10/10
  
  its an amazing game and i hope everyone enjoyes it as much as i  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain_Nargaroth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game about 5 years ago. I was very pleased because the game-play it's quite 
 simple and the graphics are decent. The storyline is proper and you have a variety of characters 
 which you can play as. The game is pretty hard as there are a few puzzles and lots of enemies which 
 are hard to beat. The game hides a few tricks and has a few bugs you can use in your advantage. 
 It has a note of occult in it, at least thats the impression it made me when i first played it 
 There are many secrets in the game and it gives you a great feeling when you are exploring. The 
 boss levels are a little bit too simple, but it compensates with other good thing about this game. 
 I don't say it's great but it's not bad either. I don't remember how many levels are there and 
 all the details but all i can say is Play this game if you like old-school and simple games. 
 
  This is my first review so don't judge it too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game way back when it first came out. It was a great game right behind the 
 player and man it was so fun if only ALL the star wars games were made with this game in mind. 
 
  
  The game was great at the time the graphics where great. if there was any multiplayer aspect to 
 it i would probably replay this game over and over again. 
  
  Probably the next best game to this is the lego star wars complete saga. ya its lego but it has 
 more content and its co-op multiplayer if this game had those two i bet it would sell faster than 
 any other star wars game. 
  
  Even though this game didnt go far it was a step in the right direction for a good game but its 
 too bad the franchise steped away. if you loved this game complete lego star wars is your next 
 game.
  
  if only they came back to this concept and fix it up a bit that would be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannymalt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  I played this game when I was a kid. Back then I didn't check reviews of games I played on the 
 internet, and because of that, looking back on my game selection know, I should have listened to 
 reviewers that way I could have played some great games. But this is one game I bought and played 
 without reading a review, and I loved it. And Gamespot gave this game a 4.3/10. A 4.3 score is 
 meant for only the worst of the worst of games. And IGN gave the game a 7/10. Well I can honestly 
 say this game is not a 4.3, and personally I find that score to be insulting. 
  
  This is one of the games I bought as a kid. And I played the hell out of this game and loved it. 
 I loved talking to people in an open world, and getting to pick what I say to guards and such, 
 and using the old jedi mind trick on them, to get them to let me into certain rooms. Using the 
 light saber, and killing random people in the streets of Tatoine (no GTA back than, so this was 
 amazing to me, this openness) . 
  
  I was young then, and probably stupid. But I wasn't stupid enough to play a game that got 4.3 and 
 like it. So therefore I think Gamespot review is inaccurate. Sure the game has flaws, and other 
 games have done this type of game better. But it is a solid game. Deserving of at least a 7 or 
 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  I feel that Gamespot was unnecesarrily harsh on this game. It can be quite fun to play most of 
 the time and sometimes, it can be frustrating. Overall, I think if you can find it in stores, it 
 will probably be about 5 dollars and if you liked the movie you should pick it up.
  
  For those who don't like the topdown view: I found a cheat a while ago that made the view so that 
 it was right behind your characters head. This makes the game much easier to play.
  
  The lightsaber is underpowered but is still very fun to use. I mean, it is a lightsaber!
  
 
  I think that if you enjoy the star wars movies, then you can get at least some enjoyment out of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voxstellarum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace was a good movie. The game is good too. Could've been better... 
 Or not. I think the game is just right. The game's story follows the movie itself with some bonus 
 missions just to add some more hours to gameplay. We can play as Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan, Cpt. Panaka 
 and Queen Amidala. No, you can't play as Ani (how sad) . Across the game, since it's a adventure 
 game, you'll meet and solve a lot of quests and mysteries. Other than, it's a third person shooter/lightsaber 
 game.
  
  Plus sides:
  Relive the movie. Nice voice actoring. Dialogues are pretty nice.
  
  Minus sides:
  Duelling 
 with Maul is too short and unbeliavebly easy. Some graphical errors. Force powers are useless.
 
  
  Interesting sides:
  You can kill everybody. Even your companions. For example go to Otoh Gunga and kill all Gungans 
 including children and females. But there's no dark side/light side effects like Knights of the 
 Old Republic series.
  
  As Qui-Gon you can kill Maul on Tatooine (but if you do this you lose the game) .
  
  As Amidala 
 you can kill Trade Federation viceroy Nute Gunray instead of capturing him.
  
  Final Words:
  There's nothing much too add review itself. It's a movie based game with extra 
 playable characters and missions. If you haven't seen the movie yet (Oh my...) you may want to 
 stay away from this game since it's full of spoilers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lochsabre
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Phanton Menace was one of the strangest Lucas games you'll play. It seemed they 
 tried to turn a Star Wars movie, into almost a sort of Role playing game. The aim of the game is 
 to follow the course of the first movie whilst making detours around convinent obstacles. Apart 
 from taking the queen through an underground slum of Coruscant, the game's story is generally quite 
 close to that of the movie's.
  
  The gameplay is fun, as your able to reflect bullets with your lightsabre, and even do the forbidden; 
 a Jedi with a gun! Take down tanks, save and help civilians. Do many short side quests to earn 
 yourself better weapons. At times you will be required to challenge bosses such as Darth Maul and 
 protect Anakin Skywalker from the scum of Tatooine.
  
  The graphics are good for a playstation one game and they also include short clips from the movie, 
 which is always nice. Though the appearance of the characters are a bit blocky, you can still generally 
 tell who is who.
  
  The sound, like any of the other Lucas games, is identical to the movie from every podracer engine 
 to ever lightsabre clash.
  
  I was dissapointed to see that Gamespot considered this game Poor as it truly is such a fun game, 
 some may even say Cute as it tried to accomplish so little. The game is very cheesy, but it's fun.
 
  
  Perhaps not a Classic , but in my eyes, it does justice to Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolverine_storm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  this was one of the first games i ever played as a kid and i think its exelent for anyone who loves 
 star wars. although it has bad graphics it has a great story to follow and the game lets you explore 
 many aspects of the story and it lets you get to your goal in many different ways. the game follows 
 the story of the movie and also adds a little more to the experience by letting you play out scenes 
 that you didnt see in the movie as queen amidala and captain panaka. the only things i dont like 
 about this game is that it has many glitches and the bosses are very easy at times. but these are 
 the only two things that are bad in the game so i encurage you to go to your local exchange store 
 and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Clock_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is going to be short. I agree with that other guy called aceman as there is different paths 
 you can take whichmeans that it isn't just one long path where the outcome will always be the same. 
 His review got recommended by like 7 or 8 people and the people who said bad things about it didn't 
 get recommended once. When I first got this game the graphics were amazing for me and were the 
 best i had ever seen and i was just excited by being able to explore in a 3D world. And because 
 it was really good to me, the gameplay also seemed really good. For me it is a really good game 
 because i didn't know of any better so it seemed like the best. Also the scenery changes a lot 
 in each level which makes it new and exciting. It is quite hard to complete as you can go really 
 fast and easily through some parts but then you come to a thing you have to kill and it becomes 
 almost impossible. However you can cheat in most of these areas. If you walk close enough so the 
 baddy guy is just at the top of the screen he won't see you and will therefore not attack you. 
 You can just shoot him from this distance whilst he doesn't react and his health goes down until 
 he dies. This makes it really easy and stops you from getting annoyed when you do it properly and 
 keep dying. It is probably not worth playing if you have expensive new consoles because you will 
 just compare it with what you are used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay here is when it comes to games being really bad. So bad that you throw up. The graphics just 
 sucks, and the gameplay is so boring that you even fall asleep. It the most stupid and boring Starwars 
 game ever. I should call this game Starwash: Episode 1, The Phantom Game. The only good thing about 
 this game is that the sound is good. Has a very good soundtrack.
  
  Otherwise, this game is the worst, I mean really the worst game Ive ever played! Not even the storyline 
 from the movie matches the game. It's a total mess. The game itself is very bad.
  
  ---------DO NOT BUY THIS GAME EVER! ---------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game I was at that age when you'll play anything with a game pad. And even then 
 I didn't like this. I even liked the film, but not this. Back then the reason was it's a bad game, 
 it's boring and frustrating. Now of course, I actually know whay. The puzzles are simple and monotonous, 
 the 'open ended' talking sequences seem to make no difference about what happens as you play the 
 game. The camera is too top down to see whats ahead of you, but now enough to use it's usual advantages. 
 The lightsaber combat is simply swing it left to right and the enemies have a nasty habit of killing 
 you before you even see them (again, the camera angles) . So, basically, it sucks. Even back then, 
 it sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The Phantom Menace is a disgrace of a game that admittedly has a small ammount of appeal to me. 
 I like the running around as a Jedi deflecting laser blasts and such but the game is an exercize 
 in poor platforming gameplay, idiotic puzzles, and slashing away at dumb enemies. the camera perspective 
 is very annoying and limited and the gameplay is archaic. I dont reccomend this game to anybody 
 and even though it is essencially a PS1 game it still was outdated upon its release. Its attempts 
 at open ended gameplay fall flat immediately and the only slightly impressive thing is that it 
 stayed true to the sounds in the series and movie. Who cares though about sound you dont stay around 
 to hear it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool, although the Gamespot review says that this game gets a four point who 
 cares, i can tell where they are coming from. But this game is tight for a lot of reasons. First 
 the levels let you take many paths, yes know it may not seem that great but back then the only 
 grand theft auto was top down. There is a fun level where there is a 3-D city to explore. It may 
 not be big but the only thing that was bigger in 3-D was Driver 2. So try and pick this game up, 
 if you are a star wars fan or just want to the roots of how open citys started out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
