-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars TIE Fighter: Collector's CD-ROM
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/tiefightercollectorscdrom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.8, 9.3 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 838 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
TIE Fighter is the best space combat game ever made. 

 TIE Fighter is the best space combat game ever made. Having said that, I know I face the wrath of 
 Wing Commander fans everywhere. Too bad, because while Wing Commander has always been a fantastic 
 game, TIE Fighter and its noteworthy predecessor, X-Wing, offer a little more. Not only does their 
 flight modeling "feel" better, but they benefit from drawing on George Lucas's Star Wars universe, 
 which over the years has become ingrained in the American psyche.  

 The original TIE Fighter put you into the cockpit of one of Darth Vader's fighter ships, those nasty, 
 nimble pests that gave you so much trouble in X-Wing. There's a diverse mix of spacecraft available, 
 which helps keep mission diversity pretty high, since each has its own strengths and weaknesses. 
   

 The latest incarnation of TIE Fighter is the Collector's CD-ROM, which gives the game a needed facelift 
 and brings the total number of available missions to over 100. Furthermore, graphics resolution 
 now goes as high as 640x480 in high-res mode for combat sequences. This, coupled with the addition 
 of small details like rotating turrets and more sophisticated shading, lends TIE an even more impressive 
 look. The new missions run the gamut from tricky escorts to strikes, to other battles that draw 
 on the full range of TIE spacecraft.  

 With such a rich selection of ships and missions, chock-full of scorching action, TIE Fighter is 
 an easy game to get hooked on. It can get pretty tough in some of those later missions, but don't 
 worryyou can handle it. After all, you're working for the Dark Side.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  13 years later (god that makes me feel old...) and this game is STILL my most favorite, hands down. 
 It essentially is the perfect game (for me at least) combining what was at the time, magnificent 
 graphics, sound, and a very detailed and great storyline. All ships are extremely well balanced 
 and very unique in their own specific way . I can't recommend this game enough and it truly saddens 
 me that LA hasn't expanded on this series. Hopefully in time it will resurface as there are MANY 
 fans still out there. In fact this game even still runs on Window's Vista if you have the right 
 version of Tie Fighter and download the XP fix (which also worked with vista as well) . Typically 
 I don't like giving out a perfect "10" rating, but I have no problems giving it to this game. So 
 give it a try if you have never played this game before and remember... it IS over 13 years old 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  The sequel to X-Wing, and one of the greatest space sims of all, TIE Fighter. When most think of 
 the Empire, they think that all of its followers are pure evil, but TIE Fighter changed the perspective 
 for many.
  
  In TIE Fighter you are a new Imperial Pilot fresh out of the academy shortly after the Battle of 
 Hoth from The Empire Strikes Back. Stationed on a backwater outpost near Hoth, you have to work 
 your way up through the Imperial ranks by proving yourself. This is a double edged sword, though, 
 as Darth Vader and the Emperor themselves start to expect more from you, and failure is intolerable. 
 The story of TIE Fighter focuses mostly on the political aspects of the Empire, and you'll face 
 not just Rebels, but space pirates and Imperial traitors as the story unfolds. TIE Fighter's story 
 is brilliant because of how realistic it is, there's no melodrama, just pure politics and you're 
 caught in the middle.
  
  The gameplay in TIE Fighter is mostly the same thing as X-Wing, and the rest of the games in the 
 series. You'll still have to decide between lasers, shields (if your starfighter has them) and 
 engines adding some tactical decision making when you're on a mission. One nice change from X-Wing 
 is how you are not timed, in X-Wing you had a limited amount of time to complete objectives. In 
 TIE Fighter you have an infinite amount of time, as long as the objectives are completed.
  
  Graphics depend on the version, the original DOS version has undetailed, textureless models 
 like the DOS version of X-Wing, and the windows edition has X-Wing versus TIE Fighter models and 
 graphics. The windows version obviously has the advantage here, but compared to newer games even 
 that version is outdated visually.
  
  Audio-wise the two versions are also different. The DOS edition used a (superior) original MIDI 
 score that picked up when starships enter the area. The windows version uses the John Williams 
 score which some may prefer, but I felt that the original MIDI score was better. TIE Fighter also 
 has some great voice work, and classic Star Wars sound effects.
  
  TIE Fighter is an unforgettable masterpiece that to this day is still played by its legion of fans. 
 With an interesting, believable story, and excellent strategic gameplay it's really no wonder. 
 Any space sim fan who hasn't played TIE Fighter should, there's no real reason not to after all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game I've ever played. It was a good step forward from X-Wing (which is the 
 second best game I've ever played) , adding in more spacecraft (friend and foe) , more weapons, better 
 targeting systems with a great subplot. Replayable due to all the secret missions, secondary and 
 tertiary targets, as well as the ability to try and take out other targets like enemy platforms 
 and capital ships. Was even more fun when played onto a twelve foot screen in a dark. It is very 
 unfortunate that Lucasarts have not done future similar games (X wing vs Tie Fighter that cam later 
 was no where near as good, and unfortunately I never got my hands on X Wing Alliance) or re-released 
 for XP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NSlikster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Countless clones, one after another are released... remakes of remakes of remakes, many costing 
 countless millions of dollars to produce. Yet the real gems have long been forgotten by the massess. 
 Tie Fighter is one of those gems. In an era that defined what a computer game could do, this is 
 yet another of the countless space combat simulators that enthralled millions - or perhaps thousands. 
 Given that there have been too few games defined by this generation to be counted on one hand, 
 the audience must have been small. But I for one will never forget the experience of the Tie Fighter, 
 and Lucas Arts experiences provided in the early to mid '90's. I count myself among the lucky to 
 have experienced it, and wish today's computer game audience would open back up to the idea of 
 a game with actual depth that rewarded you for good flying with better ships, a storyline, and 
 the chance to play out your desires to explore the dakrside of the force.
  
  Help me Obi Won Kenobi, you're our only hope...
  
  Please bring back the epic Sci-Fi Space 
 Combat Simulator. Those of us older than 13 remember this era that defined PC gaming with more 
 clarity than any other. We miss you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  While Orions classic Wing Commander: Privateer, in my humble opinion, still ranks atop the space 
 combat food chain thanks to its engrossing, fully-realized universe and open-ended story structure, 
 LucasArts' Tie Fighter stands proudly as the finest in mission and campaign design, starship controls 
 and scope. Especially in the exquisite CD-ROM pack (also boasting fantastic voice-over work) , which 
 includes the Defender of the Empire add-on, the sheer amount of superbly crafted, challenging assignments, 
 arranged in the form of epic, over-arching campaigns, is simply staggering.
  
  The games powerful control scheme, though initially intimidatingly complicated, lends a sense 
 of realism to the experience that so far remains unrivalled. Where else can one so precisely micromanage 
 the distribution of engine power across vital ship systems, or so closely monitor the repair progress 
 of said systems after barely making it out of a barrage of enemy fire?
  
  The Star Wars universe here achieves a level of detail and depth undreamed of even in Lucas original 
 films, drawing heavily on Timothy Zahns acclaimed Thrawn trilogy novels for content, as well as 
 creating many new characters that fleshen out the Imperial command structure. The result is a rich 
 and exciting campaign full of political intrigue and deception.
  
  The graphics were, at the time of release, absolutely top notch and, even by todays standards, 
 hold up quite well.
  
  I could go on and on about how amazing this game is, but perhaps it would be better simply to sum 
 up by saying that this game is, well, amazing. If youve never played it, seek it out. If you have, 
 dust off your old copy and play it again.
  
  Nothing today compares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goonplatoon1032
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  How many asploded tie fighters does it take to satisfy an x-wing pilot? Back in my x-wing days, 
 camping just outside a frigates hangar was just plain mean. I sit there in an X-wing, and Tie fighters 
 would just keep pouring out. Oh f*** there goes Rob, guess we have to send George out, poor George. 
 as I guessed those Imperials on that frigate would say. It really seemed like Imperial engineers 
 were making those TIE Fighters out of tin cans in that hangar. 2 laser hits. boom. over and over. 
 Whats real funny is when the frigate will get real pissed and send TIE interceptors, oh NO interceptors, 
 suck on my interceptor
  
  NOW i'm flying one, and guess what? You'll rack up many more kills then you ever did in X-wing. 
 Whats great about sitting in a TIE is as long as moving around, you'll usually never get hit, however 
 you will encounter smarter and more versatile foes later in the campaign so this tactic will not 
 always work so be smart! Oh yea, attacking anyone head on is just plain crazy. Gunboats on the 
 other hand are bigger and can handle head on engagements, and you'll want to be smarter about shield 
 management, because hey, you have them now
  
  I've always wondered what would happen if the Empire won, so this is your chance to surely give 
 them an edge right before the Battle of Endor. Missions are intriguing and there a lot more ships 
 flying about, there's a bit more of a storyline in this game as well. Some unique craft include 
 the TIE Defender and the Missle Boat. The TIE Defender, is awesome, fast, has a lot of firepower, 
 and just plain cool. The Missle boat is like the imperial version of US Navy's Aegis Cruiser blowing 
 away anything that flies with its concussion missles. All in all, its just plain. Besides SW Empire 
 at War and KOTOR, this probably the best Star Wars game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  After Dark Forces this was the next Star Wars game I played, but now being on the other side of 
 the Force. As a big fan of the (first three) movies I, again, found the recognition massive! That 
 roaring sound of the Tie fighter! Great!
  
  Starting with fly instructions and doing some target practicing on a couple of containers you're 
 off on your first mission.
  
  Protect, escort and defend ships and objects. Track down an enemy ship, immobilize it and use a 
 tractor beam to real it in. There's lots to do, the dogfights are wonderful! You can lock on a 
 target and maintain the same speed, which comes in handy because it's hard enough to manoeuvre 
 your ship to get your target in your cross-hair.
  
  In the beginning you'll have to get used to the keymapping, but once you're familiar with that 
 it's hunting time!
  
  May the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much its really type of game u can play for hours and i never cared for x-wing 
 versus tie fighter but this game tie fighter itself was better and just wish lucasarts would remake 
 this masterpiece using today pc power. I cant play this game on my new pc but i was thinking of 
 buying a old 266mhz pc with windows 95 on it which shouldnt even cost more than 50 bucks lol. Use 
 that pc to play all the old games u cant even play on windows xp. I call this old pc trip down 
 memory lane. Anyways this game is must have if u havent play it yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This plays like a *new* game! I've had it for a while but just yesterday I decided to try one more 
 time to get it to work with windows XP. All I did was run it in "compatibility mode" and now it 
 works. 
  After spending 30 minutes deciding what controls to put on my gamepad and which ones to leave to 
 the keyboard, I finally started playing. And boy, it's unlike anything else, unless you've played 
 X-wing.
  
  Gameplay: Very complex. Many, many controls, complicated AI (wow!) , *and* it requires a whole lot 
 of strategy (how much energy should I put into this? Should I protect my starship or go after theirs? 
 Should I inspect the cargo while under fire or try to destroy the enemies before the transport 
 goes into hyperspace? and so on.) It stays fun, the gameplay is good.
  
  Graphics: You would not believe this was made in 95 either from the graphics. They can be better 
 than Battlefront at times.
  
  Sound: Great, good background music (It's a star wars game) and the effects sound pretty good.
 
  
  Value: Great. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: High. It's very enjoyable. Once you get the hang of the controls.
  
  One last 
 note: Buy this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  When I was about 7, I was first introduced to X-wing. It was a bit difficult for me back then but 
 I loved it all the same. Enter TIE Fighter. You might feel a little discouraged considering how 
 easily you blew TIEs into smithereens in a fully shielded X-wing, but considering that you are 
 among the greatest starfighter pilots in the galaxy (as opposed to the AI saps) theres not too 
 much to worry about at first.
  
  TIE fighter is very much opposite to the point and shoot "space shooters" coming out today, because 
 it requires you to think of something other than lining up your crosshair on your target. As in 
 X-wing, TIE fighter sports an ingenious starfighter power distribution, and mission goals will 
 be varied from escort missions to full blown multi capital ship battles. 
  
  There are usually multiple hit zones on a ship which you can choose to target with your warheads. 
 For example, most capital ships are armed with a homing warhead launcher (or two) , which will target 
 you once you start attacking, so you should put that out of action before you start attacking the 
 rest of the ship.
  
  By now the graphics are pretty dated, but the game feels like a classic, and since it is a classic, 
 maybe they should stay that way. If you are looking for something with better graphics, you might 
 want to try X-wing alliance, and download the DarkSaber Ultimate Craft Pack for some ridiculously 
 high detailed models. Still, I play X-wing alliance with DSUCP installed, and TIE fighters graphics 
 don't make me cringe.
  
  The game's sound system, whilst not top of the range, is fairly solid. There isn't any support 
 for hardware effects are anything fancy, and sometimes the limited number of channels is made apparent 
 by sounds cutting out, but this is not often, and doesn't do much anyway. The sounds themselves 
 are fantastic, utterly flawless and fit into the game like bread and butter.
  
  Although you start off flying a weak craft (TIE Fighter) , you will find that the missions do still 
 get much more difficult towards the end of the campaign, even though you will be flying craft such 
 as the TIE defender and the mighty Missile boat. Generally you will be expected to take down much 
 more powerful ships, perform much more strenuous time critical operations, and face worse odds 
 as the game progresses.
  
  One of the cool little touches to TIE fighter is that in addition to your basic mission briefing, 
 you can also receive a secondary briefing from a "cloaked figure" who will give you orders directly 
 from the emperor himself! Although these objectives mostly comprise just inspecting enemy ships 
 to catch out would be escapees, it is still pretty fun to be "the emperor's stooge".
  
  The game lacks multiplayer support, but in my opinion the game has incredible value without it. 
 With over 100 campaign missions, many more combat simulation and training missions, there is a 
 lot of content. It took me longer to complete TIE fighter's single player campaign than it did 
 for me to complete the Battlefront 2 campaign and get bored of the multiplayer gameplay.
  
  Overall, the game is slightly dated in terms of technology and there are one or two bugs in some 
 of the missions, but in terms of gameplay this game is unbeatable. I've been playing a lot of games 
 since TIE fighter came out but not one has surpassed TIE fighters awesome gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octopusempire
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  There have been few games where I can remember practically every moment playing. This is one of 
 those games. You play as a TIE Fighter pilot, working your way up through the ranks, thereby earning 
 you better ships (shields!) , rank, and entrance into the Emperor's "Secret Order". You are given 
 several goals to complete during any particular mission; completion leads to success. Weapons include 
 your standard lasers, along with warheads for fitted ships. The story takes place between the Empire's 
 victory on Hoth (The Empire Strikes Back) till the destruction of the second Death Star (The Return 
 of the Jedi) . While you don't get to participate in the actual last battle, you do get to contribute 
 to several events leading up to the Battle of Endor. The sound is event-based and therefore appropriate 
 for all occasions. But now for some of the drawbacks...
  
  The graphics, first of all, are a little sub par. They can be a bit blocky, but when you're in 
 the heat of a battle you barely even notice. If youve been raised to expect state-of-the-art graphics 
 in todays gaming reality, then look somewhere else. The only other negative aspect is that the 
 story tends to drag on in certain areas. This is particularly true towards the end, as you feel 
 that the designers added the last missions just to fill in the space necessary to lead up to Endor.
 
  
  Overall, though, the game earns a 10. Why? Even if the story drags on a bit, and the graphics are 
 a little outdated, this game still delivers several years after it was released. This is a game 
 that youll probably be playing until 3 in the morning, and you wont even care that youre up 
 that late. Why wont you? Because its that good of a game. Immersive, fun, exciting, and incredible. 
 It trumps practically every other flight combat simulator (space or no) . Now all we need is a modern 
 sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmagicianx5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  A couple of things you'll need: Windows XP SP2 (SP1 refuses to run almost any DOS games, SP2 has 
 much much better support) , VDMSound (Get the latest from their website on sourceforge [NOTE: This 
 is an open source freeware] ) .
  
  1) Install VDMSound on your computer.
  2) Navigate to the directory where you installed VMDSound, (Usually "C:\Program Files\VMDSound\") , 
 and locate "AUTOEXEC. VDMS"
  3) It should already be registered to be edited by Notepad, so double click to open it. (If it's 
 not registered to be opened by any text editor, right click on it and choose "Open with..." and 
 then choose Notepad, or any of your perfered text editor. Also word of advice, don't use Word or 
 the likes unless you are sure you know how to save it as an ANSI encoded plain text file (normal 
 extension .txt) .
  4) Where it says "Install CD ROM extensions", uncomment out the line below by removing the "REM" 
 tag. So it looks like the following:
  
  REM Install CD ROM extensions - to enable, uncomment the line immediately below:
  lh 
 
  
  5) Save and exit
  6) Put the Tie Figther CD ROM in.
  7) Autoplay should come up, if not start TieAuto. exe on the cd, and choose install. Select either 
 Regular or Maximum Installation, it doesn't take up much disk space (30MB for Regular) .
  8) Exit the Autorun, when it asks you to "Play, Install, Exit"
  9) Navigate to the direcory where 
 you installed Tie Fighter, usually "C:\TieCD\", and locate tie. exe
  10) Do the following:
  a) Right click on it and select "Properties"
  b) Locate the "Compatability" Tab and click on 
 it.
  c) Check the following check boxes: "Run this program in compatability mode for:", "Run in 256 
 colors", "Run in 640 x 480 screen resolution", "Disable visual themes"
  d) Under "Run this program in compatability mode for:", in the drop down menu, choose "Windows 
 95"
  e) Click on "Ok" to exit the dialog.
  11) Repeat step 10 for tieauto. exe
  12) Now it's time to get sound to work, Right click on Tieauto. exe and click on "Run with VMDS"
 
  13) The autorun will start up, and you'll want to choose "Install" and then choose "Set Up Sound 
 Card"
  14) Press C for Custom Configuration, because the game can't detect our emulated sound cards, and 
 it wouldn't use your new DirectSound Compatable sound card either.
  15) Choose Sound Blaster Pro for sound card, Port: 220, IRQ: 7, DMA Channel: 1, and Stereo Reverse: 
 0.
  16) Test both music and digital sound, they both should work fine. If not, check your VMDS configuration 
 to see which port, IRQ, and DMA Channel you have VMDS set at.
  17) Quit, and save the configuration.
  18) Now you may play the game by right clicking on "Tie. exe" 
 and choosing "Run with VMDS"
  19) The game will load with sound and everything, but it's not playable just yet. Press "Enter" 
 or "Return" on your keyboard to skip all the cinematics, you can watch them later, in fact, everytime 
 you start up the game.
  20) When you reach the "Registration Desk" the place where they ask you to pick your polit's name, 
 hit the "ESC" key on your key board to bring you to the options.
  21) Under teh options tab, Find "Flight Res" and lower it to "320x200". (640x480 will crash the 
 game when you enter combat for an unknown reason) .
  
  Now you can play Tie Fighter! So when GameSpot said that the collector's cd rom is all but impossible 
 to play on XP, well, they are wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine1701
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I remember first playing the X-Wing and Tie Fighter Games when I was around five years old. They 
 were great then, and they still are now. After a little extra work getting these classic games 
 to work on my computer, I find myself flooded with feelings of nostalgia and just overall fun playing 
 this game again. In the day of anti-aliasing, bump mapping, and hi definition, I can still go back 
 to this classic and be entertained for hours. For its day, the graphics were superb, and space 
 combat to John Williams' Star Wars score can still offer me quite a blast from the past. I only 
 wish they could make more like it today. It still shows that it was one of the games that helped 
 pioneer the space simulator genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epressman617
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  If you've never played this game, play it. Seriously. TIE Fighter Collector's Edition is the single 
 greatest space flight sim ever made, and I'm writing this more than a decade after it was released. 
 
  TIE Fighter puts you in the cockpit of seven imperial ships from the Star Wars universe, and, unlike 
 some games, they all feel like unique ships. The controls are the same, so you don't have to re-learn 
 anything, but the ships each have very different capabilities and purposes. 
  Ships have the classic laser cannons from the Star Wars movies, and some have shields, missiles, 
 ion cannons, torpedoes, rockets, bombs, beam weapons, etc. Balancing energy for lasers, shields, 
 and engines is key to success, and takes some getting used to. It is effective, though, in keeping 
 flight tactical and not just trigger-happy (not that there isn't a healthy dose of that...)
  
  Tie Fighter is difficult especially in the later missions, where you will have many objectives 
 and be hopelessly outnumbered and all that, but it is possible, even if you die a few times along 
 the way. Additionally, after a failed mission, your commanding officer will give you tips on how 
 to beat it when you perlay it, which is a very handy feature. If that weren't enough, you can also 
 record your missions and play them back to study your tactics (or just watch yourself kick some 
 rebel butt) . 
  The best part about gameplay, though, and the part that so many games lack, is the tactical aspect. 
 TIE Fighter doesn't just require you to kill enemies as they're put in front of you; you need strategy. 
 In a single mission you may need to protect your base ship, inspect enemy ships, disable them, 
 escort the ships dispatched to capture them, defend against ambushing enemy fighters, and eliminate 
 the enemy capital ship so you can escape. This requires you to coordinate your flight group's attacks 
 and keep a whole battlefield in mind, rather than just shooting blindly. And because each mission 
 has specific tactics, as well as plot and a variety of craft to fly, even over the course of 100+ 
 missions, they don't get boring. 
  To facilitate this, there are a number of tools at your disposal. A 2-D or 3-D map allows you to 
 oversee the battlefield and choose your targets, a threat display shows anyone's target, armed 
 weapons, distance/time from target, etc., and the targeting system is more sophisticated than any 
 I've seen. You can cycle through all targets, choose the nearest enemy, the newest craft, your 
 nearest attacker, your target's nearest attacker, your stored targets, and any subsystem of any 
 craft. Why more games haven't stolen this kind of system I will never understand.
  If all this weren't enough, there is a good plot as well. It finds a good balance between putting 
 you in an immense war in an impersonal (slightly evil) empire and still making you important to 
 the outcome, especially later in the game. There are cutscenes sometimes, but much of the plot 
 comes from your mission briefings, and it works well.
  
  The graphics in TIE Fighter are, of course, from '95, so don't expect fancy particle effects or 
 anything, but they are still damn good. Usually when playing a game half this old, the graphics 
 can get irritating, but not here. They are simple, but still well done and immersive. The only 
 minor problem is the lack of detail on flat sections of large capital ships, that makes close maneuvering 
 near them slightly disorienting, but generally if you have to get that close, you're either starting 
 or ending a mission, or so desperate for cover that you're dead anyway. The best part about the 
 graphics, though, is that they are from star wars. If you saw it in any of the 3 original movies, 
 you'll see it here. Star Destroyers, Corvettes, Shuttles, Corellian transports, x-wings, y-wings, 
 Cruisers, and a ton more new ships as well. 
  
  The sound is excellent as well. Even though it's old, the stereo sound is clean, crisp, and effective. 
 Many of the sound effects are from the movies, as is the music, which is particularly good at drawing 
 you in. Musical cues tell when allies or enemies enter the battlefield, orders from your home ship 
 or flight commander assist with the mission, and chatter from enemies supports the plot. However, 
 some of the voice acting could be better, and a little more variety would have been nice. All in 
 all, though, still very well done.
  
  value: about five bucks for the best game in its genre. 'nuf said.
  
  TIE Fighter has more 
 features than many modern games, and none feels tacked-on. There is a flight training simulator, 
 combat simulator, film review, tech room (to get stats on every ship in the game) , a secret society 
 to join, a well-written plot, and oven 100 missions.
  I really can't say enough about this game. If you play it, I recommend having a good joystick with 
 several buttons (Saitek X45 here) as gameplay is complex, with lots of systems to manage quickly, 
 but again, this is part of the game's appeal.
  
  Any game that is still played or discussed after this long is worth a look, and one that hasn't 
 been surpassed at all in such a fast-moving industry is simply astounding. Go buy yourself a copy 
 now. (and you might want to clear your schedule for the next month....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The follow-up to the smash hit "X-Wing" came Tie Fighter. The first time you could ever play as 
 the anatagonist in the Star Wars Universe... and boy did they do it right. It made being bad feel 
 good. 
  
  THE GOOD:
  -The control was sharp and tight
  -The storyline was well put-together, engaging and addicting.
  -The graphics were top notch with 
 shadows and beautiful detail on the the imperial and allied vehicles. No PC game looked better.
 
  -The space battles were truly intense with many starships, crusiers, star destroyers and more
 
  -Many missions were truly challenging
  -Awards and medals keep you coming back to do better the next time.
  -The Tie Advanced RULES.
 
  -The sound effects and music stayed true to the Star Wars lineage.
  
  THE BAD:
  -The voice acting wasn't always great. Other than that, there was no fault to be found in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostpanther
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Some 11 years have gone by and this is still one of the greatest games of all time, regardless 
 of genre or platform. A great twist on the X-Wing series putting you in the cockpit of the Imperial 
 forces. If you thought TIE Fighters were easy marks because they lack sheilds, guess again. What 
 makes this game stand out is how your actions feed into the story and vice versa. And the surprises 
 you face working for the Empire are so different from flying for the Rebels. A must have for any 
 collection. This is how you do a space sim RIGHT. This is the kind of pacing and style you shoudl 
 go with. A most impressive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naylor182
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Wow. I was a bit young to play this game when it came out, but when I got into the X-WIng series 
 I played this game to the bitter end. I bought the X-WIng collector's pack (X-Wing, TIE Fighter 
 and X-WIng vs. TIE Fighter) . The former and the latter were OK - I think 'X-Wing''s archaic graphics 
 put it down a bit. But TIE Fighter surely did improve on it!
  
  The best bit is the storyline, which now sits safely into 'Star Wars' canon. The debacle surrounding 
 Grand Admiral Zaarin and the rise of Admiral/Grand Admiral Thrawn (star of the Thrawn trilogy, 
 duology and of the 'Outbound Flight' stories) is very intriguing. The way you work your way into 
 the Emperor's favour and fly with Darth Vader is also brilliant.
  
  Overall, kicking the Rebels' butts has never been this good!
  
  Recommended to any flight sim/Star 
 Wars fan if you haven't already played it.
  FYI, I rated the graphics on the graphics of the day, not compared to modern day ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven55
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  And I mean that. Right NOW, TIE Fighter STILL offers more advanced, more fluid, more fun space 
 combat than any other game.
  
  The graphics can still hold their own - while newer Star Wars games can claim boast more detail 
 than TIE Fighter, the resolution is still crystal sharp, and the framerate is silky smooth - combine 
 that with a fluid and intuitive control scheme, and the result is fantastic gameplay.
  
  The game's linear story, surpisingly, is very well written. The plot is engaging, and fits nicely 
 into the Star Wars universe, between the events of the Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi. 
 The multi-battle war against Imperial traitor Admiral Zaarin which concludes the game feels like 
 it could be part of a Star Wars novel.
  
  All of the cutscenes and pre/post -mission briefings are fully voice-acted, as well as the in-flight 
 communications from wingmen and commanders. The acting is above-average for a game of this nature. 
 The music adapts to the current situation and usually compliments the action - unless you happen 
 to be sitting around, waiting for a transport to dock with freighter. Fortunately, you can accelerate 
 the action 4X to mimimize any time you might have to just sit around. It's a nice touch that shows 
 how much thought went into making this game such an amazing experience.
  
  Beating the game without using the invulnerability is wicked hard, but the game walks you through 
 it by increasing the difficulty slowly through 13 multi-mission battles, giving you time to adjust. 
 The complexity of this game also lends it a steep learning curve - you'll need to learn how to 
 balance your weaponry, shielding, and throttle effectively, and the game has dozens of keyboard 
 commands and menu screens you'll need to memorize. Again, the game overcomes this hurtle by providing 
 an excellent tutorial combat simulator that'll have you learning the finer points of piloting an 
 Imperial starfighter in no time.
  
  In an industry that survives by being the "latest and greatest," where the newest products utilize 
 the most cutting-edge technolgy, games that still get play time ten years later are nearly impossible 
 to come by. TIE Fighter is a game that will keep periodically returning to the disk drive years 
 after today's hottest games are forgotten. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moffatts
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 6, 2004 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Original tie-fghter game was tremendously succesfull for three reasons ; 
  
  1) it allowed one to step into one of the coolest roles in the star wars universe - an anonymous, 
 shiny black armour clad imperial tie fighter pilot, 
  2) the developers did a wonderfull job - provinding a great looking, realistic feeling space combat 
 flight simulator.
  3) the manuals supplited with the game and all the associated strategy guides span a wonderfull 
 back-story about a young pilot battling and intrigueing his way up the ranks of a secret imperial 
 society
  
  For anyone born in the early seventies the first reason was reason enough to buy this - on three 
 (if memory serves) high density 3.5" diskettes. This game provided the first opportunity to take 
 part in the epic Imperial / rebellion wars from the bad-guys perspective. And in common with other 
 notable action games of the time, for example Mechwarrior 2, the producers invested significanly 
 on selling the game's image. Through the box design , documentation and the official strategy guides 
 they tried hard to immerse the player in the role of a tiny cog in the huge imperial war machine. 
 And they succeeded ; the players character starts off as a trainee from some galactic backwater 
 and proceeds, as the levels advance to higher ranks within both the imperial navy (and by completeing 
 additiona, optional objectives in most levels) a secret imperial society.
  
  Not suprsingly as the player advances one wins access to more powerfull, faster and even more horribly 
 be-weaponed variants on imperial craft; the TIE Interceptor, TIE Advanced, TIE bomber (and you 
 know you've always wanted to) and finally the TIE Defender. All in addition to Imperial gunboats 
 / assault ships.
  
  Like it's predecessor, X-Wing, TIE figher required the playes to carefully balance a limited amout 
 of power amongst the ships ciritcal systems - engines (which one could throttle) , shields and lasers. 
 This requited some carefull managment as many missions featured multiple objectives requiring different 
 capabilities of speed, offensive weaponry and defense. In addition to standard laster weapons, 
 the players arsenal contained ion cannons (for disabling enemies' craft) and various ballistic 
 weapons; missiles and torpedoes.
  
  Outside of the core simulation the game featured nice little exrtas like a technical database with 
 overviews of key imperial and rebel craft. the ability to 'play-back' recorded missions, a flight 
 simulator and training courses. 
  
  Overall the collectors edition CD-ROM improves significantly on the original game in it's graphics 
 but little else. And anyways wasn't getting these things to run in 640 k of conventional memory 
 half the fun? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
