-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Battlefront
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starwarsbattlefront/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 3,310 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 20, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Wars: Battlefront delivers a satisfying team-based shooter experience that many hardcore Star 
 Wars fans will probably enjoy greatly. 

  When Star Wars: Battlefront was announced a year ago, the premise excited many fans of George Lucas' 
 sci-fi franchise, if only because it just made so much  sense . Battlefront would take some of 
 the ubiquitous characters, vehicles, and weapons from Star Wars and incorporate them into a Battlefield 
 1942-style team-based shooter, featuring large maps, dozens of players, and plenty of drivable 
 vehicles, in addition to on-foot shooting. Now that the game is finally available, we can confirm 
 that Battlefront delivers this experience -- no more and no less. It's a solid multiplayer action 
 game on its own merits, even if the premise is familiar. As such, how much you'll finally end up 
 liking it will probably depend on how much you like Star Wars and how much Battlefield-style gameplay 
 you've already been exposed to.  

          Battlefront is set in two different time periods in the Star Wars universe.     

  Though 
 Battlefront is a multiplayer-focused game, it has a single-player component in which you can fight 
 with and against computer-controlled players (also known as bots) . Aside from an instant action 
 mode, the game offers two different single-player modes. One is the historical campaign, which 
 includes two linear campaigns that follow the story arcs from episodes IV through VI and episodes 
 I through III of the films. You'll be treated to a short film clip prior to each map, but you won't 
 be given any choices as to which side you can play, although you will be switching sides over the 
 course of each campaign. The battle maps are populated with bots, which exhibit a respectable level 
 of artificial intelligence. You'll see friendly pilots tossing you ammo and health when you need 
 it, and you can even issue simple commands to nearby teammates. But overall, the AI shouldn't pose 
 much of a challenge to experienced players.  

  The other mode is galactic conquest, which is a more open-ended campaign that allows you to choose 
 the order in which you attack enemy-controlled planets. Each planet you control offers a different 
 special bonus for subsequent battles. These bonuses range from "sabotage," which causes your opponent's 
 vehicles to spawn in with heavy damage, to "Jedi hero," which allows you to fight alongside a nearly 
 invincible computer-controlled Jedi like Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker, Mace Windu, or Count Dooku. 
 In practice, the galactic conquest mode doesn't play out all that differently from the regular 
 campaign, and even though there are eight galactic conquest campaigns, there really isn't much 
 difference between them.  

  Battlefront includes four playable factions. These include the rebels and the empire from the galactic 
 civil war depicted in the late '70s and early '80s films, as well as the republic clone warriors 
 and the separatist droid army from the newer films. In some sense, however, this really feels more 
 like two pairs of factions than it does four separate ones -- the reason for this is that you're 
 never allowed to pit factions from different time periods against one another. In any given map, 
 it's always rebels versus empire, or republic versus droids; you're never allowed to mix it up 
 and have the empire fighting against the droid army, for example.  

  Each of the four factions has five distinct character classes. All have a basic soldier that can 
 carry a rapid-fire blaster rifle as well as grenades. There's also a heavy weapons class in each 
 army that wields rocket launchers to take out vehicles. Then there's the obligatory scout, which 
 carries a sniper rifle. Rounding out the list of standard classes is the pilot, which is an interesting 
 class that melds the capabilities of the engineer (repair and resupply) and medic (healing) commonly 
 found in other team-based shooters. As the name suggests, though, the pilot is also the class best 
 suited to vehicles, as any vehicle with a pilot in it will slowly but automatically recover from 
 any damage taken in the course of combat. Superficial differences do exist between each faction's 
 basic classes. For example, the rebel vanguard's rocket launcher can lock onto enemy vehicles and 
 fire two rockets at a time instead of just one.  

  Each army has a fifth specialized class that helps differentiate the four factions. The rebels 
 can field wookiee smugglers armed with bowcasters, mortar launchers, and time bombs. Bowcasters 
 can be charged up to fire a large spread of powerful bolts. The wookiees can take the most damage 
 out of any infantry class. Both the empire and the republic field soldiers are equipped with jetpacks 
 that allow them to get to high places or just travel a lot faster. The republic jet trooper's jetpack 
 lasts a lot longer than the empire's dark trooper's jetpack. But the latter's shotgunlike blast 
 cannon is arguably a better weapon than the jet trooper's EMP launcher. Rounding out the specialized 
 classes is the droid army's droideka. Those who have seen  Episode I  will remember the droideka 
 as the rolling destroyer robot that wields rapid-fire blasters and a personal shield. Droidekas 
 in Battlefront can roll quickly about the battlefield and they can more than hold their own in 
 a standoff while outnumbered. However, they're also very easy to destroy when their rechargeable 
 shields run out of power.  

          Each of the game's four factions offers five different classes.     

  Battlefront includes 
 16 different maps, spread out over 10 different planets that range from the dusty landscape of 
 Geonosis to the forests of Endor to the rain-swept oceans of Kamino. As in Battlefield 1942's conquest 
 mode, players must capture specific spots on the map called "command points." Your team spawns 
 at command points, as do vehicles, so it's important to protect the ones you control and capture 
 the other ones away from your enemy. The team that controls the majority of the command points 
 at any given moment causes the other team's score ticker to count down; once one team's countdown 
 hits zero, the other side wins. Control all the points on the map for 20 seconds, and your team 
 will automatically win.  

  Battlefront offers a good array of wide-open maps that are more amenable to vehicle usage. The 
 Hoth map (there has to be one in every Star Wars game, after all) is a good example of this, as 
 empire AT-ATs lead the charge on the rebel shield generator. Rebel snowspeeders attempt to trip 
 up the AT-ATs on their marching path, while tauntaun mounts wait to carry rebel infantry across 
 the map. Other maps are more infantry-oriented, like the Cloud City battlefield on Bespin, which 
 doesn't include any vehicles, although there are plenty of stationary manned turrets.     

 
  The infantry-oriented maps are probably the weakest part of Battlefront, because most of them 
 are unimaginatively designed with bridged platforms that create obvious choke points, which limit 
 the ability to flank and attack from unexpected directions. And let's face it, much of the appeal 
 of Battlefront is the ability to hop into the many and varied vehicles of the Star Wars universe, 
 so it makes you wonder why developer Pandemic even bothered with maps that have few or no vehicles. 

          There are 16 different maps in Battlefront, spread out across 10 planets.     

  The 
 vehicles are, in fact, the best aspect of Battlefront. It's quite exhilarating to fly about in 
 a TIE Fighter or X-Wing and provide ground support, or stomp around in an AT-ST or other tanklike 
 vehicles and blast hapless infantry. Using speeder bikes on Endor and Tatooine is also satisfying, 
 as the game employs a blur effect to accentuate the sense of speed as you hover about. Geonosis 
 is probably the best vehicle map, as it includes droid spider-walkers and hailfire tanks against 
 the six-legged AT-TE of the republic army, as well as heavily armed air transport ships.  

  If there's any complaint to be leveled against the vehicles in Battlefront, it's that they're rather 
 overpowered relative to infantry, especially if they're being driven by a skilled player using 
 the pilot class (which, as mentioned, affords auto-healing) . Spawn camping with a large vehicle -- that 
 is, waiting for opposing team members to reappear, only to blow them up again -- is a cheap and easy 
 way to rack up kills and lead your team to an easy capture. Depending on how large the vehicle 
 is, it often takes a concerted effort from three or more heavy weapons classes to bring a vehicle 
 down, and in most cases, you'll find that your teammates (human or AI) aren't organized enough 
 or bright enough to realize this. In the case of a huge AT-AT or AT-TE, infantry weapons can hardly 
 cause a scratch. Those particular vehicles act as mobile spawn points as well, so that compounds 
 the problem even further, as enemy infantry pop out constantly to harass you as you're trying to 
 take down the vehicle. To be fair, you'd probably expect these vehicles to be powerful after seeing 
 them in the movies.  

  Battlefront offers a pretty simple but flexible interface. You can switch between first-person 
 and third-person viewpoints (although you'll need to map this command explicitly in the console 
 versions, as first-person mode is disabled by default) . As you're firing on opposing soldiers or 
 vehicles, you receive notification of their health level in the top right corner, so it's easy 
 to see if you've been hitting someone or not, and how close that person is to death. Battlefront 
 also borrows a page from Halo's design book, as secondary weapons (usually a grenade) are easily 
 fired with the left trigger on the console versions or the right mouse button on the PC. There's 
 also an overexaggerated rag-doll physics system for dead bodies, so killing anyone with a vehicle 
 weapon or grenade often results in your target taking flight and rolling across terrain -- an effect 
 that's silly but often pretty satisfying.  

  Most primary weapons also offer at least one level of zoom, but aiming is relatively easy anyway, 
 especially on the console versions where auto-aim is on by default. Battlefront's brand of auto-aiming 
 is especially sticky, which unfortunately cheapens head-to-head standoffs in the console versions' 
 multiplayer modes. Since your aiming point "sticks" on to targets fairly noticeably, it takes a 
 lot of the skill out of dodging and weaving, and therefore standoffs often boil down to the winner 
 being the one who fired the first shot.  

  As you'd expect from a Star Wars game, Battlefront's sound design is great. You'll be treated to 
 John Williams' familiar, award-winning music from the films, and all the sound effects seem to 
 be lifted right out of the movies as well. The voice warnings you get ("we've captured a command 
 point") can get repetitive, but with the excellent music and sound effects, we won't quibble too 
 much about it. The sound definitely captures the spirit of the movies.  

  Battlefront is available on three different platforms, and these different versions of the game 
 begin to distinguish themselves from one another on the graphics front. The PlayStation 2 version 
 is clearly the weakest of the three, offering blurrier textures and no shadowing on any of the 
 models. In comparison, the Xbox and PC versions offer more vibrant colors and sharper texturing, 
 as well as additional detail on all of the soldier and vehicle models. Overall, the graphics on 
 all three platforms are respectable relative to other shooters on the same platform, and it's fun 
 to see all of the recognizable places and vehicles from the films. Also, frame rates are pretty 
 smooth across the board for the most part, although there can be noticeable hitching from time 
 to time while playing on a full server on Xbox Live.  

  Speaking of the online play, the most noticeable difference between the platforms is found in the 
 online support. The PC version offers support for up to 32 players online. Some servers we've seen 
 in the browser report up to 50, but we weren't able to join a server that had more than 32 human 
 players (not counting additional bots) . Xbox Live supports up to 16 human players (with additional 
 bots to round out the maps) , but we've seen some servers reporting support for up to 20. The online 
 play for both these versions is good, with the clear edge going to PC for supporting more players. 

  The PlayStation 2 version also supports 16 players online, but only using  special dedicated software 
  that you must run on a PC. If you want to run a game off of your PS2, you can only play with four 
 human players in total, with six additional bot players added to each team. Of course, many of 
 these maps are far too large for just eight versus eight, so out of all the platforms, PS2 is clearly 
 the weakest for online play. To its credit, LucasArts appears to be running quite a number of PS2-dedicated 
 servers, but as the community fills out, it remains to be seen if enough third parties will run 
 16-player dedicated servers to meet the demand. PS2 owners who don't have much space left on their 
 memory cards should also be warned that Battlefront immediately downloads a 1.8MB patch to your 
 memory card. That's quite a chunk out of the standard 8MB card, so if you don't have the space, 
 you'll need to clear some off or buy a new card.  

  It also bears mentioning that both console versions of the game offer two-player, split-screen 
 multiplayer mode for offline play. Aside from a quick instant action match, you can play through 
 any of the historical or galactic conquest campaigns either competitively or cooperatively with 
 a friend, and you can save your progress as you make your way through them. The frame rates hold 
 up very well on both console platforms under split-screen mode, although some of the heads-up display 
 elements, like the map, become somewhat more difficult to read. System link capability is also 
 available on the consoles for up to 16 players, and LAN play for up to 32 players is an option 
 on the PC.  

          Vehicles are clearly the highlight of the game.     

  If there's a complaint to be made about Battlefront's online support, it's that the server browser 
 often lags on posting the number of players in each server. We tried many times to join a server 
 that was reporting as 50 percent or 75 percent full, only to be denied with a "server full" message. 

  Overall, Star Wars: Battlefront delivers a satisfying team-based shooter experience that many hardcore 
 Star Wars fans will probably enjoy greatly. Ironically, though the PC version of the game is technically 
 the best, it also faces the stiffest direct competition, because to many PC shooter fans the game 
 may come off as old hat. After all, aside from the Star Wars universe, Battlefront doesn't deliver 
 anything PC players haven't seen before, even though it's a solid game in its own right. The console 
 versions of the game -- especially the Xbox version -- might seem more fresh and appealing to their 
 respective audiences, who don't have as many choices in online team-based shooters.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (120 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: freeofkings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  gameplay: 9.5
  sound:9.5
  graphics:9.5
  content:9.5
  the gameplay is pretty much like battlefield except with star wars. however it is not just a replica, 
 it improves on the concept a great deal. one of the improvements are the singleplayer is more fun. 
 
  the sound is classic star wars music that star wars have grown to know and love.
  the graphics are good. i cant really say anything else but they are good for its time.
  the content 
 is great. it is loaded. it has multiplayer and a ton of different ways to make singleplayer more 
 fun. like in galactic conquest where you try to take over the galaxy one planet at a time. or if 
 you just want to play you can go on instant action to choose what planet you want to play. there 
 is also a historical fight mode which takes you through all of the star wars history as you would 
 see it from the soldiers side. i ove this game and i would have rated it as perfect but all games 
 have room for improvement even the best. this is one of my favorite games ever. so go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninn1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  SWB is an amazing game online (despite only having one game setting) , alowing tons of players (for 
 computer at least) to work together to beat the other team. However in time the online community 
 is getting restless. Games are often full of "Team Killers" who ruin your chances of playing and 
 your score if you fight back. Also the "Tank Noobs" are at large and it takes a lot of heavy fire 
 power to fight back. Often times they will camp in an area and kill all of your team mates, this 
 really will ruin the score board for your team if it happens to you.
  
  Single Player is worthless. The battles are exactly the same just without TK's. The two campaigns 
 are just as worthless, though killing Gungans is really fun!
  
  Graphics wise, the game isn't amazing nor ugly. Now adays any computer will be able to play it 
 with minimun lag. You can easily switch between first-person and third-person view with the strike 
 of a button though I normally keep it on first person.
  
  The sound isn't amazing and the high pitched shots start to get annoying after playing for a while 
 but the effects all sound the same they did in the movies, which sounded real the majority of the 
 time.
  
  The maps are very well made to me. Though there are some that stand out in online play. One is 
 Cloud City in which armies of units will charge along sky ways in the city to attack enemy command 
 posts as more units fight away in the city below. Other fun maps include Hoth, Geonosis, and another 
 ice planet who's name I've forgotten.
  
  The gameplay works like so: There are two factions for each era (Rebels+Empire and Republic+Seperitists 
 or however you spell it) . A world is chosen to fight in and you start off in a command point. There 
 you will want to try to take other command points over so that you can respawn there later. Then 
 your mission is to kill the enemies, they may be PC's or NPC's. Though often a plan in your head 
 should be to take over more command points to make it harder for your opponent to take yours. If 
 you loose all of yours for over twenty seconds (which is less time than it takes to capture one 
 normally) . Also you will loose if allies die a set amount of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:   
 BAZ DEHE EHEN EHEN HEN BHNH H H H H H H H H Y N UHN JNE :E ER KMLE ME: KLF EK F MTEKLTG K: L"E KMEE 
 EKJENKLENRKLREMLKE ELKMFLK E {LNLKR W QW D A d a D W WDA WD WAD A WD WA D WA ADW W w w wwwwdwd
 
  
  
  
  
  KJNFD: JLNNFKM F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F KIEJEIJE SUCK MY COQADOOLDE DOT COM!!! PLOP ME 
 DOF F F I F*** A DOE A DEER A FEMALE DEER!!! F F F F F F F F F F F F F F HOME ON THE RANGE111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is a game where you are a trooper of either the light or the dark side and 
 you battle across the Star Wars galaxy in two different time periods.
  
  The first, shown in Star Wars episodes I, II, and III, is the clone wars, the battle between the 
 CIS (confederacy of independent systems, or just army of the dark side) , and the clone-army of the 
 Galactic Republic.
  
  The second one, is the Galactic Civil war (of episodes IV, V and VI) . It has to do with the rebellion 
 against the Galactic Empire, which is supported by the dark side.
  
  In the battlefront you are a sergeant soldier (and this is because you can control a group of other 
 troopers) included in one army of about 250 soldiers, while the enemy controls the same number of 
 soldiers under normal conditions. In many FPS games, you are a certain soldier choosing his weapon. 
 However, in SW Battlefront you have to choose between a variety of soldiers with whom you can respawn 
 near a command post. For example, you can be a pilot, a vanguard or a rifleman. Furthermore, each 
 army has its own special soldier (e. g. the special trooper of the Rebels is a Wookiee) .
  
  But to spawn into the battle, your side must control at least one command post. Command posts are 
 also used to spawn some vehicles or starfighters (which are spawn automatically) . You can capture 
 a hostile command post, which results to cutting off the enemy's reinforcements. 
  When you capture all the command posts in the battlefield, you win the battle. But beware: don't 
 let the enemy capture them all, just because it results to your defeat.
  
  Apart from just the trooper, the player can get in some certain vehicles, which exist in many battlefronts 
 near certain command posts. The Al cannot get into an enemy machine, but luckily, there are not 
 such restrictions to the player (except two certain vehicles) .
  
  You can also play in galactic conquest mode, apart from the campaign, or play one or multiple maps, 
 in each order you want.
  
  Now, into the game, the graphics are really good, still opposing a kind of bugs, while hte sounds 
 into the battlefield are also very well-detailed. In addition, the award-winning music of the original 
 films is included.
  
  Generally, Star Wars: Battlefront is a very good game, which you ought to own, if you are a Star 
 Wars fan. Even if you are not, this game is still something worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_M_Tz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is designed by Pandemic and published by the well-known Lucasarts. It is 
 a first/third person shooter which is similar to the Battlefield series where you would run and 
 out chase down the enemy, get shot, die, and respawn again a few seconds later - Making it very 
 simple to learn how the game works. 
  
  Star Wars Battlefront levels features some of the best recognised surroundings in the Star Wars 
 film series such as Hoth, Naboo, and Yavin; except this time, YOU decide who wins in the battle, 
 YOU decide what futuristic weapon you should use to defeat the opposition, whether it be a classic 
 Sniper Rifle, a Rocket Launcher, or a simple Blaster Assault Rifle. You can pilot vehicles, planes 
 and walkers which can blast their way through the open battlefield and laugh as you watch the opposition 
 cower behind shelter and bunkers whilst you helplessly fire away at them, taking no pity. Yes, 
 Star Wars Battlefront is more of a fun shooter than a serious one, and in a good way too. Expect 
 humorous conversations (during multiplayer online mode) in the corner of the screen or just random 
 gibberish that can fall under the topic of "general things". 
  
  There are a variety of gameplays to choose from in Battlefront; you can either play in a campaign 
 as one of the four factions (explained later on) , play a galatic conquest (which sets about conquering 
 other planets with bots) , and lastly the most popular one; Instant Action, which allows you to 
 choose from several levels and one of the two (of the four, depending on era you set it in) factions. 
 
  
  Altogether, there are four different playable factions. These are Rebel Alliance, Galatic Empire, 
 Republic, and CIS. Each of the four factions have 5 different playable roles, these are: Regular 
 Infantry, Anti-Vehicle Infantry, Pilot/Enginner, Special Infantry, and Marksman. No matter what 
 faction you choose to play as - the weapons will stay roughly the same (i. e. A Republican sniper 
 will have the same armaments as will a CIS Sniper) , apart from the special infantries which are 
 totally different for all sides, and is what normally makes the factions unique. The same also 
 applies for the vehicles in the game; no matter what scenario or faction you are playing, there 
 will be no "special vehicles" around for you to uses. They will either fall in the category of 
 the "scout vehicle" section, or "Medium Assault Vehicle", "Heavy Assault Vehicle", "Heavily Assault 
 Transport", "Starfighters" (planes) , or "Airborne Transport". 
  
  The goal of the game (on any type of gameplay) is simple: Capture neutral and enemy command posts 
 by standing near it, which also acts as their spwan point (or yours if you've got one) and reduces 
 the opponent's ability to respawn or just keep killing them until their reinforcement points get 
 to 0. On multiplayer, the amount of reinforcement points varies depending on what the server chooses. 
 
  
  Although there may not seem much to talk about Star Wars Battlefront, it truly is a shooter that 
 is fun, in many ways. However, there is space for many more improvements such as unlocking awards 
 that you can show off to other multiplayer friends online and unlockable that can keep you going. 
 Personally, I think it's a brilliant game unfinished, which is why I recommend Star Wars Battlefront 
 2 a more suitable choice for newcomers, if offers the same simplicity but adds more fun due to 
 the extras and new additions to the game.
  
  
  
  Michael Tran,
  
  
  Star Wars Battlefront Minimum System Requirements:
  CPU: 1GHz Pentium/Athlon
  Memory: 256RAM
 
  Video: 64MB
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack1717
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront for pc is a great game. Better levels then even battlefront two, it has a 
 great campaing, fun gameplay, great graphics, all of those makes battlefront an awesome game.
 
  
  
  Graphics: 8.8/10 great graphics %78 completely real!!
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 great, but there are places that should definitly be fixed up.
  
  Modes: 8.3/10 
 Great but tons of room for improvement.
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10 By far the best part of the game. It delivers a great time.
  
  Campaign:8/10 
 Good, but not great
  
  Levels: 9/10 Great, better then battlefront 2!!
  
  Overall, Battle front is a great game with plenty of room for improvements,
  Great level design, 
 fun if not repetitive gameplay, great multiplayer, and great graphics. If you like star wars, or 
 you just want a fun action game, this game is great for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront II has been out for a while, so why would I go back and review the original 
 you ask? Well, while SWBF II was a decent sequel to this title, I always felt that the original 
 was the superior game.
  
  Star Wars: Battlefront is split into three game modes. The "Historical Campaigns" which reenact 
 specific battles from the Clone Wars, and Galactic Civil War eras. Essentially most of these are 
 little more than glorified Instant Action matches, but shooting those annoying Gungans as a basic 
 Battle Droid can be fun. The Historical Campaigns are definitely a weak aspect of the game, and 
 I would go as far as saying that they're a complete waste of time.
  
  Second you've got Galactic Conquest. While Galactic Conquest was definitely improved in SWBF's 
 successor, it's still amusing enough in the original game. Basically you've got a few planets on 
 a small "map", and you need to conquer all of them to ensure victory for your faction. To be honest 
 though, like the campaign Galactic Conquest is mostly just glorified Instant Action matches.
  
  Lastly the primary game mode, instant action. Essentially you just run around, killing enemies 
 and capturing command posts and try to empty your opposing side's reinforcement pool first. While 
 not revolutionary by any means, Battlefront allows players to blow up Gungans and Ewoks. Instant 
 win right there.
  
  Right, to the general gameplay. Personally, I don't mind the lack of playable heroes and space 
 battles since those were not part of the original concept. One very nice attribute in Battlefront, 
 is that you are just another troop on the battlefield and the AI will treat you as such. This is 
 a nice change after playing Battlefront II for a while, and being the prime target of every computer 
 opponent on the field.
  
  Visuals are fairly unimpressive now that we have games like Unreal Tournament 3. Still, the characters 
 are all detailed and there's some nice physics when you blow up Gungans with grenades. Watching 
 them flail through the air is satisfying, I assure you.
  
  Audio wise Battlefront is also good. It features the John Williams score constantly playing in 
 the background, along with typical Star Wars sound effects, and some decent voice acting. The Gungan 
 death screams are especially music to the ears.
  
  Battlefront is a great game if you want to experience battles from the Star Wars films in first 
 person... or third person if you're a sissy. I have to admit, I find playing as an Imperial Stormtrooper 
 amusing. Also, you get to kill Gungans, oh yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  WHO?
  You are a soldier fighting in the Star Wars universe. Be it empire, clone, rebel or droid - your 
 pick.
  
  WHAT?
  It's Star Wars! You need to travel to critical locations and gain strategic control of them in 
 order to turn the war's balance in your favor.
  
  WHY?
  Because if you don't lend a hand, the enemy is assured to win.
  
  HOW?
  By capturing control 
 zones in the area and defeating as many enemies as possible to deplete their reinforcements.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  GRAPHICS
 
  Simple and elegant has been a staple in Star Wars games and Battlefront is no exception. While 
 not the prettiest visuals ever to be seen, the game still has the worlds marked down pretty well, 
 with a simple look that does the job. Character animations somewhat lack fluidity, as it's often 
 possible to see troopers literally teleport from standing to crouching position, or simply teleport 
 around if they come across a wall.
  
  SOUNDS & MUSIC
  Like all Star Wars game, we're given the traditional Star Wars songs and sound effects with no 
 clear innovation. It's a gamble between those who love Star Wars anytime anywhere and those who 
 eventually get sick of the same songs coming back over and over.
  
  NAVIGATION
  This came as a pleasant surprise. The menus are beautiful, simple, fast, and well-designed. The 
 spawn screen shows exactly the required information, including equipment, game status, and a map 
 of the area to gauge where to spawn. The HUD is also easy to figure out, although it'll take a 
 game or two to get used to every part of it.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Let's make no mistake: Battlefront is a LAN game. And as such, both the Internet and the single 
 player modes are severely lacking. Single player pits you in different battles across the galaxy, 
 set in both the Clone Wars and the Civil War eras, therefore giving you a feel of each team and 
 a tour of each planet or almost. The mode is also completed by a sort of conquest mode, in which 
 you repeatedly choose a planet to invade, in an attempt to gain control of all planets in the sector. 
 Internet-wise, the battles are simply unplayable, as every game is constantly plagued by extreme 
 lag, making kills seem more like lucky shots than anything else.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  Single Player gets you to meet a largely inconsistent AI that'll snipe you from behind half a dozen 
 layers of thick, opaque foliage, lob grenades at walls, or shoot through its own ranks in an attempt 
 to kill the enemy. The overwhelming stupidity of the AI is shown in the end results of the battle, 
 as a player alone can score well over 40 kills and the second placer having done less than ten. 
 Even more disturbing are the many people who actually shot down more teammates than enemies. All 
 in all, the fate of the battle depends on the player. While this is the point of the game to a 
 degree, in order to prevent people from sitting back and watch the battle unfold, it's also frightening 
 to the point of thinking "If the Star Wars army hired idiots like these, no wonder a dozen Empire 
 sharpshooters can miss Han Solo from a distance of a hundred feet." Player involvement should have 
 been calculated so that he can tip the balance just enough to help his side and win, not by assuring 
 complete and humiliating defeat unless he kills more enemy troopers than his teammates combined.
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  Being a multiplayer game, it has potential for LAN play, and the premise of the game, with its 
 control spots and everything, is pretty easy to get into, be it for a quick game or a full-length 
 campaign. It's not a "do the plot then it's over" game. It's something one can pull out anytime 
 and play.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  GOOD
 
  -Well thought out menus and navigation.
  -Good variety of areas to fight in.
  -Ability to pilot several different vehicles.
  
  BAD
  -The AI is completely symbolic.
  
 -Impossible to create an anachronistic game (i. e.: Empire VS droids or Clones VS Rebels etc.)
 
  -The Internet play mode is a thing to forget about.
  
  SO WHY A FIVE?
  Milking the Star Wars franchise is all right as long as the games are done well. Just for the frustrating 
 AI, the game loses a lot of points. The rest of the job is done by its limited multiplayer and 
 unpolished feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is one first-person shooter you don't want to miss. With it's stellar level 
 designs, amazing gameplay, and great graphics, this is a game that will give you HOURS of addictive 
 gaming! It has been a favorite of mine since it came out. There are several units to choose from, 
 each with their own special capabilities. One great amazing game that is totally awesome, and the 
 maps are cool too. Every map is huge, so you'll have a lot of mobility on the battlefield. The 
 vehicles are fun, and their are a wide variety of them to choose from. They range from speedy bikes 
 to powerful AT-ATs. Whatever unit, whatever map, every weapon and vehicle you see is yours to command. 
 Any game that allows you to stomp around in an AT-AT is amazing fun! The screen-saver isn't bad 
 either, lol! Jump in and hold on, you get to 'LIVE THE BATTLES!' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a great FPS shooter and is a great experience for people new to Star Wars. Star Wars 
 Battlefront gives you the opportunity to fight in the epic battles of the Star Wars saga. You can 
 chose to be on different sides for example, the republic and then you can pick what soldier do 
 you want to be.
  What type of droid, a droideka? Each type of soldier has their own unique weapon like the blue 
 clone has his bazooka weapon while the normal white clones have a rifle. The game has different 
 maps which will keep you playing for hours a day and this game never gets old. i recommend this 
 game if you like a good battle. For all to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiistation360dl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Star wars battlefront is one shooter you don't want to miss. With it's stellar level designs, amazing 
 gameplay, and great graphics, this is a game that has been a favorite since it came out. There 
 are several units to choose from, each with their own special capabilities. One great amazing game 
 that is totally awesome, and the maps are cool too. Every map is huge, so you'll have a lot of 
 mobility on the battlefield. The vehicles are fun, and their are a wide variety of them to choose 
 from. They range from speedy bikes to powerful AT-ATs. Whatever unit, whatever map, every weapon 
 and vehicle you see is yours when you LIVE THE BATTLES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The most easy type of game to sell is one where you are a military officer and you are at war. 
 Combine this with the fact that it is Star Wars they are selling and it is hot game already. Do 
 not overestimate this game. It is amusing at first but it gets kind've old after a while. After 
 a few days you are most likely to think that it has grown repetetive. Even the campaign has very 
 unoriginal objectives. It is just the exact same battle with a different amount of people in your 
 army and an objective that fits so seamlessly in the Star Wars timeline, you might as well watch 
 the movies. The good news is is that the battle itself is entertaining. If you wanted to do more 
 than watch the battles, you should play this game to your heart's content. After that you should 
 check out the multiplayer but it has the same story as single player. Then after that you should 
 sell it or whatever you want to do with it. 
  
  Overall it is entertaining, and if you have a spare $20, buy it. It is fun to play while you're 
 having a hot head over Metroid Prime or something, and it is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uhero41
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is a very fun and addicting game that I have not played very much but I have 
 to say this it does a very good job when it comes to Star Wars gameplay. 
  
  
  First I will start with the story mode. It is very short and fairly easy but it is very enjoyable 
 also. There is too story modes, Galactic Conquest and Clone Wars I believe and both of them are 
 equally good. The instant action feature is a good feature where you pick the maps you would like 
 to play and you are instantly in the game. You then play on the maps you selected simaltaniously. 
 While playing on your selected map you then have a capture the flag based match where you must 
 try and capture the opposing teams command posts. This is what you do in the story modes also. 
 The sound relates extremely well to the movies giving it a nice Star Wars like feel. The level 
 designs are very well put together with some levels more close ranged combat and others more immense. 
 The graphics are nothing special but are definetly not bad. I have yet to play online but I'm sure 
 if it is anything like instant action it will be very satisfying. There is nothing really wrong 
 with this game but I would have liked to see playable Jedi characters.
  
  
  
  All in all this is a wonderfull game and therefore recieves a 9 out of 10!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is the works of genius. This game is a multi player juggernaut. Including 
 many worlds of the Star Wars universe, each with at least two battle fields, there is much to love. 
 The graphics are just stunning, giving you the sense of the epic battle. It handles great in first 
 or third person. The musical score is of course great (hey its john williams for christ's sake) . 
 The sounds are right on with what you would expect. Single player is lacking with seemingly the 
 same as a multi player game with maps. Those who dont have online will find fun in the galactic 
 conquest mode, but multi player is where it really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Yes the graphics are outdated, and you may need to lower the graphics quality to make it play smooth 
 (other wise it lags and it unplayable) , and maybe loading takes 2 minutes, but other than those 
 faults, this is a must buy. The reason I lowerd the score is becuase the sequal is better, but 
 this is still a great game. It puts you in a huge battle, and you need to go the the enemy command 
 posts and defend them to make them yours. When you control all the command posts, or wipe out all 
 of the enemies army, you win. There are many battlefields, and fighting is fun. The option to play 
 n first-person or third-person is cool, but the first-person option is better becuase you can zoom. 
 If you are a Star Wars fan, or just like action games, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game had some great potential with its unit graphic design and market penetration with its 
 brandname. But the level design and the poor implementation of flight units and vehicles left the 
 experience to feel as if not enough time was put into development. Sure the game is balanced and 
 it its great multiplayer, but there really is no improvement upon the idea that Battlefield 1942 
 brought to the masses. It even backtracts by not allowing the units to pick up another units gun 
 (like in Battlefield 942: you could be an assaulter then pickup a sniper, that option is unavailable) . 
 It was a fun game that a played for a few days and in multiplayer online. But if you have ever 
 played a Battlefield game, this offers very little unless you want to experience the Starwars universe. 
 And even in that, Battlefront feels very much more like a Battlefield 1942 MOD then a completely 
 new game. But then again BF1942 was a great game, so this game is deffinately fun and provides.... 
 some starwars nostalgia. The basic premise of the game is to take out more units that the other 
 team can. All the while taking contorl points that will drain the other teams tickets. Its not 
 too hard to understand. in the end the game is an enjoyable game, but there are much better options 
 than this one. I recomend the Battlefield series, or if you absolutely need that starwars feel 
 (pssst at the time review the sequel has come out and is much better) I would only recomend this 
 game to true die-hard starwars fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  There really is no storyline to this game. Four different modes of playing are offered- Galactic 
 Civil War, Galactic Conquest and Instant Action and... one other Civil War. Being on Normal mode, 
 the Galactic Civil War and the other Civil War took me, combined, under 4 hours to beat. You don't 
 get to choose whether you want to be rebels, CIS, or empire in the Civil War modes. All you do 
 is simply take over command posts and shoot at whatever enemy you see. Command posts are areas 
 of where the people spawn them. You can take over them simply by standing by them and not letting 
 any enemy kill you while doing this. It is harder than it sounds because your foe is constantly 
 being spawned out. There are lots of familiar Star Wars vehicles like space fighters, tanks, and 
 bikes from Episode 6. Some maps are pretty lame. Other maps are such great fun. You'll be on maps 
 such as Hoth, Geonosis, Kamino, Yavin 4, Jabba's Palace and Kashyyk. There are over 20 maps to 
 choose from. In Galactic Conquest, you must take over planets and you get one bonus to activate- 
 whether it be a Jedi helping you or Bacta which heals up your team over time. There's even a bonus 
 that causes all enemy vehicles to take severe damage upon being spawned. In Instant Action, you 
 get to choose whatever maps you want and select what team you wish to be. A really great feature 
 in the game is option to invert 1st person and 3rd person mode. Each team has a pilot class, a 
 heavy trooper class, engineers, pilot, and regular soldiers. Each time also gets a couple unique 
 types of classes. CIS gets hard to destroy Droidekas while the Republic gets Wookies. As for graphics, 
 the frame rate holds with minor problems. It just could have been really good. It's kind of hard 
 to describe. Sound- It's always great to hear John Williams music. The tanks and weapons all sound 
 great just like in the movies. There's not a lot of voice acting. Often times the same few phrases 
 is heard over and over. Value- Like I said I beat both Civil Wars in under 4 hours combined. Galactic 
 Conquest can be beaten fairly quickly. You can choose different teams so you may go back over this 
 a few times. This game does offer online mode. It's really good and addicting. There's Galactic 
 Conquest and Capture the Flag mode. Any Star Wars fan and anyone who enjoys online mode should 
 definitely pick this game up. Be warned that you won't find much thrill on single slayer mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biguglydummy100
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  While the single-player gameplay is only entertaining for a certain period of time, the online 
 play, especially with all the good multiplayer maps out there, is good enough to keep you hooked 
 on it for some time. Yeah, it would be nice if there was a little more variety, but the battles 
 are interesting enough, especially online, to make this a highly playable game, and now that it 
 can be bought very cheaply, a good value. A lot of people claim that the online gameplay is better 
 than Battlefront 2, so that is another factor to consider. Don't overlook this title just because 
 it is a few years old; there is still a lot of life left in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  While this game may not be up there in terms of classics like Half-Life, UT, Farcry and all those 
 other titles that people say change the gaming mold, this game is just plain fun to play for hours 
 and hours.
  
  You don't need to push out the boat, this game is simple and easy to play making it easily accessible 
 to any gamer especially a Star Wars fan like me. I played this game in a clan for almost 9 months 
 non stop until they went to Battlefront 2 but I stayed behind for a while longer cause this is 
 truly a classic, which I will adore for what it is for a very long time to come.
  
  Yes it has bugs due to a rush release and the typical failure for LUCAS Games to get a good polish 
 but it still rises above them, It suffers from the lack of any challenging or meaningful single 
 player. Serious flaws in the balancing department with the Empire and clones being vastly over 
 powered with flying units and the levels with vehicles can become easily camped feasts as they 
 are overpowered.
  
  Overall it may have its problems but it will always remain one of the most enjoyable games of all 
 time for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxer
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game does not have the best graphics. This game does not have a new musical score because 
 it uses the original movie music. That touch sets the mood and gets the player immersed into the 
 experience, as if you are actually fighting to defend the shield generator on Hoth or attacking 
 the Separatist forces on Geonosis. There is nothing new with the style of game, the Battlefield-style 
 has been thoroughly covered, but it is still a first-person view of a universe that we all know 
 and love. The largest strength of this game, by far, is its replay value. Each map can be fought 
 over by any of the four factions (Rebel, Imperial, Old Republic, Separatist/Droid) . The game also 
 has several campaigns, in which planets give the player certain attributes, such as regeneration 
 or improved training, that can aid in the capture of other systems and bonuses. In addition, the 
 game features campaigns that parallel the movie story lines. Both campaign styles feature cut-scenes 
 from the movies. With its easy interface, not-too-steep learning curve, and infinite replay value, 
 this game beckons you to immerse yourself in in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeXXChidori
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for all Star Wars lovers because you get too play as the  
 get to play in all out wars against the opposite team. The games graphics are ok and the gameplay 
 is great there are many diffrent types of gameplays like there is free mode galactic conquest and 
 many more the game over all is pretty good id say it is a rent before you buy just because some 
 people might like it some may not but i do. Most starwars fans would love this game unless the only 
 like to play as the Jedi or Sith in that case you might want to go for the second battle front 
 game that one is also a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hit1nrun13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Do not believe all these bogus reviews, this is really an awesome game. Especially if you have 
 never experienced anything similar. People say its like Battlefield:1942, but I've never played 
 that, so it is really new to me. You get to play as the best Star Wars characters (my favorite 
 is the Destroyer Droid) and blast a bunch more! The online play is really fun too. I just do not 
 understand how people, even game reviewers, do not like this game. It is just so awesome. You should 
 get it soon. It is easily one of the most playable Star Wars titles. Do you have it yet? Come on! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I must say this: Star Wars: Battlefront doesn't even try to implement state of 
 the art, advanced gameplay mechanics. For me, though, this isn't the point of the game, in fact, 
 if you buy this game expecting cutting-edge shooting and unsurpassed action, then you really aren't 
 aware of the purpose of Battlefront; at least, that's my two cents.
  
  Straight away you can tell that Star Wars Battlefront is a rough around the edges sort of game, 
 incidentally, the conclusion of your first skirmish will tell you this. Star Wars Battlefront throws 
 in third person and first person shooting, multiple character classes, a varied arsenal of weapons, 
 and even some diverse vehicle combat, and yet none of these elements really stand out. Battlefront 
 really is a pot pourri of different gameplay styles; a jack of all trades and master of none, if 
 you like.
  
  It doesn't pay any particular attention to making each of these individual spices really fresh 
 or exciting - they all work, and they all gel together pretty well. It's a rather captivating gameplay 
 experience all on its own, yes. But what gives these ingredients a true heart and soul is the all-encompassing 
 franchise the very game is built around: Star Wars.
  
  So, evidently, if you're not a fan of Star Wars, or haven't seen the movies, or haven't witnessed 
 the electric magic that surrounds the series, then you better stay away from this game. But if 
 you are a fan of Star Wars, if you like or love the movies, and if you're familiar with the incredible 
 phenomenon that the franchise has aroused, then you are by all means recommended, by me at least, 
 to buy this game.
  
  The game has a huge variety of real Star Wars locales, characters, and battles for you to experience 
 - almost every major planet from the franchise is available to frag stuff in, almost every warrior 
 from the franchise are included for you to undertake their role, and a handful of the franchise's 
 greatest battles are here for you to witness and turn the tide of.
  
  And it all sounds very generic on paper, but the charm that clings to every pore of the phenomenon 
 is indeed present in this game.
  
  Just seeing walkers pulverizing troops holed up inside a command post on the bitter icy fields 
 of Hoth, or seeing multiple droidekas barricaded behind their shields make mincemeat out of those 
 who are returning fire on the rain-splattered oceanic platforms of Kamino, or seeing X-Wings blow 
 up TIE Fighters in the orange skies and horizons of Cloud City, is just a joy on its own. When 
 you're personally dealing out the destruction, it's even better.
  
  And when you get to experience the battle from as many different angles, or as many different character 
 classes, you'll find extra longevity and charm - and the joy of the game truly comes alive in the 
 multiplayer, where you can team up with friends and deal out some wonderfully geeky carnage on 
 assorted bots, or you can host heated human-vs-human wars which usually end in nail-biting tension-filled 
 finales.
  
  And the Star Wars chaos is wonderfully replicated on screen - every environment is pleasurably 
 familiar, and excruciatingly well-reconstructed. Almost every troop, droid, and vehicle looks amazingly 
 faithful to George Lucas' original creations, and it's all backed up with some brilliant effects, 
 great motion blur, and astonishing lighting. This is a real gem as far as graphics as concerned, 
 and with a good gaming rig, you really do reap the rewards. The same goes with the audio, consequently 
 - blaster fire, TIE Fighter engines, droid yells; all trademark inclusions in the wonderful Star 
 Wars magic, and they're here. Pretty darn good showing. You have to be a true Star Wars fan, or 
 at least one familiar with the franchise, to truly see what makes this game great. Put simply, 
 otherwise you'll be playing a rather standard, by-the-numbers shooter with some unfamiliar characters 
 in some 'wtf' locales. The bottom line: Star Wars fan? Definitely have a go. Not a Star Wars fan? 
 Give it a go, but I'm not guaranteeing that you'll love it or keep coming back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilsden9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  SW: Battlefront delivers on every ground for the standard fps/online shooter fan.
  
  It delivers more so for fans of Star Wars, with lush environments that require tactics, and a lot 
 of firepower to down the likes on an AT-AT.
  
  The premise for the game is basic, and is even fun in single player, but comes into its own in 
 multiplayer, especially the larger maps.
  
  Capture flag points for your faction to gain control and lower the enemies reinforcements. Character 
 class's and unique class's make this more than a linear shooter, which each class being strong, 
 and weak in certain areas.
  
  This ones a keeper for online players, and Star Wars fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  the game was pretty cool I guess, but I didn't quite like the way you have to re-spawn as a different 
 person every time your killed. But it does make for a better game play I suppose, the game isn't 
 very good as far as graphics go but the game makes up for that. Over all I would have to say that 
 the game is actually quite addicting in a sense, if you like star wars games and shooters this 
 is probably not a fascinating game for people that have been playing these types of games very 
 long, I would probably recommend it to those who are just getting into this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront could be one of the best Star Wars games to date. It is a team-based FPS 
 placed in the Star Wars universe. You can play of one of 4 factions, the CIS, Republic, Empire 
 and Rebels. Each faction has five different unit types.
  Each faction has units that can be put in to catagories. There is a main attacker who has a fast 
 rifle and is good at taking out infantry. A heavy assault, who has a rocket launcher of some kind, 
 who is used to take out vehicles and also infantry. A pilot/engineer, who is excellent at using 
 vehicles. A sniper, who is self-explanitory and finally each faction has a 'special' unit who in 
 my opinion is more powerful than the others.
  Now to the sound. The music is great (it's all from the movies) and the sound effects a also good. 
 Once in a while there may be a stutter but I think that it is because of my computer.
  The graphics of Battlefront are great for their time and even now they are fairly good. Suprisingly 
 the game looks good and run well on my computer (which isn't very powerful) whilst when running 
 Star Wars Republic Commando I need to turn settings down (and make the game look atrotious) and 
 it still runs slowly.
  
  Overall Star Wars Battlefront is an excellent game and I recommend that FPS and Star Wars fans 
 should definately buy it and even people who havn't played a FPS should try it!
  10/10 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrork
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of greatest games I have ever played! This games was amazing at the start but when 
 i started to make my own levels and play on other players made, i realized the stroke of luck i 
 made by buying this game. I am a starwars fan, but i am not as familiar with fps games, but i am 
 sure this game can support all types of play; sniping, close combat, vehicals. The idea of not 
 bieng the hero and being just a normal soldier that you can waste, and then just come back at the 
 barracks, it truly amazing. I suggest this game to anyone who likes shooting games or star wars, 
 or flying games, or multiplayer games, or anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks7345
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the Best Star Wars games out there. This game is less fun than Battlefront 2 but its still 
 worth playing to pass the time quickly. Once you play BF2 you will play this game very much. This 
 is one of the classics. Here are some flaws like the soldiers move very slow and cant play as a 
 jedi or sith. You can kill the jedi though and its very tight to do that. You cant not go to many 
 ships. Its does have smoe levels thats BF2 doesnt have. Like Bespin and the other snow planet. 
 It gets boring once you play it for 3 hours straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to do a franchise title right. It's especially hard if the franchise in question is the 
 one that practically defined modern science fiction for millions upon millions of rabid fans. When 
 a developer does handle Star Wars, it's necessary to create an authentic experience -- an obligation 
 to ensure the franchise is being done justice. It's also necessary to ensure in-game events transpire 
 similarly to how they played out in the films. But, for as important as these things are, there 
 is also the requirement to create a legitimately good game on its own merits. Battlefront achieves 
 this balance, but not without a few groans and gripes along the way. This is a multiplayer-centric 
 third and first-person shooter. Multiplayer-centric means players who opt to stick to singleplayer 
 will have something to do, but won't be thrilled enough to desire extended play. This is primarily 
 due to three major solo play problems. 1) It's too easy. 2) It's not cohesive. 3) The AI exhibits 
 a type of intelligence roughly on par with the average rock's. Unlike Rogue Leader or the once 
 outstanding TIE Fighter, Battlefront does not come saturated by high production value. The missions 
 throughout solo play are entirely standalone, and barely tie to on another, regardless of whether 
 you choose to play Galactic Conquest or the historical campaigns. Fighting through space history 
 a long time ago and in a galaxy far, far away is fairly straightforward. Pick a side, begin at 
 is unanimously considered to be the approximate start of the conflict (for the Clone Wars that 
 would be the invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation) and win, win, win. Each victory will linearly 
 catapult you into another mission in chronological order. Between them all come little snippets 
 of film footage and some ultra cheesy briefings. They're engagements are so poorly tied together 
 that toward the middle of either historical campaign, you'll actually be forced to switch sides 
 in the war, making any lasting drive to conquer the galaxy pointless. You're bad but now you're 
 good because it fits better into the overarching storyline of the films -- the same one the game 
 all but neglected to develop. Galactic Conquest is quite a bit different than the historical actions. 
 In this mode players pick factions. From there, a limited galactic map is presented. It highlights 
 all potential battle areas for the chosen faction. The battle areas are represented by planets, 
 which are themselves comprised of two maps each. Essentially, the player begins a turn by choosing 
 a planet to invade. Should he be successful in this invasion of the map of that planet, he'll then 
 be allowed to choose another conflict. Should he fail, the computer will attack a planet of its 
 choosing. The eventual goal is to conquer all planets. Acting as an incentive to more strategically 
 take planets are bonuses. For instance, conquering both maps on Tatooine grants your army an uncontrollable 
 Jedi Hero in the next battle. But that will only happen if you choose to activate this bonus as 
 opposed to another that enhances the accuracy of your troops, allows them to regenerate health, 
 prevents the enemy from using the in-game radar, and so on. It's a neat premise; had it been properly 
 delivered in multiplayer there could be some very long, very brutal conflicts. As it stands, acquiring 
 bonuses is of little importance, since the base singleplayer game is so terribly easy. Thus, playing 
 Galactic Conquest is also of no point. Battlefront is easy because of point number three: everyone 
 is an idiot. The game appears to use a sort of context sensitive AI, meaning bots in the right 
 positions will do stuff (like use turrets and vehicles and lay down cover fire) , but those not 
 immediately engaged in combat will idly stand around helping themselves to an endless breather. 
 It's easy to understand why this is, given the processing strains that must be placed on the systems. 
 Battlefield 1942, as an example, also offers a similarly weak singleplayer experience because there 
 are simply too many AI units to keep track of efficiently. Unfortunately for Battlefront, not only 
 are the AI units incompetent, they're frustratingly counterproductive and will act in a manner 
 that hinders the efforts of your army. It's not uncommon to see the fools commandeer star fighters, 
 tanks, and walkers, and then just circle the map without direction, or fly straight into the nearest 
 canyon a building, or repeatedly take off and land, neglecting to actually fire their weapons at 
 anything that needs a good shooting. In very specific scenarios, such as the Battle of Hoth, an 
 AI might actually ride shotgun in the snow speeder and aid in taking down a walker with the tow 
 cable. That's one plus. The AI frustrations wouldn't have been so severe if they were more inclined 
 to follow some of the basic commands that are offered (follow, hold, move out, pile in craft, exit 
 craft) . Had there been more commands such as, Don't steal my damn Snowspeeder and fly it into the 
 ground you stupid, stupid idiot, it wouldn't be bad at all. All of these complaints would seem 
 to be largely restricted to the singleplayer component, but they do come into play online. Battlefront 
 is a cooperation-focused team deathmatch title that demands players fighting for either opposing 
 army capture and control a variety of map specific points to limit enemy spawn locations and eventually 
 deplete the ranks of the enemy. In multiplayer, there are also bots. The choice to have them is 
 up to whoever hosts the match, but in general, you'll want 'em. Yes, they are stupid, but the multiplayer 
 bots add a real feel of participating in a large scale war to the title that would have otherwise 
 been sorely missed, especially on Xbox and PS2, where the actual amount of human combatants is 
 limited to 24 and 16, respectively (PC supports 32 online and 50 over LAN, but be careful to change 
 your hosting bandwidth options before you begin) . In addition to looking cool while occasionally 
 stealing craft and running amok, the bots add a level of hero vs. hero action that's pretty fantastic. 
 Imagine running through the levels gunning down bots (up to 32) . This is fairly easy. But, when 
 you run into an actual human who happens to be commanding a small quad of bots to follow him, it's 
 almost like running into a heroic general in charge of a larger force, and this immediately changes 
 the dynamic of the game and forces players to very quickly regroup and very frantically fight for 
 their own survival. So, despite their obvious singleplayer weaknesses that do carry over to multiplayer, 
 the bots manage to add significantly more to multiplayer than they take away, because they help 
 the game feel like two armies are actually clashing against one another -- two armies led by real 
 people. This is what Battlefront does extraordinarily well. More so than Battlefield or any other 
 large scale online title -- of which we've seen practically none on the consoles -- Battlefront 
 feels like a war. Part of this can be attributed to the sheer number of combatants on a map at 
 any given time, as we've mentioned, but more of it comes from the vehicles, which aren't as fragile 
 as those in the earlier efforts of the sort. The massive walkers and tanks of Battlefront are devastating. 
 Most are so powerful, in fact, that it's literally impossible to take them down alone. This gives 
 all of them a real sense of power and makes them incredibly threatening. Holding a base is all 
 fine and well, but when a C. I. S. spider struts by carving your army into bits with its massive 
 red beam of hurt, you might jump clear out of your seat and scream over the microphone for assistance, 
 and you're really going to need it. Without a great deal of cooperation and coordination in taking 
 these stronger vehicles down (the Imperial and Republican walkers, especially) , it's practically 
 impossible to win maps. Take Hoth... Letting the AT-ATs run rampant is like inviting mobile death 
 into your home. Laser fire does absolutely nothing to them, and unless you're willing to coordinate 
 twelve turrets to all fire on the beasts for about five minutes, you're not going to stop them. 
 The only way to take down a walker is to tow it into the ground, and the only way to do that is 
 with teamwork. The AI does a good job of spotting the legs and trying to wrap them (it even tries 
 to tow the AT-STs, which we believe is impossible) , but having another human in the back of a speeder 
 is essential. Too bad for the Republic that these walkers also respawn rather quickly, which means 
 getting the speeders loaded, back up, and back into the fight is essential. Of course, the whole 
 time Imperial troops are running around trying to take bases, so you still need people in defensive 
 positions. Now the underlying strategy of Battlefront starts to appear. It necessitates teamwork 
 by often pitting an overwhelming force of strength against a well entrenched opposition or an enemy 
 with certain bonuses, like units that can easily navigate the terrain, or a wealth of turrets, 
 or special vehicles like the speeder. Other levels are more straightforward shooting galleries 
 (especially one on Bespin and another on Tatooine) , but the primary focus of the game are these 
 larger vehicular battles and to win those, you need cooperation. Now it gets tricky. Battlefield 
 and Unreal Tournament 2004 on PC provide a wealth of options to players as far as how they choose 
 to go about winning missions. But, because Battlefront is so heavily influenced by the films and 
 so scripted -- that kind of power vs. finesse balancing -- far fewer approaches are available. 
 On Rhen Var, an ancient communications monitoring station the Empire uses, there's only one way 
 to win for the Empire and that's to walk the walker just outside of the main Rebel base and begin 
 ranged bombardment. Covnersely, the Rebels can sneak through the ice caves and take the primary 
 Imperial base. That's it. Trying something else is futile. On Endor, if the Rebels want to win, 
 they'd better get two Wookies to jump on speeder bikes, circumvent the central battle area, and 
 destroy the rear shield generator base, preventing the Empire from regrouping. If they don't do 
 this and do it quick, defeat is certain. So while the seemingly unbalanced balancing is there (a 
 forced kind of cooperation) , it's so rigidly developed that you'll find in many of the maps success 
 is more realistically determined by the team that more closely follows a very exact plan. There 
 really isn't much leeway, save for on certain maps where there is no clear advantage associated 
 with one side or another. The Bespin Platforms are a good example. This particular environment 
 focuses on very constricting corridors that funnel into incomprehensibly tight choke points for 
 on-foot soldiers. The skies, on the other hand, are littered with X-Wings, Y-Wings, TIE Fighters 
 and TIE Bombers. Control points are accessible through a single choke point on-foot, or by landing 
 the vehicles on the far sides of the map and exiting. This particular level demonstrates the game's 
 capability of offering more diversity, and allows players to approach situations in somewhat different 
 ways, but then it also illustrates a new problem. Some of Battlefront's locales are simply too 
 constricting. For the land vehicles, the imposed obstacles of Yavin add to gameplay and hamper 
 their effectiveness, but where air-based vehicles are granted, the actual playing field can feel 
 so small that you'll often find yourself endlessly circling a target just so that you don't inadvertently 
 exit the battle arena. Should you play on PC, you'll also find them to control rather unfriendly, 
 even more so than Battlefield's initially daunting airplane mouse control scheme. In fact, the 
 mouse actually adds a lot of problems to the PC version. On Xbox and PS2, it's possible to either 
 enable or disable auto-aim (disable being the unanimously approved method of choice) . This allows 
 players with a bit more skill to excel in firefights and alleviates some of the unfair advantages 
 ultra-powered vehicles, such as the airborne Republican assault transport, have against their enemies. 
 On PC, the mouse lets players pinpoint and eliminate just about anything, often making the game 
 a little more frustrating than it needs to be. On the plus side, you're also more capable of rapidly 
 assessing situations and defending yourself, but what good is any kind of defense when a walker 
 can blow you away from across the map? Differences between the three versions don't stop there, 
 either. We've already mentioned control and some of the fundamental player count discrepancies, 
 but there are also quite a few graphical differences. Aside from being the cleanest of the three, 
 the PC version also sports a great deal more flora in its environments. On PC, the already wooded 
 Endor changes into an overgrown nightmare replete with a thousand camping spots, making it that 
 much more difficult to weed out Rebel forces. All of the versions, thankfully, sport some admirably 
 done visuals capable of rendering a great amount of activity on-screen at any given time. The engine 
 also boasts clean shadowing techniques, vivid laser blasts, thick explosions, and, most notably, 
 a subtle bloom effect that masks dull textures and enhances the situation by placing the player 
 into the heat of battle. For the PlayStation, there are some hiccups in performance, but Xbox handles 
 it well, and even mid-range PCs will be capable of running Battlefront smoothly. While we've now 
 talked about the graphics and the online gameplay differences between the three, it's important 
 to still address some basic technical aspects. While this particular section of reviews is especially 
 difficult to do because it's largely dependent on where you live and with whom you play, it should 
 still be known that the Xbox, with its more friendly infrastructure, edges out the PlayStation 
 2 version, which has a tendency to lag on the more cluttered maps that require packets be thrown 
 about left and right. All three, however, don't offer the kinds of advanced clan creation and tracking 
 and player management features that should be incorporated into any future title of the kind. And 
 this leads us into my biggest issue with Battlefront. While it offers these amazing spectacles, 
 thrilling battles, and remains a great account of what Star Wars battles must have felt like, there 
 simply isn't enough content to keep the game going for months or years after its release. The maps 
 are varied enough to be interesting, but they are limited in approach and amount. Given that there 
 also isn't a lot of presentational value placed into online management, and the fact that the balancing 
 quirks require the game to be played through in rather specific ways, it's hard to see this one 
 propelling itself far beyond current multiplayer mainstays. The problems are especially apparent 
 on PC, where Battlefront finds itself staring at some incredibly tough competition. Closing Comments
 
  It's darn good, but not without faults of its own. On Xbox and PlayStation, Battlefront offers 
 a distinct style of play that has not yet been exploited or overdeveloped as it has on the PC. 
 There's a very likable, very direct approach to its combat. It uses high quality visuals and sounds 
 to implant a legitimately Star Wars experience into our heads, but it's careful to never beat us 
 with the franchise. There are large, epic battles. There is a great emphasis on cooperation, and 
 it's a very intuitive game. On PlayStation 2 and Xbox, all this works extremely well, despite its 
 inherent AI and longevity shortcomings. On PC, unfortunately, the problems are all amplified by 
 an overwhelming amount of competition that simply makes Battlefront look a bit simplistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedllama
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Star Wars. It's extensive fiction and solid story make for an impressive 
 basis upon which to build a string of books, films and, most relevant to this discussion, games.
 
  
  Like many of the Star Wars games preceding it, Battlefront provides for both fans and cynics alike. 
 Essentially, it's a FPS with Star Wars texture maps and landscapes and, to be fair, I think Lucasarts 
 have done a pretty good job.
  
  It's not the best FPS I've ever played, but the graphics are sound, and there are enough maps to 
 keep you entertained for quite a while. Changing the difficulty to hard mode also makes for a modest 
 challenge (well, it did for me anyway) and should add to the games longevity for most people.
 
  
  There's a nice selection of vehicles to play with, from speeder bikes to X-Wings, and changing 
 from Imperial vs Rebel to CIS vs Republic adds an extra dimension to the game with a fresh set 
 of characters and new weapons to play with.
  
  I was also quite impressed with the multiplayer option, allowing you to venture into the digital 
 ether of the internet and play against people from across the world on various DIY hosts. Once 
 you've completed the game, I find this option useful when you've got a spare half hour to kill 
 before you go out on a Saturday night.
  
  All in all, the vehicles are fun, the sound is what you'd expect from a Star Wars game (lots of 
 John Williams and string quartets) , and the graphics are more than reasonable. If you're a fan 
 of the FPS genre, then I'd recommend it, particularly as you can get it in the bargain bin of most 
 games shops by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitehat67
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for a while, and is quite a good game after a while. In this star wars 
 game u can play as the rebels, the imperials, clone troopers or the battle droids in a BF2 style 
 shooter.
  
  This style of game is good as you can respawn at your diffrent command points around the map when 
 you die. This said, the control points dont really do anything exept give u better place to spawn. 
 While in Battlefield 2, control points help you win the game.
  
  Like battlefield 2, Star wars battlefront offers diffrent classes you can plays as, but some are 
 not really needed in some maps as there skills are not used.
  
  With the main campain you can breaze thru it in a few hours. then you can go onto glatic conqest, 
 where the ulimete goal is to control the glaxy. This game is great for some that wants to play 
 a BF2 style game with out huge system requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This is a good game for the PC. The graohics are ok, the sounds are ok, and the gameplay is good 
 even though sometimes the game freezes or the sounds get all messed up. I would reccomend you buy 
 this game and the sequel to this game: Star Wars Battle Front II because they are both very good 
 games. This has 4 sides in which you can play with: the Rebels, the Empire, the Repuiblic, and 
 the CIS. Also some local populace will fight against you but you can't play as them. This game 
 has 2 campagians and some more single-player options as well as multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wootcolors
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is one of those titles which really does something great. It lets you play 
 all the big battles from the Star Wars movies. The scale is amazing. You literally can have hundreds 
 of soldiers on screen. The game isnt lacking in replay value. There are lots and lots and lots 
 of maps and tons more are available thanks to the large modding community. The multiplayer is an 
 absolute blast although there is plenty of lag (espescially if you are using an xbox or ps2) though 
 if you can find a game without lag prepare to have the time of your life. Sadly the graphics arent 
 too strong though they didnt really need to be in this type of game. The sound however really is 
 something. All of the sounds are high quality and the occasional music is nice also. Now that this 
 game is pretty cheap there is no way any Star Wars fan should not buy this game. Super Duper Koolness! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  I played battlefront for the first time, on my friends x-box. I was addicted. I wanted to play, 
 and never stop playing. So i went home, and because I had no xbob of my own at the time, i searched 
 for another way to play this. I saw that their was a PC version! Great! So I went out and bought 
 it. My mothers graphics card was unbelievably bad though. So it was slow, you couldn't see anything 
 till it was 10 feet in front of you. Yet I still found myself playing this game all the time! It 
 was unique, had never been tried before. And they had the dune sea, where I could just launch off 
 on a speeder bike, and race around running over my enemies. Battlefront is not as good as battlefront 
 2. But it is still highly addictive! I can't really rate the graphics because my card was crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This was the first decent shooter I ever played, and thus I loved it at first and played it a lot. 
 However, if you've played anything at all better, this game crumbles in comparison.
  Main problems:
  1. Stupid AI players stay right near their spawn points and only shoot you if 
 you shoot them first.
  2. Campaign is way too short, and most of the missions can be played just by playing the "Instant 
 Action" mode.
  3. Weapons are weak except for the explosive weapons; there are way too many explosive weapons 
 and so Multiplayer enemies always use them. Get some self-respect, people!
  4. This is the biggest problem: There's no way to turn off "Auto-aim", the incredibly annoying 
 feature which makes your crosshairs chase the nearest enemy after you shoot once, no matter if 
 you hit or miss.
  
  Main positives:
  1. If you've never played a first-person shooter, this is a great one to start with. The Auto-Aim 
 is useful if your own aim stinks, and overall the game is very easy while still being a challenge. 
 I. E. you can get a huge kill count but if they have more spawn points they're more likely to win.
 
  2. Star Wars fans rejoice, this is a game where you can do almost anything in the movies (even 
 be a jedi if you download the right mods.)
  3. This is a very easy game to make mods for, so there are a lot of maps and weapon/unit mods.
 
  
  Even with all the negatives, this game is still fun. And cheap, now, too. 
  
  One last note: Can you imagine writing these reviews for money? The Gamespot reviewers have one 
 of the best jobs ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1599510
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This was amazingly my first, first-person shooter. And boy did it pull me in. When i found out 
 a sequel was coming out i was going crazy. Back to this game. Very very very great. I have no problems 
 with it, my friend has a crappy intergrated intel graphic card, 128mb and it works on high quality.
 
  Graphics are amazing, somewat better textures on some levels than on SWB2 ( SWB on Pc, SWB2 on 
 Xbox) , but i find that the maps in this game have more re-play value. In the sequel they were made 
 more to look exactly like the movies, and they cut out the best levels that made this game such 
 a hit. Unfortunetly there are no heroes and space levels in this game. But then again, there is 
 always modding and map making. Unfortunetly the map editor is not the easiest to use.
  
  Anywayz, even though i bought this such a long time ago, i still enjoy playing almost all the levels 
 every once in a while. Even though i have all these newer "better" games
  
  Total? 8.5/10 i think... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  You get to play all different sides of th conflicts. You can choose to fight for the empire, the 
 rebels or the cis or the republic. You are in complete control and can enter any vehicle or choose 
 what kind of soldier you want to play as. 
  
  The graphics are really good and the sounds are good as well. If you are a Star Wars fan you cannot 
 miss this opportunity to conquer the universe. In single player mode there are two different options. 
 Either you play a historical campaign or a galactic conquest. The galactic conquest is the better 
 of the two. If you want to go online there are a good multiplayer mode. 
  
  A good game, play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game has a better MP experience than the SP (which is just you running around shooting stuff) 
 and "Star Wars: Battlefront" is a solid shooter set in the Star Wars universe. 
  
  Graphically everything you want is pretty much here: AT-AT's, AT-TE's, TIE fighters, and X-wings 
 done to scale (more or less) and each looking as authentic as possible. You fight on the side of 
 the Rebel Alliance, The Empire, The Republic or the CIS (Droid Army) . I had great fun playing as 
 a Jet Trooper and using my jetpack for short bursts over enemy positions. The game is pretty well 
 balanced and the side who wins is the side that uses good tactics. Plus it helps being a crack 
 shot.
  
  The one level I was really impressed with was the Battle of Geonosis. They have ships flying everywhere 
 left to right: tons of Trade Federation ships, Republic Gunships deploying troops, AT-TE's stomping 
 around. With my settings all set to high and maxed out you really get a beautiful rendering of 
 the battle and so many things are going on you get shot just being a tourist (if you will lol) 
 Lucasarts did a fine job with this game
  
  All the sounds of a great SW game are here and then some. Like "Empire at War" they pulled out 
 all the stops and produced a very quality game that many people to this day still play. The voice 
 overs for the soldiers are pretty dead on, notables being the Stormtroopers and Clones.
  
  Controls are easy to master and not hard to use. Commands can be given to nearby soldiers (like 
 in BF1942) but these guys actually will follow you around and attack positions for you. Flying 
 a fighter though is pretty awkward so watch out for that.
  
  I've continued to have good MP experiences and no lag really whatsoever.
  
  I do recommend 
 this game, I am looking forward to picking up Battlefront II soon (maybe for XBOX instead) but 
 that game is still 49.99 in all the stores. Maybe I'll pick it up for PC instead lol. 
  
  "We've captured a command post! Victory is imminent!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoobert_8391
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefront to sum it up for you is all the greatest battles in starwars history minus the space 
 battles. The graphics are pretty good however the framerate slows down a little bit, but that's 
 no big deal. The soundtrack is great all the classical jams of starwars! The gameplay is pretty 
 good with some minor flaws but that's why there is a custom controls option. Also there is large 
 variety of planets to do battle on each with multiple levels. The A. I. is pretty good.
  First good thenBAD. Galatic conquest really isn't that fun it gets really repitive after a few 
 days. Mutiplayer however is what this game was made for, it's very much like Halo. Back to the 
 bad. WHERE ARE THE JEDI! U CAN'T PLAY AS THEM! WHAT KINDA SMACK IS THAT I ASK U? Also there may 
 be only 1 objective and all objectives in the game are optional pretty much all you do is shoot 
 everybody so really there is no objectives.
  However you can still kill time playing it. Do yourself a favor and go buy Battlefront 2. 
  
 
  -stoobert 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars battlefront is a first person shooter that you can play as good or bad. The two campaigns 
 are the Clone Wars campaign and the Rebellion and Empire campaign. It kindof stiks when you have 
 too many characters or something on the screen and the frame rate boggs down alot.
  
  The Graphics aren't too bad but they seem kind of rusty and boring. There isn't not much detail 
 in the enviroments but alot of detail in the things you have to kill :) It's not like the AI is 
 better though, it's common to see enemies go all spastic on you once you're near them
  
  The campaign is kind of short but you can always turn to multiplayer action.
  It's worth noticing 
 and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johncpratt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I don't get a lot of time to play games. My brother had this for a while in 2005 before he gave 
 it to me in October. What a blast! The first real fun I've had in years. I also had a great time 
 playing it with him online. Unlike other shooters (Call Of Duty, etc.) , you get a great online 
 game with just one or a few human players because there are computer players as well. My 7-year-old 
 was even able to figure it out quickly and we take turns playing (too bad his PC won't run it) .
 
  
  Yes, the AI is somewhat weak (but better than BF2) and mouse control mapping is limited, but it 
 is easy to learn how to play, easy to set up online games, and FUN! Here it is almost April, 2006, 
 I've had the game for 6 months, and I have BF2, and I still love playing it. I just downloaded 
 50 mod map packs from Gametoast. com and now I have a whole new bunch of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is one of my favorite Star Wars titles. The battles are fairly short and 
 the gameplay is rather easy but I like Star Wars Battlefront. The campaigns are just instant action 
 games but the battles have its ups and downs. Some parts you and two or three others will be all 
 alone while other parts will have tanks and dozens of soldiers from both sides shooting each other. 
 One thing I like most about this from Battlefront 2 is the land and air battles. Transport ships 
 will be shooting you on the ground or you will be deploying troops from a Republic gunship. Overall 
 Star Wars Battlefront is today one of the top titles to me of all the Star Wars Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bar-2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  the game has different char to choose from, and sides to choose too.
  you can join the rebels and be a rebel or an empire soldier, in all of the side you have a choice 
 of 4-5 soldier types that have different weapons and abilities to use. theres single player mode, which 
 includes custom maps and campaign, the multi player also included ,and its pretty fun. after a while 
 you get tired of the game, the weapons get boring and it just not as fun as it was before. after 
 a while you play the game it becomes boring. the game has good graphics and sound, it easy to play 
 and the game play is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, Several diffrent armys to choose from with several diffrent soldier classes 
 to choose from as well. The vehicles are diffrent for each army as is the variety. You wanna fly 
 a star fighter? no problem! Heros add some flavor. The online play is amazing, So many maps made 
 for this game, some have even gone as far to add new armies (bounty hunters being the most popular) 
 The game is super fun to play over and over again. No fight will ever be the same. More fun then 
 battlefield 2 as theres always someone around to fire at. Definatlly a game for any star wars fan, 
 but this game has a lot to offer for even non star wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlanticman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I only review what I like so I decided to review this. This game is a perfect Star Wars game if 
 your'e looking for a PC Star Wars Game. Buy this then buy Empire At War. The game Battlefront is 
 what I bet Rouge Squadron evolved into. Why? Because you can do anything that you could do in Rouge 
 Squadron 3 only more! I do not own a PS2 or an XBOX or but trust me this one is better than both 
 of them. I have an ACER laptop and it plays little slower than a normal PC but it still plays fine. 
 This game lets you play as either the Empire, Rebel Alliance, Seperatists and the Republic. The controls 
 are so easy to get used to I got used to it in under a day! If you own a laptop be sure to buy 
 a mouse. It makes aiming so much easier. I bought this on 3/12/06 and I am writing this review 
 thinking about how cool this game is. Some funny things that have happened to me are... Once on 
 Rhen Var I was fighting three Rebles and I threw a grenade. Just to let you know I was on a cliff. 
 And it blew up and sent all three off the cliff one went to the left one went to the right and 
 one went off the cliff straight in front of me. In the exact same spot a little while later... 
 I threw another grenade and a rebel dove into a sideways somersalt and SOMERSALTED OFF THE CLIFF! 
 If you are looking for an easy level in Instant Action go to the Dune Sea and fight choose the 
 Empire pick a Shock Trooper and LOOK OUT FOR THE PIT OF SARLACC! I have not played this game long 
 enough to satisfy my Battlefront playing cravings. This game is better than Battlefront 2 too bad 
 you can only play as infantry in this game! Also do not play this online unless you are ready for 
 some strong language! There is however one glitch that is in this game. That I know of so far so 
 WATCH OUT! But it will only cost you one life. Today 3/24/06 I have started playing the Clone Wars 
 in instant action mode. It is really cool with the Clones battleing the Seperatists. Because there 
 is so much electricity and explosions. Try playing on Geonosis and play during the Clone Wars for 
 explosive fun. Also try jumping once you've thrown a grenade and KABOOM you will go sailing extremly 
 high. Now go buy this and May victory be on you're side! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well, There are many good things and a few bad things. This game has very accurate levels and great 
 gameplay. On most levels there are 4 different versions you can play! For example maybe I want 
 to go to the Platforms (my personal favorite) and I pick the rebels. I still can play that same 
 level 3 more times with 3 different factions. Next I play with the Empire the CIS then the Republic! 
 The possiblities are endless! But, every game has its flaws! This game does get very repetitve. 
 another flaw is when you want to ask other teammates to follow you or whatever. You can only get 
 like 2 people to follow you 3 at max! and that stinks. But this game is an awesome multiplayer! 
 especially when you are in a air ship! one pilot one gunner! Dont get me even started on sniping. 
 one person is in a safe and concealed sniping spot. and the other is in a snow speeder giving heavy 
 fire. or being a distraction. anyway I love this game and I give it 1 in a half thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront is an awesome game. Believe you me. All the previous Star Wars games have 
 been totally reckless. But this game is off the hook.
  The bad thing about this game is you cannot play with jedis, they can be on your team, but you 
 cannot play with them, we are hoping the next installment to this game will let us play with jedis.
 
  the good thing about this game is everything else. You can choose to be on one of four teams. 
 Good or Bad. Theres - empire, rebels, etc -really awesome game. Any Halo fans out there would die 
 playin this coz its just like halo only easier and better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencehunter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is on of the most addicting games i have ever played. There are fun levels and really 
 good game play. This game i would highly recommend for the star wars or fist person multiplayer 
 fans that are out there. With the different characters that you can play and levels that are from 
 the movies. There are also some fun second weapons, like mines. My favorite is the Recon Droid 
 that can do a space attack. I call it "The Rain of FIRE". Many people dont now or use this in 
 the games. The only problem is that some of the levels get old. The really cool thing is that you 
 can get into a clan if you play good. So I would suggest getting this game and come join use online. 
 Hope to see you out there! = {GSF} =Fence Hunter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukas_Muelleder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Voll cooles spiel hats voll druf
  A Very GOOOOOOOOOOOD game
  Is vorallem fast genauso wie BF2
  It's the same as BF2
  
  Sehr zu empfehlen
  BUY IT
  
 
  Die grafik hats druf 
  nur an der realistik mus en bissle gefeilt werden
  
  man kan sau viel neue maps ausem inet downloaden (legal)
  Muss jeder Star Wars Fan haben
  die 
 maps sin sehr realistisch nachgestellt
  es giebt auch noch nie zuvor gesehene schaupltze wie 
  ren var
  nur die waffen grafik knnte 
 besser sein
  wie gesagt 
                        KAUFEN   KAUFEN   KAUFEN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMortor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  OMG, YOU HAVE GOT TO GET THIS GAME!!!! If you don't, than you lead a life of cruel unusual treatment. 
 It has all the famous Star Wars battles, except for episode III, and more! Almost all the most 
 famous Star Wars vehicles are in here. If they don't have one of your favorite vehicles, like the 
 V-Wing, you can get a mod for it off the Internet. Either way, this is the best game you can buy. 
 No blood, just addicting violence. It's really cheap nowadays, too. $20-$25 new from stores. BUY 
 IT NOW!!! OR ELSE YOU DIE OF LACK OF FUN, SCI-FI VIOLENCE, AND... um.... AWESOMESONESS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbos7
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Contrary to what you might think, I DO like this game, its just that I have a few constructive 
 criticisms to aim at areas that hold the experience back, unneccessarily.
  
  Great concept, but, can become a little tedious. For the die hard, determined gamers out there, 
 this may not stop you indulging, but it will of course, affect your enjoyment.
  The difficulty settings require a little tweaking. Now I like a challenge, but some of the levels 
 on the conquest games are incredibly hard. Which isnt a problem, except, the next level of difficulty 
 down makes it far too easy. To the point that the battle could be won without my participation 
 at all.
  
  The AI can go a bit awry, and the controls can be a little fustration compared to some of the more 
 dedicated team shooters. But, they are still ok, and part of the challenge is to work with what 
 you are given...'revise and improvise' for all you wanna be field ops!
  
  But, to finish, its a game that I will always keep handy, because it IS a good concept and quite 
 an exhilarating experience. I just wont be spending massive amounts of time playing on it, after 
 I've completed it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9g7mlk0s
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  To many people this may on first site, be yet another Star Wars game. There must be over thirty 
 off them. I myself never really have been a Star Wars fanatic, so when I heard about this game 
 I didnt really think much about it. But when I heard that it was an FPS and in third person I 
 thought this could have some merit. So I bought the game, not really expecting much, and was absolutely 
 outstounded by how brilliant the game was and how simple it was to play. You just select your team, 
 a choice between the rebels, the imperials, the clones and the seperatists, then select your planet 
 and go! If halfway through a game you get bored with the side your on, you just go onto the menu 
 and switch! Its that simple.
  However as far as graphics go, they were pretty rubbish. It can be a bit fuzzy at times and quite 
 often becomes pixelated. The explosions are pretty clich, a huge orange and yellow cloud engulfing 
 everything. However the graphics do run very smoothly. Overall the graphics disapointed me a bit.
 
  Another thing that is a bit off is the sound effects. Dont get me wrong they arent like a hardware 
 game! However they are just a bit average. There is a very cheesy laser noise and the explosions 
 again arent exactly perfect.
  The thing that makes all the problems irrelevent is the gameplay. The gameplay is absolutely fantastic. 
 If you are a bit of a megalomaniac then you will simply love the effects of the thermal detonators 
 and heavy lasers, if you blow someone up or shoot them with a heavy laser they get catapulted into 
 the air and do several flips before bouncing along the ground and unsuprisingly die! Everything 
 is so easy to learn, there are not that many buttons to worry about, which in many ways makes the 
 game so much more enjoyable. One of the best things about the game is just the ability to select 
 a weapon and one in killing every single enemy unit you can before getting killed!
  
  Overall you can do absolutely anything you want with the game, without too much fine tuning required. 
 Although the game is primarily multi player based you can have it single player if you wish. I 
 would say that this game is worth every last penny and is well worth the investment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joint2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is awesome! I recommend that to everyone!
  
  You can fly in X-wings and Tie-Figthers! The Graphics are amazing also when they are cranked up 
 to maxed
  
  Also the 4 armies are very well balanced and equal. The Rebels have their own special advantages 
 with having a camo when on forest planets such as Endor.
  
  The game allows you play as 5 classes. They are assult, anti-vehicle, sinper, pliot and one of the 
 factions special units. The Droideka for example can roll into a ball and move around the battlefield. 
 The Wookkie Smugller is very useful with his time bombs which are to destroy the sheild bunker 
 on Endor. The Dark Trooper is very powerful as he has the ablity to fly into the air with ulmiate 
 stleah.
  
  You can't go wrong with Battlefront 1, also check Battlefront 2 if you have the extra cash.
  
 
  AT-AT, AT-ST, X-wings, Tie-Fighters, Y-wings, Endor, Hoth, etc. This is the Star Wars game of the 
 ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicetino
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront is the best-selling Star Wars game ever (before Battlefront 2) .
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - This game is extremely fun to play, with lots of replay value; single-player modes 
 have lots of replay value and two-player is great too and very fun. Multiplayer probably isn't busy 
 anymore tho, as Battlefront 2 is getting almost all of the online players who played this game. Menus 
 are easy to navigate through and controls are easy to pick up.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Graphics in Battlefront very well-done; all the creatures and characters look realistic 
 and all the vehicles look great, just like in the movies. The environments all look great, just like 
 in the movies.
  
  Sound 9/10 - The sound of the vehicles and weapons all sound great, and the music is excellent (as, of 
 course, it's the Star Wars score) . The voice acting is also done great.
  
  Value 10/10 - This game is totally worth your money and is a must-have. It may not be as good as 
 Battlefront 2, but Battlefront is still cheaper than its sequel and a great game. There is lots of 
 replay value along with 2-player will keep you occupied for many hours.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10 - This is just one of my fav games and i really enjoy playing it. Everything 
 is great and well-done about this game and is a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis159
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  That's it. You read it in the review deck. THE BEST STAR WARS GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED. For price, 
 it is incredibly good with competent AIs and lots of maps (there is a great custom one called Kashyyyk 
 Shores 3.0 by Majin Revan, not the one you can get here, go type Battlefront Files in Google and 
 it is the first thing on the list, then search for it in the website) and vehicles, multiple classes 
 to chose from, and good campaigns. The Clone Wars campaign stops at Episode II, but the Episode 
 III part is in Battlefront 2 (another great game) . OVERALL: well worth the $20 if you like Star 
 Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  when hand to to hand Star wars battlefront is a good game it lives up to the star wars name pretty 
 good. The whole star wars battlefront is about you Controlling a Soldier in the heat battle and 
 useing any Tank and Air vehicle in the battlefield to use for your pleasure. you get the 4 main 
 Fractions from the Film witch are Repuplic, Empire, Rebels And The Independant Systems. the only 
 Bad point to this is that you cant have 2 sides from 2 different time Periods fight each other 
 like Rebels fighting Repuplic. each side gets 1 characters to pick from and 1 one Bonus Character 
 depending who your playing like the Rebels get the wookie smuggler or the Empire gets the Dark 
 trooper with a Jet pack witch allows you to fly for a short Span. although the 4 other classes 
 plays pretty much the same. Level wise it has most of the famous Battle locations from the films 
 Like the icy world of Hoth to the Planes of Naboo some planets have neutral Sides who cna be freinds 
 or foes witch really depends who you are. Lets say if you are On Naboo Planes and you play as the 
 good guys The Gungans will of corse join your Side. But if you play as Bad guys they will attack 
 you like the enemy, The Graphics are nice it might Tend to lose its frame rate by a Bit ot a lot 
 when theres a lot going on the screen that thats only if you have a lower spec pc has for my Self 
 i have that issue. But its not too much of a Prob when playing the game. so as for the most part 
 just dont think about it to much. most of the levels are Done up Nice you have props from some 
 of the films on some Levels witch gives the game an added Realistic feal to it. all the Characters 
 just look like there film counter parts. But at the same time the Graphics are nothing New.
  The Sound is Perfect its got all the sounds from all six films from the AT-AT even to the blaster 
 rifles being shot all around you in the battle. it really feels like your in a battle the game 
 as also got music form the films But for the most part Most of us has heard all that before. the 
 Online has to be the games best Part it can support up to 32 players meaning you can have massive 
 Battles with your freinds. it tends to Lag a lot most times you play in a game. witch it does when 
 i play. But i dont know for your pc i guess you just have ot find out. The Only thing whats really 
 letting this game down is the ai its just to easy for the most part its just dumb even on hard 
 setting It still has times whre it would stand still just wating for an enemy to come near by. 
 and you will often find that on most maps you can get 40 to 80 kills and only having 5-10 deaths 
 But that depends how good you are.
  
  For what its worth the game is good. The thing what lets it down is just the AI and the games just 
 too easy its only when you go online it gets more of a challenge fo any gamer. But forget that 
 flaw and But the game. or if not rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game stinks, to put it mildly. I haven't played the second one, and it might be better, but 
 this one sucks. The gameplay is repetetive, there's NO story, not even an effort of one, the gameplay 
 is jerky in forest areas, the controls are frustrating to figure out, and you can't pick up more 
 then one weapon. I hate it. How much do I hate it? I traded it in for seven dollars, if that gives 
 you any clue. 
  Now, it's fun for the first ten minutes, I'll give it that. You run around and.... surprise! Shoot 
 things! You go to a little map, choose a map, choose a side, choose who you want to be, then land 
 and start blasting things. And you don't get to be jedi, either, which was a big disappointment.
 
  Did I mention I hated it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackRain001
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  I got the game out of the bargain section at Wal-mart for 20 bucks, and of all the Star Wars FPS 
 this one is the best so far... but it conflicts with my Far Stone Game drive software. Not that 
 I mind lugging the disks around with me when I want to game at work, but still.
  The graphics are great and the movie clips inbetween some of the battles are nice. The interface 
 is easy to use and the ability of switching from 1st person to 3rd person is ideal for a person 
 that gets motion sickness from time to time while gaming (My gaming handicap) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayquazaDeoxys1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Starwars battlefront for pc was a pretty fun game. Overall i liked it because it was a starwars 
 game and it followed the movies pretty well. I also liked the fact that you have 4 choices of characters 
 before you start my favorite choice was the demolitions trooper, but the game was pretty challenging. 
 i mean it gives you the idea you are in the battles but those droids are just so hard to knock 
 down! Not only that but the game, the object is to basically play capture the flag!!!! come on 
 guys!! give us a game where the game dosen't depend on capture the flag! but overall this game 
 was actually pretty good (not including the set-backs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostbitee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun, the sound is amazing (its john williams what do u expect?) but it gets boring. 
 The first few days you play it are fun, but it gets boring playing the same map, over and over. 
 4 me these days, i play @ least 2 maps, then stop playing because it gets boring. The best map 
 in the game would have 2 be besbin platforms. It has great ground area, and alot of ships. The 
 graphics are good, but the stuff far away from you looks crappy. Overall tho its a good, solid 
 game, and thats why i give it a 8.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabretooth11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront, my first thoughts on this are that this will be yet another Star Wars game, 
 an overhyped failure. But playing this in single player and mutiplayer I have found that this a 
 complete opposite of that and reverses the usual trend of bad Star Wars games. You battle in a 
 team of 32 agaisnt another team of 32 in many different games. One of the most common is where 
 both teams have a total of 200 lives and battle until one team has had 200 lives lost. Star Wars 
 Battlefront relies on purely guns and mines.
  
  In the battles you are always involved in the action whether its sniping enemies, machine gunning 
 others or driving or shooting from an AT-AT. There are over 30 vehicles that you can drive and 
 shoot with other players in which you can mass destroy the opponent. There is also a huge variety 
 of teams and players you can choose from. You can decide to be anything from a rebel to an imperial. 
 They all come with their own weapon set and depending on how your going to fight in the battle 
 will depend on what character you're going to choose. There is also a wide number of planets to 
 choose from to battle in. From fighting in the forest to battling on the desert, there's every 
 map for every type of player of the game.
  
  Another thing I'd like to point out is the fact that you can go from third person to first person 
 with ease or vise versa. So whatever you prefer usually can be incorporated for your benefit on 
 the game. The graphics are also very crisp and the sound of the game isn't as annoying as some 
 Star Wars game become.
  
  To conclude, Star Wars games are usually not what they should be but if you want a shooting game 
 in which you can fight in anyway you want in big battles this is your game. The name Battlefront 
 describes it all, you fight in battles and try to take out your enemies whether its joining the 
 rebellion or curshing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diope_agresija
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:03 am PT
Review:  Who hasn't already heard aboud Star Wars? Most people watched movies. There are many fans around 
 the world and we have chance to play some games focused on Star Wars universe. Some of them were 
 great like Jedi Academy, but most of them weren't worth paying and playing. 
  Now, we have an opportunity to play this new game which is focused on second and third movie and 
 we have chance to play parts in some great and famous battles but also in some new and undescovered 
 ones.
  Graphic and sound are nothing special but just OK. Gameplay is very good because it's really a 
 great feeling while beeing a part in Star Wars battles. This game really looks like Battlefield. 
 You'll see some Jedi who will help you in fighting. 
  Star Wars : Battlefront offers campaign which is not detailed and has a bad story but it will offer 
 you some practice before multiplayer which is the best part of this game and it's a reason why 
 you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milescb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is just awesome! I've tried Battlefront 1 and 2 on PS2 and 1st on XBOX, and it is hard 
 to aim and move around compared to the PC version on the 1st. On PC, you get to use the mouse to 
 aim instead of a controller. The graphics are so good on my computer because I have a good graphics 
 card. The game might get boring after awhile doing the same thing over and over and over. In the 
 game, the best person to be is to be on the Republic and be a regular troop. So bottom line: GET 
 IT, OR ELSE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Ant
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront is one of the best Star Wars games. With that said it is not with out some short commings. 
 The biggest is the game play itself. Playing in single player mode is nothing more than a bot -fest. 
 The bots are running around at a frantic pace fighting their pixels off, so by the time you get 
 a grip on the keypoints of the battle, it's over because your squads of bots have either won or 
 lost. The omission of a playable Jedi/Sith character in another issue (which should be included 
 in BFII) . During the battles you will hear that a certain Jedi or sith has joined the battle but 
 because of the frantic pace you might not see that character at all. These are just a few issues 
 and should be overlooked once you have worked past the learning curve. 
  One of the biggest selling point of the game is the recreation of the classic battles only seen 
 on the big screen. How many of you wished you were a part of the classic battle on Hoth, Or in 
 the thick of the forest fighting aside or againt the rebels on Endor, Or better yet, who wished 
 they could cut down a Tuskin Rader as it wales for help. Now it is a virtual reality.
  Over all I gave Battlefront a seven because of the lack of a single player campain (not omitted, 
 just squeezed into a mutliplayer package) and the lack of a Jedi/Sith character class. If you are 
 a Star Wars fanactic these might be bigger issues to you than just your average fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragman80
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I purchased BF1 just after launch. I was impressed with the game. Its level design is simple, and 
 offers players a mix of urban and open settings. The weapons are very accurate, when compared to 
 the weapons in games like Battlefield. The vehicles are easily controled with mouse and keyboard. 
 There is a big difference between the character classes, and the mix of republic/cis vs. empire/rebel 
 has given the game a long and fruitful online life.
  
  While playing this game I have been introduced to some glitches and exploites that, while agonizing 
 to some, have given the game some fun surprises. 
  
  While the game isn't equiped with teamspeak, like Battlefield 2, the chat text is in a good place, 
 and is big enough so that you don't miss what the players have to say. In fact, it is easier to 
 make online buddies in this game than it is in Battlefield 2 (Unless you join a clan of course) . 
 
  
  The graphics are not ground breaking, but they work on many pc's, which appeals to a wide range 
 of players. I find I enjoy just running the game on the lowest setting.
  
  The AI is pretty weak. You will find the tactics to be the same in all difficulty settings. Switching 
 them just gives the AI better aim. 
  
  Overall, this is just a fun game, and I dont see myself putting it down anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unkapu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I recieved Battlefront as a good solid game, but there are a number of things I would do to tweak 
 it. Battlefront has solid graphics and gamesplay, but the single player ipoor. There is little 
 story involved and it doesn't seem rewarding. i would also make playable jedi, which I am looking 
 forward to in Battlefront II. The single player is also not vey challenging. The multiplayer onthe 
 other hand is exciting to play with other people. The character classes are a neat cooncept and 
 I think battlefront fullfils the potential with a few exceptions. Number 1: There cvan always be 
 more character classes. Number 2: I wish there was some weapon trading (especially with pilot class) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeak_man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  I think this game is absolutely awesome.
  One of the reasons I like Star Wars: Battlefront is because it gives you the chance to live out 
 the star wars battles. Most other star wars games involved you actually BEING the Jedi/ Sith. This 
 game allows you to be one of those insignificant soldiers that no-body cared about. Who wants to 
 be a Jedi hero when you can be the guy helping him!
  
  Another thing I like about this game is because, like most people, I like battlefield games. This 
 is just a Star Wars version... And an excellent one at that! Being able to choose different soldiers 
 that do different things. But the thing that makes Battlefront differ from Battlefield is that 
 each army (CIS, Imperials, Rebels, Clones) has their own special unit. For the Rebels it's a wookie, 
 for the Clones it's a clone with a jetpack, for Imperials its a clone with a jetpack and for the 
 CIS there is the Super battle droid and the Droideka.
  
  Now for what I don't like about this game.
  And that is the fact that multiplayer and single 
 player seem exactly the same. The only difference being that in multiplayer your playing against 
 real people. The only good form of multiplayer is the split screen because the online play is so 
 laggy. (well... for me) And it's always more fun to play against people you know rather than people 
 you don't.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone that likes a good star wars game.
  
  Thankyou 
 for reading... I hope this review came in useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afadude_BBS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a Starwars game that just like any other shooting game.
  
  The graphics are simple. They're not fantastic, but they're not bad. They're just kinda there.
 
  
  There are many vehicles that you can use in war including X-wing from classic Galactic Civil War 
 Era. It's easy to die because all the character's health are pretty much the same except for those 
 ape-like creature with crossbow. They don't talk, they don't really make any noise or expressions 
 at all. The multiplayer is pretty much like the singleplayer but with real people. The Galactic 
 conquest feature are fun but eventually you'll get bored.
  
  However the sound is great. With the actual Star Wars music from the famous composer John Williams, 
 the laser and explosion sounds, all that is good. You can even download some cool stuff from Gamespot 
 to your battlefront game.
  
  There's really nothing to say about this game. It's okay, but it's not revolutionary. It's just 
 a game to pass the time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game brings nothing new to the genre. It's just like most other first person shooters, except 
 that this is a Star Wars game.
  
  The graphics are nothing to speak of. They're not fantastic, but they're not bad. They're just 
 kinda there.
  
  The gameplay plays a lot like Halo, but it falls short because all the characters lack life. They 
 don't talk, they don't really make any noise or expressions at all. The multiplayer is pretty much 
 like the singleplayer but with real people. There's no story in the game, so there's no action 
 or drama factor either
  
  However the sound is great. With the actual Star Wars music from the famous composer John Williams, 
 the laser and explosion sounds, all that is good.
  
  There's really nothing to say about this game. It's okay, but it's not revolutionary. It's just 
 a game to pass the time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luekwa
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  They added the conquer the galaxt mode to make the single player a little more interesting but 
 it was a failed attempt.
  Battlefront is a strictly multiplayer game. The sweet victory against your friends is one of the 
 most awesome things ever. Sneaking up behind them and scoring a head shot with a rocket launcher 
 is almost too cool. Just becuase its star wars does not at all mean its crap. Just as good as any 
 battlefield out there (except for of course battlefield 2) . I can't wait for the next version to 
 come out!
  The game is totally worth 50 bucks if you got it. If you don't you can probably pick up a used 
 copy on ebay. Just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmanbrendon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and worth wil to bie. it has steller graphics and a great campain its short 
 but awsome on the internet. Make sure to get the paches. If you wish to get a game this is the 
 one of the year. I infact love this game so much i myself have got addicted to this game. I have 
 played it for weels days on end intell my bro has to get me off. I would give this a A++. I would 
 rather be playing it then wrighting this revue so ill have to cut it short. so as a concluson. 
 This has to be one of the best games you will ever bye other than battle front 2 coming out oct.31st\05. 
 I
  
  To find out more go to www. lucas arts. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is not very bad. For 20$ this game should be bought. Rent it if you don't like Star 
 Wars as much you should rent it. Overall the game very short can be beaten in day at the most. 
 Thier is another mode of gameplay called gallactic conquest. It is just about the same as the rest 
 of the game. You do get some movie footage but not enough. The sound, if you have a good enough 
 sound card the battles sound great. It helps if you have suround sound. The biggest problem is 
 that if you get the PC versoin it will crash alot. So think Battlefield 1942 but not as fun. 8.2 
 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is an excellent game, but some things make the game a little annoying in 
 some parts. Some maps, such as the brilliant Kashyyyk: Docks map and my personal favorite, the 
 Tattoine: Dune Sea map. The thing, though, that holds it back, is number one, the graphics, number 
 two, the length, and number three, the AI, or Artificial Intelligence. The graphics have much to 
 be desired. This game can hold very large outdoor environments and still run them without many 
 glitches, but The characters don't look very realistic and the landscapes don't quite look too 
 real. The length of this game - there is no end. You play it on two modes which you can pass, but 
 then there is instant action, which is very addicting. But after you play it for a certain amount 
 of time, it wears on you and you end up not wanting to play it anymore. The maps get boring and 
 you don't want to play the other two modes, because you've already passed them. I'll tell you this 
 much - you'll definately have fun with it for at least two - three weeks, but then it gets boring 
 unless you have nothing to play in a year from that time. Then you install the game and it is fun 
 for a day. And all I need to say is - THE AI STINKS. But overall, Star Wars Battlefront is an excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  when i first time played this game in my friend i where like WOU! But when i seriosly thinked that 
 what is the god damit idea in this game i where like NO! :D 
  I'm gonna tell why. 
  
  
  
  Graphics: 
  Graphics are pretty medium stage there's nothing new in graphics... 
  
  
 
  
  Worth it? 
  This game is obiosly not worth buying ok it's pretty cheap but it does'nt worth the prize. 
  
 
  
  
  Net play. 
  
  I have been once played in internet and it obiosly SUCKS gameplay was so UGLY in net!!! 
  
 
  
  
  Single player. 
  
  Oh! Come on it's soooooo BORiED to play single player ideas is: SHOOT EVERYTHING THAT MOVES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkHorse2160
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game would be perfect if they'd only come up with another way to get rid of team killers! 
 We've all seen them, but how many times have you ever seen someone actually get voted off? I've 
 never seen a successful vote. The ones who usually initiate the vote are the ones who're being 
 TK-ed, so of course they want the TK-er gone. The other players either don't know how to vote, 
 or simply don't want to take the time to vote, thinking that the voting never works anyway. So, 
 the TK-ers run rampant on all the maps and even initiate votes to boot their accusers.
  
  The bottom line is that the system doesn't work and I think it's turned countless players away 
 from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty big on these large battle type games. I'm also a big Star Wars fan so it's no surprise 
 that I was looking forward to Star Wars: Battlefront. As it happens I bought the Star Wars trilogy 
 on DVD and it comes with an Xbox demo of the game. Yea... I busted that thing out pretty quick. 
 Unfortunately I was really disappointed with the demo. The Graphics were really weak and the gameplay 
 was so clunky I had second thoughts about buying it. Well since I was bored of all my other games 
 and had an extra $50 burning a hole in my pocket I decided to give the PC version a chance. I'm 
 glad I did. The game still didn't live up to all my expectations but I liked it much more than 
 the Xbox counterpart.
  
  One thing good about SW: BF is that they got most of the sounds effects right (like the blasters 
 and the vehicle sounds) . That's one of the biggest things that drives home the fact that you're 
 playing a Star Wars game. Also I'm glad they did battles from all the Star Wars movies with the 
 different classes and factions. I also like the good variety of characters and vehicles. All the 
 essentials are here.
  
  One of the things they could have done better are the character models. To me the stormtrooper's 
 head looks too big for his body. Don't even get me started about Chewbacca, yikes! Even compared 
 to other older games, these character models are substandard.
  
  One big complaint I have is that most of the maps are way too small. Not just horizontally but 
 vertically too. I mean there's not a whole lot of room to dog fight on the maps with flying vehicles. 
 You can really only go about 100 feet in the air which doesn't give a lot of room for maneuvering. 
 Also I think the flying vehicles are too easy to fly. To take off and land you just hit spacebar 
 and you don't even need a joystick (actually a joystick would make it harder) . Now I know most 
 people would say that is a good thing but actually it isn't. If it takes no real skill to master 
 it, it gets old really quick. It doesn't keep people coming back for more. This becomes evident 
 when trying to find a multiplayer game. If you go to the online game browser you'll see there aren't 
 a whole lot of Internet games going on. I haven't checked in the last few months but I'll bet there're 
 even less now.
  
  But despite the aforementioned problems SW: BF is still fun overall. I think it had the potential 
 to be a lot better but as it is this game is still good. However soon enough it will most likely 
 drown in the wake of some many other newer and better games. The nice thing is that the price should 
 be reasonable enough to pick it up just to have another game in your collection.
  
  While you're at it check out some of my other reviews. It's not like you have anything else better 
 to do, right?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Only_Spitz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront is one of the best Star Wars games that they have made so far. It has everything 
 a good game truly needs. It has multiple characters, multiple sides, multiple guns, and much more 
 that makes a great game. Everything about it is great and anyone of any age who could play it I 
 think would love it.
  
  Gameplay: There are many aspects for this game. First off there is the sides. In the game depending 
 on which saga you choose, there are a total of three sides. If you choose to play the Galactic 
 Wars then you can choose either Rebels or well, Darth Vader's Side, the Dark Side, except with 
 troops. If you choose that side you will be fighting against the rebels in many different levels. 
 They have a nice choice of weapons but I would recommend being the rebels. The rebels are very 
 good in many of the levels, especially if you choose to become a sniper. The Rebel sniper always 
 has a good place to start off, and form there you almost have a sure victory. Then you are able 
 to also play in the Clone Wars which is of course the Clones and the Droids. When playing the Clones, 
 there are very many good spots where you can take a tactical advantage against the droids, and 
 once again I recommend to use a sniper with them. Then with the droids you can either be a regular 
 droid with a different type of gun, a super battle droid, or even a destroyer. I myself prefer 
 a Destroyer for you are able to put your shield up which keeps you in upfront battle a lot longer 
 and gives you more of a chance of a victory. Then in the game you have the levels. There are many 
 levels in this game and they are set out very good according to the movies. In the game you can 
 play anywhere from Hoth to Tatooine to Dagoba. So if you are worried about the levels, do not for 
 they are very good. Then another aspect of the game are the vehicles. In the game you can range 
 from speeder bikes to pretty big ships that you fly in the sky. So pretty much the gameplay of 
 this game is very good. The last is multiplayer. I like how they set up the multiplayer in this 
 game. You do not have to be on the same team with your opponent, you can if you want to, but do 
 not have to be. Then whichever side you choose, it is exactly like how you would play it in single 
 player. So the only thing they changed in multiplayer is multiple players. So multiplayer also 
 is set up very well.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game can range from excellent, but then there are some spots that 
 you are like what happened there. If you look at the scenery and the guns and the units, they are 
 all great. But then you get to the Jedi where they try to make them like Luke and Mace. When they 
 do that though they do not look very good and I think that is where the graphics aren't so great. 
 But other than that the graphics in the game are excellent.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is not the greatest but is fairly good. The sound itself is fair but 
 then the sounds in the game are not that great. For almost every human the dying sound is the same 
 and same goes for the droids, they all sound the same. Then the voices for all of the men are exactly 
 the same. So while the sound may sound good, the sounds them self are not so great.
  
  Value: The value for this game is great and there is nothing to be disappointed about. You will 
 get hours of play out of this and they will all be well worth it. There is no disappointment at 
 all. So the value of the game is great.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: In my own opinion I think this game is a great game and is definitely worth buying. 
 Ever since I have bought this game both me and my friends love to have contests in it to see who 
 can get a better score on what. So this game was all it was hyped up to be when it was coming out. 
 I would say for anyone who likes Star Wars at all and for anyone who owns the right system for 
 it, should definitely buy it. It is a great game and great for anyone who likes Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a dream come true for the die hard Star Wars fans. Multiplayer shooter in the first 
 person, with tons of classes, factions and vehicles to control. Where it falls short is in the 
 graphics and AI bugs. 
  
  Being a fan of the EA Battlefield series, the SWBF game concept and interface is relatively easy 
 to master. There are lots of maps to conquer and in many different ways. Single player mode is 
 relative easy to pickup but is filled with bugs. AI characters just stand there sometimes or run 
 off in no general direction. Online AI isn't much better but most maps online are filled with real 
 people so you don't have to worry about controlling a squad. 
  
  Graphics are unfortunately weak. It just doesn't have the visual awe that I was expecting and I 
 have one of the higher end machines. 
  
  Sound is so-so. Not bad, but it's nothing really to get excited about. There are no unique sounds, 
 most generic probably imported from the Star Wars movies and just improved slighty.
  
  Overall, it's a fun game to pick up and blast some Imperial scum or if you have Ewoks and Gungans 
 you can play the Imperials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  I think this was a great game. I excepted alot and i saw Battelfront deliver. The sound (straight 
 from the Star Wars universe) was done awesomely and totally emerses you into the game. The graphics 
 look a bit out of date, but are still quite good. The out of date is neccesary when rendering huge 
 battles on the grand scale of star wars. The ship models looks especially good, I love the TIE 
 fighters. Obviously the value is awesome, with nearly unlimited online replayability. There are 
 a good amount of maps and all kind of classes top play as in each battle. Its a great game if you 
 are a Star Wars fan. There is a reason that this 
  is the best selling star wars game ever.
  Even if you arent a huge geek, you will still get a 
 good time out of a good online shooter. Once i pick this game up I play compulsively for hours, 
 I often minimize the game just so I can try to multi task as I mixed this game in with real work 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medic
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 25, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  When reading previews for this game, I was awaitng what I thought would be revolutionary to online 
 gaming on consoles. After playing Battlefield on the PC, I new this game could be great, Battlefield 
 + Star Wars = Awesome right?
  
  Yes and no.
  
  First and foremost stay away unless you have Live. The Bots are dumber than bricks, they can't 
 fly the vehicles right, and just circle around. They usually wonder around or follow you, or just 
 genuinely follow you around getting in the way. It will quickly bore you, and is not worth your 
 money no matter how big a fan you are.
  
  As for people with Live, you will love it or hate it. It's all about action, no strategy, the character 
 classes are unbalanced, and the Lag is terrible on my 3.5 Cable connection on most servers. If 
 you can find a decent server, you will have fun. This is a game that is great in spurts, not all 
 night gaming like Quake or Battlefield have provided. As for the vehicles, they move slower then 
 dirt. Have fun spending 30 minutes driving an AT across Hoth.
  
  The sounds of the game don't suck, but they aren't memorable either. All the sounds from the movies 
 are here, and the lasers sound cool. Nothing out of the ordinary here.
  
  I can't really see this game going anywhere on Live, but I'm sure that you will always be able 
 to find a game. Check it out if all out action is your thing, just don't expect depth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  I cannot stop playing this game. It has the only thing that Battlefield 1942 did not have, and 
 that was Star Wars.
  
  The game's premise is pretty simple. Take all the famous battlefields in the movies and allow up 
 to 64 people to duke it out on one of two sides. There is not much more to it than that. The battles 
 take place over both the OT and the Prequels. Naboo, Tattoine, Endor, and Hoth among others. 
 
  
  There is a passable singleplayer campaign, but the real action is multiplayer. The game uses the 
 Gamespy backend as the server browser which seemed to work well, but occasionally showed no servers. 
 I would of liked to seen an in game browser independant of an outside service, but that is not 
 a big deal. Connection is smooth and there is not alot of stutter.
  
  The battlefields themselves are pretty well designed with a few chokepoints that allow for some 
 serious battles. Vehicles are also all over the place, with Imperial walkers, Tie Fighers, X-Wings, 
 Snow Speeders, Swoop bikes, etc are all available along with turrets and stationary gun defenses. 
 I will say that the guns seemed to run out of ammo way too fast sometimes. I would let off six 
 shots from a sniper rifle only to have to switch weapons due to a lack of ammo. Also, the grenades 
 seem a bit too powerful, and could use a tweak down a bit.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing with very detailed models and the scenery is quite picturesque 
 with lots of little details. There are also random monsters and creatures that will attack or help 
 you depending on the creature. I was storming a ridge in a Tattoine battle when my team was swarmed 
 by Tusken Raiders. Also, I was delighted by plinking off Ewoks with no reprocussions. Fun indeed!
 
  
  Sound is always above par and this game is no exception. Getting access to all the authentic sounds 
 for all the weapons and music is always a boon and adds to the immersion factor.
  
  All of this comes at a price however. You will need a pretty decent system to run all of this at 
 high detail. But for those with current generation hardware, you will be pleased with the results.
 
  
  All in all, if you like Star Wars or the Battlefield 1942 series, you will be extremely happy with 
 this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Star Wars game that does the battles some justice. I don't see why people complain so 
 much about it, I really don't. The gameplay is excellent and with the release of patches most of 
 the bugs are fixed.
  
  The level design is excellent, I love the detail put into Jabba's Palace. The levels are designed 
 for large amounts of players and are very wide to fit them all.
  
  The sound is great, especially if you have headphones on. The sounds of combat never stop, there's 
 so much action going on all around.
  
  Flying starships and piloting ground vehicles is fun but some are waaaayyy too powerful and can 
 mess up the experience occasionally.
  
  The loading times could use some work, but maybe its just my computer and I apologize if it is.
 
  
  A great game, but only if you have a good enough computer and internet connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbingham
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 13, 2004 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is less than the sum of its parts. I haven't touched it since 2 days after 
 I bought in September.
  There are technical issues which made it unplayable in multiplayer at the time, but I'll get to 
 those later. The main problem for me is the maps/design, single player aspect (which totally blows) .
 
  1) Introducing impressive, familiar vehicles from the films is a great idea. Just give us a place 
 to use them. These maps are so tight and small, using these awesome vehicles is like trying to 
 enjoy a Porsche in a driveway. Using them is a total waste of time! The maps are probably 1/5th 
 the size they should be for a real battle. With lots of people on, it just becomes a huge Quake 
 Deathmatch, which leads me to 2)
  2) You appear in the middle of combat in total chaos. Is this Quake deathmatch or is this a complex 
 battle simulator? I can see across Hoth to where the AT ATs are being spawned from just outside 
 my own base. Stupid. These maps should be the size of the Gazala, Market Garden maps in BF1942. 
 It's a complete cluster screw from the time you spawn.
  3) Okay, not everyone likes the large, sprawling maps of Battlefield 1942. You do need to hitch 
 a ride to get around usually, but once you get accustomed to this, it's lots of fun because it 
 is nothing like a Quake or Half-life death match. Which is what *I* am after because if I wanted 
 that kind of game, I'd just play one of these tight, deathmatch, chaos games.
  Single player. 
  First mission in single player, without any adieu was to drop me on some battlefield 
 with a forcefield and these characters randomly running around. No build up. Nothing. I was like 
 "Huh? You have got to be kidding me. This sucks." Never touched the single player again. Not that 
 I was disappointed that single player blew; again, I was looking for great online play just like 
 BF 1942, but Star Wars. I gave up on that immediately after going online.
  Technical issues.
  I should check to see if they fixed the interface. When Battlefronts first 
 came online through gamespy arcade, there were players everywhere. Now, when I look there, more 
 people are playing BF 1942 than SW Battlefront. This says to me that game still has major online 
 issues, but I don't know.
  
  Once again, games are getting better than better. This game had a lot of potential, but failed 
 completely. I would normally take another stab at the game with less expectation, but I don't want 
 to run around and shoot. For running around and shooting online, isn't CounterStrike Source all 
 you need? I think so. 
  I wanted big places to drive a variety of vehicles. A lonely road here or there, quiet places to 
 park the speeder bike and snipe -- that sort of thing. There is NONE of this possible in this game!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2004 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Hi... Star Wars Battlefront is just a Amazing game... Probarly the best Thirdperson shooters, not 
 First person shooters for me :D
  
  Graphics: The Graphics is totally good, not too mention not better than Doom 3!!! Gameplay: Good 
 enough : Or shall i say BEST shooters !!!
  Story: You have seen the film??? ( Then you know the stories )
  Sounds: I love the music, the 
 sounds of war is pretty neat and the best, feels like i am in real war!!!
  Hey, this game isn bad, its a massive shooters and i mean THE best shooters, like call of duty 
 but better !!!!
  A MUST FOR STAR WARS FANS !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 15, 2004 2:01 am PT
Review:  Half-decent level design, but with so few levels that's not much of a perk.
  It's nice to be able to select from so many various ground troops; but sometimes it matters not 
 your strategy; lame.
  Vehicle implementation is poor - typically subpar gameplay.
  It is difficult to slam a Star Wars games as a lot of gamers, like myself, love to play anything-Star 
 Wars. However, Star Wars games are every bit as good as George Lucas' screenwriting and directing 
 talent (and we know that that means, unfortunately) . : (
  Decent graphics, though extremely CPU-bound.
  Sound issues: seems as if it can't make up what 
 effect it wants to emphasize at times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:22 am PT
Review:  I don't know what I was expecting from this game, but once I got over the flash that the licence 
 had to offer, I basically found myself playing a very uninspired version of Battlefield 1942. It's 
 proably better than the Galactic Conquest mod for BF1942, but it doesn't warrant the purchase. 
 The fact that the game was designed for SW vehicles, and the better graphics put it on top of the 
 free mod, but that's about it.
  
  This is just another example of a licence jumping on the current wagon. Stay away if you're actually 
 looking for a "developer" to develop its own ideas, and not just change the skins and graphics 
 of a pre-existing formula (that quite frankly does it much, much better) .
  
  This is for the die hard Starwars fan, it doesn't bring much to the table for anyone else though. 
 Stay away if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyes
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 11, 2004 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I got this for my PC and it is a very graphically demanding game. I currently have a 3.4 GHz P4 
 with a gig of RAM but i only have 128MB PCI Express video card so running the game at full effects 
 dragged the speed to unplayable conditions. I had to bump down the video settings a bit and the 
 game did go faster. The sound is amazing, if you have a 5.1 setup, then you'll be immersed completely 
 into the world of SW. Too bad you don't fight as Luke, Vader and Fett but maybe the next version 
 will have some kind of special characters hidden. I have no complaints for this game except you 
 must have a very good PC setup to really take advantage of the visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2004 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a review of the single player campaigns only. Having enjoyed the Star Wars movies, and 
 having played the Jedi PC games and enjoyed them very much, I am only mildly recommending this 
 game. It is interesting to be able to get into the context of many of the battles of Star Wars 
 movies, but that is about all. The game consists of being immersed in many different battles on 
 several planets and environments but then the gameplay is totally repetitive after that. You can 
 choose to carry a main weapon, assault rifle, grenade launcher, rocket launcher, sniper rifle and 
 then you enter the battle, trying to take over "command posts" places where the other side "spawns". 
 You will soon tire of hearing on your "radio"; "We've taken another command post" or; "They've 
 taken another command post" which is basically all the action is about. Forget about a cohesive 
 story, there is none. If you are an avid Star Wars fan you will probably really enjoy this game, 
 but if you are a fan of FPS games, this one is not as good as several others available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddy_astro
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 18, 2004 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The levels are too small, and they all pretty much play the same way. They're isn't much stradegy 
 in the battles, much more UT2004 than tactical shooter. Some of the maps are too easy depending 
 on which side you choose (Republic or Empire) For example when playing as the empire on the Dune 
 Sea map you can easily win with 100+ troops leftover on any difficulty. It's fun for awhile but 
 doesn't offer the replay value of other FPS. The AI is decent at best but not as bad as some people 
 have said. Good game but definitely not great or what it promised to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waggs
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2004 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront for the PC is a good game. Don't get me wrong. The battles are fun. And the single 
 player is surprisingly both challenging and enjoyable. But it's multiplayer where this game really 
 falls flat.
  
  The battles are much more compact and crazy than the Battlefield series or Join Operations game. 
 This is both good and bad. In Battlefield vietnam, you can single handedly defend or take a flag, 
 and feel like you are an important part of the battle. In Battlefront, you never feel like an important 
 part of a battle. You feel more like every time you spawn you are thrown into the middle of a war 
 zone with blasts flying in from all directions and you struggle to survive.
  
  The single player offers up campaigns themed around the movies that are fun to play through a couple 
 times. They even have movie clips before battles in single player to help get you into the battle.
 
  
  The vehicles are very very powerful, and people on the map always rush for where they spawn because 
 of their power. Most will tell you they are over-powered. And well, yeah, they are. Thankfully 
 though, you can't actually capture a flag while inside a vehicle.
  
  The sound and graphics are top-notch excellent.
  
  But if you're looking for good multiplayer, 
 turn away from battlefront. I found msyelf playing single player instead of multiplayer. In multiplayer, 
 you're frames per second is maxed at 30, but often dips down to under 5 frames per second. Also, 
 the interface for choosing a server is terrible. Don't expect to know going into a game how the 
 ping is, and expect every server to have a bad ping. 
  
  Even on a 3-megs-per-second broadband connection with a 2.8ghz pentium 4 with a gig of ram and 
 a 9800xt video card... the multiplayer is normally choppy.
  
  On the other hand, if you're looking for a very fun single-player experience that makes you feel 
 like a soldier in the movies, or if you're a hard-core star wars fan and you're willing to wait 
 for a patch to fix things such as the frame rate and menue interface, you should give battlefront 
 a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kr0e
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 3, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  The idea of an all out war based on the Star Wars universe is a very exciting premise to base a 
 game on. Ever since the announcement of Battlefront personally I've been waiting with drool gathering. 
 With the release I purchased a copy, a few days early thanks to the mistake on Best Buy's part 
 of releasing it too early, and immediately began conquering the single player side of the game. 
 
  
  The single player campaign missions are pretty entertaining, giving you a minute or two cut-scene 
 from one of the Star Wars films to set the scene, then outlining your objectives and letting you 
 loose into a battle right out of the movies. With that said about the single player portion of 
 the game, the multiplayer falls miserably short. 
  
  When trying to play the multiplayer portion of the game not only must you put up with the constant 
 hounding of creating AND using a GameSpy account (which most any gamer will tell you is more trouble 
 than it's worth) . The GameSpy account, if used, will undoubtedly end up kicking you off mid-game 
 because of a lost connection to GameSpys account server, meaning it will leave you with the joy 
 of having to spend the next fives to ten minutes it takes to find a server, and heaven help you 
 if you decide to use the games server browser.
  
  When it comes to connecting to a server through the in game browser... good luck is all I can tell 
 you, apparently the in game server browser was developed by a drunk three year old. Not only are 
 server pings inaccurate, but the server capacity is as well, you'll find your self joining a server 
 that is showed to have a 12 out of 20 capacity but in fact leaves you unable to connect because 
 it is full. Also the simple task of clicking on a server is a chore, because while the browser 
 is refreshing this is all but impossible, your selection will be buried under the new servers found, 
 and you will now have another server selected.
  
  All and all I think it could have been a great game, and may still have the chance to be a great 
 game, but Id say wait until you find it in the bargain bin at your local software dealerby then 
 hopefully theyll have all of the kinks worked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webseed
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 29, 2004 5:45 am PT
Review:  Here's a review from a player who can actually spell. Interesting in awesome online multiplayer 
 games? Forget Star Wars Battlefront. Terrible multiplayer balancing hampers any real multiplaying 
 ability, rendering the game no more than a curious single-player romp through Star Wars land.
 
  
  As an example of what I'm talking about, if you happen to join a server pitting clone troopers 
 against the CIS droids -- and you're on the CIS team -- you can expect to spend most of your time 
 waiting around to respawn. Why? Because a single shot from a clone trooper sniper or jet trooper 
 EMP weapon takes you out on the spot. While you're running around trying to gain ground, and battling 
 hard at every corner, the clone trooper are literally flying right past you to the command posts, 
 then turning around and taking out your whole team with single-shot kills.
  
  Nice play balancing, huh?
  
  It gets even worse. The silly hero characters like Darth Vader 
 are invincible. If the Darth Vader character happens to appear, he can essentially run around and 
 kill everyone with one light saber swipe while simultaneously displaying immunity to all laser 
 blasts. Think you might be able to take out Vader with a rocket? Think again. He gets blown sky-high, 
 lands back on the ground, dusts himself off and starts whacking your teammates yet again. It's 
 no more rewarding than banging your head against a brick wall (and it sounds almost the same, too) .
 
  
  Basically, skill just doesn't seem to matter much with SW Battlefront. As one of the top Halo players 
 on the circuit, I know player skill when I see it, and Battlefront isn't a test of skill; it basically 
 just comes down to which side you happen to be randomly assigned to. If you get the jet packs, 
 EMP canons, or Vader, yes, Battlefront is a blast. For everyone else, it's just a broken game that 
 will have you playing Halo again in no time.
  
  One more thing: if you still want to buy the game after reading this review, have fun with the 
 Internet server selection interface. It was programmed, apparently, by a team of pranksters who 
 decided to make it impossible for a human being to actually click on the server they want. The 
 server list is constantly updating, meaning it's constantly scrolling. Trying to click on a game 
 to join is sort of like trying to shoot a target with a paintball gun while riding in a roller 
 coaster. It can take several minutes to join any game at all, and half the time, you're not even 
 sure if you joined the game you wanted. Sometimes, you end up accidentally joining a game with 
 two players only. Wow: a giant Star Wars wasteland with two players... what fun!
  
  Unfortunately, Star Wars Bad Affront just doesn't live up to the hype. Yes, the graphics rock. 
 But so what? If you can't find rewarding play in all that scenery, it's no different than a tropical 
 fish screen saver. And an expensive one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m. waiks
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2004 3:05 am PT
Review:  The Single player is OK. Yea you get to Play the battles in the movies. That will hold your attition 
 for a few hours. The fact that there are other player classes that can not be used is soo Lucas 
 Arts. The Multiplayer interface is the worst I have ever played on. The system will not truly tell 
 you if the game is aviable. it shows 24 of 32 but, when you try to attach to the game is replies 
 FULL. I will never again buy a Lucas Arts Product again its another let down buy this Greedy Shame-Full 
 man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dierk467
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 29, 2004 1:24 am PT
Review:  Ok i have been a star wars fan since episode 1 came out and i have played most of the star wars 
 game such as jedi academy and jedi outcast which was my favorite. I have tried star wars battlefront 
 at my friends house thank god and guess what??? it is not good as you thought. 
  
  THE PROS.
  
  The sound is just like from the movie
  All the vehicles are in that game
  
 
  The cons
  
  Map is too small for an aerial assault
  The multiplayer has so many problems 
  Too much friggin bugs
  the loading is too long like 
 about 2 or 1and half min.
  the game is too short like you wait for an 2 minutes for loading and it ends in like one minute.
 
  the graphic is to shallow and lame
  Pandemic Studios please can you at least spend your time on some graphics instead of just making 
 graphic to shallow??
  If you like those type of games get BFV or call of duty united offensive those games are the best 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 28, 2004 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this review short as Battlefield 1942 + Star Wars = a very nice game.
  
  The visuals and audio are great and the action is as you'd expect in a BF1942 style game (the game 
 is made by the people playing... you get DMers, and you might as well just have fun flying around... assuming 
 there are vehicles. You get a good group of team players and you've got yourselves a movie battle!
 
  
  While the non-vehicle maps are decent, nothing, and I mean, nothing, beats driving an AT-AT on 
 Hoth. The reason I'm not mentioning the X-wings and Tie Fighters is because the same problem that 
 plagued BF Vietnam when they introduced fast jets on the BF1942 sized maps exists here. You spend 
 more time pulling back on the throttle so you can basically hover and turning around to avoid getting 
 killed by the game for leaving the battlefield than actually flying around. That coupled with the 
 fact that the game couldn't recognize my stick (most likely my own problem) made flying a bit more 
 of a pain that it could have been. 
  
  The weapons are decent but often thing seem to end up becoming a grenade fest. Granted, we're talking 
 about sticking with the Star Wars license but I get this feeling that the weapons aren't as balanced 
 as they could have been.
  
  As far as single-player goes, the Galactic Conquest mode is interesting. The bots are about the 
 same as the BF games in that they sometimes pull through but often times you need to lead the effort 
 in order for your team to win. If you don't, there's a good chance your team will lose. Additional 
 non-playable races included in the maps (and actually maintaining and fighting for nodes) is nice 
 as is the bonus system that brings "heros" into the mix. 
  
  Ultimately, nothing beats reenacting moments from the movies... except watching the movies themselves. 
 As fun as the game is at times, it can grow tedious and the same. Multiplayer is good as long as 
 lag isn't a problem for you (which it can be for me, despite a fast rig and a fast DSL connection) . 
 As much as I'd like to enjoy this game more, I don't think it'll last too long on my hard disk. 
 It's definitely worth a try if you're a Star Wars fan. Otherwise, you might be better off just 
 playing BF 1942 or something with vehicles that don't cross the map in two seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2004 2:16 am PT
Review:  I will write a full review soon, but for now I have lost patience with this game as far as internet 
 multiplay goes, which to be fair is the main purpose of this game.
  
  The in-game browser is terrible and something is wrong with the UI where mouseclicks on the scrollbar 
 result in a selection in the main section (this is true not just of the game-browser, but of the 
 key mappings etc. too) . Not only that, but you can't stop the list refreshing and clicking on a 
 server you want then changes selection as more servers are added.... arghh!
  
  Launching externally from GameSpy Arcade wouldn't be too bad if it were not for two things....
 
  
  1. You have to get past about 6 splash screens of vendor logos before it trys to connect to the 
 game.
  
  2.. Clicking on a game that is not full results in game full messages once the client is launched. 
 Going back to GameSpy and refreshing the server shows it is still not full.
  
  Come on LucasArts, sort this out! The game looks to have a lot of potential, but why make it so 
 freakin' difficult to get into!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 26, 2004 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront has a great premise looks to have wonderful gameplay. However, the game 
 falls short on the PC for the simple reason that it simply isn't ready for release from a technical 
 standpoint. This game while entertaining when it works, has so many technical problems that it 
 seems rather pointless to try to attempt to play it online. Offline, it is a pretty good game and 
 resembles Battlefield 1942 offline. However, the intense problems online really make this game 
 more of a chore to play. Often times one must try five to ten times to get into a server, and even 
 then the game is jerky. Even one manages to find a good server, they are sometimes thrown off by 
 a "connection failed" message or something of that sort. Overall, this game has great promise, 
 but I just don't think that it was ready for a mass release. It seems that the game was probably 
 rushed out to meet the release of the Star Wars DVD set. This game should still be in beta (for 
 the PC at least) .
  
  Gameplay: Nothing really new here, its the same old Battlefield 1942 stuff. But that still deserves 
 a 9 in my eyes.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are decent, nothing to fancy. 
  
  Sound: The sound on this game is pretty impressive for an online shooter, it really does add to 
 the game.
  
  Value: Until this game gets a major patch its not worth playing, so the value score is rather low. 
 When I buy a game, I want it to work.
  
  Overall: This game will be good once its properly patched up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lost_in_general
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 26, 2004 6:07 am PT
Review:  How many Star Wars games have there been to date? The answer: Way too many to count. How many have 
 been bad? I'm sorry to say, many. Is this one: We'll answer that now, won't we?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Pretty Good. If you've played Battlefield or any of its variants, you'll know the 
 type. You play as a generic soldier in a war against the other forces (in this case, its usually 
 Rebels vs. Imperials) and you can use vehicles, charge on foot, use turrets or snipe your way to 
 achieving this goal. I liked how the vehicles were implemented, as they seemed to have adhered 
 to the physics system attatched to them demonstrated by the movies. There are two "campaigns", 
 which affect the troopers who fight and the vehicles in a battle, the Clone Wars (the first 3 episodes) 
 and the Galactic Civil War (the last 3 episodes) It's great with lots of players, though it loses 
 something when playing against NPCs.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  I can't say much. They're decent, but not really needed to be good in this genre, which evens it 
 out, in my opinion. The textures aren't bad, and they generally hold true to the series. No mismatched 
 colors or misshapen models, so I don't have any complaints or anything.
  
  SOUND
  
  Nice, given the sounds in the movies. They are all similar, and give you that nice Star Wars touch. 
 Though small, it does make a difference to hear the right sound with a blaster, or a TIE's laser 
 coming at you. The voices are all right, too. Once again, no complaints.
  
  VALUE
  
  I think it's great. It's got plenty of replay value, because you can just keep playing multiplayer 
 games, like with Halo. You can also play single player if you don't feel like going online.
  
  TILT
  All in all, I'd say it's a pretty good game, but I don't reccomend it if you dislike 
 the series, or games of this type. If RPGs are your thing, then I reccomend Kotor for your tastes, 
 but if this is the type of thing you like, for sure: get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikker
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 26, 2004 5:26 am PT
Review:  I liked this game, but not as impressed as I thought I would have been. The graphics are great 
 -- the star wars universe is very nicely represented. The characters in the game really look exactly 
 like their movie counterparts. Weapon and vehicle sound effects are also well matched to their 
 movie equals. 
  
  Maybe its just me, but the single player game feels a little "strange" -- I think I know what it 
 is but I can't quite put my finger on it. It feels like its too quiet for some reason, like you 
 should have more environmental noise around you. For example aside from your weapon (or vehicle) 
 sound and the distant sound of your enemy (AI) weapons the game would be eerily quiet. 
  
  It just "feels" a bit alone, when compared to the single player experiences like Medal of Honor 
 Allied Assual, Call of Duty or Return to Castle Wolfenstein... all games in which you hear all kinds 
 of background sound -- including the voices of the AI players either shouting in the heat of battle, 
 screaming orders or "hollering" at you before they fire.
  
  In MOHAA or Call of Duty especially, I never "feel" alone.... I feel like their is action all around, 
 I don't get this feeling in SW: Battlefront; and that disappoints me.
  
  I think the difficulty is a bit high than on other FPS single player games as well -- it seems 
 its easy to die in the game. One or two shots and you are a worm feast. I thought that was a bit 
 harsh.
  
  My last complaint is you can't operate AT-AT's on the Hoth mission!
  
  Take away those few complaints I have -- its a decent game, any true Star Wars fan will love the 
 graphic detail and the loyalty of the sound effects to the movies -- especially if you have surround 
 sound. (I love that speeder bike swoosh sound.. its awesome) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2004 1:36 am PT
Review:  I preordered this game and got it the day it came out. When i first started playing it it was fun, 
 but the fun just kept on growing and now i'm addicted. When i first saw The Attack of the Clones 
 in the theatre, for the next couple of days i just had an urge to be in that huge battle. Well, 
 this game makes it possible.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  
  This game has excellent gameplay, with responsive controls, an easy to use interface and great 
 spawn setup. The only problem i have with it is that in multiplayer, you can be scrolling down 
 and see a game that says 12 / 32, and you think "oh, it only has 12 players", but then when you 
 try to join, it says "server full" for some odd reason. Even when you refresh it still does it. 
 The next patch should cover it, though.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7
  
  By far not the best graphics i've seen, but respectable in the fact that this is a fps. Besides, 
 when in the middle of a firefight are you going to care if the texturing on the wall isn't that 
 great. The graphics are just good enough to make it look like star wars, nothing more.
  
  SOUND: 8
  
  You can't go wrong with a star wars soundtrack. Good, star warsy music always playing 
 in the background, along with very good laser-blast sounds and pitter patter of feet. However, 
 the voices on the characters can get pretty old pretty fast, but you're not going to care about 
 that when you're up against 10 droids and only you and 2 other teammates are there to take them 
 on.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  Campaigns can last more than 10 hours, and the instant action can last equally as long. Multiplayer 
 adds infinite value. 
  
  TILT: 10
  
  Best star wars game to date. Buy it if you enjoy the big battles in star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: momsrock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2004 12:57 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best Star Wars games I have ever played in my life. it is a good solid action 
 game with excellent graphics and very realistic combat. I love the fact that you can access anything 
 or any place. This game is based around X-live , but for those of you who don't have X-box live 
 there is still three very solid game modes historical campeign, wich lets you play through all the 
 epic battles. Galactic conquest wich is very complicated and I am not going to even try to type 
 up the details. And then there is instant action and well the name kind of says it all. the only 
 down side to this game is if you aren't a Star wars fan then you might have a lettle trouble. Aside 
 from that I think that I think if you like team based games you will like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delessangeles
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 25, 2004 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront's gameplay is quite varied, ranging from FPS combat, to demolitions, to vehicular combat. 
 The on foot portions of the game reminded me alot of Jedi Outcast before you get your lightsaber 
 - except it's actually fun! You can grab control of turrets, mow down enemies with a repeater blaster, 
 take out a droideka with a rocket launcher, or heck, even be a droideka. In addition to all the 
 madness that portion of the game brings, there's also vehicles at your disposal. 
  
  The flying portions of this game have nothing on the Rogue Squadron series, but it's still lots 
 of fun; especially when you get to do things like be the gunner in the snowspeeder to shoot the 
 tow cable onto the At-At. You can also do things like ride in the Republic Gunship sitting in those 
 round turrets firing on some punks on the ground while your pal flies the ship like a madman, it 
 makes for some great fun. As for the non-flying vehicles, they're lots of fun to control, although 
 one thing you'll notice is that they feel a little bit sluggish, but you can tell when using them 
 that its intentional. If you could drive the Republic Tank in this game as fast as you could in 
 "The Clone Wars", the matches would be no fun, as the battle would get very lopsided once one side 
 got control of one. 
  
  There is lots and lots of gameplay value in this game. You could play all night, never reliving 
 the same experience. For example, you might want to get into sniping, or maybe be a jetpack clonetrooper, 
 or you feel like rolling around Goron style as a destroyer droid (droideka) - it simply goes on 
 and on. All that madness is basically what defines the game. Battlefront has different modes, such 
 as conquest, or where you get to relive the Star Wars battles in chronological order, but basically, 
 it all boils down to two sides duking it out on a given map, with lots of variables thrown in to 
 make very different experiences when accomplishing the same basic task: gain control of spawn points 
 and wipe the enemy out (Darth Sidious voice: ALL OF THEM) . 
  
  For a ballpark idea of its graphics, just think Jedi Academy and you basically have the idea. For 
 my somewhat medium grade PC, it manages to have the same graphical performance as, say, Halo or 
 Jedi Academy, and runs impressively smooth with all the enemies running around on the map. Character 
 models are fairly high polygon, the sky-box is very well done, a lighting system is used throughout 
 the game, and nice graphical effects such as wind moving dust in the air keep the environments 
 pretty.
  
  One thing this game makes me want more than ever is my lightsaber back. Now I find myself in soldiers 
 armour, witnessing the onslaught of a Jedi's power (a bit of a role reversal for me) . When I fought 
 Dooku (and I was a clone trooper) , I can't tell you how harsh a reminder that was that I wasn't 
 Kyle Katarn anymore. I see the reason for not being able to control Jedi, cause if you could, everyone 
 would, and it wouldn't be what it's supposed to be - Battlefront. It would be Jedi Knight 4.
  
  In 2002, Pandemic Studios gave Star Wars a try. They attempted to put you in the battlefield 
 in "The Clone Wars". They did a fine job there, but without a doubt, Pandemic Studios has definitely 
 improved, they have now completely immersed gamers in the experience of explosive Star Wars battles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 25, 2004 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, I've got to say that I'm a total and complete Star Wars geek. I have every game, 
 every movie (VHS and DVD both) ... and I even liked the prequels !
  After hearing that Pandemic and LucasArts were about to release a multiplayer Star Wars game, that 
 takes you to every planet in that galaxy "far, far away", I was immediately anxious for the release 
 of Battlefront.
  
  And then... the game came out.
  
  I've got to warn you guys : If you are not a Star Wars fan, you will NOT like this game, period. 
 This is not Unreal Tournament or Call of Duty, and thus, it does not appeal to everybody.
  
  Ok, with that said, I have to say that I'm a tad bit dissapointed in the game. Don't get me 
 wrong, it's a very decent game, loosely based on Battlefield 1942 and using the Star Wars franshise. 
 But I have to say that my dissapointment comes from the fact that there is only one kind of multiplayer 
 game : Conquest. I wouldn't have minded a little CTF or DM, Star Wars style.
  Also, it takes a bit of time to really learn what each class does and how to use their abilities. 
 I've played online and saw a bunch of people just running around or flying in ships, killing people, 
 instead of going for the checkpoints.
  
  But, all in all, the game is good. The planets are well represented and the characters are true 
 to the movies. The best part of this game though is the sounds : the wonderful music of John Williams 
 is very present throughout the game and the vehicles sound as they should and so do the weapons.
 
  
  This game is good... but it could've been a whole lot better... and, in my opinion, will only appeals 
 to Star Wars fans.
  
  May the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  SW: Battlefront in a nutshell is a more hectic version of the gameplay pioneered by Battlefield:1942. 
 Players are divided into two teams and the goal of each team is to control various strategic points 
 on the map. There are two different sets of two factions each. One set of opposing teams is from 
 the original Star Wars trilogy, the other from the Prequel trilogy. Similar to BF1942 and other 
 games of this genre, each team has multiple classes with different weapons and abilities to choose. 
 I won't go into anymore detail on the game description as this is all covered in depth in the main 
 Gamespot review. 
  
  SW: B plays relatively straightforward. The level design for the most part is simplistic and the 
 maps don't allow for much variation or tactics. It's pretty much just a slugfest at the local control 
 point/choke point. This might turn off players used to the less deliberate and more open ended 
 level design found in the Battlefield series. However, it works pretty well when you accept it 
 for what it is. The infantry classes balance out nicely in relation to one another. I haven't seen 
 an instance where one class or weapon rules the battlefield with impunity. The larger vehicles 
 are a little overpowered in my opinion and do require quite a beating to be destroyed. On the flip 
 side, players in vehicles cannot capture control points, so teamwork is really needed to make the 
 larger vehicles strategically effective. 
  
  As far as the single player mode, it's not as bad as everyone makes it out to be. While the AI 
 controlled bots aren't at the genius level, they are miles ahead of the lackluster AI found in 
 the Battlefield series. They will throw health and ammo packs to you when appropriate and are good 
 at locating and fighting the enemy for the most part. They also do a good job at avoiding grenades 
 and can effectively use cover on occasion. There are problems to be sure, they seem to get caught 
 up in the fighting and don't attack control points in any coordinated fashion. Also they tend to 
 have a real problem with snipers. If you want to sit back and snipe while your AI teammates capture 
 the points, you can rack up ungodly kill levels without the enemy paying you much attention. Eventually 
 a bot will flank you or an enemy sniper will find you, but it takes awhile.
  
  Overall, while I'm not teribly fond of the level design, the game is a blast to play and offers 
 some real fast-paced action. I think if additional maps are released by either Lucasarts or the 
 player community, the game could find some staying power and evolve into something much more tactical 
 than just a slugfest. As it stands now, the staying power of the game might be negatively impacted 
 by the simplistic level design. 
  
  Graphics:
  It looks like Star Wars, that's for sure. The player and vehicle models all look relatively true 
 to their movie based counterparts. Animation is acceptable but nothing revolutionary (Some silly 
 rag-doll physics and ugly player barrel rolls being the only low points) . The laserblasts, explosions 
 and other various special effects all look fantastic. The game runs very well on my PC across a 
 variety of graphic settings and should be scalable to run acceptably on mid-range systems. (I'll 
 post my PC specs at the bottom) . While nothing in the game will blow you away graphically, like 
 say Far Cry or Doom3, this really is a good looking engine. 
  
  Sound: 
  Best use of 5.1 surround I've heard in a game. You'll hear exactly where everything is coming from 
 if you pay attention. All sound effects are spot-on and the use of John Williams' music from the 
 movies makes everything that much better. The only complaint is some of the voice messages in single 
 play can become repetitive, but that's not a knock on the sound quality so much as a side-effect 
 of the gameplay.
  
  Value: 
  High action, fast paced multiplay, passable single player combined with the Star Wars license and 
 BF:1942 gameplay seems like an unbeatable combo. However, the simple level designs make the game 
 more action slugfest than a tactical assault. There isn't anything wrong with that exactly, but 
 fans of the 1942 series may be a little disapointed. 
  
  Tilt: This is where I'll mention the in-game GUI and main menu browsing. Both are simply poor and 
 need a major rework. I won't go into the specifics, as they aren't so terrible as to ruin the overall 
 experience. Still, browsing for online servers is frustrating as the browser just doesn't seem 
 very accurate. The menus all have a tacky console feel about them, which is expected with the game 
 also being released for PS2 and Xbox. That's my only big beef with the game and it's why the Tilt 
 rating took such a hit.
  
  Summary: If you are a fan of Star Wars and 1942, this is it! It won't blow away the die-hard 1942 
 fans, but it offers an exciting experience all it's own. Hopefully the game will garner enough 
 fan support for some additional levels to be created that will make the game a little more tactical 
 and a little less hectic. 
  
  This game was played on: 
  AMD 2800+
  1 GB PC3200 DDR RAM
  ATI Radeon 9800Pro / 128MB
  SB Audigy 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game roxks its way better than I thought it would be, I worried that the reviews were going 
 to be bad and it wasnt the game I wanted but then after I bought it and installed it and played 
 it, It is much more of the game that I thought it would be. I only have a little complaints such 
 as: graphics could be better, and the spawn tickets are to low and some minor bugs here and there, 
 nothing that cant be fixed in a patch (other than the graphics) Its well done and I think Lucas 
 arts did a great job, and if you are a BF1942 or a fan of team based games you will love this game. 
 Its way better than that wana be galactic conquest mod for BF1942 or any mod cuz the game was bult 
 for the engine and it has alot of things that are impressive. Like the Tow cables on the snow-speeder 
 which you use to take down AT-AT's and such, If you ever played shadows of the empire the tow cable 
 process feels the same and its perfect. Dont slam this game its a must buy if you are a fan or 
 this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2004 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game had everything going for it before it was released. It had the Star Wars name and the 
 Battlefield engine but what doomed it is what dooms so many software projects (games or otherwise) 
 deadlines.
  
  It is very apparent that this game was scheduled to be released at the same time as the original 
 Trilogy on DVD, whether it was ready or not.
  
  Gameplay: I agree with other reviewers when they say it is action and nothing but action. But then 
 again that is what makes the game so darn boring after a while, no thinking involved and no strategy 
 required. The AI is horrible and that is being nice. I was standing behind a rock and one of my 
 guys came up behind me to hide he pushed me out from behind the rock! Others in my group just 
 stood around while in the middle of an intense fight. The AI is horrible yep I said it twice because 
 it is really just that pathetic.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very bland and lack much detail. It has an unfinished appearance, 
 which it probably is.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. It has all of the effects as done in the movies and sounds great even 
 on my small two speaker system.
  
  Value: I was in high school when Star Wars first premiered in 1977 and while I will admit Im not 
 the most die hard Star Wars fan I have followed it since it was first released and played every 
 game that has come out. This one is may not be the worse, but it is definitely the biggest disappointment.
 
  
  Tilt: If you havent bought it find a demo and play it first. Then wait and see if this thing gets 
 its final touches (which it would have had if it wasnt rushed to market for the DVD release) in 
 a patch or two.
  
  Bottom-line: This just goes to show that Sales needs to listen to the development and design team 
 a little more. Im sure there were some heated meetings wherein the latter group stated this isn't 
 ready and the former group said we dont care
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 23, 2004 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Sure its Star Wars, but the single player battles are chaotic with characters (allie and foe) running 
 everywhere. Never did I feel in control of a battle. Never did I feel like it was more than a team 
 deathmatch. I would have liked to do some planning at the least, but I was spawned in the middle 
 of a battle, fought for my life, and before I knew what the hell was going on, the screen signals 
 Victory or Defeat and the game is over; sometime lasting less than 15 minutes leaving me thinking, 
 that's it? What happened? I didn't even feel like I had done anything but try and stay alive.
 
  
  As far as locations (sure, its Star Wars) , but too many battles are in vast open areas again filled 
 with chaos. I did go on-line and the only difference was that the players were human not AI's, 
 but everything else I said still goes. Fortunately I was able to get the game for half-price after 
 trading in some old games. Had I paid full price, I would have been really pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDamnUsername
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review was reasonable accurate in its review. I understand that they have many games 
 to review and may miss things. For example; the reviewer's view of Bespin didn't take into accout 
 the fact that you can hop into a fighter and land behind the choke point capping their rear flags, 
 forcing a fight from two fronts.
  
  On to the game:
  
  Battlefront is very pretty on the PC and sounds wonderful. This is where having access to the Star 
 Wars archives really pays off. John Williams is a wonderful composer and can even make the sorry 
 prequels a joy to listen to. The graphics are top notch helped out in part to my 6800 GT.
  
  Infantry fighting on the PC version is really well done. The only real class that is viable 
 for assault is not suprisingly the regular storm trooper. The support classes are just that. Don't 
 expect to cap a flag with a pilot. The jetpack for the Dark Trooper is only good for one long jump 
 every 30 to 45 seconds. Contrary to the GS review, their "shotgun" is severely underpowered. This 
 class is better served capping lightly defended flags.
  
  Ground Vehicles are way too powerful. The effects when on the receiving end of heavy ammunition 
 are quite good, if not a little over-emphasized. There was a good attempt to balance the vehicles 
 by giving them a slow rate of fire.
  
  Air Vehicles are where this game takes a serious nose dive. The maps are way too small to be flying 
 around. You don't really control the vehicles much. Instead of taking off or landing manually you 
 simply press the space bar to engage an auto sequence. While I understand the need for this on 
 consoles, there is no excuse for this on a PC title. The fighters do not roll. A 45 degree turn 
 is about the most you can expect. Since there are no space battles you will be spending all of 
 your time strafing. The view of the surface is heavily obscured whether you are in first or third 
 person view. Compounded with the tiny maps the only real use for the air vehicles is to slip in 
 to an unguarded rear flag. When landing, make darn sure that when you engage the auto-landing sequence 
 that you are over a good spot. You will either end up resting on one pixel of a building or blowing 
 up mid-sky on Bespin. You also don't have control over the rate of descent when the landing sequence 
 is initiated so you are a juicy target for anyone with an Anti-Tank configuration. The final complaint 
 about air vehicles is that there is little handling difference between all of them. X-Wings and 
 Tie-Bombers seem to have the same maneuvering abiltiy. The only difference being their weapon loadouts.
 
  
  In summation, this title could have been much more than it is. Wonderful infantry battles are hampered 
 by overpowered ground vehicles. Air Vehicles are simply a mess, and the maps are way too small. 
 It is obvious that the PC version is even more blatantly a console port from the X-Box than DeusEx: 
 IW was. Those that haven't played BF:1942 will probably enjoy Battlefront. Those that have played 
 BF:1942 will find a lot wrong and a few things to love. Without the same level of mod support that 
 1942 has, I see this collecting dust in the closet within 3 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenShado
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 2:04 pm PT
Review:  So Star Wars: Battlefront was just released yesterday and a few weeks ago, in a fit of indulgence, 
 I actually pre-ordered it. I had seen and heard good things about it, so I decided to take a chance. 
 I was definitely glad I did. This has to be one of the best Star Wars games I have played yet.
 
  
  One of the first things that struck me about the game is the smooth graphics and gameplay. This 
 is an incredibly rich and intense graphical game, that almost seems to immerse you, as if you actually 
 are on Hoth or Endor or Yavin. Not to mention the audio quality is just as amazing. The singleplayer 
 part of the game allows you to play one of two campaigns, either the Clone Wars Campaign or the 
 Galactic Civil War Campaign. In these, you play through the actual wars and battles from the movies, 
 perhaps changing the outcome based on how you perform. The other singleplayer options are Galactic 
 Conquest, in which you go through the game trying to take over the galaxy, and Instant Action, 
 where you can instantly jump into battle. There is also a Multiplayer option that allows you to 
 connect and play with other people through the Gamespy network. The game also reminds me a lot 
 of Battlefield 1942, because it is a team-based shooter in which you have to capture command posts, 
 among other objectives.
  
  Once you decide which mode to play, there are many different options that you have for your character. 
 At the beginning of the game you can choose to play different classes, such as a Sniper, Pilot 
 or Dark Trooper. Your class determines what types of weapons you get and whether or not you can 
 fly or drive vehicles. Examples of these are Tauntauns, Snowbikes and landspeeders, as well as 
 X-Wings and TIE Fighters. This makes for an even more engaging game.
  
  For the most part the controls and smooth and easy to get used to. Unfortunately, every game has 
 its cons, as well as its pros. This one, fortunately, doesnt have many that I found. The biggest 
 one that I had a problem with is the fact that if you use a gamepad or joystick, you have to manually 
 map all the controls you want to use for the game. The flipside of that, however, is that once 
 you have mapped all the controls, the game is significantly easier to play, at least in my opinion, 
 whether it be with a joystick or gamepad. It seems, at least to me, that this game was really made 
 for a joystick, because it really gives you so much more control over both your character as well 
 as the various vehicles and creatures that you can ride or fly.
  
  All in all, I have incredibly enjoyed the game so far and look forward to playing it more, both 
 online and offline. I give this game a 9 overall. Graphics I give a 9. Gameplay and controls are 
 an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 1:44 pm PT
Review:  If you like Battlefield, you will like Battlefront, it's that simple. Battlefront, just like battlefield 
 is a open ended sort of game, with goals of capturing enemy command post. Sort of capture the flag 
 type of thing. Anyone that played battlefield, know this game, through and through. What this game 
 gives us, pure and simple, is the Star Wars universe, and it's well done. 
  The graphics are very well done, as good or better then Galaxies, and the worlds are large and 
 also well done. The only problem I have is in the campaign mode, you are force to play the side 
 the computer has decided for you, and then you may switch sides and play the Rebels or whoever. 
 I didn't see any odd glitches in the game, but the online system seems to be a little laggy. For 
 the most part, Battlefront gives us exactly what it said it would. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 23, 2004 8:57 am PT
Review:  The whole feel of this game just feels rushed. For starters there was no effort put into an intro, 
 just plain advertising screens. Menus were very plain and you could see they didn't take the time 
 on it.
  
  Gameplay is pretty bad, lots of latency and aircraft controls and vehicles are really awkward to 
 fly. You can get killed by stupid things like jumping off a bridge into water, which makes absolutely 
 no sense. General controls to move and shoot just feel clusmy, doesn't have the fuild movements 
 of say UT 2004. Aircraft have very limited celings and look bizaare cause they are flying to slow 
 so they get the appearance they are just floating around the battlefield. Biggest problem is some 
 of the maps are pitifully small, I noticied a severe lack of space to do things like hide and snipe. 
 
  
  Graphics look severely out of date, the HUD is really poor and weapons looked ugly. Jedi knight 
 2 looked better than this. Surrounding scenery did look good though.
  
  Sound is great, probably the only good point I can raise.
  
  There isn't much value in this 
 game, it's only selling cause it's starwars. If they hadn't tried to rush this to coincide with 
 the release of the dvd trilogy they could have spent far more time polishing. This just feels like 
 it's still stuck in beta.
  
  Yet again i'm disappointed in the star wars license being soiled like this, you have no feeling 
 of the large scale battles in the movies with these miniscule maps. Guess we can hope for a redemption 
 in kotor II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longshadow11
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 23, 2004 4:33 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 in the Star Wars universe! I coudn't wait. It turns out I could have. While being 
 at times impressive, the gameplay falls short of expectations. Vehicles control poorly, maps are 
 way too small for aircraft, and there are some balancing issues, particularly with vehicles being 
 near invincible. 
  
  Graphically Battlefront is very nice. The visuals combine with the environments to give the player 
 the feeling of being in the actual battles from the movies. I am surprised by how nice the third 
 person view is. Vehicles, aircraft, and Star Wars locales all look great.
  
  Ultimately, Battlefront falls short due to small, confined maps and poor control of the vehicles 
 and aircraft. BF:1942 does this type of game much better. However, I do like the game. I just don't 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 23, 2004 4:32 am PT
Review:  .. and it wouldn't even have made the shelves in any store near you. The fact of the matter is, 
 this game is tolerable, at best. There are a lot of other games out there in the same genre that 
 does the job so much better. The game just does not have much in it, as far as feeling 'polished' 
 goes.
  
  Something as simple as adding servers to a favourite list, for instance.. A function you would, 
 and can expect to find in most online shooters these days. Not present in SW: BF. The game only 
 supports up to 32 players, whereas a game like for instance Call of Duty has been out for a year 
 now, and supports up to 54 players.
  The graphics look unclean, and the movement of the avatars jerky and not smooth.
  
  If this 
 was the only FPS online shooter out there I'm sure I would have been enjoynig playing it. But there 
 is a lot of other games out there that does the job so much better. Which is a huge disapointment 
 for me, being a life long Star Wars fan. I wanted to like this game, but.. It's just not able to 
 stand on it's own two feet if it hasn't been for the SW name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 23, 2004 2:20 am PT
Review:  I've played many bad games in my time, but omg this is the suckiest game i've ever played. Not 
 directly compared to the others, but analogous. This game is, essentially bf 1942. Just add some 
 blur so u cant c anything and make the maps so small and linear you cant fly a ship without going 
 out of bounds and ... whala! Star Wars Battlefront. I mean, There are mods in alpha phase for bf 
 that differ more from bf than this game. It's only merit is its franchise, which is the only thing 
 that sells this game. Which puts this on par with all those games of tv shows like alias and dark 
 angel.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion777_99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 22, 2004 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical about the idea of a Star Wars game being fitted into the "Battlefield" type 
 genre at first, but after playing this game, I have since changed my song. 
  
  This is a very fun game with severely addictive game play, both online and off. I grew up on Star 
 Wars and this is the first time I "felt" like I was a Star Wars character fighting in a Star Wars 
 battle as part of a Rebel or Imperial cause.
  
  Being a big graphics junkie, I would have to say that the visuals were nicely done given the depth 
 of game play. You can correct me if I am wrong, but for the most part, developers will usually 
 sacrifice game play for graphics. Doom 3, which I enjoyed for its mindlessness, had zero depth 
 but superb visuals. There is a nice balance in SWBF.
  
  If you are looking for Battlefield, play Battlefield. You'll find some similarities (stealing bases 
 and killing each other) , but this is a completely different game. Personally, I don't like getting 
 a game and finding out it is the same as another game I played the crap out of. I want something 
 new, even if it is a bunch of old ideas put together to make something new. This is in the same 
 genre as Battlefield, but runs its own path - not another sheep in the flock. So many developers 
 will see a new idea that gamers love ($$$$) and try to copy it... LAME! Not here! The game play 
 is easy to pick up and extremely immersive.
  
  Vast arenas, true-to-movie characters and environments, smooth controls, and the most important 
 factor... FUN!
  
  If you are looking for a game to change your life, this is not it. You might try a peeling yourself 
 from your PC, getting out of the house, working out, or a girlfriend.
  
  It is just Star Wars in all its glory and splendor. Have fun with it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiben
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2004 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Note: this review is based on the PC version.
  
  First of all, the game installation can brings some problems on certain computers as we can read 
 on the official forum on the LucasArts website. For exemple, when I started the game for the first 
 time, everything crashed! A friend of mine told me to change the ''language and regions'' setting 
 of my Windows XP PRO SP2 to English Canadian ... it was on French Canadian. So I changed it to 
 English Canadian and the game started normally.
  
  I will start with the thing I hate the most about this game: The GUI (graphic user interface) The 
 user interface is very very cheap and ugly ... really. Seriously they should hire a better graphic 
 designer to do it better. And not only the GUI in the options and setup screen, ALL the GUI of 
 the game should be better. Even the in game on screen GUI, its not a big issue but it could be 
 better, much better. Also, I think the game need a little bit more work to be perfect... some stuff 
 seems to have been made in a hurry... maybe launching the game the same day as the DVD trilogy 
 was not a good idea .... :-P
  
  But thats not why we buy game, the GUI. We games to play, so lets talk about the GAME!
  
  (For 
 this review i'll talk about the online mode since I have'nt try the single mode yet)
  
  One word: ACTIONS! ACTIONS!
  Seriously, this is pure action, no downtime. Battlefront is the 
 right word, we are in battles and its full of action everywhere. The more people are on the server 
 the better the game experience is (if you like battled and real action) 
  
  The gameplay is great, eveything workd fine. Some moves are not describe well in the book. Try 
 this on your keyboard: sidewalk (right or left) + jump 
  
  You can switch 1st or 3rd person view. Both are cool.
  
  You will need about 30 minutes to 
 try all the characters and learn their moves and setup your keys.
  
  Graphics: Woooooooooow!! It looks very very nice! Its beautiful!
  
  Can be hard on certain 
 PC I think but not too much. This is my machine: Pentium IV 3.0ghz, 1gb DDR RAM, WinXP PRO SP2, 
 Audigy1 Platinum, Asus GeForce4 Ti4200 128Mb
  
  Iam playing in 1024x768 all the graphic setting to the top exept antialiasing and viewing distance. 
 But iam sure with a most recent graphic card i'll be ok to put all that stuff to the top.
  
  FINAL WORD:
  Its a very good game if you like online shooters, its beautiful, its full of 
 action, the maps are cool. The user interface suck but it do not affect the gameplay. If you're 
 a Star Wars fan you'll like it too. Its pure fun. I suggest playing with friends with headphones 
 & mic for a much better game experience. Finally, its pretty good, worth the money but iam not 
 sure that game's gonna have a long life like Battlefield 1942... maybe if some MODS come up because 
 for now it bring nothing new to the genre. We all wait for a PATCH to fix some stuff in the game 
 but its very playable now and very cool. Its GOOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samhael
Rating: 3.2
Date: Sep 22, 2004 3:31 am PT
Review:  Well, it sure seems like something is missing. I mean, the concept of Star Wars is about the only 
 appealing thing. Anything further than about 10 meters out is blurry (no matter what resolution) . 
 The vehicles either overwhelm the maps or are totally useless. You can't cap a point while in a 
 vehicle (so you have to leave your mighty AT-AT to cap -- and it might get stolen while you do 
 it) . The coolest (the ones with flight capability) units have scatterguns which are totally innacurate 
 so they're only good for scouting. 
  
  The Internet search engine doesn't allow any searching by fields, just sorting... which meant I 
 couldn't get on a friend's server by name until I could call him up and get his IP address and 
 then skip the search engine. Every time I go to the Internet search, I get prompted for a stupid 
 Gamespy profile -- hello! I said I didn't want one, STOP PROMPTING ME!
  
  I believe with a couple of timely patches, this game might be worthwhile, but I don't have the 
 faith in Lucasarts to provide them in a timely fashion... based on previous experience. I'm going 
 to take back my copy now. Maybe when the game is 19.99, it will be worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 22, 2004 3:17 am PT
Review:  I find it strange that this game can get a 7 for graphics, first off.... the graphics were the first 
 thing I noticed...... their wonderful...... granted, I'm running the game in 1280/1024 with 6x aa, 
 and everything maxed.... this game has much better graphics than a 7..... and that's no oppinion. 
 The weapons show all light reflections, shadows are insane, the GUI in game and in menu's are not 
 the most tasteful, think outcast and academy when comparing.
  
  It is true, there is nothing revolutionary here.... but still, this IS the best action star wars 
 game out.
  
  There is no reason to compare this title to battlefield... because it really isn't anything like 
 it.... besides capturing control points.... and having 5 classes to choose from... that's about it.
 
  
  I agree, if you simply took battlefield... and revamped the characters and environments with starwars..... I 
 think the game would have been insane..... I like the flying in the game...... even if it is joint 
 ops like...... but it would have been nice to really feel as if your flying like in bf.
  
  Again, the graphics are sick! better than outcast or academy... yet, gamespot gives this game a 
 7?
  
  Maybe it's because I'm a huge starwars fan.... but this game is definately not anything less than 
 an 8.
  
  Was I expecting more.... or better............. yes.
  
  But still, this game rocks..... and I will most likely play this game over joint operations for 
 now till the next action online game comes out.
  
  Which will probably be battlefield 2 or..... maybe, just maybe... tribes vengence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewierdone2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2004 2:23 am PT
Review:  Do this date, many a game have tried to live up to the hight that the original movies bestowd us 
 with oh so long ago. Being a Star Wars junkie, I have most games made about or pretaining to anything 
 Star Wars. This my friends is the game I've been waiting for.
  
  The Graphics are great, from the nice lighting effect from the blasters, to the firey explosions. 
 This is nothing revolutionary, but by god finally it actually looks like Star Wars. The armor of 
 all the classes matches acuretly (pilot armor=pilot armor color from movie) The explosions are 
 ritch, full and exaggerated; just like they are in the movies. The water is a nice blue, and created 
 a wake when walked in. Fire creates slight heat waves, and just minor details like this. 
  
  The sound is also great. Each blaster shot sounds right like it did in the movie. The hum of 
 engines from vehicals also reminds me of the movies. Sounds are on que, and the voice acting is 
 decent. There are nice echo effects from troop voices while you are in areas that would normally 
 make echo's. The game supports 5.1 (a must now in this gaming age) and pulls it off nicly.
  
  The Gameplay is what is key here. It feels exactly like Star Wars. The weapons are diverse 
 and unique pending on the class you choose. The vehical conrolls are also very nice. Some of the 
 controlls are not written in the manual, but are non the less intuitive and easy to figure out. 
 The game runs smooth with little disconects online. However the server browser sucks (but hey thats 
 what the all seeing eye is for) . Games take a few seconds to get into, and the load times are resonably 
 quick considering level size and detail.
  
  If you want the force, and lightsabers, this game is not quite in your ally. If you are someone 
 like me who has been waiting to see a starwars game that feels like star wars, this is it. This 
 is not a replacment for the battlefield series, but it sure steps up to the plate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjtaub2
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 21, 2004 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Star Wars fan since 1977 and couldn't wait to play this game. Now that I have played 
 it some, I am ready to go back to the Battlefield series. This game is ok, but nothing like the 
 Battlefield series. 
  
  The game loaded fine, but the initial setup interface drove me nuts! I had a very difficult time 
 setting up my joystick for flight (stupid interface kept mapping the slider to everything) . 
  
  The internet server selection menu is a lot like playing whack-a-mole. Rather than take a snapshot 
 like the Battlefield series, SWB constantly updates the server list. This makes choosing a server 
 very difficult. Why do you want to choose a server? Well, ping times have been horrible, I don't 
 like playing with heroes (various characters from the movies whom you cannot seem to kill, I like 
 to check to see how many reinforcements are left in the match because matches are really short 
 and I would rather play than wait for loading, also checked if team killing is enabled, etc.) . 
 When you finally select a server, the one you had highlighted has often moved up or down the list, 
 so you have to be careful or you might accidentally click launch on a server you did not intend 
 to select. There is no filtering of server attributes at all. Another thing driving me nuts is 
 that when I select a game with 31/32 people playing, it always comes back as server full and then 
 you have to wait while SWB reloads the server list all over again! If you play this game, make 
 sure at least 2 spots are open or you get caught in the endless loop of SWB loading the server 
 list, select a game, SWB tells you the server is full, repeat.
  
  Gameplay sorely lacks any real strategy that I can figure out. Everyone seems to just run out and 
 start shooting. A lot of people start flinging grenades also. The end result is just chaos and 
 much mayhem. Occassionally one team gets it going enough to overwhelm the others and take a control 
 point. Unlike the BF series, you don't get tickets. If an enemy captures all control points the 
 game ends. Most games I played finished in under 5 minutes vs. about 1-2 minute load times. Just 
 when I started to get into the game, the map would end. IMHO the games are just too short.
  
  The end of the game features a leaderboard and awards and then you are whisked away to a new 
 location and consequently have to wait (no 2nd chances like the BF series) . Frustratingly, many 
 of the servers I played simply seemed to go to never-never land, so I did not get to go to the 
 next map at all, but instead got returned to my favorite screen: the server selection screen.
 
  
  The graphics are bland, but the sound is awesome (maybe the high point of the game) .
  
  Character classes also seemed rather lame. I don't know what anyone would choose to snipe in 
 this game, because people run around and jump so much that sniping becomes a game or random chance.
 
  
  Yes you can drive vehicles, heck you can even pilot an x-wing. Piloting is pretty lame though. 
 I think you can get about 100ft off the ground before you hit the artifical ceiling and you are 
 bounced down. I doubt that you can execute any rolls or loops thanks to the invisible force ceiling 
 that yoda installed. The framerate while "dogfighting" (if it can be called that) was horrible 
 with ship warping from spot to spot while I tried to shoot them down (quite laughable) . Tanks and 
 such are overwhelmingly powerful and quite useful for mowing down a lot of enemies as well as your 
 own troops becase of the free-for-nature of the game.
  
  As you can see, I am not terribly impressed. I expected more from this game. It seems as though 
 this game was built for the PS2 and Xbox and not the PC.
  
  The game is not without its merits. It can be fun and since I bought it I probably will play it 
 some more. But as I said earlier, if you are looking for BF1942 or BFV, then you are better off 
 bypassing this game and waiting for BF2. If you still want to play this game, I would wait until 
 a demo level comes out so you can try it beforehand. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
