-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starsiege
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/starsiege/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Dynamix
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Starsiege brings new life to a genre otherwise devoid of it, even if it doesn't really succeed in 
 elevating robot sims out of their long-term rut. 

 While it may seem that giant robot sims comprise a prolific genre, the three facts remain that nobody 
 but Activision has made one in years, that no one but Activision ever did a very good job, and 
 that Activision only got it right with the original MechWarrior 2. As such, the nebulous mech genre 
 remains unrefined, and in recent years, underrepresented. If nothing else, then, Sierra's Starsiege 
 brings new life to a genre otherwise devoid of it, even if it doesn't really succeed in elevating 
 robot sims out of their long-term rut. It's a great looking game, and a lot of energy was put into 
 its story and setting, but that energy should have been redistributed in the interest of gameplay. 

 Sierra's always wanted you to notice the Earthsiege universe. Starsiege is the sixth game in the 
 universe, and it tries harder than ever to get you involved in the story. You get a book dedicated 
 exclusively to setting the scene, with a complete historical account of the future conflict. That's 
 in addition to the actual gameplay manual, which is also first-rate. The plot is fully realized 
 within the game, with cinematic cutscenes, mission briefing voice-overs, and in-engine scripted 
 sequences, all of which attempt to draw you into the game. The attempt succeeds, and were it not 
 for the story you'd have a harder time accepting some of Starsiege's problems that gradually become 
 evident.  

 Starsiege's 3D engine is fast and colorful, and the terrain looks authentic, with atmospheric hazing 
 that creates a believable sense of scale. You'll actually feel isolated in the immense landscapes 
 if you stop to look around, but despite the desolate Solar System settings, the detailed terrain 
 always looks beautiful. The stars shine at night, the sun beats down during the day, and foreboding 
 half-buried derelict machinery adds that extra incentive to get out of there alive. This rich scenery 
 will look familiar to Starsiege: Tribes players, who've long since realized the tactical advantages 
 that go hand-in-hand with being able to see an enemy as it appears as a speck on the horizon.  
 

 Terrain notwithstanding, the giant robots in Starsiege look rather plain. Most of the vehicle designs 
 are forgettable even if they are highly detailed, although a few of the larger machines look particularly 
 sinister. You can quickly identify the weapons on any given adversary, and all are especially well 
 animated, and pivot and recoil discernibly. However, the vehicles themselves don't manage to convey 
 the appropriate sense of scale because they move about just a little too quickly and end up looking 
 like they're made of plastic rather than heavy metal. The destruction of a target exacerbates the 
 sense that these are toys rather than war machines, as they merely split apart at the seams and 
 the pieces go twirling around. Fortunately, the fiery explosions themselves look good, as do the 
 various colorful weapon special effects.  

 Still, what really hinders suspension of disbelief in Starsiege is not so much the look of the game, 
 but rather its strangely subdued sound effects. Some of the largest machines in the game hardly 
 even make a sound as they walk about, and even when they go up in flames, the explosions are strangely 
 silent. Meanwhile, the CD audio soundtrack is an inconsistent mix of techno and bass-heavy industrial 
 tunes, some of which are inspiringly fast-paced, while others are embarrassingly bad. At least 
 the voice acting in the mission briefings and other story sequences is consistently good. But if 
 Starsiege had only sounded more visceral, that would have helped compensate for its gameplay.  
 

 It isn't the case that Starsiege plays badly; it's fast for a giant robot sim, and the campaign 
 missions are tough, concise, and mostly well designed. But the problem is that Starsiege seems 
 confused. The game abandons the typical torso-twisting mechanics of the genre for a control scheme 
 that demands comparison with first-person shooters. Forget your flight stick - the game practically 
 demands you aim using the mouse, with which you can pinpoint your weapons quickly on any area of 
 the screen. This becomes especially critical if you pilot a tank instead of a walker, as tanks 
 can swivel their weapons in a full radius. Yet no matter how precise you think you are, hit detection 
 in Starsiege feels suspiciously inconsistent, and you'll often miss your mark even though you swore 
 you had it in your sights. At other times you'll hit, or get hit, but won't notice. The Starsiege 
 machines don't ostensibly respond to damage and just continue to go about their business, while 
 your HUD doesn't clearly represent how much damage you've taken.  

 It isn't difficult to overlook Starsiege's many minor faults, in light of what it actually does 
 right: the game looks good, and its story is well integrated. Its vehicles are fully customizable, 
 and the game plays well without feeling either simplistic or obtuse. Multiplayer Starsiege, your 
 only other option besides the campaign, isn't to be overlooked either. The game includes complete 
 Internet multiplayer functionality straight out of the box, with plenty of deathmatch and capture-the-flag 
 maps, as well as the option to host custom servers with whatever restrictions you like. CTF Starsiege 
 is quite fun, and makes a lot of sense since the smaller, faster vehicles in the game are ideal 
 flag runners, but entirely incapable of fighting against larger opponents. Then again, the overall 
 slower pace will take a lot of getting used to for Tribes players, most of whom will probably prefer 
 that game's more dynamic feel. After all, the vehicles in Starsiege control about the same as Tribes' 
 foot soldiers, but they're slower and can't even jump.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ElectronFlux2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Starsiege is a mecha-style game which is based on previous games such as Earthsiege and Cyberstorm. 
 However, this game has been changed from its predecessors in almost every conceivable way, and 
 with (mostly) good results.
  
  The gameplay is difficult to describe. It is in the middle between a simulator and an FPS, with 
 the mouse controls and fast speed of an FPS, but the complexity of a mecha sim. You pilot any one 
 of around 20 hercs and 7 tanks, and each is balanced and has strengths and weakness. Each mech 
 can be customized with a wide variety of weapons and systems. For example, you can choose to put 
 heavy weapons on a light mech to be light and fast, except you won't have any room for shields. 
 Or you can choose to create a mech with big guns that is outmaneuvered easily. You can even create 
 your own skins for your Mechs. Many of the things in this game can be frustrating, but patience 
 rewards players who stick with it.
  
  The story was adapted from the earthsiege universe, where an evil computer called Prometheus builds 
 a breed of machines called the Cybrids to destroy humanity. This sounds uncreative, and in fact 
 it is. But the creators of this game have converted the story into something completely immersing, 
 with exceptional characters. The player can choose to play as the humans and defend humanity against 
 the Cybrids, or can choose to play as the Cybrids and make humans to extinct. Both sides are highly 
 interesting to play. I personally like the Cybrids.
  
  The sound itself is kind of pathetic and muffled, not like the in-your-face explosions of Earthsiege. 
 But the music is excellent, with a good mix of techno, grinding rock, and some electronic-ish music 
 that avoids formal classification entirely.
  
  The graphics aren't good by todays standards, but I like them. They are fairly simple, but quite 
 smooth and very colorful. This game runs on anything nowdays, considering that it is like 9 years 
 old. Mechs break apart into many, many pieces based on where you shoot them, and it is very satisfying 
 to plow through a disabled mech and watch it disintegrate below your feet. The building environments 
 are kind of plain, generally, unless you get a skilled third-party map maker.
  
  This game has a lot to offer. Between the wide variety of weapons and mechs to the completely immersing 
 story and memorable characters and the fast gameplay, this game should have been a classic. Unfortunately 
 it is difficult to learn and it was released at an unfortunate time, assuring it's place in the 
 bargain bin with its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  A player since Dynamix released their first Alpha Tech Release for this game, I still load up both 
 the ATR1 and Starsiege often.
  
  The game is very in depth, the campagin always fun to explore and replay again and again. The map 
 editior is probably the easiest one to use to date, and really helps you make amazing, great looking 
 maps.
  
  Multiplayer nowadays is full of seasoned veterns, most still beloning to clans from the 'climax' 
 of the SS era. So newbies are hard pressed to learn the game quickly, or end up as slag.
  
  The variety of vehicles to drive and customize is huge, and while it's easy to mount heavy weapons 
 and get huge stopping power into your HERC, it's the balance between power, deffense, speed, and 
 weight that is tricky. Steath is more important in this game than any other as well, but alas seasoned 
 players can usually spot a cloaked, passive, light scout at more than 1000m. 
  
  The gameplay is just as exciting today, and always adicting! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
