-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starsky & Hutch
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/starskyhutch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gotham Games
Developer: Empire Interactive
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Sep 10, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What Starsky & Hutch does best is pay homage to the wonderful clichs of 1970s cop shows. 

  With television in the 1970s rife with cop shows of varying quality, you needed some sort of 
 hook in order to stand out.  Starsky &amp; Hutch  had one of the best -- a 1974 Ford Gran Torino 
 with a memorable red and white paint job. Though the show didn't rely as heavily on its trademark 
 car as, say,  The Dukes of Hazzard , it was still a fundamental part of the show. Now Gotham Games 
 has released a driving-and-shooting game that evokes the general style of the show. The gameplay 
 isn't terribly deep, and the story mode isn't very long, but the game is still mildly enjoyable. 
 What Starsky &amp; Hutch does best is pay homage to the wonderful clichs of 1970s cop shows. 

          The gameplay isn't terribly deep, and the story mode isn't very long, but the game is still 
 mildly enjoyable.     

  Starsky &amp; Hutch plays like a long-form version of the many chase scenes that populated the 
 TV show. You tear around Bay City, chasing down bad guys and occasionally escorting witnesses, 
 usually while driving Starsky's signature 1974 Ford Gran Torino, the "Striped Tomato." The fundamental 
 mechanics here are driving and shooting. As you give chase, a reticle automatically locks on to 
 the closest targetable object within your line of sight, allowing you to focus most of your attention 
 on the driving. The auto-targeting is pretty intuitive and dynamic. There are times -- specifically 
 during defensive missions where you're severely punished for shooting up the car you're supposed 
 to be defending -- that the automation can prove frustrating. The driving mechanics are pretty forgiving, 
 and the car has the kind of weight you'd expect from a mid-'70s muscle car. It's generally pretty 
 fun to drive too. There are some weird physics issues that pop up from time to time, though. Sometimes 
 you can catch an edge that changes your direction dramatically, or you're just brought to a complete 
 stop. Occasionally, destructible objects don't give way right when they should. The real problem 
 with the core gameplay mechanics is that there's not enough variety. Chasing a car while constantly 
 hammering on the fire button can become tiresome after a while.  

  Starsky &amp; Hutch offsets the repetitive nature of the gameplay, slightly, by rewarding you for 
 driving in a dangerous, entertaining fashion -- though it will punish you for out-and-out recklessness. 
 Every mission puts you on a kind of a clock, though it actually reflects your "viewer rating," 
 which is one of the game's many self-aware nods to its television roots. Though it's constantly 
 dropping, the VR can be replenished in a variety of ways. Shooting at the criminals you're chasing 
 nets you a small amount of VR, as does having a near-miss with a civilian vehicle -- though skidding 
 around corners, getting up on two wheels, pulling off a jump, or blowing up some explosive red 
 barrels give it to you in bigger chunks. You also see big VR icons in the sky and on the road. 
 These can be shot at or simply driven over. Your VR drops significantly if you run into a civilian 
 vehicle or building. Simply driving too close to a pedestrian also significantly lowers your VR. 
 Curiously, your car can take an infinite amount of damage. The only two ways to fail a mission 
 are letting your VR run out entirely or failing a primary mission objective, like protecting another 
 vehicle.  

          The real problem with the core gameplay mechanics in Starsky &amp; Hutch is that there's 
 not enough variety.     

  Aside from the VR icons, there are a variety of other power-ups to drive over and shoot at in Bay 
 City. Most of these affect your performance for a short time, giving you better tire grip, a faster 
 top speed, or a bigger gun. There is also an icon that causes the criminals' guns to jam, and there 
 are special event icons that usually cause big explosions or spectacular crashes. You can also 
 find special Huggy Bear and car key icons in hidden locations. These finds can unlock some novel, 
 if superfluous, extras.     

  Though there's no competitive multiplayer in Starsky &amp; Hutch, two players can go through the 
 game cooperatively, with one player driving and the other shooting. There's support for a steering 
 wheel, and in the PS2 and Xbox versions, there's light gun support as well, further augmenting 
 the arcade feel of the game. This option is less enjoyable on the Xbox because you're forced to 
 use the shoddy Mad Catz Blaster -- the only Xbox light gun currently on the market. Either way, though, 
 the co-op play in Starsky &amp; Hutch feels tacked on, and, ultimately, isn't as fully conceived 
 or enjoyable as the single-player game.  

          The general look of the game is just shy of realistic.     

  Starsky &amp; Hutch is 
 powered by Criterion's venerable Renderware engine, and it makes pretty good use of the technology. 
 Bay City is a good-sized, clockwork city with a level of detail that falls a bit short of what 
 we've seen in the Grand Theft Auto games -- though there isn't nearly as much interactivity in Bay 
 City as in Liberty City or Vice City. The inhabiting pedestrians and automobiles aren't nearly 
 as dynamic either. The general look of the game is just shy of realistic, instead looking more 
 like a series of Hollywood backlot sets that have been stitched together. When you consider the 
 game's TV roots, this seems fitting, however. There are some other visual touches that further 
 evoke the cop-show feel, like the dramatic slow-motion angle the game cuts to during a big jump 
 or the way the camera swings extra wide around corners, giving you a sense of increased momentum. 
 The cutscenes between missions are rendered in a fashion that looks an awful bit like simple Flash 
 animation. It has its own sense of style, though some might find the limited amount of actual animation 
 to be cheap-looking. The Xbox and PlayStation 2 versions of Starsky &amp; Hutch both exhibit some 
 occasionally choppy frame rates, though nothing show-stoppingly bad. The PC version performed without 
 a hitch on a high-end machine, even with all of the graphics options completely maxed out.  

  The sound design in Starsky &amp; Hutch is really the factor that brings the whole package together. 
 Antonio Fargas reprises his role as Huggy Bear and acts as the game's narrator, who pops up from 
 time to time within the game. Fargas is the only actor from the TV series to appear in the game, 
 though the actors used for Starsky, Hutch, and the captain all turn in fair approximations of the 
 original actors. The dialogue they're given is pretty standard cop-show material; it's sometimes 
 a little clever, sometimes a little cheesy. The music, which consists of several themes borrowed 
 from the  Starsky &amp; Hutch  TV show, as well as some original compositions, is an amazing collection 
 of 1970s-style funk. Full of wah-wah guitars, funky walking basslines, and vintage synthesizer 
 sounds, the music in Starsky &amp; Hutch does a particularly good job of immersing you into the 
 game. Some of the in-game sound effects are pretty good, like the tire screeches and the engine 
 sounds. Unfortunately, the gun effects, which are probably the sounds you hear most in the game, 
 sound tinny and hollow and don't carry much impact.  

          The music in Starsky &amp; Hutch does a particularly good job of immersing you into the 
 game.     

  The strangest thing about Starsky &amp; Hutch is that it's based on a TV show that's older than 
 a good majority of the game's potential audience. Though specific nostalgia for Starsky, Hutch, 
 the Striped Tomato, and Huggy Bear may be lost on most of the game's players, the game does a pretty 
 capable job of capturing a bit of the vibe from that era. The game's main story mode isn't longer 
 than a weekend rental (for console gamers, anyway) , and there isn't much to go back to once you 
 wrap that up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  The fundamental mechanics of Starsky & Hutch are driving and shooting. Because of that, the game 
 focuses on car chases, and car chases are one of my favourite scenes. 
  The Story Mode, or the career, has 3 seasons, each season has 6 episodes and each season has it's 
 own story. A episode can be like chasing a single car, chasing 2 cars, escorting a car, etc. A 
 problem with this, is that it hasn't got enough varaiety and the story isn't quite very deep.
 
  There is a Free Roam Mode where you have to collect some police badges and then you can mess arround 
 in this big city called Bay City.
  By collecting Huggy Cards, you can unlock videos, music, TV snaps in the Locker.
  Also there 
 is a mode called TV Special where you can do races, stunts and shooting.
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Fun: 10
  Multyplayer: -
  Starsky & Hutch: If you like the show and 
 the movie you will find the game very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HandheldJunkie
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics badd, sound badd, gameplay badd, but it has a sort of appeal i can't puut my finger on! 
 Just buy it because it is simply the best! The inhabiting pedestrians and automobiles aren't nearly 
 as dynamic either. There are some other visual touches that further evoke the cop-show feel, like 
 the dramatic slow-motion angle the game cuts to during a big jump or the way the camera swings 
 extra wide around corners, giving you a sense of increased momentum. The cutscenes between missions 
 are rendered in a fashion that looks an awful bit like simple Flash animation. It has its own sense 
 of style, though some might find the limited amount of actual animation to be cheap-looking. *Just 
 had to fill in some space* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game could have been sooo much better, like, online, with you friend shotgun! But as it is, 
 its still a blast coop with your buddy, till it locks up... We kind of gave up on it for this reason. 
 If it wasn't for the lockups, I would have rated it higher.
  
  Single player sucks. Don't bother.
  
  As for the graphics, they aint' bad. Sound is good too. 
 I drive with a wheel, and my friend shoots with the mouse. It's a little abstract as far as the 
 amount of damage required to take out another vehicle. But hey! It's supposed to be a cheesy TV 
 show your making! We like to drink when we play, till we can't drive, or shoot anymore! Makes for 
 a good time. 
  
  Great party game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  The fundamental mechanics here are driving and shooting. As you give chase, a reticle automatically 
 locks on to the closest targetable object within your line of sight, allowing you to focus most 
 of your attention on the driving. The auto-targeting is pretty intuitive and dynamic. There are 
 times -- specifically during defensive missions where you're severely punished for shooting up the 
 car you're supposed to be defending -- that the automation can prove frustrating. The driving mechanics 
 are pretty forgiving, and the car has the kind of weight you'd expect from a mid-'70s muscle car. 
 It's generally pretty fun to drive too. There are some weird physics issues that pop up from time 
 to time, though. Sometimes you can catch an edge that changes your direction dramatically, or you're 
 just brought to a complete stop. Occasionally, destructible objects don't give way right when they 
 should. The real problem with the core gameplay mechanics is that there's not enough variety. Chasing 
 a car while constantly hammering on the fire button can become tiresome after a while.
  
  Starsky & Hutch offsets the repetitive nature of the gameplay, slightly, by rewarding you for driving 
 in a dangerous, entertaining fashion -- though it will punish you for out-and-out recklessness. Every 
 mission puts you on a kind of a clock, though it actually reflects your "viewer rating," which 
 is one of the game's many self-aware nods to its television roots. Though it's constantly dropping, 
 the VR can be replenished in a variety of ways. Shooting at the criminals you're chasing nets you 
 a small amount of VR, as does having a near-miss with a civilian vehicle -- though skidding around 
 corners, getting up on two wheels, pulling off a jump, or blowing up some explosive red barrels 
 give it to you in bigger chunks. You also see big VR icons in the sky and on the road. These can 
 be shot at or simply driven over. Your VR drops significantly if you run into a civilian vehicle 
 or building. Simply driving too close to a pedestrian also significantly lowers your VR. Curiously, 
 your car can take an infinite amount of damage. The only two ways to fail a mission are letting 
 your VR run out entirely or failing a primary mission objective, like protecting another vehicle.
 
  
  Aside from the VR icons, there are a variety of other power-ups to drive over and shoot at in Bay 
 City. Most of these affect your performance for a short time, giving you better tire grip, a faster 
 top speed, or a bigger gun. There is also an icon that causes the criminals' guns to jam, and there 
 are special event icons that usually cause big explosions or spectacular crashes. You can also 
 find special Huggy Bear and car key icons in hidden locations. These finds can unlock some novel, 
 if superfluous, extras.
  
  The inhabiting pedestrians and automobiles aren't nearly as dynamic either. There are some other 
 visual touches that further evoke the cop-show feel, like the dramatic slow-motion angle the game 
 cuts to during a big jump or the way the camera swings extra wide around corners, giving you a 
 sense of increased momentum. The cutscenes between missions are rendered in a fashion that looks 
 an awful bit like simple Flash animation. It has its own sense of style, though some might find 
 the limited amount of actual animation to be cheap-looking. 
  
  The sound design in Starsky & Hutch is really the factor that brings the whole package together. 
 Antonio Fargas reprises his role as Huggy Bear and acts as the game's narrator, who pops up from 
 time to time within the game. Fargas is the only actor from the TV series to appear in the game, 
 though the actors used for Starsky, Hutch, and the captain all turn in fair approximations of the 
 original actors. The dialogue they're given is pretty standard cop-show material; it's sometimes 
 a little clever, sometimes a little cheesy. The music, which consists of several themes borrowed 
 from the Starsky & Hutch TV show, as well as some original compositions, is an amazing collection 
 of 1970s-style funk. Full of wah-wah guitars, funky walking basslines, and vintage synthesizer 
 sounds, the music in Starsky & Hutch does a particularly good job of immersing you into the game. 
 Some of the in-game sound effects are pretty good, like the tire screeches and the engine sounds. 
 Unfortunately, the gun effects, which are probably the sounds you hear most in the game, sound 
 tinny and hollow and don't carry much impact. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
