-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jediknightmysteriesots/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 17, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 764 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jan 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As an expansion pack for a now-classic first-person action game, Sith is very good - but it isn't 
 great. 

 Like many first-person action fans, I regard Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II as one of the best single-player 
 titles the genre has ever seen. Unlike most action fans, I also happen to like Outlaws a whole 
 bunch. So when I heard that members of the Outlaws design team were working on a Jedi Knight expansion 
 pack called Mysteries of the Sith, I was elated. With new levels, new enemies, better multiplayer 
 support, and even a few new 3D engine tweaks, Sith is a solid effort. Unfortunately, it is also 
 a bit disappointing in some areas and proves just how difficult it is to improve upon a classic. 

 Sith is set five years after the events of Jedi Knight. Kyle Katarn is now a goatee-wearing Jedi 
 Master and has taken on a new apprentice - Mara Jade. Die-hard Star Wars fans will recognize Mara 
 as the hard-nosed assassin-turned-smuggler from Timothy Zahn's Thrawn trilogy. I should note that 
 the woman they chose to provide the voice of Mara was an excellent choice. In Sith, you'll play 
 through the first four missions as Katarn, then finish the game's final ten missions as Mara.  
 

 As the game begins, both Katarn and Mara are on a Rebel base that is - surprise, surprise - under 
 heavy attack and preparing for an evacuation. In order to clear the way for the fleeing Rebels, 
 Katarn must destroy a pair of laser-equipped asteroids (yes, asteroids) orbiting the planet. These 
 first four levels are fairly well done and are among the game's most challenging.  

 After disposing of the killer rocks, Katarn announces that he is off to find a long lost temple 
 of the ancient Sith - the dark order of Jedi to which Darth Vader belonged. How and where Katarn 
 discovered the secret files describing the location of this temple is never made clear - just one 
 of many sharp and unexplained turns in Sith's story.  

 So, now you get to play as Jade. Through your first seven missions, you will fight your way past 
 wave upon wave of smugglers and pirates, with a few Stormtroopers thrown in for good measure. Starting 
 off by infiltrating a Hutt's palace, you'll proceed to a spaceport, a shipyard, a New Republic 
 corvette, and a pirate's stronghold. The level design throughout this portion of the game is rather 
 plain, with lots of large single-texture walls and big empty rooms. Some of the wall textures are 
 even quite poor (particularly the brick walls in the courtyards of Ka'Pa the Hutt's palace) .  

 
 The enemies are at least familiar, with a few new evil faces. You'll see Gamorrean Guards, Tusken 
 Raiders, and grenade-toting Grans, as well as Ithorians (otherwise known as "Hammerheads") and 
 Noghri assassins. There are also two kinds of pirates to face: one who looks like Duke Nukem's 
 wimpy little brother and another who looks like a scrawny, bug-eyed extra from Grease. One of the 
 bright spots here is a lightsaber-only fight against the massive Rancor (though this scene does 
 seem a bit derivative of the dragon fight in the original Dark Forces) .  

 This brings us to the game's final three levels - and the best gameplay Sith has to offer. After 
 fighting her way through a pair of completely unrelated adventures, Mara finally remembers that 
 her pal Katarn is off investigating some mysterious old temple. Going off in pursuit, she discovers 
 a planet where the Force is her only weapon. This is one of the game's true mysteries: Up until 
 this point, you have to rely on the Force maybe three or four times total. Now, it's all you've 
 got. And by the way, you're about to meet the game's coolest and most challenging enemies. You'll 
 face more Noghri (who are a hell of a lot tougher to kill without a gun) , Sith Jedi statues, undead 
 warriors (who die extremely cool deaths - like something you'd expect from a Raven game) , and a 
 bunch of big, fast-moving Mara-eating cats called Vornskrs. But before you even make it that far, 
 you have to fight past a strangely familiar Jedi - who is far tougher to kill than even Jerec was 
 in the original game.   

 My question for the designers is this: Why wait this long to make the game so good? And even though 
 the final three missions are quite impressive, why are they so much harder than the rest of the 
 game? It's not that the end of the game is too difficult, just that the change in difficulty seems 
 too steep and the complete reliance on Force powers comes out of nowhere. The designers should 
 have done more to gradually build up to this portion of the game, both in terms of plot points 
 and gameplay elements.  

 Still, the final showdown, which I won't spoil here, is a good one. In fact, it's one of the more 
 memorable final battles I've ever played through. Action fans may get annoyed and feel cheated 
 by the ending, but I think that hard-core Star Wars fans will appreciate it.  

 Throughout the game, you'll notice a number of new features and enhancements. For starters, the 
 cheesy FMV sequences are gone. All of the in-between mission cinematics were rendered using the 
 game's 3D engine. They're not spectacular, but they're fairly well done and are a lot better than 
 Jedi's FMV. Also, Sith adds hardware support for colored lighting. Although not nearly as impressive 
 as the lighting effects in Quake II, Sith's added color helps to create a more immersive and sinister 
 atmosphere all around.   

 Borrowing a popular and useful feature from Outlaws, Sith also includes a rifle scope, which works 
 with the Stormtrooper rifle to provide pinpoint accuracy for long-range shots. Other new weapons 
 include a seeker rail detonator (sort of like a homing rocket) and the carbonite gun. Though long 
 awaited by deathmatch fans, I am sorry to report that the carbonite gun is disappointing at best. 
 Not only is the range incredibly limited, but the weapon effects and the resulting graphic for 
 frozen foes are really quite bad.  

 As far as new force powers go, Sith doesn't disappoint. Chain lighting, saber throw, and force projection 
 are all handy powers to have in your arsenal. Also, the powers are no longer split between light 
 and dark side, so you can pair up force grip with healing if you like.  

 Finally, the game features a number of multiplayer enhancements. To begin with, there are 19 new 
 multiplayer levels, including four lightsaber-only maps. Several key locations from the films are 
 represented here, including the Emperor's throne room, the carbon-freezing chamber, and Luke's 
 home on Tatooine. Sith also incorporates a Star Wars version of Outlaws' hilarious Kill the Fool 
 With the Chicken game - in this version you must carry around a Force-dampening Ysalamiri (if you've 
 never tried it, you should) . Also borrowing a bit from Outlaws is the new personality feature, 
 which allows you to select different types of characters, each with different advantages and disadvantages, 
 to use in deathmatch. Some of the personalities include Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader (still no 
 Chewbacca though - how come?) .  

 In the end, Mysteries of the Sith offers a tremendous number of technical improvements over Jedi 
 Knight. The only significant problems with Sith are the disappointing level design and gameplay 
 through the middle portion of the single-player game. As an expansion pack for a now-classic first-person 
 action game, Sith is very good - but it isn't great.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  For an expansion pack, Mysteries Of The Sith almost seems like a full new game, largely due to 
 the number of enhancements over the original Jedi Knight, and the fact that it has its own storyline 
 and 14 completely new levels to explore. You get to play Kyle Katarn again for a few levels until 
 you have to switch to Mara Jade, a character from the extended Star Wars universe.
  
  As with Jedi Knight, the level design is very good, the environments diverse, and the mix of run 
 and gun action, melee lightsaber combat and Force powers remain intact. There are a couple of neat 
 additions, such as turning the Stormtrooper E11-blaster rifle into a sniper rifle, and the ability 
 to don a disguise later in the game. There are also a few new aliens and space ships to add extra 
 colour to the levels.
  
  The Rancor finally makes an appearance (it was missing from the original Jedi Knight) and is suitably 
 challenging.
  
  Due to this being an expansion pack, there are no FMV cut scenes, and while the in-engine cut scenes 
 are well choreographed, they cannot convey the same kind of epic feel to the story.
  
  Keeping in mind that this was an expansion pack and not a full retail release, it actually offers 
 more gameplay and variety than many full retail games released today. The environmental puzzles 
 are well done, and there are still secret areas to be uncovered. This game also includes improved 
 Multiplayer action.
  
  As with Jedi Knight, the graphics are dated now, but there is still great gameplay and an interesting 
 story to be found here.
  
  *Design - 8 out of 10
  Sound/Music - 9 out of 10
  Gameplay - 9 out of 10
  Replayability - 8 out of 10
  Value - 10 out of 10
  
  *Design includes 
 level design, environments and puzzles, not just graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MezaMezaMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  In Mysteries of The Sith, you play as a background character from the Universe of Goerge Lucas'es 
 imagination. The character- names Kyle I think, is on the planet Altyr, and has some secret...... 
 ALRIGHT FINE, I HAVE NO CLUE WHAT THEIR NAMES ARE! In all truthe, the only thing i remember was 
 the rich experiance i had while playing it. If your too big of a fanboy to forgive me being clueless 
 about the details, then dont read on. ... Thanks for reading on. First i should start off by describing 
 the gameplay. It is a FPS, meaning you see everything in your characters perspective, making it 
 hard yet suspensful to know who might be behind you. One of the big putdowns of this game though 
 was that its in an inverted axis, so aiming up goes down, while down goes up. If your not fond 
 of this, then you may not even want to give it a chance to see if you can change that setting. 
 Another interesting fact is that this is the first Star Wars game i played that was a FPS, and 
 also let you use a lightsaber. It is definately an important weapon, seeing as how it never runs 
 out of juice, and will be needed to cut open grates in the mazes of ventilation shafts. Its also 
 great for slashing Storm troopers, who are amazingly smart compared to their Movie counter-parts. 
 As for Graphics, I'd say this is one of those games that may seem bad now, but was probably like 
 Oblivion for the people who first played this. I loved how the framerate never dropped, and the 
 character animations were phenominal. Sure, every Rebel is identical, wearing the same pair of 
 Khackies, rain boots, a blue shirt covered by a black vest, and of course their groovy helmets. 
 Interestingly, their were probably sever differant types of storm troopers though, which i know 
 was on purpose. George Lucas always makes sure that a game with storm troopers has at least 3 differant 
 ranked soldiers. If your not into these old school graphics- which you'd be terrible for thinking- 
 then dont buy it. You know why? Because, their are plenty of people who'd wanna buy that last copy 
 due to their appreciation for the design team who made it. As for the game sound, it's as good 
 as it can get. It automatically gets a 10 for sound, because all of the sound effects, voice dialog, 
 and musical themes in it are identical to the ones used in Battlefront 2. I'm not saying that its 
 getting annoying. I am saying that the star wars universe doesnt have much originality in itself. 
 !kudo's to the greatly done voice-acting of R4-D4, R2-D2's red cousin! I love his beeping noises! 
 As for value, its fine. Its a long game, though almost half of it takes place in that same space 
 station you start off in at the very beggining. Not much differance between each place, though 
 im not sayin that thats bad. Really, I love it! I see nothing wrong if this game doesnt happen 
 to have Hoth or Keshyyyk. Of course, this may upset alot of fans. As for tilt, it seemed great. 
 Im not going to pretend that i was on the edge of my seat all the time. I do have to admit that 
 alot of creativity was put in by Lucas Arts, who even to this day have been working hard on games 
 like the Upcoming 'Force Unleashed' (TBA 2008) . If your looking for a good star wars game, but 
 only want to throw down 20 or less dollers for something that wont slow down your Hard drive, then 
 pleeease buy this game. I really recomend it, seeing as how it reminds me of the good old days 
 playing Halo 1. (yes i know, this came out about 3 years before halo 1) Really, buy it! Or dont, 
 it doesnt really matter that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to have mixed feelings about this expansion pack. In most ways, it doesn't really 
 fit in with the other games up to this point. It almost feels like some weird parallel universe. 
 The characters just don't seem to be in the right places . You start off and Kyle just isn't very 
 Kyle like. I guess this happens in a shared universe. It's like they just replaced your favorite 
 author. Unfortunately, I think this started the series going downhill plot and feel wise.
  
  Other than that, the game didn't feel as immersive. For most of the game, the environments 
 felt too unknown. It didn't feel like I was really in the Star Wars universe. But it DID feel like 
 I was in a fun exotic place and some of the places it does take you are interesting, especially 
 from an expanded universe perspective.
  
  Gameplay is where this game really shines. The obstacles and such were much more interesting. The 
 game was harder and more fun to play. The Jedi powers felt more useful and more fluid.
  
  It all really comes together by the end, when you're trying to deal with the Ysalimiri that negate 
 the force. It was such an interesting jungle to get through. It was far more challenging (and fun) 
 than most of the stuff in the previous games. It just didn't feel as immersive.
  
  All in all though, I don't think people really appreciate the gameplay challenges this represented. 
 They really fine tuned things play wise, and a lot of people (at least folks that I've talked to) 
 just didn't get it. I personally have mixed feelings, but it was still a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Mysteries of the Sith is an expansion pack that definitely improves on the original game. It takes 
 care of some glitches, it improves the graphics a bit, it increases the sound quality. What it 
 doesn't do is put together strong level designs. And it also contains some of its own glitches.
 
  
  This game still contains all of the lightsaber action and blaster rifle fun. You still get to play 
 as Kyle Katarn. And you are still fighting the Rebels' fight against the evils of the Sith. It 
 is very enjoyable but it also has its flaws. Bear with the minor issues and you will enjoy the 
 Jedi Knight expansion too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is strange, yet freaking awesome, if your a fan of Mara Jade in this game, then you'll 
 love it if your a fan of Mara Jade period, you'll love it.
  
  This game is overall darker than its earlier one, yet, it is not without flaws... its choppier, 
 buggier than JKI, yet its still fun to play. and the storyline in this game makesi t confusing, 
 for those who dont know this but, MotS is a expansion back to the CLASSIC Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 
 II, yes it takes place after, but its still not considered all in all sequal, its a expansion pack. 
 
  
  Judging by the graphics back then instead of today's standards, I give this game a perfect ten 
 out of ten, its buggier, choppier, but those can be demissed.
  
  This game is still a classic along with its Original, Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirdy
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  After playing through the much loved Jedi Knight, Weirdy could hardly wait to try out the add-on 
 Mysteries of the Sith. Before I got my hands on it, I had heard a few discouraging reviews, and 
 I was almost afraid to get it, for fear that this add-on would soil my opinions of Jedi Knight. 
 Well, don't listen to those reviewers. I followed the ways of the reviewers that critisized the 
 game. I had a choice. To love it - or hate it, even if I have not played it yet. On March 23, 2000, 
 I recieved a late birthday gift. And, so, guess what I got? Yes, you only get $0.00 for guessing 
 it correctly. I had Mysteries of the Sith. I played it and throughly enjoyed it. So, don't listen 
 to those reviews. Listen to OUR reviews.
  
  Nothing new in the graphics department. Using the same engine and even most of the same textures 
 from Dark Forces II, Mysteries of the Sith offers nothing new. In fact, its missing one thing: 
 movie cinema scenes. Instead we get real time cut-scenes. But, who gives the damn? All of the in-between 
 mission cinematics were rendered using the game's 3D engine. They're not spectacular, but they're 
 fairly well done and are a lot better than Jedi's FMV. Also, Sith adds hardware support for colored 
 lighting. Although not nearly as impressive as the lighting effects in Quake II, Sith's added color 
 helps to create a more immersive and sinister atmosphere all around. 
  
  Now, on to the Gameplay status. The gameplay is decent. As I mentioned before, this is an old game, 
 so some of the enviroments can be pretty rigid, and you're game will freeze up for a second or 
 2 every once in a while, but not often. The controls are pretty simple, though it can take a while 
 for a newbie to master deflecting laser blasts back with your lightsaber, you'll get the hang of 
 it eventually. Oh, no! I almost forgot. In Dark Forces II, it was pretty impossible to block. In 
 Mysteries of the Sith, blocking faclilties have improved by miles and blocking is a bit easier, 
 but not as easy as blocking in the games like Star Wars: Obi-Wan or Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi 
 Outcast. In Outcast, you could deflect blaster bolts in a flash. 
  
  WARNING! MYSTERIES OF THE SITH SPOILERS AHEAD
  If you don't want me to unravel the story plot 
 to you, and you read ahead, you, this is your chance to run away to the next part of this review. 
 This game is basically the Sequel to Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. It takes place after the Empire 
 has fallen, but the Remnant is still linger. In the very beginning, you take control of Kyle Katarn, 
 trying to stop an invasion by the Remnant on the Rebel Base you're stationed at. After a few levels 
 with Katarn, you eventually take over as Mara Jade. Yes, THE Mara Jade, once the 'Emperor's Hand.'' 
 Mara had been seeking guidance after the death of Emperor Palpatine, her former master, and found 
 that guidance within the self-trained Jedi Knight, Kyle Katarn. Mara trains with Kyle for a while, 
 sharpening her Jedi and lightsaber skills. The point of the game later on, is to infiltrate an 
 ancient Sith Temple, and save Kyle from the Dark Side of the Force. But, going through the story, 
 make sure you have a walkthrough at handy. Trust me. Whether playing on Easy, Moderate or Difficult 
 mode, you will need a walkthrough. 
  END SPOILERS
  
  Of course, it's Star Wars. The game is filled with the classic sounds of the original movies. And 
 they're written by John Williams himself, the mastermind that was a key factor in brining the Star 
 Wars universe alive to all of us so many years ago. As for the blaster effects and voices... well 
 let us just say that they could be better. The game's sound is very good. All the sounds sound 
 very similar to the movie sounds, which is great. And the music can be really good. Yes, it is 
 mostly just remixes of the movie music, but it is presented very, very well. I especially like 
 the music in the last level, perhaps because of how much time I spent confused in it before figuring 
 out how to progress... I have just a bit to complain about here.
  
  The Replay value is a bit weak, but, mostly damn headstrong. Some levels have graphical problems, 
 and you are addicted to the fun, not the graphics. That is damn bad. Especially the first level, 
 New Republic Base on Altyr 5. The final major aspect of JK: MoTS is the multiplayer. It is essentially 
 the same as the multiplayer in Jedi Knight, just with some more characters and levels to choose 
 from. Still, given how good the multiplayer is in the main game, again, the best thing for them 
 to do was not change things much. Also, some of the new levels are great, and the added force powers 
 make things interesting since force is one of the most unique and fun aspects of the Jedi Knight 
 series.
  
  So, it is YOU who shall unravel the mystery of buying MoTS or not? If you sore crap graphics, do 
 not get it. But, if you sore graphics and enjoy SW, download a demo first or rent it to check if 
 it reached your standards. If you hate SW and bad graphics, I don't know why you are hanging around 
 here... just ignore it. 
  
  If you can ever find this game, I would say get this game. The Jedi Knight series is one of the 
 best Star Wars games ever made. So if you like Star Wars and lightsaber action, you would be better 
 off searching for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight was a great game, and being the great game that it was it was hardly surprising when 
 Lucasarts announced an expansion. A year after JK's release Mysteries of the Sith arrived, and 
 it was solid, but lacked a cohesive storyline which ruined an otherwise fine expansion.
  
  The storyline in MotS is... uh... well... it's non-existant. Instead of giving you one fleshed 
 out plotline the game is split up into four "story arcs" that span multiple levels. In the first 
 story arc which is set seven years after JK you play as Kyle Katarn as he defends a New Republic 
 base on Altyr V from killer Imperial Remnant asteroids. In the second story arc you play as Mara 
 Jade as she gets involved in a feud between two hutts when all she wants is to negotiate a New 
 Republic trading request with one. In the third Mara is babysitting a New Republic cruiser which 
 is attacked by pirates, and Mara must then recover a Jedi holocron from the pirates. The final 
 (and best) is where Mara investigates the swamp world of Dromuund Kaas to find the Sith temple 
 that Kyle went to investigate, and never reported in from. None of these plotlines are really explored, 
 but the final one is very atmospheric and definitely the best of the four.
  
  MotS plays just like JK so the only new gameplay elements are the levels, some new weapons, and 
 some new force powers. The levels like in JK are very well designed, and some of the new weapons 
 are nice, but some of them (like the Carbonite gun) are just plain pointless. The new Force Powers 
 also seem relatively pointless. MotS at least tried to add more than most FPS expansions.
  
  The graphics of the new levels and enemies are nice. But the new enemy models still have that 
 blocky feel that is a hallmark to the JK engine. The new "colored lighting" effects are very nice, 
 though, and add a surprising amount of atmosphere to MotS' large sprawling levels.
  
  The audio is nothing special. You have typical Star Wars sounds, decent voice acting, and once 
 again the John Williams score on the disc in CD audio format. It's not bad, but it could have stood 
 to have more to it.
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is a light in an age of terrible shooter expansions. Granted MotS doesn't 
 surpass JK; it still manages to deliver a fresh and satisfying experience as well as some memorable 
 moments in the single player mode that are bound to please any shooter fan; Star Wars follower 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith is the semi-rare expansion for Star Wars: Dark Forces 
 2: Jedi Knight. Actually it is a stand alone set of companion missions for the first Jedi Knight 
 game. It features new missions, new enemies, and it serves to continue the story from Jedi Knight. 
 Mysteries of the Sith is somewhat rare for a good reason though, as to be honest, it isnt terribly 
 good when compared with the great game that was Jedi Knight. 
  MOTS features 14 new missions, four of which youll play as a somewhat aged Kyle Katarn who was 
 the main character from Jedi Knight. The other ten youll play as Maria Jade, a character from 
 some of the Star Wars books. The story is standard Star Wars fare and is fun and interesting enough 
 to keep you going despite the games shortcomings. The ending is not something that some players 
 will enjoy but it does answer some questions that players might have had for the start of Jedi 
 Knight 2. 
  The gameplay in MOTS is pretty much exactly the same as it was in Jedi Knight, which is a good 
 thing as Jedi Knight was a great game blending first and 3rd person action amazingly well. But 
 be warned that these missions assume you have played Jedi Knight as they are challenging from the 
 beginning onward. However the difficulty really ramps up in the last 3 missions pitting you against 
 creatures that can kill you in literally seconds.
  The new levels in MOTS are great . . . . . . . . . when you know what your doing. The biggest problem 
 plaguing MOTS would be that the level design is both quite inspired, and yet both terrible at the 
 same time. Playing the game without a walkthrough is not recommended as you will spend a terrible 
 amount of time just running around wondering what to do. Often you are left to search for one switch, 
 or a grate you can slash open that blend into the environments just a little too well. In other 
 cases you have to make seemingly impossible jumps that tend to rely purely on luck, or you using 
 a cheat code. This slows down the flow of the game terribly and makes playing the game as frustrating 
 as it is fun. The things you need to do to progress in a level are seldom obvious, leaving you 
 to spend hours running around searching for what the developers wanted you to do. By the time youve 
 figured out what to do (be it by yourself or with a helpful guide) youll find that MOTS is also 
 a very short game and can be played in about ten to fifteen hours tops. Its worth mentioning that 
 MOTS does have a multiplayer function but if you can find someone playing this game online 8 years 
 after its release Id be surprised.
  Graphically the game is on the same level as Jedi Knight, making the visuals quite dated but still 
 good enough to not seriously detract from the gameplay. The game features heavy use of right angles 
 and most of the environments are quite jagged, the textures are not very detailed, and youll find 
 yourself running around a lot of big empty rooms. Sadly the cut scenes in MOTS were rendered using 
 the game graphics instead of the live action ones that were used in Jedi Knight. As such I personally 
 found them to be less enjoyable as they just looked terrible when compared to the cinematics of 
 Jedi Knight.
  MOTS however deserves honourable mention in its sound department. The game score is comprised 
 of recycled Star Wars music, which isnt a bad thing and it serves the game well. The voice acting 
 is what really shines in MOTS, in particular the actor for Maria Jade does an outstanding job. 
 The sound effects are all what you would expect of the star wars universe and everything was obviously 
 mined from the films which like the music is not a bad thing.
  So overall MOTS is an ok game at best, and unless you are a serious Jedi Knight fan youll probably 
 be better off skipping Mysteries of the Sith all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Mysteries of the Sith is a worthy addition to the world of Jedi Knight. With JK being such a groundbreaking 
 first-person shooter, Sith might have been doomed from the start due to high expectations but by 
 experiencing it on its own merits, it's a rather enjoyable journey into the world of Jedi Knight.
 
  
  The biggest change that is encountered with Sith is the lack of choice of either the Dark or Light 
 side of the Force (Neutral/Light is the default) . Instead, you're given a selection of various 
 Force power combinations, both Dark and Light. This was obviously aimed at multiplayer gaming as 
 it balances the distribution of Force powers. You can still reduce your overall Force powers by 
 killing civilians but I really missed the unique aspect of choosing a Force side through your actions. 
 This is by far the biggest letdown with this game.
  
  On a more positive note, the addition of the lighting effects is excellent and it helps to bring 
 the graphics closer to the level of today's newer game engines. The lighting also adds a much needed 
 color jolt to the gunboat gray that is so prevalent throughout the interiors. Level design is also 
 first-rate especially with the integration of spacecraft into the action. Hearing Tie Fighters 
 and Bombers flying overhead makes it feel like you've just jumped into a Star Wars film. Let's 
 hope this is expanded upon with future Jedi Knight games.
  
  Sith also adds a few new weapons and secondary firing features. Some are excellent - I could play 
 to my heart's content with the Electroscope option (sniper mode with zoom) on the previously weak 
 Stormtrooper Rifle. In sniper mode, the Stormtrooper Rifle becomes a weapon of choice as you have 
 the ability to nail your enemies from a distance. The manual Sequence Detonator is a welcomed addition 
 as is the ricochet feature for the Bowcaster. But a lot of the new weapons seem frivolous - the 
 Repeating Blaster Cannon (the Lazy-Boy of weapons) , Carbonite Gun (Hey, Mara stole Duke's freezer 
 gun!) , and last but least, the Flash Bomb (blind my enemy when I can blow them up instead?) .
  
  Along with the added weapons, there's a host of new Force powers to utilize. Unfortunately, 
 most of them come across as being either unoriginal (Force Projection a la Holo-Duke) , unessential 
 (LightSaber Throw & Force Push) or just plain weak in execution (Far Sight) . These additions seemed 
 to be forced (no pun intended) and basically reek of feature-creep.
  
  That's definitely not the case with Sith's offering of enemies. Many of the same characters from 
 JK are here but there is a whole slew of new ones. This is one of the major strengths of Mysteries 
 of the Sith as the enemy mix is just right. You never really tire of facing any one type of enemy. 
 Especially noteworthy are the Vornskr (wolf creature) , Weequay and the Ithorian Renegade (Hammer 
 Head) .
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is no Jedi Knight but it does serve its purpose of adding new levels, characters 
 and weapons to the JK world. Its only major drawback is the lack of choice with the two different 
 sides of the Force. Luckily this doesn't impede the fun of battling the minions of the dreaded 
 Empire.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This expansion is not so different over the JK2, but still it introduces some new features - like 
 new weaponry, creatures and enemies, force powers, levels and missions. Overall, gameplay has not 
 changed so much over the previous game, althought there is a little different control system for 
 force powers. 
  I think that the most interesting thing here is the fact that you will fight your way trought the 
 Sith temple and catacombs and that you will also play as Mara Jade, the former Emperor`s assasin 
 and now a Jedi. As with the JK, you will also have the opprotunity to search for secret areas and 
 will also have to solve various puzzles in the game - such as finding key for doors, using force 
 powers to undercover buttons,...
  Graphics have not significally improved, effects are little better. Sounds are more interessting, 
 especially enemies and creatures ones.
  I think, that hardcore FPS players won`t be so much impressed with this game, like they were with 
 the last one, th JK2, expect Star Wars fans. Still I think that this is a nice addition to JK series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  After finishing Jedi Knight Dark Forces 2 I was alway hoping that a sequel was on its way, that 
 didn't happen so this add-on did. No real improvements have been made since the last game so it 
 just seems like a way of squeezing every penny out of Dark Forces 2. The story is set seven years 
 after Dark Forces 2 with the Dark Jedi dead and Kyle now has his own apprentice in Mara Jade. While 
 at a Rebel base they are attacked and it is up to Kyle to save the day but after saving the day 
 in just four levels Kyle decides to go on his own journey to find the mysterious Sith Temple leaving 
 you to play as Mara Jade doing missions for the New Republic. This seems like it has no connection 
 with the true story of the game and that they just put this in to keep you occupied. The gameplay 
 is no different from last time, neither are the graphics or sound. This is not really as valuable 
 as the last one as it loses the good/evil endings and just settles for the one ending (the multi-player 
 is still there with a couple new modes though) . Mysteries of the Sith is an OK add-on , but it 
 is nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegpfury
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is Jedi Knights Expansion Pack. It contains 14 more levels, new weapons, 
 new engine features, and a new multiplayer mode. This is one of the best network game I have ever 
 played.
  
  Story
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is a series of missions based on Mara Jade becoming Kyle Katarns Apprentice. 
 For those of you who dont know, Mara later married Luke Skywalker, but that doesnt come up in 
 this game. The first 4 missions you play as Kyle and destroy an asteroid base, and then he goes 
 off on a mission. You play as Mara for the remaining 10 missions, raiding a hutt palace, and dealing 
 with pirates. Eventually, you go after Kyle, and those last three levels take place in an abandoned 
 Sith Temple. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Mysteries of the Sith can support colored lighting, which makes the atmosphere more interesting. 
 Other than that new feature, the graphics are the same blocky models as in Jedi Knight. It cannot 
 compare to the other games of the period, even the original Unreal has better graphics than this. 
 
  The ingame cutscenes are no longer FMV, instead they are rendered by the engine. They are no doubt 
 the WORST cutscenes that I have ever seen; they are even worse than the cutscenes in Wing Commander 
 2. Remember though, graphics dont make a game, the Gameplay makes a game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Single Player
  The single player campaign, while the levels are not as big as in Jedi Knight, 
 is very good. The levels range from an Asteroid Base to a Hutts Palace to an ancient Sith temple. 
 There are some new enemies, like Rebel Soldiers, wampas, scout troopers, and some others I will 
 let you discover on your own. The dianoga from Dark Forces 1 makes a comeback, but it is now a 
 lethal creature. The Temple was very well done, and very creepy, the vornskrs redefine greased 
 lightening. Also, in the temple there are Sith soldiers that use lightsabers. They attack in groups, 
 making it much harder to take them out.
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is good also. The maps range from Jabba the Hutts palace to Lukes home to a Carbonite 
 Chamber. The maps tend to focus on scenes from the movie, and are very well done. The new game 
 mode is KFS. In KFS, you must hold onto a little slug-like creature and get points as long as you 
 are holding it. The object of the other players is to stop you, and get it for themselves. There 
 is no capture the flag mode anymore, which is somewhat of a disappointment, since I always liked 
 capture the flag. 
  
  Weapons
  The weapons are good, with new ones since Jedi Knight. You can use a carbonite gun to freeze them, 
 a sniper scope for your rifle, flash bombs to blind them and others. The lightsaber blocks better 
 than in the original game, but there are no new moves for it without using mods. The sequencer 
 charges now have a manual mode that makes them work like satchel charges. The seeker rails are 
 like very good guided missiles. I find it very difficult to evade them. 
  
  Sound/Music
  
  The music is the typical, well-done Star Wars Music. The sound is the typical Star Wars sound. 
 Voice acting is rather good, though I think that the Civvies start to sound rather pathetic J. 
 
  
  Stability
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is very stable. The only times it ever crashed were when I made my own level/mod 
 and it had bugs in it, or when I enabled 3D acceleration on my GeForce4 MX or TNT2 graphics card. 
 It will work on the GeForce4 MX after you get the latest drivers. It doesnt support 3D at all 
 on TNT2. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Mysteries of the Sith is a very fun game. I would recommend it to anyone who likes Star Wars FPSs. 
 You need Jedi Knight 1 to play it, so eBay is the best way to get this. There are many mods out 
 there for this, I would recommend Saber Battle X. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game isn't the best Jedi Knight to come out, it still is an excellent game, but 
 there really isn't any new additions to the game. It feels just like Jedi Knight. This expansion 
 is still pretty good, but it's not the best way to spend your money. I have mixed reactions with 
 this game because it really depends on how big of a fan you are. If you are a die-hard Star Wars 
 or Jedi Knight fan (chances are that you're both) , I recommend getting this game. If you are a 
 die-hard First-Person Shooter fan, I recommend getting Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacardin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The single-player aspect of this game is the most enticing part.
  
  The idea of not being Kyle, and in fact, having to seek down Kyle and stop him from inflicting 
 mass destruction, is quite interesting. You also got to use different force powers from Jedi Knight, 
 but most of these, useless. The game also adds a few additional weapons, the most notable here, 
 being the electroscope, that allows you to zoom in on your enemies and snipe them. This is great 
 for multiplayer players who use guns and want to be snipers.
  
  For the saberists out there like me, though, Mysteries adds very little, though stands as a great 
 game in its own right, complete with a good storyline. The visuals make use of colored lighting, 
 and adds a nice layer of icing to the 3D cake. People have designed levels that look far nicer 
 in Mysteries than they do in JK, though I've seen some amazing JK levels as well.
  
  If you enjoy JK and you want another adventure, go ahead and pick this up! It's like $9 now, and 
 was worth the $20 I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheONLYTranix
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 15, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  I Thought this expansion added a lot to the basic Jedi Knight game. allowing a mix of light and 
 dark force powers, enabled a balance that JK never achieved. It was disheartening that it never 
 saw as much play as the original. there were some aggravating features such as the seeking rail 
 charges which were employed so much by campers. Also it would seem that many people online disliked 
 the effectiveness of some of the more damaging force powers. So many people online just wanted 
 to play both the original Jedi Knight and MOTS with force powers turned off or simply outlawed, 
 they should have been playing Doom or Quake. If you buy a game ABOUT Jedi's, then learn to deal 
 with the Force!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
