-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starcraft
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starcraft/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 12,342 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 1, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It doesn't stray far from the blueprint created by its predecessors, but it is, without a doubt, 
 the best game to ever adhere to that formula. 

 Passing judgment on the most eagerly anticipated game of the last few years is no easy task; it's 
 difficult to set aside prejudices that would sway one's opinion either way. Let's face it: Starcraft 
 comes with a great deal of anticipatory baggage, and it would be easy to say that it's either a 
 huge disappointment or the greatest thing since real-time strategy became a household phrase. Truth 
 is, it's neither. Weighed on its own merits, Starcraft is an extremely well-crafted game, albeit 
 one with a few notable problems. It doesn't stray far from the blueprint created by its predecessors 
 (namely the Warcrafts and Command &amp; Conquers) , but it is, without a doubt, the best game to 
 ever adhere to that formula.   

 Starcraft offers a lengthy single-player campaign featuring ten missions for its three diverse races, 
 totaling 30 single-player missions in all (there's also an unsupported veteran campaign included 
 as part of the campaign editor) . The story is compelling enough to make playing through all three 
 worthwhile, and the campaign difficulty is tiered so that each is more challenging than the last. 
 While this may seem like an uninteresting point, it helps Starcraft to avoid the problem that has 
 plagued every other game in the genre: Each side is not the same. You don't have to go through 
 a set of training missions once you've already mastered one side. The missions themselves mainly 
 stick to the "gather, build, and conquer" philosophy, but there are a few innovative missions thrown 
 in, and Blizzard has added some narrative elements to the missions themselves that help to keep 
 things interesting. With the exception of the installation missions (in which you are given a handful 
 of units to raid an enemy base, an attempt to break from the mold that is only occasionally successful) , 
 the missions are well designed. The solo player also has the option of skirmish missions, though 
 the computer opponents have the annoying ability to see everything you are doing and defend accordingly, 
 making the dreaded "rush" tactic one of the only viable means of emerging victorious.   

  Starcraft offers an equally nice suite of options on the multiplayer side: There's head-to-head 
 and up to eight-player battles over LAN or Internet (though Internet play is only available over 
 Blizzard's Battle. net server, which includes a ranking list and seems to be as lag-free as it gets 
 nowadays) . There is a good variety of multiplayer game types, and you can easily download new maps. 
 Multiplayer has its own set of negatives, the major one being the predominance of rushing. Like 
 it or not, creating a horde of the most basic units and attacking the enemy immediately is an effective 
 tactic. Only a heavily defended base will survive an early rush of Terran Marines or Protoss Zealots. 
 Starcraft has a built-in safeguard to discourage rushing, but it's one of the game's most problematic 
 areas.   

 This safeguard is in the interface, which only allows you to select 12 units at a time. This isn't 
 especially effective, considering six Zealots will smoke a base early in the game. The selectable 
 unit cap does make rushing more difficult, but it also becomes frustrating at times, especially 
 for those used to the ability to select unlimited units at once. Often, selecting the chosen units 
 from a large group becomes a time-consuming effort. During battle, it can be an exercise in frustration. 
 You can assign groups to hotkeys quite easily, however, lessening the frustration of the selectable 
 unit cap - but this system isn't nearly as good as in Total Annihilation or Dark Reign, and units 
 aren't marked by their group number like in said games. Multiplayer battles can often be decided 
 by who has the best manual dexterity and can overcome the built-in limitations of the interface 
 the most quickly.   

 Recent real-time innovations regarding unit control are included, with mixed results. Each production 
 facility can have up to five units queued at once. There's a waypoint system, patrolling, and the 
 like - but many of these options aren't particularly well implemented, and some of the options 
 seem tacked on. On the other hand, pathing is great, with only occasional glitches (where a unit 
 will run around in cute little circles) . Starcraft most notably lacks the ability to define unit 
 behavior (as in Dark Reign or Total Annihilation) , leading to much micromanagement.  

 What Starcraft does have, though, is personality. Playing any of the three races is a notably different 
 experience. You have the Terrans, "space trailer trash" with moving buildings; the frightening, 
 insect-like Zerg who can burrow underground; and the hi-tech Protoss who can easily construct many 
 buildings at a time. Each race features totally different units, often with no equivalents on the 
 other side, differing construction and repair principles, and even different (though equally effective) 
 interface art. Blizzard has managed to keep it well balanced despite the great diversity. One of 
 the greatest things about Starcraft is that no unit is ever rendered obsolete during the course 
 of a game. Each unit is key in certain situations, and you'll still be relying on your most basic 
 ground units in the endgame.   

 Aesthetically, Starcraft is impressive. Graphically, it stands alongside Age of Empires as the best-looking 
 2D strategy game around. What it lacks in visual innovation it makes up for in style; the unit 
 and building animations are highly detailed and imaginative. There are some nice translucency effects, 
 such as the flickering shields on Protoss units. The tilesets and maps are varied and interesting, 
 and the unit portraits are expressive and realistic. And the cinematics, of which there are many, 
 are outstanding. The only real complaints about the visuals are that the viewing area is a little 
 small (the bottom quarter of the screen is occupied by the interface) , and the minimap presents 
 only rudimentary information. The music, apart from some new-agey Terran tunes, is appropriately 
 melodic and dark, the sound effects are believable and distinct, and the voice acting is great, 
 bringing the characters to life.   

 Starcraft's personality goes a long way towards rendering its minor shortcomings obsolete. The game 
 has so much life in it - whether in the great, narrative-driven single-player campaign or the multitude 
 of multiplayer options - you won't grow tired of it anytime soon. And even if you blow through 
 it all, there's an incredibly versatile editor that allows you to create your own full-featured 
 campaigns, right down to spoken introductions and triggered events within missions. It all comes 
 down to this: Starcraft may not do anything particularly new, but it does the real-time thing as 
 well or better than any game before it. If you're willing to give the formula another go, Starcraft 
 is highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (358 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Trekfighter88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This was my first exposure to RTS games back in the mid 90's. I'll have to say, first of all, that 
 the learning wasn't bad especially using the tutorials. The storyline was pretty good, and the 
 campaign through the three species was over pretty quick.
  
  However, where this game really comes to life is in the multiplayer. It was great to play with 
 up to 7 players back in the mid 90's over dial-up! Sometimes the latency caught up to you, but 
 great to setup your own games, making your own maps and defeating hordes ot zerglings!
  
  This game is a real-time strategy game with an overhead view of your forces. You make decisions 
 on building, training and deploying your forces to defend, attack and protect your race. You are 
 the commander, you decide who are your allies and who are your enemies before you start the game. 
 
  
  The fun comes in with imposing rules on your game. No rush, timed rush, goals, no goals, etc. With 
 the scenario editor, you can design your own maps and control how the different start points are 
 setup.
  
  Great game! The only complaint that I have is that I wish the unit total wasn't capped at 200. 
 But it has to be capped somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Well to be honest its been quite a long time since I have played this game. Its old and its hard 
 to play an old game on a new computer. But for the record this is one of a few multiplayer games 
 in existence that for its day surpasses even the best games being made today.
  
  The single player alone makes it probably the best strategy base building games to date. Command 
 and Conquer was probably its only competition and as good as those games were star craft is the 
 better game. Having 3 completely unique sides to play with a story that makes you feel like your 
 the good guys and the other two are the bad guys was impressive. And the style of play you had 
 to play with the three was so different with its very carefully balanced that it was like playing 
 3 different games. Command and Conquer was good but not this great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been considering the notion that perhaps I've mellowed out in the past few years when it comes 
 to gaming. I'd never dare say that I was whatever the opposite of "mellow" would happen to be (I'm 
 the wuss that played through the entire series of Halo on Easy and found it a challenging and engrossing 
 experience) , but I've settled down pretty well into a specific set of games that I install and 
 then play on a regular basis. I'd blame that on my recent migration to Linux, but Linux's compatibility 
 has grown quite considerably with Windows games, and yet I find myself still ignoring the latest 
 and greatest; give me StarCraft, Unreal Tournament 99 and 2004, and I'm set.
  
  Why is StarCraft on that list? This baffles me at times; I'm absolute rubbish at the game. I still 
 haven't beaten the entire campaign, though that's not at a loss for trying  I've gotten close, 
 and I usually practice with some bots in skirmishes, with the odds so completely in my favour so 
 that it's at least approaching a fair fight. But generally, it's fair to say most people don't 
 like what they're not good at. So why haven't I moved on to something like, say Total Annihilation, 
 which I've at least beaten and can claim some talent in?
  
  While StarCraft's qualities are in the fine details of RTS design, its specifics matter very little 
 to the mainstream game player, and it's hard to delve into what makes the game good without hitting 
 dense spreadsheets of unit hit points and damage. StarCraft has been so well tuned to the point 
 that while it's easy to point out what it does differently, it's hard to say exactly why it works. 
 But in the end, the units are all perfectly matched and aligned with each other, even after the 
 expansion, Brood War, which is something very few RTS games can brag about. Every side is powerful 
 enough to have meaningful choices about their strategy, but not nearly enough to spoil the game.
 
  
  And it's the little things that do matter here: things like only allowing the player to select 
 twelve units at one time, or limiting the overall army to 200 units and forcing the player to accommodate 
 them all. This is vastly different to games like Total Annihilation which specialise in allowing 
 the player to amass an army of literally hundreds of units and clicking in the enemies' vicinity 
 a few times. While some of StarCraft's talking points may be entirely technical (it does run in 
 16 MB of RAM, after all) , it's hard to ignore the fact that it changes the nature of the game. 
 Some RTS gamers prefer the "make a big army" approach, but while it may be gratifying to watch, 
 one has to admit the level of micromanagement and skill is rather low, at least when ignoring the 
 human element in multiplayer games.
  
  But the human element plays an even greater factor in StarCraft than it does elsewhere, because 
 the nature of the game changes to quickly. This may have to do with the popularity in the Eastern 
 nations (especially South Korea) , whom have built an entire following, nay, society, around the 
 game. With so many strategies and experimental ways of playing, it's fair to say that StarCraft 
 has garnered more conjectures of the "ultimate way to win" than any other computer game thus far. 
 While nowhere near the popularity of Chess or Go, StarCraft shares that intimate desire to plan, 
 act, and then react, in a way that shows how deep of a game it really is.
  
  StarCraft's not alone; I'm sure there are other games out there that share such a depth and quality. 
 But StarCraft is popular, which makes a difference  if I mentioned offhand to some PC gamers a 
 strategy I had with units from Wahammer, and then compared it to a claim of the ultimate Firebat 
 rush in StarCraft, I'd be getting some different reactions. I'm betting that the latter would spark 
 a more involved discussion, because knowledge of the game hasn't become just commonplace. For PC 
 gamers, it's practically mandatory.
  
  It is an artifact of the past? Yes, and that's why it deserves a sequel, but the original game's 
 polish still allows it to shine today. While the CGI cutscenes, for example, may be jerky and archaic 
 by our standards, they're excellently directed and spun into great stories. Indeed, the plot of 
 the game is one of the few RTS games that have managed to tell a compelling story without overdoing 
 anything; it may have stolen from everything it saw, but it sure made a heck of a yarn out of it, 
 and the campaign holds up because of it. While I haven't beaten the entire game straight through, 
 I have played every level at some point or another thanks to "There is no cow level," mostly because 
 I wanted to see what happened with the storyline.
  
  I guess that's why I still play StarCraft on a regular basis. The game is practically the video 
 game equivalent to The Great Gatsby  having an intimate understanding is rightly assumed without 
 a second thought. It was my first RTS and will probably be the last one I play to the extent I 
 have; even the sequel, no matter how excellent, cannot spark the same infatuation the original 
 has created. It was just too damn good. In saying that, I know I'm not alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountyhunter4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  starcraft was a game that I had originally heard about some years back from a friend of mine that 
 played it frequently so I decided to go and try to buy the game for myself and luckily for me I 
 found it for 25 cents at a garage sale which made me skeptical of whether I should buy this game 
 that is supposed to be so great when it is being sold so cheaply, and to me that was my best quarter 
 that I have ever used in my entire career of gaming this game has everything the beginning, casual, 
 or even serious gaming fans can enjoy and fall in love with no this isn't some amazing graphically 
 advanced title like the next gen games that are out at the moment no this is one of those games 
 that regardless of how old this game gets it will be always considered to be one of the best strategy 
 games to ever be released, it has simplicity of managing your units but enough difficulty and variety 
 that it won't be boring for quite a while, anyone who is looking for a great, and probably cheap 
 strategy game for their computer must get starcraft if they truly call themselves strategy gamers, 
 it has three races with a multitude of races mixing up the gameplay in a way that world of warcraft 
 mixes up gameplay with the different classes (also it was made by the same game company) and should 
 not be ignored. I highly recommend this game to anyone even now with more advanced next gen games 
 out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  I feel ashamed that despite of playing PC games since 2000, I have not played this game before. 
 Only recently I have got this game from my friend to check it out. There's much voices for this 
 game in many topics throughout the site. After finishing it up, I can say - this game is not hyped. 
 It's a classic and masterpiece that should be in collection of any strategy gamer.
  
  Every RTS games has advantages and disadvantages, SC has too! It relies on micro management too 
 much. Resource gathering with units simply not work in 21st century RTS games. Apart from that, 
 every time (except few missions) I have to build bases and upgrade techs to face my enemies. Why 
 the hell I have to do that every time? Base building concept should be there but that can be streamlined 
 too. Once upgraded techs are available, I can easily have some advanced buildings which can produce 
 advanced units - no need to upgrade every time. 
  If SC2 incorporates same micro management - then it'll be great disappointing for me.
  Apart 
 from dates graphics and micro management, game play, strategic perspective and story - all 3 fronts 
 are well delivered and it's par with DoW franchise.
  I would love to give it perfect Ten, but I hate too much micro-management. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a science fiction Real Time Strategy game that is similar to Warcraft, but takes the 
 action in space with two alien races and a human race. 
  
  The story starts with the Terrans as the Mar Sara forces evacuate and meet with Marshall Jim Raynor. 
 Later, Jim Raynor and the Mar Sara military come to the rescue of a base near infestation by an 
 alien race named the Zerg. Raynor saves the base and gets reinforcements. The Mar Sarans see an 
 infested command center and Raynor orders his men to destroy it. As they do, General Duke of the 
 Terran Confederacy comes on Mar Sara and arrests Jim Raynor for destroying Confederate property. 
 Leaving the rest of the Mar Sarans to prep evacuation from the Zerg under the help of Arcturus 
 Mengsk of the Sons of Korhal.
  
  What I liked about this game is that each race has their own way of being controlled in terms of 
 resources, unit building, base building, unit styles, etc. Faster paced than Warcraft. Great graphics 
 for it's time, including the CGI cutscenes. Intense action. Online multiplayer is featured in this 
 game. Only two resources so you don't have to harvest so much.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that an icon telling you that there are lazy worker units 
 could be very useful. Frustrating at times.
  
  Overall, Starcraft easily became my favorite RTS title. The intense action of the game easily became 
 the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinpointmc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  THIS is what accelerated Blizzard Entertainment to what it is today. No doubt Starcraft is the 
 standard by which all rts games should aspire to be though c&c fans will beg to defer on this matter. 
 Enough with the commendations and now with the substance. 
  
  It'd be pretty naive for me to call myself an expert at this game but I am certainly well acquainted 
 with the game. The pacing is outstanding that very few in the genre match and the base building 
 is bearable and quick. The game is relatively forgiving in most aspects and the single player gives 
 players much sparing time to brush up their skills. Multiplayer is totally different beast that 
 has spawned a custom map universe of its own (also known as ums) with such maps as evolves, hydroranchers, 
 protect the queen, blah, blah. Judging purely from what the game shipped with, it certainly is 
 more than enough to merit this game a 10. If you dispute this logic either 1) you do not enjoy 
 rts or 2) you prefer mindless shooting. Probaly both in my view. Graphics are abysmal to people 
 who never got into pc gaming until modern day but to my eyes great for a 2D. Beautiful background 
 and very good sprite effects also add to the visual presentation. The sound and music will immerse 
 you in this sci-fi romp. The replay value is lasting and quite never ending. I am not obviously 
 doing a salesman pitch, I'm just speaking frankly of how much you've missed if you never touched 
 this game. 
  
  
  Amazingly still played to this very day as are all Blizzard games (past, present, and hopefully 
 future.) which tend to have addictive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moridin239
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the best RTS (real-time strategy) game I have ever played. The story in the game is 
 innovative, immersing, and loads of fun playing through, with many unique characters (my personal 
 favourite being Zeratul) .
  
  There are three races. They are:
  
  The Protoss, who are a group of highly developed and intelligent species. They also have psionic 
 powers which they use in their weaponry. They are typically quality rather than quantity. All their 
 units are extremely expensive, but they are also extremely powerful. They also are the only race 
 which has shields. They do not heal at all, nor can they repair, but they have a structure called 
 the shield battery which regenerates their shields.
  
  The Zerg are like the creatures in the movie movie series "Alien". They are vicious, predatory 
 and have a hive mind called the Overmind. They are quantity over quality, and will overrun a map 
 given the chance. Their units are weak, but also cheap and quickly made. They're entirely biological, 
 including their structures and facilities and all their units and buildings heal slowly over time 
 when hurt.
  
  The Terran. These are the humans, us. The terrans are also developed, if not as highly as the protoss, 
 and are more versatile. 
  They are somewhat in-between the power of the protoss and the numbers of the zerg. They have the 
 largest variety of units, ranging from the firebat, which has a flamethrower for close combat, 
 to the siege tank, which has the largest range in the entire game. They also have some unique abilities 
 like a ComSat station which explores the map using energy, and nuclear warheads later on in the 
 tech tree. They can repair mechanical units with their basic builder unit and can heal biological 
 units in the broodwar expansion. Some of their buildings can also fly and move around.
  
  In the single player campaign, you get to play as all three races, to give you the feel of all 
 three, as they are all unique.
  Player vs Player is lots of fun, and most people generally realise they have a favourite among 
 the three races so pick the one that suits you, and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a classic. The game that began the online frenzy of interstellar battles. This is the multi-million 
 bestseller that placed Blizzard Entertainment in the list (if there ever was one) of the most successful 
 gaming companies in the world. This is StarCraft, for Pete's sake!
  (STORY)
  I have forever enjoyed the tales of the Terran, Protoss and the Zurg. These races became more popular 
 than Earthlings! The drama that surrounds these creatures are intense; not to mention the amazing 
 detail in story and even the look of each race. Players will feel that they're actually part of 
 these space freaks, because of their being addressed as Commander, Executor or Cerebrate. And we're 
 even included in their arguments and strategies in the debriefing screens. What joy! So, this is 
 a space epic. There's a war between the Terran Confederacy and the ever-multiplying Zurg. Then 
 the Zurg eventually got the Protoss involved in the fight for dominance. Cue in the most amazing 
 side-stories and cut scenes, and then the most incredible game is born. Yay! 
  (GRAPHICS)
  Solid! For a game this old, it never grows lame in the graphics department. The attention to detail 
 is so profound that you'll forever be praising Blizzard and their team for a job well done. In-game 
 graphics blend with pre-rendered environments well, and there's a bit of CGI as well-the character 
 screen on the command window. The cinematics are also beautiful. Blizzard integrated fully-CG animations 
 for their movies and the overall effect was astounding. It's an old game, but really, it never 
 grows old on you. 
  (SOUND)
  Sound is aplenty in this masterpiece. The Terran and Protoss speak English and say a lot of words 
 when you click them; as well as the Zurg, but they speak in a sort of language that mixes phlegm 
 and hoarse coughs-which is good because these alien sounds really show the grossness of the creatures. 
 The music mixes with the dark ambience of the game. There's so much noise in this game. Very unique 
 sound effects were added here and it's practically art. Space is vast and it must have the 'space 
 thing' sounds, right? What ILM and Skywalker Sound did with Star Wars, Blizzard did for StarCraft.
 
  (GAMEPLAY)
  Command battalions of war-mongers; control heroes; build defenses and upgrade units-this game has 
 all the elements a good RTS must have. I mean, the technology is old but it did not lack at all. 
 The balance in gameplay is superb; I have to salute the guys who made this game for their debugging, 
 troubleshooting, updating and refining skills, for this game is very top-of-the-line when it comes 
 to polish and presentation. Though, it's not perfect, and there are still things that needed attention 
 (albeit the occasional bug) , StarCraft had everyone going with its tight battle mechanics, unique 
 unit abilities and special attacks.
  (OVERALL)
  The '90s was the decade of starting up. The present was all in the minds of developers and publishers, 
 and Blizzard, having both roles, made the present their future. StarCraft is a game that I believe 
 made the whole gaming thing a success. It was a pioneer in making the next step at gaming. It's 
 hard to keep my hands off the keyboard, because StarCraft totally owned me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the father, no the GOD of RTS games even 10 years later this is still one of my favorite 
 games, of course you can't compare it with games from this last years, in that time there wasn't 
 even 3D graphics, anyone who dislikes this game is weather:
  -someone who knows nothing about games.
  -A really crazy person who has no good taste for good 
 games.
  I don't understand why gamespot gave this score, it deserves at least 9.8 to 10.
  I just want to say that to rate a game you don't have to compare a game with others you must look 
 at the hardpoints of each and compare graphics with year, of course you can't compare this game 
 with CoH or DoW or Supreme Commander obviously the graphics have about 10 years of difference, 
 new games have a lot of new things of course but in its time it was the best and for me it is still 
 one of the best games of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half_Jaw223
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  It Is Good, but i find it to be more entertaining when played online and not many games are.
  I Know You See People Always Saying "This Is The Best Game EVER!!!!" and stuff but really, it could 
 be better.
  I Mainly Play it because 1: I Own It 2: I Like RTS' or what they are called. the single player 
 campaign is a little draggy but its fun doing campaign editor.
  The controls... well what can i say... i don't like them.
  Now on the otherhand the online is 
 very good, very entertaining, very.. very.. um what's the word... capturing? or something close to 
 that. Brood War Is Just A Waste Of Money, Just Extra Levels That Are Just As Draggy. and starcraft 
 64 is so much worse i can't even discribe it. If You Really Do Like It Then You Can Say I Was Wrong. All 
 In All, Get It For Multiplayer, Rent It Or Stay Away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOke622
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When describing Starcraft, it's not so much describing a video game as it is describing a religion. 
 Starcraft, and it's expansion set Brood War, are the greatest games to have been put on a computer 
 or any gaming system for that matter. Unlike many games of recent years which all use the same 
 old Age of Empires engine, Starcraft has gameplay unlike no other. The vast differences between 
 its 3 races (Terran, Zerg, Protoss) , in both feel and playability, make this truly a unique game. 
 Sporting the greatest known storyline of a game to date, you, as the player, will feel immersed 
 in the Starcraft universe. You will lose yourself to the seemingly endless struggle between the 
 might of the Terran forces, the zealous fearlessness of the stalwart Protoss, and the horrifying 
 ferocity of the Zerg Swarm. This game has not only captivated my imagination, but it blew open 
 the doors for many games to follow. Truly, I have yet to find a game that has changed my life more 
 than Starcraft. It is... perfect.
  
  - En Taro Tassadar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowserpwns
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  ok, i honestly think this is my all-time favorite game ever. This game has awsome gameplay, awsome 
 graphics (for its time) , and an amazing story. The single player campaign is just amazing as well. 
 its one of the only RTS game that youll see people playing the single player campaign over to play 
 that "one mission".
  
  Also, with lots of RTS's that have multiple playable factions starcraft is the one game that sets 
 in 3 playable races and keep them all distinct but none overpowered. Alot of poeple that play online 
 like to play with all races (unlike DOW's freaking what, 9 races?)
  
  Now dont get me wrong, i love DOW and all that, but i just think SC is a better game overall.
 
  
  So basically this game is awsome in every way in my opinion, and i literally cannot wait for SC2. 
 They never dissapointed before and i doubt they will this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbieeeeee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft takes place during the future, where there are three main races; the Zerg, the Terrans, 
 and the Protoss. You play in a single-player campaign mode which you play in order as the Terrans, 
 Zerg, then Protoss. The campaign centers around the Zerg infesting various planets and trying to 
 counquer the world/universe. And since there is no "choose you difficulty" screen some of these 
 campaigns are very unforgiving. First, you play as the Terrans who are basically the ballanced 
 out race to play with. They have tanks, marines, nukes, and other various units that cause chaos. 
 As you play with the Terran your mission is to eradicate the Zerg infestation and in the midst 
 of everything turning on your allies and killing them too. That was one thing about this game; 
 in every campaign there is a mission in which you turn on your own race, but after that everything 
 is fine again. 
  
  After you finish the Terran side of the single-player you get to the Zergs' campaign where you 
 are A minion to the great "Overmind". Fulfilling his plans to infest the various planets and ultimately 
 take over the universe. The Zerg are all weak and basically their strategy for winning is by numbers. 
 While the Terran produce one unit, the Zerg can produce eight in the same amount of time. After 
 the Zerg you play as the almighty Protoss, whom seem to the most established race in the universe 
 of Starcraft. They are very political and in their campaign while you try to evaporate the Zerg 
 forces you will be turned upon by your predecessors and a good amount of missions will be fighting 
 against other Protoss. The Protoss play out as the bulldozers. Their units are strong and they 
 have no minor fallback to their race except the slow production rate and trying to get some of 
 the units up the stairs.
  
  After the campaign mode is over there is really no replay value at all. Their are custom play games 
 in which you can play already designed maps and half built scenarios. You can also create your 
 own map/scenario and play it alone or online (not so sure how many people still play this version 
 online but..) against others. After a while, however, this game gets very repetitive. Even thought 
 all the races have different aspects about their gameplay style, they are all essentially played 
 the same way. So after about three hours of playing as the same race all their "tricks" they have 
 that the other races fade away and you are stuck wanting out. You can beat the campaigne mode in 
 one day and the custom matches just don't offer up any fun "extra play" that might exist. So that 
 may be the only drawback of this game; you finish campaign mode and then uninstall it.
  
  All-in-all the gameplay of this game is just like any other RTS game; very time consuming and generally 
 fun. The graphics are horrible but then again it is 2008 and this game was made in 1998 so I cannot 
 complain. The sound is okay and the voice acting could be improved. Whether you like being the 
 good guy or being the bad Zerg and annihilating everything in your path if you are looking for 
 a decent "oldie but goodie" then I would suggest getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolife982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I know this is an older game, but even today I find myself playing it on occasion. For the time 
 period that it came out, it was revolutionary. Blizzard, as usual, created a top notch game that 
 does exactly what every video game strives to do. Starcraft and the upcoming Starcraft 2 will probably 
 go down in history as one of the best RTS series created. The story is compelling, the cinematics 
 both in game and outside in the story line were great (for the technology of that time period) . 
 And a fantastic multiplayer online system was created as well. The interface was easy to adjust 
 to and the tools that Blizzard included (map editing, etc.) were phenominal and led to the creation 
 of those classic Battle. net maps that everybody knows. I know when I was younger and used to play 
 this game every day, I had hoped and dreamed (and pestered Blizzard) , for a Starcraft 2 Sequal, 
 and I am finally getting it. I hope Starcraft 2 is as good or better than its predecessor, I know 
 it has some big shoes to fill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonztar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic!!!!!! :) , it's just amazing how it survives to time and still being one 
 of the most played games. I think that its originality because of the three different races. The 
 one I like the most the Zerg race, I don't know, they have something weird that make me want to 
 play with them. I'm sure that if S. C didn't exist, the RTS world wouldn't be the same right now. Considering 
 the age of this game, the graphics are pretty good, and for now its has some good things like the 
 morphing of zergs and some abilities. Somethings i don't like is the way some units move and attack 
 and some others. right now, for me is one of the best games ever. Now im waiting for the next gen, 
 but meanwhile im still playing S. C everyday hoping to see the released dat of S. C II. Yep. and 
 concluding this is the best game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the most amazing strategy game ever made. I played it for years, and I still am playing 
 it. Starcraft is a great game, but the expansion (Starcraft: Brood War) made it one of the best 
 games on Earth. With three races available (zerg, protoss, and terran) , each with their own unique 
 units, abilities, buildings, and technologies, this game is the ultimate strategy game. It's very 
 balanced, even though everything is different from race to race. I would recommend everyone who 
 didn't play Starcraft to buy this game, and it would be even better if you buy the expansion as 
 well, that is only if you want to have the ultimate experience of the marvelous world of Starcraft. 
 I really hope Blizzard keeps all those features in Starcraft II, and I really hope they add even 
 more. I think one of the best thing Blizzard can do to make Starcraft II the best game of the world 
 is to add another unique race. So please do, Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bust4G4me
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft was released in 1998, so it is an older game, but the fact that thousands of people play 
 it today prove that this game is amazing. A brief explanation of it is based on a futuristic science 
 fiction world where 3 races collide in a battle for either domination or peace. One of the races 
 is the mobile future humans, the Terrans. Another race is the Technologically advanced species 
 known as the Protoss. Those two races fight against the alien infestation known as the Zerg. But 
 during the story they all fight against each other at sometime. 
  
  It is a casual strategy game we see today, gather resources, build anmj army, destroy your enemy. 
 But the thing that makes this RTS so special is it's balance between all three races. Even though 
 all three races are very different Blizzard has managed to balance them, so no race is overpowered. 
 I can't give an example of an unbalanced strategy game because this is the really only strategy 
 game I play. Anyway there are two kinds of resources, Minerals and Vespene Gas. If playing a real 
 game, not story mode game, you get 4 workers in the beginning of the game. Scvs for Terrans, Probes 
 for Protoss and Drones for Zerg. They gather your resources and build your structures. Every race 
 needs supplies for their units and builds a certain unit or building to get supplies They put the 
 supplies in the nearest resource building, for Terran its a Command Center, for Protoss it's a 
 Nexus and for Zerg its a Hatchery. And every race has their own defensive building. All this info 
 is just the general stuff of every race, next i will explain each race individually 
  
  Terran: The adapting and mobile humans are the Terrans. The unique thing about the Terrans is they 
 can build their structures Anywhere. Also if they are being attacked and must retreat the Terrans 
 can lift some of their important structures and move to another place. The thing that makes Terrans 
 powerful is their Vehicles, Ships, and Ability to repair almost anything. They may only have 3 Vehicles, 
 but all three are individually powerful in their own way. The Vulture is known for its speed and 
 ability to plant mines that explode when enemies come near. The Siege Tank is known for its Siege 
 mode where it turns into a powerful artillery weapon. The Goliath is a walking controlled robot 
 that can attack both air and ground.
  
  Protoss: The Protoss are the more advanced species that have very expensive buildings and units, 
 but very powerful. The protoss can build anywhere as well and when they build they just warp it 
 so you don't have to wait for the probe to finish, but only when their main power source is near 
 the building they want to build. It is called a Pylon, A Pylon is also their supplies. A building 
 must be built next to a Pylon for it to work except a nexus. If you have built pylons you can see 
 a blue light that will tell you where you can build in that area of blue. The reason the protoss 
 are powerful is their units do a mass amount of damage, and have shields. Everything that is a 
 protoss unit or building has a shield. But they are not overpowered, because of how expensive they 
 are and can't produce as fast as the last race i will discuss.
  
  Zerg: The Zerg are pretty much the bad guys, the swarm, the alien infestation. Despite the fact 
 that they are the alien infestation and stuff, they are a very cool looking and unique race. First 
 off as i said in the beginning every race has their supplier for supplies. Well remember when i 
 said "or certain unit" well zerg is the only race that requires you to build a mobile unit that 
 supplies your units. It is called the Overlord, it is a very slow moving unit that can also act 
 as a dropship or shuttle, which are the two units from terran and protoss that drop off ground 
 units to any place. But with upgrades it moves faster. Anyways unlike the terran and protoss, the 
 zerg use drones as the building itself. And also unlike them they can't build anywhere, they must 
 build on creep. Creep is a sort of purple looking ground that is alive where zerg buildings can 
 be built. They aren't called the Swarm for nothing, the zerg are known for outnumbering their opponent. 
 A hatchery gives three larvae where you can build any zerg unit depending on if u have the certain 
 structure to build it. A unit called the zergling gives you 2 zergling for 1 larvae. Do the math 
 3 larvae per hatchery equals 6 lings if you use all three larvae. The supplies go up to 200 and 
 2 lings are only 1 supply other units are more, but this is why the Zerg are known for outnumbering. 
 Personally Zerg are my favorite race, just how amazing they can over run your opponent.
  
  Well those are all three races described in little detail, but it shows how different each race 
 is and how amazing it is that Blizzard was capable of making it balanced. I'm telling you this 
 game is so popular that it is a e-sport in South Korea. No kidding, people play for big bucks and 
 are on national T. V. PLAYING THIS GAME. 
  
  Buy this game now, and if you are in need for strategies go to Youtube and look up Korean Starcraft 
 pro's. You can try to copy their ways. But no one has mastered this game, and there are always 
 ways of getting better which makes it very addicting.
  
  Overall Best Strategy Game Ever.10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImMechanicalman
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 18, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I play strategy games all of the time, and Starcraft, being as popular as it is, was one that I 
 was bound to play sooner or later. It can be fun sometimes, I'll admit it. But the core game and 
 gameplay are not really good or notable.
  
  This game had bad graphics at the time. Even for 1998, the graphics were sub par for new games 
 at that time. Units, structures, and landscapes look uglier than most games back then, and virtually 
 everything was a bad copy of something in WH40K. 
  
  Starcraft's sound is very bad. The unit voices are the only good part of it. The constant beeps 
 coming from the game are too loud and hurt your ears. the guns of the marines sound like a hammer 
 falling on a metal floor. The siege tank guns sound like water balloons. And on top of that, the 
 music is ridiculously CRAPPY. They have these retarded songs that sound bad all of the time and 
 just loop over and over again without EVER changing. It's not uncommon for you to have supposedly 
 calming country music playing while another player is smashing your base to kingdom come. And the 
 worst thing of all is, they have one song where the Zerg Overmind is singing! That's not even funny! 
 That is one of the lowest points of video game music EVER!
  
  The gameplay is bad. There's three unique races, which was uncommon at the time, but makes people 
 only have preference for one race. The gameplay, however is also very SLOW. I know that I'm a C&C 
 person and that I can beat somebody in RA2 in under a minute, which is arguably too fast, but Starcraft 
 matches frequently take half an hour or even more. In fact some of the most popular maps, called 
 "fastest" maps, exist only yo make the gameplay faster. The gameplay is so bad, one South Korean 
 guy died after playing the game for an extended period of time.
  
  The internet play is extremely good in Starcraft, and is obviously the best reason for why it is 
 played. There are always thousands of people waiting to start playing. Staredit and Starforge let 
 people make thousands of maps for online use. However, nothing in this game is perfect. Once you 
 start playing online with a large group of people, there is a very good chance that one of them 
 will be a complete whiner and will do nothing but call you a "h4x0rz h4x0rz l0lz n00berz LOLOMGBBQ 
  and try his hardest to ruin the match. That's not supposed 
 to be funny. It happens all of the time. And the largest problem with internet play is that virtually 
 nobody actually plays the core game. Almost everyone plays custom made maps and game modes like 
 zergling wars, zombies, fastest, and so on...
  
  If you love playing online all of the time even though your opponents will hate you and express 
 their hatred through 1337speak, people seem to disconnect all of the time (which somehow results 
 in a loss, even if you're winning) , and next to nobody except the most hardcore SC players wants 
 to play anything but UMS games, then you will love Starcraft, which is why many people do, I guess. 
 If, on the other hand, you like to play games that have a good campaign, a story, good music, and 
 more benefits than just an enormous amount of online players, maps, modes, and fans, you'll want 
 to look somewhere like at any of the Command & Conquer games, Empire Earth, or one of the Warcraft 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyScrew
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  There are many games out there who have been awarded the, "Greatest Game of All Time," title, but 
 I don't think any other game deserves it as much as StarCraft. It practically birthed competitive 
 gaming, and took it to the extremes; countries like South Korea have TV channels dedicated to people 
 playing StarCraft. With the release of StarCraft 2 in a few months (hopefully) time, I decided 
 to let you guys know my opinion on this wonderful game.
  
  The story is spread out over 3 campaigns, each of which follow the 3 factions in the game. Each 
 campaign has 10 missions, which range from about 20 minutes to one hour plus play times each. The 
 first campaign follows the Terrans, which are humans. The Terrans are the most convoluted of factions 
 in this game; even with fighting off the Zerg and Protoss, they are fighting civil wars amongst 
 themselves. You have control of Jim Raynor, a Marshall under the Confederacy, who doesn't like 
 the way the Confederates do stuff, so he joins up with the rebel group known as the Sons of Korhal, 
 who want to bring down the Confederates. They eventually do, but Raynor isn't that happy with how 
 things went down, so he leaves the Sons of Korhal and starts his own group, Raynor's Raiders.
 
  
  Now the second campaign starts, which lets you control the Zerg. In the first few missions you 
 have to protect a chrysalis which contains one of the series key characters. During those missions, 
 you start getting the idea that the Zerg want to be the best race around, so they start attacking 
 others, particularly the Protoss; the Zerg want to take over the Protoss' main planet, Aiur.
  After that you get to control the Protoss in the last campaign. I won't say much about this since 
 it wraps up the story pretty damn well.
  
  The game controls like any other RTS game. You start out with a fairly small base, and a few builder 
 units to help build it up. Most of the time you will be telling your worker units to harvest you 
 some Minerals and Vespene Gas, those being the resources you use in the game. You use the resources 
 to build buildings and train units at the various buildings you may use. Of course, with your growing 
 army, you will need something to support them. Terrans use Supply Depots, Zerg use Overlords, and 
 Protoss use Pylons. The Terran Supply Depot just sits there; the Zerg Overlord is an air unit that 
 you can use to transport other units, and the Protoss Pylon have to be placed strategically over 
 your base, because the Protoss buildings have to be in the vicinity of your Pylon, as the Pylon 
 powers your settlement. Each race also has drastically different worker units; the Terran sport 
 SCVs, which are guys in suits that build stuff, they build buildings; the Zerg use drones, which 
 have to mutate into different buildings, which means sacrificing your drone for a building; and 
 the Protoss use drones, which can warp in buildings and go harvest some resources while the building 
 is warping in.
  
  
  With 3 factions, each one has different strategies. The Terrans usually use lots of Siege Tanks, 
 accompanied by a few Battlecruisers to take care of any air units they may find in their way of 
 ownage. The Zerg will defeat enemies by sheer number of units, usually in the opening rush of the 
 match. If that match fails however, Mutalisks and Guardians with some Ultralisks on the ground 
 usually do the job done in the following stages of the match. The Protoss are probably the most 
 strategic of the 3 factions. They will most likely use a group of Dragoons to find the enemy base, 
 then move in Carriers with Reavers in them, which deal massive damage if micro-d properly.
  
  Mission structure consists of usually, destroying everything on the map. Destroying everything 
 is also the main premise of the multiplayer mode. Once or twice in a campaign you will have a linear 
 mission in which you control a small group of units and take them through the map, eventually finding 
 more units to join them.
  
  StarCraft looked good, when it came out that is. It uses sprites, and is on a fixed, isometric 
 view. Each of the factions are easily distinguishable amongst each other; the Terran's are gray 
 and robotic, the Zerg are browish and slimy, and the Protoss have their signature yellow armor, 
 and definitely look like guys you shouldn't be messing with. The backgrounds look nice, although 
 organized; the game uses a grid system where your buildings take up a certain amount of squares 
 on the grid. The same system is also applied in the Campaign Editor which comes with the game, 
 which lets users create their own maps. StarCraft also had really good looking CG cutscenes, which 
 raised the bar for cutscenes in game.
  
  Audio in this game is outstanding. Every single unit has different sayings and different voice 
 talents. Eventually if you keep clicking on one unit long enough, he'll say something weird, like 
 the Siege Tank singing Ode to Joy. The soundtrack is also really well done. Each faction has its 
 own unique musical score; the Terrans have a rock-like music, the Zerg have dark-techno, and the 
 Protoss have just ambient music.
  
  After many years in development, and first being regarded as, "Warcraft in space," StarCraft made 
 a really deep impact on PC gaming and gaming in general. With the impending release of StarCraft 
 2, players will still be playing StarCraft before and after the sequels release. It is really a 
 gem that shouldn't be missed by anyone, and since it has been 10 years since the games original 
 release, it will run on mostly every computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CowsGoWoof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I never liked RTS games. hated them. They seemed really boring but I heard starcraft was fun. So 
 I thought "hey, I'll pick this up." and I did today and I'm shocked. This game is so amazing. I've 
 played for a short time but one hundred plus hours is probably the time I will spend. I like this 
 game a lot so far and I'm pretty sure I'll be picking up SC II. To be honest, I went to get Diablo 
 since I never played that and Diablo looked more appealing but I'm glad I picked Star craft. The 
 units are all cool. The only downside is the graphics. They. are. old. But that does not matter, 
 because if you really are into game play more than graphics like you should be, you won't care. 
 I don't care any more either. The game play is fun. This is only my second Real time strategy game 
 so I didn't know how to play but the controls are easy to learn. This game is a great game that 
 will have you spending hours in front of your computer. Plus, the star craft battle chest is only 
 twenty or so dollars! And it comes with the expansion (brood wars) and two guides! One for both 
 games! That is an amazing deal, seriously. What are you waiting for? GO BUY THIS GAME NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dok777
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I've ever played. Every faction has just the right amount of differences 
 that you can switch easily but you still can say "Wow, this is totally different than the last 
 faction!" The plot line is well written. You could right movie off the thing. The AI is well programmed, 
 but sadly after awhile it begins to use the same tactics, which this makes it very easy to make 
 an impenetrable defence, but even then its not completely dry.
  
  THE PROTOSS RULE
  In my opinion the protoss are the best faction. I mean not only do they have the wonderful Recall 
 ability, which can make a rapid ambush appear in seconds, but they also have MIND CONTROL brought 
 by the Dark Archon.
  Know the shielding of everything is also an added bonus because your fending off an assault an 
 have a few shield batteries you can easy keep your men, er Protoss from being destroyed.
  
  This an excellent game even if it is quite old. so I say Buy it if you have the opportunity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benx009
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  You just can't go wrong w/ Starcraft. This game still remains my fav. RTS of all time. Everything 
 about this game, unlike other RTSs out there, feels just balanced. The Zergs, Protoss, and Terrain 
 forces all have the right units, the right techniques, and the right looks to make them feel totally 
 different from each other. Gameplay is phenomenal, and it's amazing how the pace of the game can 
 change so easily depending on what mission you are playing or what objectives you are assigned 
 to complete. Sound FX is done right and though the graphics are no longer very good, keep in mind 
 that the cutscenes of this game still look better than some games released today. Any RTS fan who 
 hasn't played this game needs to get on eBay NOW and find themselves a copy, before it is no longer 
 distributable. 
  
  Those guys over there at Blizzard are all geniuses. Let's just hope that Starcraft II is able to 
 top the sheer awesomeness of the original... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I must start by saying this: I'm playing the game in 2008 and the game is 10 years old. I tried 
 to write down this review considering the fact that this game was written in an earlier technological 
 era. 
  
  This game is good. If you're a RTS fan like myself than this game has pretty much to offer. The 
 game is set in the future. Your enemies are aliens fro another part of the space. As in most other 
 RTS games, Starcraft puts you in charge of your base and your goal is to build structures, collect 
 resources, defend your base and attack and gain ground on your enemy. The game's first missions 
 are very easy and basic, but things get a bit more complicated further on, although I still felt 
 the game was a bit more on the easy side.
  
  The graphics aint bad when you consider that they're 10 year old. Sound is OK too, although I felt 
 that the music could have been better since in certain occasions I thought that the music wasn't 
 fitting in the situation. But I think this is something which stands largely to one's tastes.
 
  
  So, to conclude... Starcraft is a good game which has to offer fans of the genre a lot, but in 
 my opinion it pales when confronted with games such as Command & Conquer. There's a lot of hype 
 surrounding this game even today but I think most people like this game so much because they remember 
 it fondly as their first RTS they played. Still if you're an RTS fan it's worth a shot. I'll look 
 forward to see what Starcraft 2 will offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_SlaY3R
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  At 9 yrs old I got my first Pc and this game and what a blast! Creat your own army, you got some 
 kinda of story line (if you wanna read it between missions) , Cut scenes like never before and also 
 what a wonderful map maker. You got 3 races to chose then you get your building up and your army 
 up and go kill the bad guys, oh yeah that fun! And I really liked the map Maker because it was 
 easy to use and fun to create your own balance maps I played for over 3 years at this game and 
 I mean only this game forget the others that came out no THIS PWNS IT ALL. Now we're in 2008 and 
 Starcraft 2 is coming out and you can still go onto the internet and see player still playing Starcraft 
 and tournaments and stuff,. OH yeah that's right you got battlenet which allows you to play Starcraft 
 across the internet now that's freakin AWSOME!
  
  For the Sake of Humanity, if you got a PC you need to have this game. It's not an option. This 
 game pwns so much that while you're asleep you'll be dreaming of playing this game. Buying, rent 
 (no buy it) , download it or have a crack of it if you really have no way to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Cyborg
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the most amazing game I have ever played. That being said, it has incredible depth 
 (no game has come CLOSE to the many strategies and unique units this game includes) . In fact, all 
 the game's units are unique and different, but all the races are pretty equally matched (protoss 
 are, one must admit, slightly more powerful than the terran or the zerg) . The computer AI is unbelievable 
 considering when the game was made, and the plot is really cool but unfortunately the single player 
 campaign leaves a lot to be desired, so you should just read the plot on the starcraft 2 website. 
 I would highly recommend anyone who has not already played this game (but is interested in starcraft 
 2) to pick up this game at a local store. Trust me, even if you only play single player (on the 
 custom game mode) you will have a blast with this game. Can't wait for starcraft 2 to come out. 
 Doesn't look like it will be out until next year though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 79th_Warrior
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  At this stage in the lifespan of Starcraft there shouldn't even be the need for another review 
 that states how perfect this game is. But here it is, STARCRAFT is a perfect 10, not because it 
 is flawless, I don't think the game is flawless but because it delivers an entertaining experience 
 that is going to leave you hooked and wanting more, plain and simple.
  
  So as all the rest of the reviews out there I could state what it has already been known for the 
 last 10 years there are 3 races Protoss, Zerg and Terran 30 missions superb multiplayer etc. 
 There is no need to go into all that everybody knows this by now. What is worthwhile mentioning 
 is how incredible it is that after all this time people are still battling it out over the net 
 and even more amazing is the fact that I installed this game and played through it again and thought 
 this is still as perfect a ten as it was 10 years ago. 
  
  I think this all that it can be said about this time defying game. Play it again, enjoy it again 
 or just enjoy it for the first time as we wait for Starcraft II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is not a great game today but back in the day it was top notch setting the high standards 
 and inventing new ideas. The three races are absolutely amazing to play with but after playing 
 this game for so long i have to say that the you will find yourself living the same games over 
 and over again. The story is top notch and has great voice acting. 
  
  Multiplayer is what will manage to captivate you since their are amazing types of games out there 
 you would not imagine while playing the single player. You will find alot of hardcore fans that 
 will disagree with me because they are just fanboys but the fact is that there is no reason to 
 play this game today unless you are too poor to afford a newer game, starcraft is by todays standards 
 too shallow to be considered good. If i were to compare it to a newer rts i would compare it with 
 Command and conquer tiberium wars, which is very similar but improves on starcraft by adding more 
 elements to the map than just minerals and gas. IN starcraft you can litterally jus tower up your 
 base and defend while stacking up resources to win. While newer games enourage you to leave ur 
 base so you get an edge in battle by claiming some kind of territory or building or even items. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  as i said before the game play is amazing it is the best game I have played by far apparently from 
 atrox with is practically the same but made by a different company gamespot didn't know about it 
 but my trusting friend rtssam sent them an email telling them about it but back to the point starcraft. 
 Brood war is the expansion set made 1 year after starcraft was made starcraft-1998
  brood war-1999. the difficulty is just right and i have spent ages trying to accomplish my mission 
 to complete the game + expansion before starcraft 2 comes out on the 26th of September 2008. The 
 game is quite highly adictive because i can't stop staring at the screen for every minute i play 
 it please hav a go at it even if you dont like it i think its the best. please view my page!!!
 
  
  Gameplay-9.5
  Graphics-good for its time Sound-great theme tune
  Overall-9.5
  HD-no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belladonna14
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  So ANYONE who has NOT been living under a rock for YEARS now has heard of the legindary hit starcraft. 
 I personaly have been playing this game for 3 years now and finaly decieded to write a review about 
 this INCREADABLE hit. To those who are totaly obliviouse to this game, its an increadble rpg that 
 lets you build your own race*be it the protoss/zerg/teren* and letrs you seek attack on others 
 of diffrent or the same races'. The online battlenet play is truely magnifigant to this day still.. after 
 years and years of this game being out, and if you have the expation pack to build your OWN maps/battles 
 then the game furthers into a one agaisnt the world concept. I can say NOTHING in this world can 
 compare to wiping out an ENTIRE civiazation with your protoss battle ships... or zerglings. To any 
 fan of blizzard you MUST try this game. ... one of there best for certian.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Well that depends. Starcraft plays so similar to the Warcraft games it's kind of hard to differentiate 
 them. Thankfully this is all science ficition. You know, set in outer space with humans versus 
 aliens versus cyborgs. That's pretty obvious seeing how the game is called Starcraft. Though I 
 can't help but notice all of Blizzard's RTS games end with Craft. So if you've played any of the 
 original Warcraft games you'll immediately get into this. Starcraft doesn't play from a birds eye 
 view like Warcraft 2. Instead it's isometric like the Command and Conquer games. It's a great game 
 to look at and it plays really well. The multiplayer is fantastic and is the reason why the game 
 is still being played to this day. The only flaw I believe the game has its length. It's painfully 
 short with only 3 proper campaigns to go through. However, the story is excellent thanks to some 
 cool writing, voice acting and great sound effects and evocative music. The sequel is out soon 
 and for those who wish to know what's so great about Starcraft should definitely check this out. 
 It's also good for fans of the RTS genre. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krondor13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft was released in 1998 and right from the beginning became a very popular strategy game. 
 The game is based sometime in the future on a far off world with three distinct alien races combating 
 each other for universal domination. I actually received this game on accident when I went to pick 
 up another fun game called worms 2, which is actually a whole lot worse of a game than Starcraft. 
 I played through the one player missions and the story was in depth and exciting. There has never 
 been a strategy game since to top my list, but the closest to it was Warcraft 3. It has been nearly 
 ten years since I bought the game, but I still find myself playing it even to this date. It's a 
 classic game that will never get boring and I just hope that when Starcraft 2 comes out it will 
 be half as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  What to say about a game that is as big, innovative, and revolutionary as Starcraft. This game 
 took PC gaming by storm and pretty took over an entire country of gamers (South Korea) . So what 
 made Starcraft such a great hit? 
  
  Well it combined many aspects of computer gaming and excelled in each field. Game play, balanced, 
 graphics, sound, storyline, level design, etc... 
  
  The game play is very straight forward and requires little time to learn how to effectively wage 
 war and manage your units. It has a simple resource collection, of which there are only two resources 
 to gather, and simple tech map based on what structures you have built that also allow access to 
 newer unites. Basically you simply gather resources, learn technology, defend your base while building 
 your force, and go out and kill. Simple game play that equals hundreds upon hundreds of hours of 
 fun.
  
  The units themselves are very balanced. All three races are very well balanced and yet all three 
 play VERY differently. Playing as each race is almost like playing a completely different game 
 with each since their abilities are so drastic from each other and yet.... still clicks so well 
 with the entire game. 
  
  The graphics were just complete amazing when Starcraft hit, especially the cinematics. Even today 
 the game doesn't look nearly as bad as other games that were released around the same time and 
 even after.
  
  The sound, music, and storyline are just top notch. Great music and sound and the story just really 
 grabs you and gets you into the game even more. You find yourself wanting to hurry up and finish 
 a battle just so you can see what happened or is going to happen to certain characters.
  
  This game is a pure classic and must for anyone! If by some reason you were in a coma, not born 
 yet, dead, or living under a rock and missed on this game.... then you MUST play it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelarcade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a real time strategy game in which you must manage a base whilst building a large 
 enough force to methodically destroy the enemy base and all of its installments, higher level combat 
 units can be gained by '
  advancing through the tech tree. One of the reasons that this is THE RTS to buy, is that all of 
 its individual races actually have some amount of difference to how you go about advancing through 
 the tech tree.
  the protoss must build pylons to build buildings within its energy field. the zerg produce combat 
 units via larva which hatcheries build many of ( still have to pay for the evouloution.) and terran 
 buildings can hover off the ground. so for all intents and purposes i believe the protoss are best 
 for steamroller tactics, provided you can distract your opponent with some battlecruisers for cannon 
 fodder. the terrans are good for expansion and scouting due to their ability to hover buildings. 
 and the zerg are good for steamrolling, but to a lesser extent are better for scouting.
  
  and the campaign mode is excellent, but the real reason to have this game is for battle. net which 
 is an excellent online resource that i really wish blizz would open up some deals for it to be 
 open to other devs for a price. 
  
  map editing is awesome and unlike warcraft 3, it is actually included in the game menu so you dont 
 have to waste your time with C:/programfiles/starcraft or whatever. 
  
  it is a must buy, untill starcraft 2 comes out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007-wolfenstein
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games you can play on the internet. People say its been around for too 
 long and that its old but dont listen to them. Play the game yourself and rate it.
  The storyline in the campaign is fascinating. It will definetely keep you interested in whats going 
 to happen next. Also you will be surprised how practically easy the campaign is. Even though thats 
 a downside but it is still fun to play again and again if you want to hear it again.
  You take place as a number of different people in different races. Eg you are the Overminds Creation 
 The Cerebrate, For the Protoss you are the Executor who then rebels against the homeland and joins 
 the Dark Templars, Or for the Terran you are a Magistrate who protects the land but then also rebels 
 and is released from his rank.
  Sound: Pretty good it sounds a little cheesy but it suits the game well.
  Graphics: pretty 2 
 dimensional sometimes but thats what people love about Starcraft.
  Online: Now online is very fun if you want to kick some other players butt or be owned.
  I recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes a straight easy game to play but will enjoy it even more over time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikthorious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard entertaiment just made a mastrpiece, it is fun, interesting, a great campaign story, graphics 
 and sound. Let us begin with the gameplay, simpy to understand, easy to control, and fu to make 
 an army and destroy everything n your way, but (remember there is always a "but") , they could make 
 the units to be a little more "intelligent" i mean sometimes these guys are hard to organize and 
 control...
  
  the story is just great, about sarah kerrigan and beign infected by the zerg and make her their 
 queen is just awesome, and how jim raynor only waht he got to do is survive.
  
  graphics, lets not analyse it by a techncal way, but in a artistic way, it is just, wow!! cmon 
 the zerg are great, every single one, the protoss are cool with all theyre ships and stuff, and 
 the terran, cmon!! i mean are just great. Same as sound, with teh battlecries of every single unit... it 
 is just awesome..
  
  in conclusion, you cant get disapointed with a game like this one, the only problem you will encounter 
 is that sometimes the units doesnt obey really well the orders sometimes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, i've just recently completed the game, but i really got to write a review about 
 this. IT'S AWESOME.
  
  1st up.. let's start with Gameplay.
  there are 3 species in the game, the Terrans (your normal fighting human soldiers) , the Zerg (watch 
 aliens? they are something like them) and the Protoss (watched predator? something like them too) 
 thus when zerg vs protoss.. it feels like Aliens VS Predator.
  the campaign is breathtaking, and this review is dated at 2008 and the game is created in 1998, 
 well this game will look outdated compared to recent RTS releases such as COMMAND & CONQUER 3, 
 SUPREME COMMANDER, COMPANY OF HEROES (i've played em all) and the likes but this game is surely 
 one of the greatest RTS of all time. they could really make a movie out of this. well i don't want 
 to spoil the game. but the difficulty is very very hard. i even had to use the cheats to win the 
 game, because the building and training of units are a little slow and the upgrades are even slower 
 and they consume ALOT of resources which are the minerals and the vespene gas.
  
  2nd.. Storyline
  it's magnificent, the storyline in Starcraft even beats the newly released games 
 and i bet the writers of this game really had a hard time trying to write and not stray from the 
 timeline, and instead of the usual what-if the humans win, what-if the aliens win, what-if the 
 high tech aliens win and the ending is generative showing what-if's one species won. the story 
 revolves on the continuation of 1 species to the next.
  
  Graphics..
  when i am used to graphics these days. i feel a lil awkward when playing this game since i didn't 
 really like the graphics, leave graphics to people who have played it 10 years ago as i clearly 
 can't judge it, only that i m happy since my 2 years old pc can play it without any glitches.
 
  
  and the results
  i'd say 8.0, this game is so good it's hard to explain. play it yourself and know why this game 
 is one of the greatest RTS in the world even scoring 9.1.. haha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is just amazing. It was released ten years ago, and I still play it to this 
 day. I am not a big fan of real time strategies, but this game is an exception. Each faction is 
 unique and has something different to bring to the table. Because of the completely different factions, 
 it makes the game very strategical. Each unit has a unique job and can be countered by an opposing 
 unit which makes it very challenging when fighting against another faction. The campaign is very 
 fun but what gets my interest is the multiplayer. The game comes with a campaign editor which enables 
 you to make your campaign if you want or just make your own custom designed mulitplayer map. You 
 can link up with seven other friends on a LAN line or connect to the still operating Battle. net 
 server and play with people online while keeping the number of your wins and losses on record. 
 I don't think I will play this game much or even at all when Starcraft 2 comes out, but I think 
 that this game is definetly the best in its genre, and year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseboy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Well I can't say much about Starcraft that hasn't already been said, so I'll keep this snappy.
 
  
  I went to my friend's house one day when I was 7 so he could show me this game. I had no idea what 
 it was like. I remember when the game was loading up and I saw for the first time the terran, Zerg, 
 and Protoss. My first thought was "Oh man this game is gonna be awesome!" little I knew that was 
 an understatement. I remember the game appearing and seeing the zealots and dragoons awaiting our 
 orders. 
  
  Well soon after I bought the game for myself. And I played it, and loved it. For the next 3 years. 
 I got Broodwar, and that made me like it even better (eventually) . I didn't play it for a long 
 time. But then a year ago I rekindled my interest after I started talking with my new friends about 
 it. I started playing without cheats and god mode. And it was like a new game all over again. 
 
  
  The game has 3 races, Terran (human) , Protoss, and Zerg. Each is amazingly diverse in style, strategy, 
 and look. This game is all about strategy, and the amount that it has after all these years is 
 staggering. 
  This game is still played by professionals at world gaming events, and its something of a religion 
 in South Korea. You would do well never to bash it if you ever happen to find yourself there. 
 
  
  There do exist flaws that show today (which is the only reason I didnt give it a 10) . Micromanagement 
 is key, especially since you can't select more than 12 units at a time. Also, there exist some 
 more little things that are annoying enough to detract from gameplay (i. e.- units being utterly 
 and glaringly USELESS) But these are not enough to bug you too much. This game is not noob-friendly 
 as well. Beginners beware. 
  
  So check your bargain bin. Or Best Buy for that matter, you can find it almost anywhere. It still 
 sells many copies a year, and it, along with the expansion pack Broodwar, make for an unforgettable 
 gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireWarriorr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  well i don't have much to say really, this game is amazing !!!
  
  it's perfectly balanced, has a great story-line, it really submerges you into a universe of war, 
 and the races of the game are perfectly balanced and very interesting, it's a very old game we 
 all know it, but that doesn't matter, because it hasn't the best graphics, but it still makes you 
 keep playing.
  
  the great gameplay really compensates for the lack of graphics, but the graphics are not so bad 
 considerating the game is from 1998.
  
  
  even if it's an old game it deserves a gold medal for the best game ever, even now there are much 
 people playing it.
  
  the expansion Brood war adds the game new units and a good story to continue were starcraft ends.
 
  
  and now after 10 years they are releasing the next version, Starcraft II, i can't wait for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-myrtaj
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is some kind of a story that happened to me and not a review about the game so if you don't 
 want to read it, you don't have to. I had just bought my PC in 2002 and had no games at all. Then 
 a friend of mine who had finished the game several times gave it to me to give it a try as the 
 first game to start with. (*** games in my country are all false, so they don't need no crack, 
 no serial, no CD inserted, so I gave him the CD back ***)
  
  And I started playing and liking the game, but the problem is that I did not understand English 
 at all. So I didn't start the game with the Humans, but with the Zerg. Too bad I got stuck at mission 
 6 due to not understanding what to do. And then started playing it with the Humans and after finishing 
 their campaign I finished the Protoss, too. After that it was about time to connect my PC to the 
 Internet. But after a short time the PC got infected so badly that it was formatted and I became 
 obsessed that I wanted to finish the game. Unfortunately, I didn't remember the name of the game. 
 
  
  Some time later LOTR War Of The Rings came out and I started playing it since I thought it was 
 so similar to Starcraft when in fact it was more similar to Warcraft. Of course, I obviously finished 
 that game and started playing Warcraft games and forgot about Starcraft. But then in 2006 my PC 
 was infected again and it needed to be reformatted again and I was left with no games at all again. 
 Really sad this. When, somehow my memory came back again and I remembered that I had had this wonderful 
 game that I hadn't finished yet. And I thought that a part of the name of the game was 'craft'. 
 
  
  And then I discovered the Gamespot Website, and started looking for games with 'craft'. I invented 
 names like Gamecraft, Carcraft, Shipcraft, etc. I was desperate and once, by chance I typed STARCRAFT. 
 By looking at the images, I finally had the game I had searched for years. (now it was 2007) . I 
 bought the game myself this time and who knows, after 5 years, I still remembered the missions 
 that I had forgotten years ago.
  
  This time I started playing the game as I should do, and in the end, I made it and finished all 
 three campaigns. Of course I was a better player than I was in 2002, and played the game several 
 times. I still keep playing this game as I think it's the best of all time, and can't wait till 
 Starcraft 2 comes out. It'll definitely be a revolution again in RTS games. What can I say more? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  It's all about game play. if you gotta choose between graphics and game play you'll choose the 
 2nd one, right?
  
  Amazing sound effects and a lot of action make this game different to the other ones. The graphics 
 did'nt let a good impression in the reviews, but discounting that the game was a great hit.
  
  In my opinion the best race of Star craft where the Protoss. Their units where the strongest 
 of all, but the most difficult to control. Combining the Protoss Dragoons with an army of Zealots 
 and some Reavers (without forgetting the air units) you could destroy any base with a little bit 
 of effort. But some people prefer the Zerg (like my brother) , or the Terran; i don't know you.
 
  
  This was the game that started me into the RTS games . I think this game should be the king of 
 the Win 98; just play it and you'll understand why.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb5O4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Starcraft has done what no other strategy game series has offered, diversity. The three different 
 races are so unique that you are basically given 3 games in one package. Starting off in the campaign 
 mode you have three immersive story lines which build off of the previous campaigns. Excellent 
 cut-scenes, great dialogue and unit personality create a cinematic type experience. The one downside 
 I felt with the campaigns were that in all three you end up being a rebel of your respective race. 
 So it felt a little repetitive with respect to that. 
  
  Next there is the online play on Battlenet. You can play melee battles or take advantage of the 
 Used Map Settings mode where people make custom made scenarios from Turret defense to Capture the 
 Flag. 
  
  On a technical note the AI seems pretty dumb and there can be some slow down during big battles. 
 Also with online play there can be some lag as well. This is one game definitely worth getting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is quite a few years old now but it's still enjoyable because it nails the most important 
 aspect of any game: Gameplay. Games can look nice, but so can paintings... games can have a compelling 
 story, but so can movies and books. What counts is whether or not the sum of the parts deliver 
 a fun gaming experience, and Starcraft, like most Blizzard games, does this. 
  
  What else is there to say about Starcraft? It's a Blizzard game. I'm not sure why God endowed Blizzard 
 with so much talent, but three game series -- Starcraft, Diablo and Warcraft -- prove that Blizzard 
 will always have a place in history as one of, if not the, best developers around. 
  
  As an archetypical RTS game, Starcraft kind of sets a standard for what a good RTS game should 
 be: the missions are varied -- and not too long or short, the maps are varied and look good, the 
 overarching story is believable and comes together well, there are distinct sides you get to play 
 which adds to replayability, a memorable cast of characters, there is a wide variety of units that 
 all have a tactical purpose and can give you many ways to achieve victory, these units look cool, 
 the resource gathering is simple and doesn't take too long, buildings can fly (had to add that) , 
 the interface is simple/easy to look at and control/provides all the necessary information and 
 finally, well, wait I think I just covered everything in this massive paragraph. 
  
  The only weakness of this game that I can see is that due to it's age, the screen resolution is 
 kind of low and the graphics aren't going to compete with, say, The Witcher. 
  
  But who cares? It's addictive, fun, and like Diablo, is almost like a Rubrick's Cube as far as 
 longevity goes. Play it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a RTS released back in 1998. 10 years from now and it is as popular as it was back 
 in 1998. Though since mad a long time ago graphics are dated and are very unenjoyable but the great 
 gameplay will make you not really care.
  
  Gameplay: Very good. Lots of strategy and AI is challenging. Multiplayer is very good and tons 
 of cool maps to play on. Very good and I say the best part of Starcraft is its online multiplayer 
 gameplay. The single player story is pretty good to with 3 campaigns to choose from. Sound: Pretty 
 good and astually is pretty cool listening to them talk.
  
  Graphics: This is where the game falls short. Very dated and bad graphics sometimes makes the game 
 feel less fun and enjoyable but I guess you can live with it.
  
  Overall a great game and worth the buy. I recommened anyone to pick this game up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguy35
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of the best old school RTS's. It has both single player and online multiplayer ( 
 which was not very common back in the day ) . The game also features a map editor, so you can come 
 up with your own crazy alien shooting adventures. There are three classes of aliens in the game 
 Terrian, Protoss, and of course the Zerg. Another cool feature is that the single player is split 
 up into parts one for each race. So when your done with the entire Terrian campaign for instane 
 you can continue on to the other two campaigns. Starcraft is an oldy buy goody so if you haven't 
 played it before you should check it out or you will be missing out on one of the best RTS's of 
 all time. Im also looking forward to reviewing Starcraft 2 hopefully sometime this year
  ,ryguy35 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is kind of pointless. I'm not even sure why I'm writing this review. It's STARCRAFT! If you 
 don't know what that is, then you need to go to Amazon and order this game. It is, without any 
 doubt, the greatest PC strategy game of all time. It is in a league all it's own.
  
  Why is it the greatest of all time? Well aside from the gigantic sales record, which to this day 
 is still climbing. Aside from the multi-million dollar sports industry it has created in Korea. 
 Aside from everyone (including myself) raving for pages and pages about this game. (Pages that 
 no one will ever read.) Aside from all those things...
  
  Simple put, balance. It has balance like you would not believe. All three sides are almost perfectly 
 balanced. Each plays in distinctly different and fun ways. Obviously the map editor and years of 
 mod community has further advanced this. But no on there stragey game has balanced their sides 
 so well, and truly mastered the feeling of being a battlefield commander.
  
  Some say the limitations in units to control or unit maximum is a drawback. But I think it adds 
 reality to the game. A commander has communication limitations on any battlefield, and only a certain 
 number of units can exist in one place before they start running each other over or shooting at 
 one another.
  
  Starcraft set the bar for all computer strategy games. And it is a bar that no game has ever stepped 
 up to since. 
  
  And as for Starcraft 2.... hell.... it IS about time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  If you're ever with a group of nerds or game enthusiasts (as some wish to be known as,) you might 
 come across a few games that you can relate to. If there is one game that everyone in the room 
 can relate to, I bet that that game would be Starcraft. So as you can imagine, this game is very 
 popular; played all over the globe. The gameplay is reminiscent of Warcraft, and yet quite the 
 opposite. I personally like the feudal era more, but this game is great, as well. You have three 
 distinct races: Terrans (humans that are given this name I guess to describe where they come from 
 by other species,) they tend to be good at defence. Zerg (an alien species with low intelligence, 
 but gifted with raw fighting power,) and Protoss (they look more like terrans, but contain a unique 
 ability to forge "psi," which is a fictitious energy, perhaps related to eastern philosophy.) Each 
 race is given its own strengths and weaknesses. Overall the gameplay is pretty flawless. The graphics 
 are fine. The music is superb. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcktlnt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  This is more of a story than a review, but this is an awesome game, and I highly recommend it to 
 RTS gamers.
  
  It's been a while since I played the game. I mean I replayed it again during the summer when I 
 heard that Starcraft 2 was made, but too little playing on BNET and too many hackers so I couldn't 
 find a good game. Then all my friends only wanted to play versus computers so I had no way of growing 
 skillwise. But it is an extremely fun game. I found myself playing the modded levels more compared 
 to playing for games I paid for on the PS2. Great memories
  
  When it first came out, I didn't have internet access and I only played against the computers. 
 I sucked so bad then. After two or so years, my friend played on BNET and I started playing on 
 BNET too. That experience was so freaken amazing. I joined a clan and they basically taught me 
 the ways of harvesting, expanding, and macro management. Now I just need to figure out micro management.
 
  
  Seriously, if you haven't seen the Korean youtube videos, you are missing out on their mastering 
 of the micro management. Using one vulture to destroy 3 zerglings, or 1 marine to take on a lurker 
 or controlling 3 marines to kill 1 lurker without losing one single unit. *impressed* I CANNOT 
 WAIT FOR STARCRAFT 2! (Oh god... I hope my computer can handle that game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  at first when i played diablo, i thought it was the greatest game 4 the pc to ever be created, 
 and i was only so young too. lol, isnt it rated M? anyways, then i played starcraft ... i was totally 
 wrong. I must say they are probably tied with eachother in terms of greatness because they are 
 both created by blizzard ... But yea, I love them both to death and i cant wait for more sequels 
 of both of them to come. DIABLO 3 ... Hurry!!!!!! My PC needs dusting because there are no more 
 good games like these two of a kind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igotoda
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  There are several reasons this game deserves a 10.
  
  1. The story is fantastic:
  The story is just hard enough to challenge you, while not driving you insane. The characters are 
 all very engaging, as you go through the story you get attached to Jim Raynor, then Kerrigan, then 
 Zeratul. The three different races getting involved in a battle for the universe is really very 
 engaging and makes what you're doing that much more epic. 
  
  2. IT'S AN EPIC:
  I've got a couple of games I consider to be, "EPIC's", God of War is one of them, they are just 
 games that are (1) VERY fun, and (2) give you the power to do something very big, and very cool. 
 In this case, it is controlling armies of super cool technology against formidable foes, in INCREDIBLY 
 well balanced races, along with a great system.
  
  3. The races:
  In my opinion any game that goes for the races is bound to be a good game. But since 1999 when 
 I started playing the game, I haven't seen a single game come close to the diversity and success 
 that starcraft has. In Starcraft the three races are incredibly different, yet all three of them 
 play just similar enough to make the transition between possible. I hate to throw the word around, 
 but the classes are PERFECT.
  
  4. the ability to add to online, UMS:
  Any game that allows users to create maps is good. but a game that allows the kind of customization 
 that starcraft allows is just shocking. Starcraft allows more map customization then probably any 
 other game out there. There's not a single game I can think of that can turn it's original purpose 
 into the Matrix, the battle of Normandy, and Cat and Mouse. Use Map Settings is probably the greatest 
 idea real time strategies have ever seen, and the ease at which a person can make a map as well 
 as the lay out is just phenominal. Some games have all the features but you can never find them, 
 some games would never work in the way that starcraft does, but that's just the thing. Starcraft 
 works.
  
  5. The Balance:
  I've said it already, but it needs to be put it in it's own category. The balance is PERFECT, when 
 you're playing a game and you've got two skilled players, they can literally throw two full armies 
 at each other and leave with only 1 or 2 unites (example, a skilled player with 12 carriers and 
 12 battle cruisers, if the bc's target the carriers, I usually see the battle ending with about 
 1 carrier, depending if there are Yamato cannons used b4 they engage) .
  
  6. Compatibility:
  The fact that it's an old game means you don't need a next-gen PC plus a video 
 card and all that junk. Odds are if you've got a dell, you can play it (cept vista) (and if you 
 have a vista, you probably aren't reading this review anyways)
  
  THE BAD:
  
  1. Honestly, there's really nothing wrong with the game, but the lag online is annoying.
  
 
  2. If you are really picky you could say that the graphics aren't as good as games these days 
 but I'm serious when i say this, they look good enough. you don't graphics to look amazing in an 
 RTS, the rest of the game makes up for it 100x PLUS if the game looked better it'd probably slow 
 down and that would suck.
  
  3. (i'm serious here) it will GOBBLE UP your day. I've spent an X-mas or more just sitting on my 
 computer, looked up, and it was like 1:00 AM, the next day. On UMS time flies by so quickly, but 
 it's worth it.
  
  ALL IN ALL: As I said in my other review (Call of Duty 4) , if you've got the system and the time 
 (and the money, but it's worth like 20 bucks these days) , buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComradeWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of my all time favourite games ever made. Blizzard was the one company I could 
 always look to for a good game to play. Starcraft's campaign was amazing, totally immersive. Even 
 though the graphics weren't godlike, they were still good enough to play with. This game being 
 the first REAL real-time strategy (meaning it was the first good one) it was extremely well done. 
 The skirmishes were also enjoyable. Although the home run that this game hit was it's map editor 
 and multiplayer, this game at it's time was unfathomably customizable. You were able to make your 
 own maps along with making triggers and so on and so forth. You could share these maps online. 
 Even though the downloading system was a pain, it was still very enjoyable. I would highly recommend 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is an RTS for the PC. Don't get me wrong. I don't just hand out perfect scores. But this 
 is truly deserves it. It was kind of a breakthrough for the genre. Before it was either two races 
 like Warcraft, or a bunch of races that were all the same, like Age of Empires. Starcraft has three, 
 completely different races to choose from. There was Terran, the humans. Marines in power armor, 
 walking mechs, and huge battlecruisers in the sky, Then, you had Zerg. Straight out of Starship 
 Troopers, these guys are bugs. Little ones who use their claws, big ones who spit venom and so 
 on. Finally, there was Protoss. An alien race more advanced than the former two. All of their units 
 have a shield you have to get through before you can actually deal damage to the unit itself. The 
 strategies varied a huge amount between the three races, making for some pretty intense battles. 
 The gameplay was fantastic. It could be a fast paced game, or a game where you turtle up behind 
 walls of bunkers or defense cannons. Units have certain roles to fulfill, so you need a balanced 
 force to come out victorious. There are three campaigns, one for each race. Perhaps the best part 
 of the game was the multiplayer. This is where you could uber pwn noobs from around the world. 
 There was also a setting where you could play the games that people made on the mission designer. 
 This made for an epic multiplayer experience. The graphics were perfect for the time. When the 
 marines died, their body would explode with blood and fall into 4 little pieces. Or the Protoss 
 zealot turning into a blue flame. The sound was equally awesome. Everybody unit said something 
 memorable. So memorable me and my brother today still think of all the cool ones and say them. 
 Basically, this is one of my all time favorite games, so I'm really psyched for Starcraft 2. But 
 until them, you can't go wrong with the game that started it all and that would be Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonahzg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft, don't believe i've met a gamer that has never heard of it. possibly one of the best 
 RTSs in game history. With the choice of 3 different races, the zerg, the terran (humans) , and 
 protoss, you wage an intergalactic war, using every race to the very best of their abilities. Science 
 fiction has always been a thing for me, i just love it, so this game is just perfect for people 
 like me. Blizzard proved that a believed dead graphics style, can still be put to great use, the 
 sprites in this game are incredibly amazing. Great game overall. Would probably be most people's 
 first recommendation if you asked them what's a good RTS game to play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tahha
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  good story .Teams are perfect wants to keep on playing it.... its just so great i hope starcraft 
 2 will be much more better ..... waiting to play it too protoss zergs and terran fighting &amp; 
 the combination of terran and protoss fantastic . More over in multiplying such a fast game different 
 tactics much better than C&amp; C stealth units giant bugs guns and plains all makes up this interesting 
 to play. best of all when u play 2 on 2 or more you just can make a gugment what will goin to come 
 one nuck can change the whole ga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexrad
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the most amazing game i have ever laid my hands on. In ten years i have not encountered 
 another game that is more balanced and addictive. This game is truly one of the greatest computer 
 strategy games ever created. In my opinion there are no flaws in this game in any aspect. The story 
 line is creative and interesting making it hard to stop playing. Each race is unique and balanced 
 setting up for the intense multiplayer that is extremely pleasurable. This game will for sure go 
 down as a classic in strategy game history. You have to give it up to Blizzard for creating such 
 a great game that will be played world wide for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cujodog09
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most popular strategy game of all time, and for a good reason. This game is outstanding 
 in every way. First the game has a decent storyline, which is a nice difference from other games 
 who don't focus on the story at all. The game play is great in all aspects, from how you create 
 your warriors to how you position them, the chose is yours.
  
  This game is one of the older games so the graphics aren't that great anymore, but you really shouldn't 
 concern yourself with that because this game is is a classic on all fronts. With the games highly 
 anticipated upcoming sequel if you haven't played this game before then you need to experience 
 one of the best rts games ever before you go and get the new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game, not that there isn't much to say about it's campaign, is almost strictly a multi player 
 game. Although the campaign is fun to play, the AI is nice, it doesn't have much of a story to 
 it, and so most people just end up playing it online exclusively. The cut scenes in the campaign 
 are great though. Anyways, the multi player is just so addictive, that many people like myself, 
 might find themselves playing the game 10 years after it's creation. There is an expansion pack 
 available for this game, but if your like me, then I would bother playing it too much. What little 
 story there was is continued in the expansion, but the multi player is a bit ruined compared to 
 this. So, bottom line is, if you like a good real time strategy, then this is the game for you!......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  AFter playing Warcraft II, most players I knew back then were expecting to see another great Blizzard 
 game. However, as the transition from Warcraft I to Warcraft II was mostly a facelift, most people 
 expected a Warcraft II in space with better visuals and audio .
  
  When Blizzard announced it was going for a completely new isometric engine, but most importantly, 
 with three completely different races, the expectation increased.
  
  But it was worth it. Every single day we waited on that 3-year lapse between both games was worth 
 it. The three races were so diametrically different between them, but yet the game was so balanced, 
 that it basically packed three RTS games in one. And the best part of it was, the three of them 
 were excellent!
  
  Topping the package, just like the cherry on top of your sundae, was the fact that Starcraft had 
 one of the most involving backstories to date (hell, even to this date!) , and great multiplayer 
 modes allowing up to 8 people to smack each other down.
  
  There's absolutely nothing I could say I wanted improved. And for that reason, the gam gets a perfect 
 10 from me and I urge anyone who lives in Mars and haven't played it yet to do so. Yes, even almost 
 10 years later, it still rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zepheros
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Starcraft (SC) dates back to 1998. When Blizzard brought another one of their infamous online games 
 to the fans with tons of gameplay opportunities. Diablo was first on their list. Starcraft exploded 
 in sales the day it was released. RTS stands for Real Time Strategy. Which is like a giant war 
 in the palm of your hand, literally.
  
  Starcraft is a game that involves three very powerful races. The Terran (humans) , Protoss (aliens) 
 and the Zerg (bugs) . There's a few movies that kind of relate to this in some ways. Like Alien or 
 Starship Troopers. But Starcraft is all about strategy and tricking your opponents (tricking the 
 CPU is a little tougher) . You duke it out on dozens of pre-set maps with any race you want. All 
 you have to do is conquer. Heck, you can make your own maps if you're skilled enough. And UMS, 
 which I'll get into later.
  
  Starcraft really turned into something else when Broodwar came out. This was an expansion of Starcraft. 
 It added 3 new storyline single player missions for each race. Continued on from the original 3. 
 And there are new units for each race as well, which really change the way you play the game. Stats 
 are tinkered with, especially if you play online. There used to be lots of updates, but now it's 
 all compressed into one. If you played offline for a number of years, the updates will be a big 
 notice, but they're for the better.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  I'm not even sure where to start. Starcraft is just so indepth it's godly. Each race, each and 
 every unit and spell is so nicely equalled out. No race is superior over another. They all have 
 their advantages and disadvantages. It's all about how YOU play. And mastering this game is near 
 impossible. I mean, even to this day Starcraft is still the most popular RTS game there is. And 
 people actually make a living playing at Tournaments believe it or not.
  
  Where to start with Starcraft is simple, single player campaign. By starting off with the Terran 
 your first couple of missions will be kind like boot camp. You'll learn how things work, how to 
 build units and what not. Mine crystal and gas and attack enemies. After a couple missions you'll 
 actually get involved in the dirty work. The thing with missions though is you're restricted to 
 a certain tech level. It increases as you play more missions so don't be discouraged if you can't 
 use a Battlecruiser to rain destruction on the first mission.
  
  Outside of missions, the gameplay really falls into online. If you don't have online, god I pity 
 you. Sure you can play computers in up to 8 on 8 action, but against players is where the real 
 competition comes in. You start off with a basic command center and a few miners to get going. 
 As you play the objective is to increase your money count, build an army and take out your enemies. 
 Sounds simple, no? Wrong. You might think you have a bad ass defense one minute, but then suddenly 
 an invisible unit is killing your men! Oh no, you forget to have a missile turret or an observer 
 to locate them with! Yes, one single unit can completely cause mayhem on your plans. As messed 
 as that is, it's your fault for not being prepared, haha.
  
  Each race is balanced in ground and air units. Along with defense. Units are upgradable until level 
 3. Attack strength and armor level increase each time. A team with lvl 3 upgrades compared to lvl 
 1 is a HUGE difference. Don't plan on lvl 1 surviving unless they have huge numbers in their army. 
 Some units have special abilities as well. Take the Ghost for example. He's a special ops guy. 
 He can lockdown mechanical units and prevent them from doing anything for a given period of time. 
 He can also cloak himself from harm and launch the dreaded Nuclear Missile. This is easily the 
 most powerful weapon in the game. But it's not impossible to prevent it. You just have to be prepared. 
 Ghosts are weak and if found, take less then a second to kill with a strong unit. Just hope that 
 red dot doesn't disappear before you kill him or run for the hills.
  
  There isn't really a restriction to where you can build, except obviously water, cliffs and some 
 built in ground oddities. If you've ever played Red Alert or Command &amp; Conquer, Starcraft is 
 somewhat similar in this aspect. Gameplay as well, but very different overall. The terrains range 
 from grasslands, wastelands, snow, desert, space and a few others. There's lots of unique features 
 with every map. You could almost create your own history of a map just from it's layout. It's pretty 
 interesting.
  
  Oh and did I mention you can create maps earlier? Oh yes, that's right. When you've played this 
 game for a while, map making sounds really fun about now. Rig a map in your favor and have the 
 ultimate base with a perfect defense. I mean, who wouldn't want that? There can be up to 8 teams 
 on a map and you can make some huge maps. Up to 256x256. Which literally takes the fastest units 
 a couple minutes to cross. This is like a large scale war. And the cool thing about Starcraft is 
 nothing is ever paused in the game, everything goes on at once. And it can be quite tedious to 
 control everything, give new commands and build more units at the same time. This is one thing 
 most people have difficulty at. Computers have no slowdown on this. This is why they suck.
  
  Map creation isn't limited to just vs. maps either. You can create missions or UMS (user made 
 scenarios) which literally can be anything your imagination can dream up. You can change every 
 aspect. Unit names, their stats, what their limits on upgrades and abilities are. Make up events 
 to happen at certain times, create whole new games inside of Starcraft itself. You name it, you 
 can probably do it. It might take a while to learn it though, have fun!
  
  Now online is where Starcraft really starts cookin. From here you can literally join games made 
 by hundreds of other players. Ranging from 1v1, comp stomps, UMS or ladder matches. You can also 
 chit chat on Battle. net (the server SC takes place on) with thousands of players. This game is almost 
 10 years old and there's still a quarter of a million people on the server at peak times of the 
 day. Which is astounding. Just think of it, 250,000 people on B. net. Playing one of a few games. 
 SC probably being the most popular.
  
  When you start going against other players, your skill you thought you so finely honed in offline 
 play, will now look like newbie play when you go against experienced players. They'll definitely 
 teach you a few things about strategy and it's real good to stick with this for a while to get 
 used to the new way you'll be playing for the rest of your gamin time. Make friends, create teams, 
 dominate opponents, keep a record and strut your skills!
  
  Controls - 9/10
  I'm usually not a fan of computer games, but Starcraft is birds eye view AND you can do everything 
 from the mouse if you wanted. Most of the unit moving around and selecting units involves the mouse. 
 Shortcuts to quick build stuff or jump from one spot on the map to another is what the keyboard 
 is for. Or creating groups to quickly send troops one way and another batch from another location. 
 All together Starcraft utilizes the keys very well and makes it quite easy to play.
  
  Storyline - 9/10
  The storyline is very impressive. Starcraft is like a world of it's own. The 
 single player campaigns is where it's all it. And playing them in sequence won't confuse you down 
 the road if you get BroodWar before playing the original first 3 campaigns. It may seem weird to 
 play each race at a time, but as you play all 3, the past events in the other missions will make 
 sense as you continue on. The objectives range vastly from utterly destroying the bad guys, keeping 
 someone safe to massing an army for a future mission. They really test your skills, as strategy 
 is a MUST to completing these missions.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  As old as Starcraft is, the graphics are pretty damn impressive. I mean, nothing compared to Xbox360 
 games or something, but for such a large scale game, it works out damn great. With literally an 
 infinite amount of action going on in game, you can imagine how messy it might get with graphics 
 or frame rate. However this isn't the case at all. If you have a fairly decent computer, it'll 
 run fine. And games that can do this is pretty dang rare. That's a lot of action going on! Oh, 
 the blood and guts are great too. Gotta love that blood, mmmm.
  
  Sound - 9/10
  Every unit has like, 5-8 different unique things they say. It's pretty cool. Double clicking on 
 them gets them to say something interesting or funny. It'll keep you entertained if you get bored 
 in a mission or in game waiting for something to happen. There's practically a voice for everything 
 you do. Whenever you select units, there's a voice. When you start missions, there's voices. When 
 you get attacked, you know it. Even a damn Nuke has it's own warning! (thank god it does) All in 
 all, you're bound to find a few things the units say a good laugh. *cough*Observer*cough*
  
  Replay Value - 10/10
  There is no end to this games fun. You can play it forever. With online 
 capabilities and thousands of people to game against, not to mention the amount of UMS games people 
 have created is just insane. You have all the missions to beat, maybe some CHEATS to figure out 
 for your offline enjoyment and 3 different races to master! Heck, become good enough and engage 
 in tournaments to make some cash. Who knows, maybe you can make a living from playing a video game. 
 And maybe I'll see you online someday. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyGeo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Well though this review is coming almost a decade after the game was released the game is still 
 Golden. In my opinion the best RTS ever created. The game even though 9 years old still has a very 
 large fanbase. The campaign is kind of repetitive but is still very fun to play and let's you enjoy 
 using all of the available races. The game offers 3 different races; zerg. protoss, and terran. 
 Who all boast interesting units and have their own agendas in the campaign. The game is fairly 
 balanced leaving the gameplay solid lacking nothing. The reason I still play this game after all 
 these years is how fun it can be online. Battlenet is very easy to use, still has a large amount 
 of patrons still playing online even with custom maps, and doesn't require much effort to get into 
 a game. If you have never tried StarCraft, you must. The first true groundbreaking RTS to be made. 
 Not much else needs to be said about StarCraft, it is just a complete work of art that will still 
 be enjoyable in the decades to come. Kudos go to Blizzard for always providing excellence in every 
 game. Very much obliged for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moogle_eater_89
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you're ever with a group of nerds or game enthusiasts (as some wish to be known as,) you might 
 come across a few games that you can relate to. If there is one game that everyone in the room 
 can relate to, I bet that that game would be Starcraft. So as you can imagine, this game is very 
 popular; played all over the globe. The gameplay is reminiscent of Warcraft, and yet quite the 
 opposite. I personally like the feudal era more, but this game is great, as well. You have three 
 distinct races: Terrans (humans that are given this name I guess to describe where they come from 
 by other species,) they tend to be good at defence. Zerg (an alien species with low intelligence, 
 but gifted with raw fighting power,) and Protoss (they look more like terrans, but contain a unique 
 ability to forge psi, which is a fictitious energy, perhaps related to eastern philosophy.) Each 
 race is given its own strengths and weaknesses. Overall the gameplay is pretty flawless. The graphics 
 are fine. The music is superb. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindThaGap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Without doubt StarCraft has made a huge success in rts games because of it's new based formula 
 that Blizzard used. It is completely unlike the past games of Blizzard and it provided many new 
 features in a way to be one of the best rts games.
  
  Let us start with the single-player mode of the game and first of all the campaign. It is based 
 on a well-written scenario which always makes someone to want to see what is next. Also the missions 
 are not boring as you unlock many buildings and units in the first missions. The campaign may not 
 have many aims to achieve but it gets hard so it needs hours spending.
  
  About the skirmish now there should be a difficulty selection as the enemy in skirmish is too hard 
 to win for an amateur.
  
  Finally about the multi-player. The LAN multi-player is very well-made as there are no misdirections 
 in forming teams and map settings. The Internet multi-player is based on Blizzards reliable server 
 Battle. net where everything is ordinated to the best way. The different sections of game selections, 
 chat, friends and tournament makes someone to find what he wants easy and fast.
  
  To sum up, StarCraft is made with much work and everyone can see that it is a game not to be forgotten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Stunning game, takes you about 15 minutes to get started and along the lines of 60 hours of pure 
 fun and discovery. Recreated a world of mystery and monsters like only seen in your dreams
  
  Nice thing about this title is that it creates a need to see more, making it very enjoyable, 
 and adding lots of replaying value. Gives Command and Conquer a run for its money, witch in my 
 opinion is a great thing.
  
  This game is like popcorn, once you get started, you don't want to stop. Nice graphics for the 
 time. But the engine and playability is what gives this game its edge. Love you Starcraft... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waningwhisper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  If you want the perfect strategy game, this is it! You can have tons of hours of fun whether you 
 play the story-based single player or play FOR FREE online against people all around the world. 
 The single player has a great storyline with amazing cutscenes, and you end up playing all three 
 species and watching the plot unfold as you progress. Truly phenomenal!
  
  The units and buildings are interrelated and resources are limited so this game really makes you 
 think and often you have to make sacrifices in order to win (maybe you don't get to create a flagship 
 because you don't have time and should be making a hundred marines) . I also thought that the missions 
 were great, because each one put different objectives and constraints on you, so that you don't 
 just do the same thing over and over again on different planets.
  
  On top of being an amazing game with free online playing, it's cheaper than many of its competitors 
 (you can get the whole battlechest for about twenty USD) . Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first great PC game I played. I bought it on its release and still play it to 
 this day.
  
  Its graphics may be dated but it still keeps it fresh with great art design and character direction. 
 This game is great, just it's hard for new players to get into it since the graphics. Don't let 
 it fool you!
  
  The storyline in this game takes you across all three of the games races with an interesting, constantly 
 developing conflict that draws you in. It may be a little slow at first for RTS fanatics with its 
 tutorials, but keep playing. You feel a great sense of understanding for the characters and what 
 they stand for in the end.
  
  If single player is done with, or doesn't interest you, there's still multiplayer online with Battle. net. 
 It has great melee maps built in and user created maps along with it. It also sports a Use Map 
 Settings mode to make your own game types which is a great little tool.
  
  This game has great balance, and low price tag in a battle chest. If you cam find the game without 
 guides it's $10 so don't miss out on this great game! Like I said in the beginning, this game is 
 a 9.9, but I am unallowed to give it that so 10 it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  There's a reason millions of people still play this game. It's perfectly balanced, has kick ass 
 characters/villans, and the storyline is sweet.
  
  If you like RTS at all, you need this game right now. It is, in my opinion, Blizzard's best RTS, 
 and even the best classical RTS ever made. Really, it's that good. I think it's even better than 
 Warcraft 3, even though it was made before it. This game is worth owning and playing through and 
 holds up well in its age. I'd suggest buying this game if you haven't already just to prepare for 
 the sequel. You'll really want to be acquainted with the story, as it is very story driven; no 
 doubt the sequel will be as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  StarCraft is a real time strategy game by Blizzard Entertainment. It was initially released for 
 Microsoft Windows in 1998. A Mac OS version of the game was released in 1999, and a port to the 
 Nintendo 64 was released in 2000. The main storyline follows a war among three galactic species: 
 the adaptable and mobile Terrans, who are descendants of Human outcasts from Earth; the hive mind 
 arthropodal Zerg; and the psionic humanoid Protoss warriors.
  
  StarCraft was the best selling computer game in 1998 and won the Origins Award for Best Strategy 
 Computer Game of that year. Nine million copies of StarCraft and its expansion pack, StarCraft: 
 Brood War, have been sold since its release, making it the third best-selling computer game in history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Lindo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I think that starcraft is one of the best real time strategy games of all time. The game has a 
 very fun and immersive story. I will start with the positives. One of the best positives is the 
 storyline, another is the fact that it is just plain good fun, another is the gameplay, another 
 positive thing is the soundtrack. Now i will speak of the few negatives. The one major negatives 
 is the graphics the graphics are of very low quality. That is about the only negative. So in conclussion 
 I say that Starcraft is one of the best rts style games out there if u have not played it go grab 
 the battle chest it is only $20 dollars and it comes with the expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  
  Thats all i can say. this game is so much fun for any gamer. I play this game everyday because 
 it is soo good. This game came out years ago and people still play it today. I vote this best PC 
 game of all time because of its greatness. I have a problem with people who hate starcraft. It 
 gets on my nerves. If you have never played this game. THEN BUY iT. it is the best ever made. 10/10. 
 5 Stars. PERFECT. If you can think of a better PC game then plz tell me and ill take a look. From 
 what i see this is the best. The cream of the Crop. the cusp of the stuff. Just goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Starcraft  will take you thru strategic large scale battle against hordes of alien zergs, rough 
 marine and high tech species protos which side you chose will determine your destiny unless you 
 play again using the other race.
  Game-play is simple, basic formula Gather + Build =Attack with a lot of strategizing to do. The 
 graphics are easy to look at very well done units even if the screen has 400 units running around 
 you wont fell a single lag, good game-play, easy to learn a much fun game to play on LAN to with 
 your friends. that will make countless of hours beating up the person beside you, well no need 
 to say much for this game is a must play looking at it as Blizzard is the back bone of Starcraft 
 and every other good RTS out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamthebowler
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok shut up that graphics are old who gives a care, know I am done with that. Starcraft has to be 
 the best RTS around and oh my god, there is a god, Starcraft II is coming but this not a preview 
 of SCII this a review of SC! Starcraft has no flaws. The singplayer story is amazing, good voice 
 acting. Great editor. But where this game really shines is the amazingly well rounded races. No 
 race over powers another here's an example, alot of zerg just took out a small amount of Firebats 
 so what bring in the Marines and then the marines get mopped up my Zealots but oh no here comes 
 the Ultralisks and so and so on. There's not much review because this game is just perfect in everywhere, 
 its just seems pointless to keep saying good things about when you should be playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Starcraft + Broodwars expansion
  
  After playing so many RTS games this old &amp; simple game remains the best in the genre. Full 
 review inside.
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 9/10
  - Story 3/5 - Graphics 4/5 - Sound 3/5
  - Effort/Innovation 5/5
  - Replay Value 10/10
  
 
  - Overall 34/40 or 8.5/10
  - Monetary Value $50 + $20 expansion
  
  This game needs no introduction. If you havent played it, then you should try to get a copy and 
 play it just for gaming history sake. Starcraft was a run-off from Blizzards other famous game 
 Warcraft II. Starcraft came out after Warcraft II and became the defacto, most popular RTS worldwide 
 and remains so in some countries such as Korea where Starcraft competitions are akin to sporting 
 events here in America. Even the release of Warcraft III couldnt de-thrown this game from the 
 hearts of those who experienced it in its prime.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY : 9/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  One of the simplest RTSs you will ever play. There are 3 races Terran, Protoss, and the Zerg each 
 with their own unique units and abilities. The Protoss tend to create powerful but slow building 
 units while the Zerg create weak units in large numbers (this is where the term Zerging comes 
 from) while the Terran units sit somewhere between the other two races. Each race has a very feel 
 to them not just in terms of units but in unit abilities as well. The Terran get long range tanks 
 &amp; hair raising nuclear strikes. The Protoss have devastating Reavers and Templars with their 
 patented shock attacks. The Zerg have annoying overlord flying everywhere and Lurkers that burrow 
 waiting for the 1st unlucky enemy to get in its range. The differences between races makes for 
 very different experience every time you play. Using the different strength of your race and weakness 
 of your enemy many different strategies can be created which brings us to learning the game initially.
 
  
  If you play through the story mode you will bounce between different races allowing you experience 
 all of them to prepare you for what the game is really about online competition. You join a game, 
 pick a race and you simply employ what you learned in single player in hopes of besting your opponent. 
 Of course, everyone who ever played online knows that you don't know anything until youve played 
 online but at least you will be able to recognize why you are getting owned so easily. This is 
 where Starcraft shines. The game is very easy to learn, and you learn everything you need in single 
 player but despite its relatively simple gameplay it has enough depth to differentiate the skilled 
 from the unskilled players. Needless to say, skill is the deciding factor to winning in this strategy 
 game as it should in all RTS (but as we all know this isnt the case in many others that employ 
 luck and poor balance) .
  
  Once you play online you realize that the game is much deeper than what you initially thought. 
 From heart pounding quick rushes (that most bad players die from) to aerial battles and drop-ships, 
 games can be won in a heartbeat or in over an hour depending on the relative skills of the players 
 involved. If a good player is matched up against a poor player the game will end quickly which 
 is a good thing as to not bore the good player too much and allow them to go on to another game 
 while the bad player can learn and adapt.
  
  This brings me to the game creation system. SC allowed anyone to host a game and be selective with 
 whom they allow into the game. This had good and bad consequences. Firstly, by being able to see 
 other players win, loss, disconnect statistics a host can filter out people who disconnect a lot 
 or people with no experience if they are trying to play against better players. Conversely however, 
 this led to a situation where some host could stack their own team and give bad players to the 
 opposition to increase their own chance of winning. This was later eliminated in WC3 however the 
 result was you never know who is good and who isnt so you cannot create a for expert only type 
 game and hope to get all experts meaning you potentially may not play a single good, challenging 
 game in weeks which is probably why WC3 is not liked nearly as much as SC (that and heroes took 
 a lot of strategy out of the game) . 1 point for making it hard to join the type of games you wanted 
 and for not giving us a better way to police our own game against unskilled players, saboteurs 
 (people who join just to ruin a game for everyone) , and players with poor internet connections 
 who would lag up entire games making them unplayable
  
  Overall, this game personifies what an RTS should be. Well balanced with many possible strategies. 
 Simple so anyone can play it, but deep enough to differentiate people based on skill level. Excellent 
 game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY : 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Meh so 
 so. Story mode can probably be completed in about 20 hours if you just push through it. The story 
 isnt bad per se and the voice acting is actually excellent but there is very little character 
 interaction aside from the cut-scenes between battles and short speeches during maps. Average I 
 would say.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS : 4/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  For 
 its time it looked good. Not too pixilated and gameplay was very fast and smooth. Granted RTS games 
 generally don't need to push graphics very far and this game was no exception to that but it was 
 still good enough to convey the game well and the cut scenes really did look good despite there 
 being so few of them. The units look good. The animations are sufficient. Good.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND : 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music was actually annoying especially if you played the game a lot. After a while I just turned 
 the music off during online play and listened to music instead. Voice acting was actually very 
 good. I would say average in this category as well.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; INNOVATION 5/5
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Not too bad. Even though this was an offshoot of Warcraft, it was still sufficiently different 
 enough to say that they are different games unlike other games such as WC2, WC3, Nippon Ichi RPGs, 
 and Koei games. Blizzard also gets a bonus for creating an RTS with 3 races that are very well 
 balanced unlike many other RTSs out there. This game really pushed RTS into the spotlight and 
 helped push online gaming to what it is today.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE 10/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  NOTE
  
  As I continue to write reviews I have come to realize that my scoring system isnt always very 
 good as scoring non-rpg type games. My system is set up in such a way that focuses heavily on single 
 player aspects but not much weight it given to the online aspect of games. I am now going to try 
 to remedy this by giving my traditionally un-scored REPLAY VALUE section a score based on how 
 deeply the game goes into multiplayer. In doing so, note that most of my older reviews will not 
 change and those that are online I had already adjusted via tilt. I just don't like using a tilt 
 without explaining why the tilt was made thus I hope that this section will offset that need. Now 
 on with the scoring.
  
  END NOTE
  
  If you enjoy heart pounding competition and RTS games this is the game for you (or at least it 
 was during its prime) . It still has a strong online following and you could play this for hundreds 
 of hours if you wanted to. Hell I know some folks who dropped out of college because of this game.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL : 8.5/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This game is far and 
 away my favorite non-rpg game. It is a modern mans game of speed chess but is a lot more exciting 
 and with more players involved. It still has a lot of areas to improve upon however including its 
 online implementation and its story mode length could be longer as well. Music can also use some 
 polishing but overall, this is a AAA title and we will probably see some serious mania worldwide 
 when SC2 comes out.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  $50 + $20 for the expansion and well worth it. You can probably pick both up today for less than 
 $20 in a bundle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft and its expansion, Brood War, are Real Time Strategy games on the PC and Mac, and are 
 widely considered to be among the best games in the last few years. Blizzard, the developer of 
 lore that makes games for the computer platform, perfected the genre with these games, which came 
 out in 1998, and they are considered classics. Not only does it contain fun and engaging gameplay, 
 but its depth and sophistication of game making has yet to be duplicated.
  
  The real time strategy genre is simple in the way that it works in concept, but StarCraft makes 
 it even more complex without making it too hard. All sides of the battle take their turns at once, 
 limited only by their resources and skills. This means that very large fights occur on a regular 
 basis, and it's up to the commander to manage the units accordingly. A full tree of units and buildings 
 map out the progression of technology as the game progresses, because these battles can last many, 
 many hours if the players are equally skilled. That said, the gameplay here takes the genre fundamentals 
 and turns it into an amazing experience.
  
  But the game is still user friendly, even with all this depth. The user interface is clean and 
 obviously labeled, and there's always a help function available in the single player game (no help 
 in the middle of an online battle, sorry) . The mouse is the primary button used, but the keyboard 
 can have shortcuts to get you to your units faster, speeding up even the inexperienced. The tutorial 
 walks through everything, but it's over before the veterans know it and the game is well into its 
 roller coaster campaign.
  
  The player picks from three species: the Terran (humans with a good range of units) , the Zerg (bug-type 
 things with many weak units) , and the Protoss (a futuristic nomad group with few strong units) . 
 Each of the races has a campaign of their own, which introduce units and gameplay styles to the 
 player. And somehow, Blizzard balanced these three sides perfectly, which is one of the feats in 
 the game that makes it so stunning. There's a style in this game for everybody's way of playing, 
 but no one way is "better." There are advanced tactics that can overcome the computer, but for 
 a human opponent there's no silver bullet unit that will destroy them to a pulp.
  
  The expansion, Brood War, is simply the most substantial expansion set that has been released. 
 Period. Not only does it double the length of the first game, but it adds six or seven units (depending 
 on how you look at it) plus new music, plot, and movies. It makes playing online with the original 
 useless: the new areas and units just make it a better multiplayer game.
  
  Speaking of other people, the multiplayer is fantastic. Using Blizzard's own Battle. net that originated 
 for Diablo and WarCraft II, the game allows you to see and join other games, make your own with 
 or without a password, or just use the front lobby to chat. In this day and age the games run extremely 
 smooth and your matches are usually lag free-most internet users can get a good game going, and 
 if you find a good person to play with, there's no shortage of enjoyment this game can bring you.
 
  
  But what if there is no social interaction at your computer? The computer's fine too. There are 
 scalable settings for the AI beasts, and they can get viciously hard. Not only is the main campaign 
 a nice challenge (but not too hard) but the skirmishes later can add a lot to the game. The AI 
 is believable enough that nobody will really complain. Plus, there's a map editor if you want to 
 make your own battlefields. There's no shortage of opponents to deck out your mad mouse-moving 
 skills to.
  
  And it has some stylized graphics to show these battles off. Although it may not stand up to modern 
 offerings like Company of Heroes or Supreme Commander, the 2D graphics have an odd cartoon look 
 to them, which only helps the overall feel of the game as well as the low system requirements. 
 All of the units and structures are lovingly detailed and animated, although sometimes they can 
 look very simplealmost too simple. Fires look like two-frame flipbooks, and the walking of the 
 ground units looks sluggish and choppy.
  
  But what are cool are the other effects. Blazing guns look very neat when there are thirty Marines 
 blasting the Zerglings to bits, and the vehicle units look distinctly smooth in their movement. 
 Large attacks like the Yamato cannon appear satisfyingly powerful, while any explosion will make 
 the player feel like they accomplished something. The art style is as good as Blizzard is known 
 for, and the game can be run on almost any computer these days. Only a minor slowdown might occur 
 when the maximum units are flying at each other (200) . Any gamer who doesn't mind having a little 
 age in their graphics won't mind any of these qualms a bit, though.
  
  What will blow almost any gamer away are the numerous cutscenes. While some are short and involve 
 the main plotline at hand, there are some very well placed movies that just delve into the universe 
 of StarCraft some more, and they always feel like a reward. Some of these are just simply great: 
 although the 3D renders aren't the best, the pacing and genuine thrill that is portrayed makes 
 the cutscenes a real treat. The first game has a cutscene every three missions, while the expansion 
 leaves it at one per campaign, plus a new opening and ending movie. Brood War's opening cutscene 
 is not only exhilarating, but it's emotional, too, and it's the best in the game. But all of the 
 movies well done and they add a lot to the game.
  
  The sound, however, has never been Blizzard's strong suite. While the voice-overs are of the best 
 quality, the music is pretty deadpan, save a few exceptions. The Terran song set is a very neat 
 mix of soft rock and an orchestrational soundtrack, and while it isn't inspiring like Total Annihilation's 
 full symphonic music, it will suffice. Bugger the rest of the game can't follow, and it's usually 
 pretty dull, if it doesn't fit the mood fairly well.
  
  But as said, the voice-overs are great. A wide range of actors are behind every speech clip and 
 they pull it off very well. Some of the humans have Russian accents, while the Zerg speak in low 
 gravel with clacking in the background. Every unit has a special set of lines that it uses randomly, 
 so while the dropship might say something when you click on it once, the second time it might be 
 different. Sometimes these phrases get cheesy and possibly annoying, but the polish is worth it.
 
  
  This game is huge. Equate buying the StarCraft bundle to buying an entire series of a TV show on 
 DVD: the single player alone will net you twenty to fifty hours in one playthrough, depending on 
 your skill. Then you have the limitless multiplayer over Battle. net. Then you have the scenario 
 create for making new maps and single player mission to solve and trade with other people online. 
 There's so much game here it's not even funny. As long as you enjoy the subject material, this 
 game can last you forever.
  
  There's one last thing about StarCraft that needs mention before this is wrapped up. The ESBR rating 
 is border-line. Currently it's Teen for Animated Violence and Strong Language. Add in Animated 
 Blood and Gore to that list. StarCraft is a very bloody game, and it's very violent. The language 
 is basically "the Hoover" said extremely often, as well as a few other choice words. It never gets 
 too out of hand, but know: this game is very close to Mature.
  
  But all that aside, StarCraft is amazing. It's deep, long and just plain fun. If you are reading 
 this, you have access to a computer, so you should own this game: go now and buy it. You will not 
 be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  REVIEW.
  Almost ten years destroying my little zergs, my huge protoss or my technologic terran, I just can 
 stop playing it, 3 different races who no one of the 3 have the same thing, or even close, just 
 nothing who make them be the same they totally different, and some times you cant choose who you 
 like you have to choose with which one you play better than the other. The are the terran, the 
 terran is one of the most easy to use because the arent so expensive or to cheap, then there are 
 those insect faster destroyers that are the zergs, they really cheap and fast destroying and easy 
 to destroy but they always are on invasions thats how the always win, then there are these huge 
 expensive and hard to kill, there name is protoss, protoss is the most expensive race and most 
 efficient. The music and sound cant be better explosions, deaths and different music songs during 
 battle for each race is awesome, graphics are still good looking and impressive, the campaign is 
 the best of all, STAR WARS get small with the history of starcraft. Online, in this game is excellent 
 yes like playing a custom game, the only bad thing is that the story is still not all told yet, 
 but STARCRAFT II is coming so I just can wait more.
  
  This game you should have it, play it, and enjoy it at least 1 or 2 hours for a day or you just 
 dont have what is needed for the game. Must must must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_ro
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  There are three races fighting each other, each with it's strong points and weaknesses: protoss, zerg 
 and terran. If u learn how to do it u can be very powerful and win all the wars no matter which 
 of the 3 u represent. This game is so good even now in 2007and u can play it with your friends and 
 don't get bored .This is how all the strategy games should look cause this one really rocks. The 
 single player campaign is very well made but when u beat the game there's the multiplayer option 
 and u can do it against other guys or against one or more computers (if u want a real challenge) . Have 
 fun playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chockett
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game is simply put, the best strategy game I've played to date. Each race has a different 
 gameplay style with the proper balance between them. The story in the single player campaign is 
 top notch, as are the graphics and sound for it's time. The action is fast paced compared to Warcraft 
 (II and III) and the rock/paper/scissors aspect that makes strategy games fun and challenging is 
 definitely there. The single player missions have a great deal of variety to them, although alot 
 of them are the standard destroy the enemy base (s) . I don't think anyone done the user interface 
 to a strategy game better than the guys @ Blizzard, the controls are easy to learn, but hard to 
 master. I've finished the single player campaign and I'm going to play through all of the custom 
 maps, as well as take on Brood War. I'm looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalFreekz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. Simple as that. It has a very engaging single player, and the multiplayer 
 is extremely fun. This game is always being outshined by WoW and Warcraft 3 and such, so nobody 
 ever gets to see how amazing this game is. It is so underrated, and for the most part, a must-have 
 game. I couldn't recommend it to you more, it's just an amazing game. While it's graphics may not 
 be up to today's, standards, it's still an amazing game. This is a perfect example of Gameplay 
 Over Graphics. This is just an amazing RTS in every way, shape, and form, and EASILY destroys any 
 other game in the RTS genre. YOU MUST GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is truly hard to describe. Any game that can be out for 9 years and still be the best 
 has to be great. The people wjo don't like this game never gave it a chance because it is hard 
 to learn. Once you learn it you choose the species you are. Doing that you start devoloping your 
 own stradegies. That is what makes this game so great, the endless amount of stradegies you can 
 use. I would keep going on about this review, but I really want to go play this game. Oh yeah and 
 this game is rated T not M like Gamespot has it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harmlesstoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  In the middle of 2007, when looking back on the amount of computer games the last decade, Starcraft 
 stands out (in my opinion) , as the single best RTS ever made.
  
  It is (as with all things Blizzard) straightforward and easy to learn, but also offers a depth 
 for the gamer who has the time and enthusiasm that makes this game worth playing again and again 
 and again.
  
  The fact that this game is so extremely well balanced with 3 completely different factions never 
 makes multiplayer matches boring. The simple and effective HUD and nice controlling just makes 
 the game shine.
  
  Blizzard also made a fantastic single player campaign, which is strongly story driven and highly 
 entertaining. The story unfolds throughout all 3 faction-campaigns, so all 30 missions are enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themaazandar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  There is just one word for Starcraft -- Legendary! Never has a game provided the kind of longevity 
 that Starcraft provides. This longevity is based neither on the story nor on the features (though 
 both of which are considerable!) . Its basis is original reason why people play games... good, solid 
 FUN! Whether you play the mind-blowing campaign, full of twists, solid characters and not a few 
 examples of cursing (oh yes!) or whether you play skirmish or multiplayer, this game will not let 
 you down. When you first start up the game and enter campaign mode, you might think What is this? 
 I know I did. With a few small units, you're told to do a routine mission. Boring! That changes 
 pretty soon though, as the story develops and better units enter the fray. Soon you'll be engrossed 
 and mom with be yelling at you to go to sleep coz its 2am. By the time you're ready for a skirmish 
 game, you'll have shed all inhibitions about Starcraft. And the skirmish mode is where this game 
 actually begins. . .
  
  Each of the three factions is amazing in its own way and offers you versatile units you can mix-and-match, 
 effectively providing you with multiple tactics to defeat your foes. As Terrans, you can either 
 rush opponents with marines/vultures, build a fleet of 24+ siege tanks escorted by 12+ battlecruisers 
 bombarding everything around you (yeah I did that once!) or launch nukes on the enemy. As Zerg, 
 lay an ambush or overwhelm your enemy with literally hundreds of zerglings! As Protoss, dominate 
 the skies with a fleet of scouts or destroy large groups with psionic storms... the list is endless... the 
 tactics innumerable... the fun, never-ending.
  
  There are complains about the game of course but they are more of an imaginitive nature than game-play 
 criticisms. There is so much possible in a world such as Starcraft that one would feel that Blizzard 
 hasn't utilized its full potential, a fact amply demonstrated by the new units added in the expansion 
 pack. Graphics-wise, the game is understandably dated - but the graphics still look pretty nice 
 - and with animations like nuke, siege tank, cloaking and warping, you really can't complain. Sound 
 is great, specially Terran music and Protoss speech. All in all, Starcraft is a game that will 
 be played for a long while to come and deservedly so. Even if you play it to death, you will still 
 come back to it later and enjoy the experience. Its a legend and I wouldn't be surprised if it 
 is written down in bold letters in a historic timeline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Starcraft appears to be a standard RTS (real-time strategy) game where the player 
 builds up a technology tree and gathers resources in order to create new and more powerful units 
 to use against their opponent. In prior iterations of the formula that meant building tanks en 
 masse to swarm the enemy. Starcraft, however, is too varied in its available units to allow for 
 a single-strategy to work against a smart opponent or even the artificial intelligence.
  
  Racial Profiling
  In Starcraft you select from one of three races. The Terran race is the human 
 race. Consequently, their units are the most easily recognized. You will find familiar marines, 
 assault motorcycles (Vultures) , tanks, and a walking robot bearing a striking resemblance to ED-209 
 from Robocop. Each race has a different strength, and the Terrans have a strong mid-game, but a 
 weaker early and late game.
  
  The Zerg are an entirely biological race directed by factions of an Overmind known as Cerebrates 
 . They are by far the most alien of the three races, and their technology tree develops in a completely 
 different manner from the Terrans. Their units gestate into buildings or other units that originate 
 from a hive. The Zerg units tend to be weak, be inexpensive and quick to build, making it easiest 
 to overwhelm the opponent with raw numbers rather than strategic attacks. If you ever saw the movie 
 Starship Troopers, you will have an instant familiarity with the race.
  
  The Protoss are an entirely alien race that live in constant battle against the Zerg swarms. The 
 Protoss are the most technologically advanced. Their units have shielding, are very expensive, 
 but also extremely tough. The Protoss are lacking in the early game due to the high cost of their 
 units. However, the Protoss can dominate the late game with superior firepower and tactically advanced 
 warcraft.
  
  A Window to a Universe
  Starcraft takes place on planets ranging from Terran worlds, to the ashen fields of the Zerg homeworld 
 Char, to the elegant spires of the technologically advanced Protoss homeworld of Aiur. Your player 
 view is a 3/4 overhead view of space platforms, barren fields, and tree-pocked worlds. Everything 
 is sprite-based, and units are tiny. It can be difficult to discern one unit from another, particularly 
 with the Zerg, who are all similar in color and shape. As the player learns the technology tree, 
 however, he or she gains more familiarity with the various units and comes to recognize each quickly.
 
  
  The artwork is impressive, though dated in 2007. Char appears a barren wasteland. Aiur is filled 
 with the ruins of old civilizations. Tiny Zergling units rush across the battlefield as gigantic 
 Ultralisks lumber afterward. Protoss warriors have an awkward gait as the approach their quarry, 
 and the spider-like dragoon moves in as unnatural and awkward a manner as it appears. The Terrans 
 have a recognizable familiarity that evokes the feel of present day, despite the future setting.
 
  
  A Matter of Survival
  Starcraft has thirty missions in its core campaign, ten for each race. The player will become the 
 Terran, Zerg, and Protoss races in turn as he or she jockeys for survival. Survival is, of course, 
 what Starcraft is all about. The story unfolds as the Zerg begin appearing on planets throughout 
 the Terran worlds in overwhelming numbers. Naturally, the Terrans are too busy fighting amongst 
 themselves to recognize the imminent threat.
  
  The story is sequential. When you complete the ten Terran missions, you become the Zerg, picking 
 up at a point in time after the Terran missions ended. The same holds true for the Protoss, who 
 you are charged with using to fight back the successes of your prior Zerg campaign.
  
  Characters with Character
  In the course of the game you will meet a colorful array of characters 
 from bad-boy with a golden heart Jim Raynor, to the angry infighting of the Zerg cerebrates, to 
 the tradition-bound warrior race of the Protoss. Each has their own developments in morals and 
 allegiances to deal with as the story progresses.
  
  Therein lies one of the beauties of Starcraft: the single-player game was obviously as important 
 to Blizzard in development as the multiplayer game. The storyline twists and turns as its cast 
 is placed in unusual circumstances. There are betrayals and sacrifices alike, making for great 
 science fiction drama.
  
  The voice actors also portray their characters' qualities with conviction, strengthening their 
 authenticity. Jim Raynor sounds like a soldier who is tired of being a soldier, but continues to 
 fight out of frustrating necessity. The Protoss sound much like the Klingon race of Star Trek fame: 
 honorable warriors from an ancient race that take pride in their battle-scars. The Zerg screen 
 and cry like the twisted animal abominations that they are.
  
  By the end of the game you will feel every bit as if you have fought alongside a group of people 
 you have come to know well. You will also be exhausted from the constant and long battles Starcraft 
 requires of you to achieve specific goals, such as acquiring computer disks, destroying a particular 
 enemy, or freeing a key ally from incarceration.
  
  Provoke your inner Overmind
  Starcraft is strategically challenging, requiring equal parts planning and reacting to achieve 
 victory. Resources are always limited, forcing the player to construct those units necessary as 
 quickly as possible within a limited budget. Careful consideration of the opponents situation, 
 resources, strengths, and weaknesses all need to be factored into constructing the appropriate 
 defensive and offensive forces.
  
  The same holds true of player-versus-player games in which your opponent might through any of a 
 number of units at you. They might construct cloaked units, a massive air force, tank units, or 
 a single unit micromanaged sneak attack through a hole in your defenses. The challenge is a mental 
 one up until the attack itself, when a battle of reaction time becomes central.
  
  If you enjoy a polished game that plays like a science fiction chess, you will love Starcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  As a C&amp; C fan, I see that Command &amp; Conquer has met its match with Starcraft, also a sci-fi 
 RTS, and it comes with a hefty amount of cinematics to beef up its value and reputation as one 
 of the leading pioneers of real-time strategy classics.
  
  Having 3 very different factions with their own unique strategy aspects and broad tech trees, Starcraft 
 offers a higher gaming value than some competitors of the same genre at that time. Heavily borrowed 
 from Warcraft2's tactics, Starcraft features a unique 'research upgrades' element that finds a 
 lot of fans loving it. Yamato Cannon is my all-time fave.
  
  However, for gamers new to the RTS genre, Starcraft may be a tad too complex for them to really 
 appreciate it, and that's where C&amp; C or Red Alert's straightforwardness shines. But for veteran 
 RTS fans, Starcraft is a fine classic that should uphold its charm even till now.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 934400
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft was released in 1998 (2 years from which people in the 60's thought we would have robots 
 &amp; flying cars!!) . Blizzard was famous for developing the game before starcraft called Warcraft. 
 Warcraft was a huge success so now Blizzard had to make another game, this one is just as good 
 as Warcraft.
  
  Due to the fact that this game is 9 years old never bothered anyone. This game is still played, 
 thousands of people worldwide are still playing this game, there are still tournaments for this 
 game and people who get paid to play Starcraft.
  
  The graphics are great the units on the battlefield are little glitchy but you get the idea that 
 this small creature on the ground is a zergling and not a spider mine just about to explode. The 
 difficulty is just right, if you thought the last level was easy wait until you get to the next 
 one and it won't be so easy as the one before it.
  
  If you were to play Warcraft or Warcraft II you would feel right at home with this game because 
 it feels and looks almost identical to each other. There is HOTKEYS thank goodness for hotkeys, 
 hotkeys just make your progess in making a base and attacking with a huge army very easy than it 
 normally would be.
  
  Overall this game is very good and is worth waiting if you got it on Ebay &amp; you can still get 
 this at Walmart or target and even gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortaljester6
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RTS out there.... STILL it will awalys be fun no matter what, I can play this game 
 for hours and hours on end and still have fun no matter if its an old game i got it when it came 
 out and still to date this is one of my most played games i can't stop having fun with this game. 
 You may get bored with it but even not playing for a few years its still fun as he11. I think even 
 after the second one comes out I will still play this one just because it is so d4mn fun, mabey 
 not as much but i will contuine to play it when i can or for that matter want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EE2lemmonhead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Alright, in case you don't know what StarCraft is, it is a SciFi Real-Time Strategy game by Blizzard 
 Entertainment, released in 1998, and is considered by many to be the best RTS game ever created. 
 Players take control of 3 different factions, which are the terrans, the humans of the future, 
 the zergs, swarming mutant aliens, and the protoss, futuristic hitech aliens, reminiscent of those 
 in War of the Worlds. Note I am rating this game like i would back in '98, so please dont disagree 
 because you think the graphics are bad or something.
  
  Gameplay: 9-One of the most compelling aspects of StarCraft's gameplay is the factions. In games 
 such as Command and Conquer, the factions are pretty much the same, there are different units but 
 they are all functionally the same. Sure, each faction has its unique units, but in StarCraft, 
 this was totally different. No two factions share a single unit, whether in functionality, personality, 
 or anything else. Every unit is unique. The Low-class infantry, for example, are all very different. 
 There are the terran marines, armed with weak armor and automatic rifles, the protoss zealots, 
 armed with heavy armor and powerful psi blades, and the zerg zerglings, weak but very cheap, making 
 swarming the enemy with many many units your only way to win as Zerg. Each faction also plays very 
 differently, so each player may have a favorite faction depending on their play style, while others 
 enjoy toying with all the factions and playing them all. The best part about all the factions is 
 that they are all perfectly balanced, or the closest to perfect anyone has ever seen, and every 
 unit, even the low class infantry, has a role through to the end of the game. The reason I'm not 
 giving it a perfect 10 is because command of your units isn't as easy as other games of its era, 
 such as Total Annihilation, for reasons such as the infamous Blizzard unit selection limit. But, 
 as the old dog saying goes, every visit to the vet has a car ride included, there is some good 
 in this, and that is that the gameplay is made even more intense, and i think this hard to control-ness 
 kind of makes me even more addicted, and it makes competitive starcraft very very skill-oriented. 
 Also, the singleplayer campaign has earned an honorable mention, as it was the best out there back 
 in its day, and is still very fun right now. Most of the missions follow the standard build your 
 base and destroy the enemys with other random objectives scattered in, but seems way more fun than 
 other campaigns for a reason i do not know. Also, there are other types of missions, where i guess 
 blizzard wanted to mix it up, and it keeps you interested in the campaign from start to finish.
 
  
  I am giving graphics and sound the same score gamespot gave them as i could not properly rate them 
 because the game is so old.
  
  Value-10- This game is a game you will spend a lot of your time playing intense multiplayer in, 
 and thus deserves a 10. This game has had people playing it for hours and hours a day every day 
 since its release, without even the almight World of Warcraft able to tear them away. But some 
 do not like the multiplayer, and before you buy the game, play some multiplayer matches in the 
 demo, and if you dont like it, buy the battle chest for like $20 for the singleplayer campaign. 
 Because this game is so cheap it is well worth it to buy the game.
  
  I have not been playing long, but do not get fooled by that, because no other game has had my heart 
 beating as fast as it does at the end, not even counterstrike, and that games pretty intense, so 
 i know i will be playing this game until the release of starcraft 2, and possibly very far after 
 that (considering the fact that sc2 could possibly suck) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Bacon_master
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a game that i still see sold in stores and ive owned this game for many years from 
 now and i can say it was one of the best games of my childhood games.
  
  Its a bit like age of empires but alot diffrent and the gameplay feels alot diffrent also and also 
 you get to play as all of the 3 diffrent races. Theres the Terrans - Human Races. The Zergs - a 
 type of Alien i guess you could say? and last but not least the Protoss - another sort of alien 
 race.
  
  Well if you go in order you start wit the Terran campain and as you progress though the levels 
 it becomes a very interesting story line but then after you have finished the Terran campain you 
 get to be the Zergs and see the story if they had won agaist the Terrans. Then you get to see the 
 battle from the Protoss race after you have completed the Zergs Campain.
  
  But to be able to build anything you got to lstart mining minerials and also harvest the Vespene 
 gas and thats how you build stuff its pretty much saying its money and to also build more units 
 for your army. But also theres a limt on how many units you have you can ether make it longer by 
 building the right building or if you need more then 200 units but thats the limit you can allways 
 uses cheats you big cheater.
  
  If Your Looking for a game thats kind of Ages of Empires but want more then Starcraft is for you 
 i think you can buy it for $10 (AU) so its not much for a awesome game like this you should of 
 at least played it once in your lifetime check it out sometime. And maybe you could try this starcraft 
 then go and buy Starcraft 2 witch will be probley a must buy also or at least a must play.
  
  Bacon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolinbny1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the champion of all real time strategies. What's better than having a based army and 
 defending bases while scouting our for their bases and destroying them bit by bit, or the whole 
 thing at once? Nothing is better. You can have over an army of 100 marines with great damage being 
 dropped from the sky with dropships - The D-Day tactic, as I so happilly named it for the largest 
 invasion in history. This tactic MUST include at least 6 dropships, 40 marines - at least 2 upgrades 
 on them, and can include any type of mechanical units after these requirements are filled out. 
 Oh yea, it can only be done with the Terrans. But I am getting off the point... This game is revolutionary 
 and amazing, it is a great thing done by Blizzard and it has one of the greatest and most loyal 
 followings of any game in the history of man. Once you get in, you can't get out. My favorite game, 
 and it holds that title with distinction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXCol_SandersXx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  No other game ever created has met the preciseness of this game. Its unbelievable when one thinks 
 of the strategic possibilities of this game, its as if they are endless. Three races is all you 
 need when the game is a balanced and smooth RTS. Before starcraft 2 comes out, a revisit to the 
 old starcraft is a must, the story line is so deep and well-done, its like watching a sci-fi movie, 
 only a really good one for a change. And i wish i could get a 100 words faster... Ugh ive written 
 all i want to just lemme finish this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Play as 3 diffrent races and kill each other with all kinds of diffrent vehicles and 
 guns and ships Graphichs: An amazing graphical display for a game from early 1998 nice explosions 
 and blood efects enviroments and backgrounds are moddled flawlessly.
  
  
  Sound: Nice sound with each charcter having a diffrent voice music is nice expically during battle 
 and boring times in the game!
  
  Value: The game should be very very cheap now and is amazing all i have to say is go buy it you 
 will get many hours of fun out of it!\
  
  The Good: amazing graphics and sound long game with many missions for each of the 3 races ( humans 
 protoss zerg) The Bad: Some random crashes and lag spikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is pure fun, plain and simple. There's a huge variety of units, three races, and any 
 number of ways to be win.
  
  The actual story mode is incredible, and is great for learning how to play. But, in my opinion, 
 the real fun is online play. Seeing the strategies people come up with (the infamous Zerg rush, 
 for example, in which you play as the Zerg race and pump out some weak units as quickly as you 
 possibly can, overwhelming your opponent before they have a chance to even get started) is really 
 fun. And, of course, each strategy you come across will be subconsciously added to your arsenal.
 
  
  But in the event you grow weary of actual battling, there are hundreds upon hundreds of user-made 
 maps out there, called use map settings (or UMS) maps, which have entirely different goals.
  
  Here are some examples:
  
  Defense maps - Any map with the name ______ defense. In these 
 games, you fend off waves of enemies (which usually don't attack, but instead run right past your 
 defenses to try to get somewhere you don't want them to get to) , building as good a defense as 
 you can.
  
  Madness maps - Multiplayer maps which constantly give you units. If you sit there for a minute, 
 you'll have accumulated up to a hundred units, which you then send off to enemy bases, usually 
 to try to destroy their one, single building, while at the same time having to deal with THEIR 
 units.
  
  RPG maps - Just what they sound like, some people have taken to creating entire RPGs in Starcraft, 
 leveling up, stats, and items included. Some of these take quite a bit of time, and are quite addicting, 
 too. I recall one that took at least six hours to complete, in total. (Luckily, you can save games 
 and come back later.)
  
  These are just a few of the possibilities for further fun, in the Starcraft universe. It really 
 does have something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleStilkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who has played this game has loved. I mean you get free internet battles and get to make 
 your own maps and share it with people. After time has gone on games have been getting better with 
 graphics sound and so on. Well basically I don't like to rate something buy that really. I like 
 to have some graphics not something really cheesy. I would have to say is that this game has a 
 pretty good story line and the time that it came out it is really good, but in this time period 
 it is still one of the best PC games. So I am going to give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is pretty, nearly a decade and its still fun and better than alot of games released these 
 days.
  
  Its classic RTS game featuring three factions which are look and play differently, these are the 
 Terrans - humans with a focus on heavy vehicles and mechs with some rather interesting buildings 
 which can float, Zerg aliens which rely on quick attacks and superior numbers and Protoss, another 
 alien faction that seem more powerful than the others but require more resources and time.
  
  Graphically Star Craft looked good when it was released, and the 2d graphics have aged well, 
 I tend to find 2d ages much better than 3D games and it seems to be vindicated. The story in the 
 game is decent enough for the string of missions, this I find unusal in a real time strategy game, 
 only the westwood titles (excluding generals and its expansion pack) have had good storylines, 
 all other RTS games sadly do not or treat it as entirely secondary.
  
  The story has three campaigns which focus on the various races, first of is humans discovering 
 the zerg and getting mauled and regime change occuring, then its the zerg evovling and attacking 
 the Protoss homeworld, and finally the protoss defeating the zerg.
  
  The missions are fun to play, some are quite varied and can actually require tactics and strategy 
 to succeed, especially missions were you travel through a complex infested with zerg or the latter 
 Protoss missions.
  
  The gameplay is offcourse the strongest part of star craft, i said its the typical RTS mould but 
 it handled very well, the game is at a fast paced but not ridiculously so, and you can go for early 
 wins without making the game feel cheap (this is compared to rushing in say, Command and Conquer 
 3) and have large scale battles.
  
  Another good point to the gameplay is that the fighting feels more precise and easier to control, 
 if you learn the shortcuts and play skillfully you can win with a smaller force, wereas in a game 
 such as Dawn of war (and dont get me wrong DoW is quite fun) the fights devolve into little more 
 than mob combat or with C+C3 the greatest tank spammer wins.
  
  This i fel is the reason Star Craft is so popular still, its got a decent enough storyline, the 
 music is very good - its not bombastic or deliberately 'epic' and reminiscient of Dune series of 
 games, the sounds are good and will probably stick in your mind, the game is fun both in singleplayer 
 but especially in multiplayer, it requires abit more skill than in most RTS games and has such 
 a huge online community that you'll always find a new challenger.
  
  The criticisms I can offer are, sometimes it feels like there are not enough units , the nuke seems 
 weak, sometimes the replay function is a little screwy, the game has aged and so offcourse doesnt 
 have quite the same graphical appeal as it did all those years ago and there have been developments 
 over the years which impact postively on gameplay whcih star craft doesnt have, for example reverse 
 move (c+c3) position damage say armour being weaker on the flank of a unit (c+c3) , but trust me 
 its still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Story: StarCraft takes place in the distant future. Human exiles fight for survival on the edge 
 of the galaxy, and a unified Terran government has formed through espionage, deceit and military 
 might. Their resources have begun to run out, and they begin to look toward the worlds of their 
 mysterious neighbors, the Protoss. In the midst of these events, the Zerg have begun an invasion 
 of the Terran worlds, and a war against the Protoss
  
  Gameplay: Well tis is your basic economy building RTS, but in my opinion one of the best, the single 
 player campaign is fun to play. It is splint into 3 chapters for each faction and you unlock the 
 next factions by finishing the previous one. The multiplayer is really a big draw with this game 
 though, 9 years on and its still going pretty strong, but if your new to the gene or the game like 
 me don't think for a second that you will score highly on the mulitiplayer, because people have 
 been playing this game non-stop for the last 9 years they know all the tricks and are uber fast 
 at buiding their bases, so if you are new to this game you will be out of your depth in the mutiplayer 
 (I blame the koreans) . But having said all that the multiplayer is pretty fun and if you play it 
 with a few mates can be hilarious.
  
  Graphics: Well as this is a game from 1998 it will not stand up to todays standards but it looks 
 ok and is playable so i am happy, if you compare it to games like tiberean sun which i think came 
 after this, this game looks slightly better. So the graphics are good for its time. So I will be 
 scoring the graphics on how it was for its time.
  
  Great game, i am having allot of fun, when i am not being pwned on line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hades0069
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  starcraft is one of the most amazing RTS's ever made. It is timeless and classic no1 has anytyhing 
 bad to say. Plus it has free online. It is totally awsome you must play it before 2 comes out. 
 The story line is also amazing this is a must have for all major players. THe original is much 
 better than Broodwar but both are amazing be sure to check it out if you have not. Terran Zerg 
 and Protoss all perfectly balanced in there own way. I love this game it wud make me gamosexuel 
 if that was possible. Play play play it is amazing dont forget the Map Maker you can make any map 
 you like go have FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colorado20
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  How could I possible describe Starcraft? It is the best strategy game ever, the graphics were and 
 still are awesome. The gameplay and the game strategy are really immersive, the atmosphere is great 
 and the possibility you have to control all the races is the best I have ever saw in a game. If 
 you control Protos, is totally different from the humans race not only the graphics, but also the 
 units and the buildings, you really have to discover the best strategy for each race, this I think 
 is the best point. I recommend it to everyone who has a computer, and if you dont have a computer, 
 you should buy it onl to play Stacraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luwo0629
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  I'm bored. What should we do? Play Starcraft of course!
  Ever since I was like seven years old I have played this game as if it could never be beaten. I 
 always thought this game would never end since it is so addictive. I do not think there could be 
 another game that could be so FUN. Its not one of those games that you can yell at because you 
 think you clicked, but you did not so you lose. In this game you have to practice a lot to be REALLY 
 good. You have to know what is happening, where, and when everything is going to take place. It 
 is a very intense RTS. There is always an explanation on how you lost, or won. This, is what makes 
 a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteninjaz88
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  As i sit here falling asleep while writing this review i consider wether i should practice my speech 
 i have to give tomorrow as a final for the semester. it will count as 20% of my final grade. And 
 yet... starcraft awaits. how can i resist the desire to stay up another couple hours so i can play 
 this true gem of a strategy game?? sure the graphics look dated by todays standards, but as every 
 true gamer knows... at the end of the day graphics don't mean sh! t, it's all about the gameplay. 
 so i must go now... especially since i just got new surround sound speakers. now i can hear the 
 glorious sounds, you're being very naughty , nuclear launch detected , got any questions about 
 propane or propane accessories , thus i serve , and other great starcraft dialogue barraging me 
 from every angle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft. Starcraft is one of the most well done real time strategy games i have played. First, 
 the races, starcraft has only 3 races but each are highly refined in their units, style of play 
 and their tech tree. There are the terran (the humans) , the zerg and the protoss. There are three 
 parts of the campaign in the game where you play with each race. The terran, as most humans are, 
 are versatile and easy to play with. This is obviously why they are put as the first campaign in 
 the game. The zerg are cheap and weak which is why you need to build hordes of them to achieve victory. The 
 protoss are the strongest and the most expensive race in the game. Therefore the play with them 
 is slow, and you usually only need a small force to take out the enemy. The campaigns and cinematics 
 between them are superb. Each campaign mission is varied in the objectives. Therefore, this makes 
 for some varied strategy use. The graphics, since this game was made in the 90s are very poor quality. The 
 unit animations, however are well done. This game has your usual building requirements and such 
 to move up the tech tree. The tech is much different for many different races. Building style is 
 also different, the terran can build structures anywhere the zerg can only build in their acid field, the 
 protoss can only build around their psi field. The sound is this game is hard to describe but is 
 appropriate for the science fiction genre. All in all this game IS an instant classic and I see 
 my self playing for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard have never dissapointed its fans, Warcraft and Diablo were a huge success and instant 
 classics, Starcraft followed this sagas and guess what? just like the other two blizzard sagas 
 starcraft was nearly perfection and an instant classic as well.
  The game graphics were awsome for that time (1998) , the soundeffects and soundtrack are possibly 
 the worst thing in starcraft but they are good too, the game its very tactical and needs dedication 
 to master it, it was a huge online success with thousands of players everytime and a always growing 
 community, In multiplayer the level of difficulty is even higher since some players are really 
 pros that are even paid to play the game. Its fantastic storyline single player can get many hours 
 to finish and multiplayer will make you play the game for days, months and years.
  There are 3 races available, the terran, protoss and zerg, they are all completly different and 
 blizzard was able to make them almost perfectly balanced, this gets the multiplayer even more exciting 
 because none of the races is better than the other and even if you have a preffered race you won't 
 be better than your opponent if he knows how to play too.
  Starcraft its a true classic and absolutly worth checking out, after 9 years the game its still 
 very playable and can be found for a symbolic price.
  The was much more that I could say about starcraft but it has so many good aspects that its not 
 necessary, just go buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GundamWeed
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  I can write about this game for hours on end and it would not even come close to explaining the 
 extreme depth of the strategy and gameplay. Starcraft is a national sport in South Korea because 
 no other video game on this planet can compare when looking at it on a strategical basis, explaining 
 the varieties of strategies between teams is very vast. The people of Korea are intelligent and 
 know a truly perfect game when they see one, Starcraft is that game. Anyone who rates this below 
 10 has nooooooo idea what they are talking about, I say that with a straight face. Gamespot gives 
 Zelda: ocarina of time a 10 but this a 9.1. LOL. yeah right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Anyways in Starcraft you start out in the campain you fight alien scum with the rednecks 
 from Earth. Anyways there are three nations you can play as. The Terrans (the aforementioned rednecks) 
 and two alien races, the Zerg, and the Protoss. Each have there own strengths and weaknesses. The 
 Terrans have powerful machinery but take a long time to build up. The Zerg have better armour but 
 like the Terrans are reletivly slower in producing units. Finally there are the Protoss, they produce 
 units like rabbits repoduing but they are quite weakere in terms of self protection and get killed 
 off faster. StarCraft has two distinct modes of play, single player and multi-player, over battle. net. 
 During the single player campain There are a total of thirty single player missions. That's ten 
 for the humans, ten for the Zerg, and ten for the Protoss. With the online portion of the game, 
 you can go on battle. net and battle other people and the battle. net server will record you wins 
 and looses. But some people some how manges to build a army up so quick and then rush you to win 
 without accually really using any real RTS tactics. So the gameplay is fun which will keep you 
 accupied for a while.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a mix of 2-D and 3-D effects which look nice. They are also quite colorful 
 and the textures looks quite real. Even things blowing up is quite nicely done.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is accually really good and it fits the mood. Also the sound effects are 
 quite well done. Also the voice acting is also very well done during the cuts scences and when 
 the soldiers reply to you.
  
  Value: All in all this game has a good fast pace gameplay replay value. BUt I did not like the 
 rush, rush, rush gameplay for the most part. It's good if you don't want to wait around and build 
 a large enough force. But the only thing I don't like is the lack of units which I want, and the 
 whole accually RTS system such as moral and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTouchThis12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  In all that it's worth, I consider StarCraft a classic among all strategy games. The game is great 
 in almost every aspect, and after nearly 10 years, it's still played by lots of people worldwide. 
 Like any BLIZZARD game, StarCraft has a great storyline, with incredible twists and turns, though 
 some may choose not to listen to all the briefings, they should definitely should, as it's one 
 of the best aspects of the game. One of the great things about StarCraft is that you will probably 
 never get bored of it. The graphics may not compare to other 21st Century games, or even newer 
 BLIZZARD games, but somehow, that doesn't really matter. The game is fun none the less. Despite 
 a great storyline campaign, StarCraft also supports a massive multi-player gameplay, which will 
 make sure the game will still be fun even when you're finished the campaign.
  In StarCraft you get to control three races: Terrans, Zerg, and Protoss. The Terrans are your future 
 high-tech humans, who have a great deal of colonies and influence in the StarCraft Universe. They 
 are probably the most versatile race in the game, which combines power and defence together. The 
 Zerg are your nasty, slimy creatures that you know are the bad guys from the first time you see 
 them. Although their units are weaker than those of the other races, their strength is that they 
 can spawn in incredible numbers, and outnumber any enemy. The Protoss are your psionic-powered 
 high-tech aliens, which would seem like the most powerful race, and in strength they are. Unfortunately, 
 they have very expensive units compared to the other races, which makes them weak in numbers.
 
  Overall, I think this game is one of the best to come in a long time, and it should have been 
 impossible for you not to have at least heard of this game. After 9 years, it's still fun popular, 
 and that's not only what makes a great game, that's what makes a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amroe333
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  It was nine years ago Blizzard entertainment first released Starcraft upon the world. Like a ravenous 
 Zerg, the game rapidly swept the gaming community. (In fact, it is so popular, that a man in South 
 Korea died of a heart attack after playing it for 72 hours straight.) Released on April 1, 1998, 
 Starcraft is the first game in the Starcraft installment. And speaking freely, Starcraft is one 
 of the best RTSs out there. The games plot focuses mainly on the war waged by the Terran and 
 Protoss on the invading Zerg. Unlike most other storylines the plot is told from the perspectives 
 of the hopeless Terrans, the Vicious Zerg, and The deadly Protoss. The games plot does an excellent 
 job of giving a reason to every mission and really helps to enhance and flesh out the game. If 
 you enjoy following a games storyline, expect to be riveted.
  Starcrafts gameplay is yet another reason that it is such s success. Unlike other RTSs where 
 the races all play the same, Starcrafts three races all have very different feels. The Terrans 
 have a very defensive nature, the Zerg produce large amounts of troops quickly, and the Protoss 
 show their true power at the end of the game. Each campaign spans ten missions, each with a healthy 
 amount of variety. The campaigns objectives include the classic Kill the enemy, Start at point 
 A and take point B, and defend until the time is up. They also include such things as defend 
 that structure while demolishing the enemy and navigate through the ship and collect the data. 
 All in all, Starcrafts gameplay is extremely well done.
  When it comes to sound, Starcraft simply excels. The music that was picked for the game does a 
 great job of bringing you even further into the game. The music changes with the situation and 
 it all seem very appropriate. Every character has voice acting, and it is done in amazing quality. 
 The lip movement is lined up perfectly with the words and everything is easily distinguishable. 
 The different units are easily identified with their sounds, so you can select a hotkey group and 
 know exactly what units you are controlling. The one place that Starcraft could have improved in 
 is the graphics. For there time, they where good, but know they are somewhat out of date. The units 
 are identifiable, but it can be hard to see what is what sometimes. Also, instead of a rotating 
 camera, your view is fixed, so units can be lost behind buildings. This can be frustrating, especially 
 in the middle of a massive enemy rush. The environments are very generic and bland, often repeating 
 the same four themes. Overall, Starcraft is an amazing game that should be bought by anyone and 
 everyone. If you need a new game to play, then look no further than Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merloslacker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Starcraft has to be the best RTS game of the 90's. It was because of this game that I got into 
 computers and heavy into computer gameing. This says a lot for a game that has you build bases 
 and attack non-stop a enemy, most times stronger than you. This game also remonds me alot of Age 
 of Empires, but in Space. The races were by far the best I'd ever seen. The bug Zerg, the telepathic 
 (like Spock) Protos, and the colonizing human Terrans. The AI was good, with constant action, though 
 could be predictable. The Storyline was better with three different intertwining plots and missions 
 enough to explore the game. The expansion was a good one, and the LAN play was amazing even to 
 this day. Let it be known this game rocks, and is on the top 10 of all time computer games for 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is what strtegy really means. The best of all strateg games. IF this is still popular 
 and good 9 years later u know that this game is unique. This is revolutionary and now remains a 
 great classic. Warcraft can; t compete with this andnor can many 3D games. I know the graphics can't 
 be rated 10 cause it is 2D but everything else makes up for it. This game has to be 10/10. That 
 is all i have 2 say for this game. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 11/10. 10/10. 10/10. 
 10/10. 10/10, 10/10. 11/10. 11/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 11/10. 11/10. 10/10. 
 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 11/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 10/10. 1000000/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetrider34
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  9 years ago, Blizzard was put on the map by the super-popular real-time strategy game Starcraft. 
 Now, 9 years after release, it can still hold its own with the newer games. Starcraft's races form 
 the backbone of its success. With three very different races to choose from, and many ways to play 
 each one, no game is ever the same. The three races are the humanoid Terrans, the animal Zerg, 
 and the typical advanced alien Protoss. Each race has its own strengths and weaknesses that can 
 be exploited by the right planning from another race. Terrans are the versatile ones, with ground 
 and air units that can hold their own against anything thrown at them, although they come up a 
 bit short in power compared to Protoss. If it isn' t clear from that, Protoss is built for power, 
 but expensive in minerals and vespene gas. Zerg are the swarmers, with cheap population costs allowing 
 for a couple hundred basic units to just overrun anyone and anything in their path. The campaign 
 mode is good, but not best. It has 3 separate campaigns, one for each race, with the same story 
 spanning the three. It is engaging and fun, but could have used a couple missions that were more 
 original. Eight out of ten times, the missions centralized around destroying some building. The 
 multi-player mode is the main attraction in this game, similar to Halo's appeal. Set on Battle. Net, 
 same as Diablo and Warcraft, the setup features countless maps ranging from Capture the Flags, 
 to Melees, to user-made maps that can be about anything from Lord of the Rings, to defense of a 
 central object, etc. These Use Map Settings are hugely popular and feature more players than any 
 other modes. The sounds of the game are definitely the second best feature of the game, behind 
 Battle. Net. Each unit, whenever selected, will say a variety of unit-specific quotes. One of them 
 even says the cheat for God Mode. Of course I won't say which one. Starcraft defines everything 
 you want in a strategy game, and its playability greatly surpasses all but a few games on the market. 
 You could log 1000 hours on the game and still want more. Anyone with a fleeting interest in strategy 
 should pick up this classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  StarCraft is a great game. It's a really fun and interesting RTS. I may not be a fan of RTS games, 
 or PC games for that matter, but StarCraft really is great and is still great after 9 years! It's 
 got a great Campaign and pretty good multiplayer (as long as you get the bloody thing working) . 
 This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  Graphics
  Yes I know they aren't very good for a 1998 game, but I still like them in ways. 
 But there are always the cinematics.
  8/10
  
  Sound
  It has some pretty good music in the game, and some of the voices rock! We require more minerals! 
 .
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  If you've ever played WarCraft, or many other RTS games for that matter, you will have a clue of 
 what StarCraft is like. Yes, it's WarCraft, but in another galaxy, with aliens and other races 
 to choose from. There are three races. The Terrans who are basically humans; the Protoss who are 
 very bizarre; and the Zerg who are very alien like. My favourite is probably the Terrans. There 
 are guns and interesting weaponry in battle, and like basically every RTS, the aim of the game 
 is to take over the opponent's base. In the campaign mode however, there is a lot of stuff to do 
 other than taking over bases. There's also the multiplayer. It's not too bad, but since it's so 
 hard to get into a bloody game, I just avoid it. And besides, there are probably hardcores you 
 can verse who have been playing for almost ten years. StarCraft's gameplay is quite good and makes 
 the game fun.
  9/10
  
  Character Design
  Not too shabby! I don't think I need to say more.
  
  Overall
  StarCraft is a great game! 
 It's quite cheap these days. There's also the expansion which is even better! If you can't afford 
 WarCraft III, then try this out. Come on Blizzard, make a StarCraft II already!!
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game set the new standard of RTSs. Even in modern games you will see elements that you will 
 look at and say, That's from Starcraft. Starcraft is one of those games that is a must have for 
 any gamer, Expert or noob. Why do you think they still sell this in stores? It is hard to right 
 a review for a perfect game because there are no flaws to point out. This is not a perfect game 
 though. It has a few microscopic flaws, like only being able to select 12 units, etc. But that 
 hardly takes away from the 10 that this game deserves.
  This is a hard game, it takes a while to beat. But the lengthy and elaborate campaign portrays 
 the characters so well, and has an excellent storyline that it is easily worth it. I takes a little 
 while to learn, but years to master. If you have not played this game, you have failed in life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I'm sure everybody has heard of Starcraft - without a doubt one of the most influential PC games 
 ever and one of the greatest examples of strategy-based gaming to this day. It's a game that has 
 captivated thousands, maybe millions, since its release, so much that many people are still playing 
 it today, whether over Blizzard's servers on Battle. net, or simply experimenting with their own 
 offline custom games and making their own maps with the superb scenario editor.
  
  And it deserves all the attention, to say the least. Starcraft shines in all areas, even the graphics 
 can impress to this day. Maybe not in the technical aspect, but in the artistic stakes, and in 
 the way that the visuals leak charisma and charm, Starcraft succeeds, almost nine years later. 
 And, yes, even nine years later, the gameplay still obliterates the majority of strategy games 
 being released. Starcraft is, in my eyes, and in a lot of other people's eyes, a benchmark for 
 the genre. The game gives you three races to play as: the Terran marines, our digital human counterparts, 
 who are an ideal place to start with their perfect balance between all of their units and characteristics; 
 the Zerg alien race, who rely on mass quantities of cheaper, throwaway units, and whose structures 
 and units all evolve from larvae; and the Protoss tribes, a technologically advanced species who 
 employ smaller amounts of more expensive, enhanced units.
  
  The balance between these three races is truly something to behold. Whereas in most games, intense 
 competitions online may end in sore losers complaining that the opposition had a particular ability 
 that put them at an advantage, in Starcraft, there is really no excuse for that sort of thing. 
 Each race is almost perfectly balanced so that no one of them outweighs any of the others.
  
  Each race are equally charming, fun to use, and just all-around great fun - the Terran maintain 
 a charismatic hardass attitude all the time, whether it's from the marines' sometimes suicidal 
 outlook on the war ('you want a piece of me, boy' doesn't sound too good when a lone marine is 
 faced with a Protoss carrier) from the Zerg's disgusting biological squelchings and alien gruntings 
 ('kaablargh' must intimidate the other races somehow') or from the Protoss' kickass psychic abilities 
 and robotic hummings and such. More importantly, the core mechanics of the game are golden and 
 almost perfect, again. The game revolves around your worker units harvesting minerals and Vespene 
 gas in order for you to build structures, move through a technology tree, and implement more and 
 more units in your forces as they become available. This stays true for all races, but there are 
 slight alterations. For the Terrans, your SCV workers will gather minerals and they will also build 
 the structures, and your units will enter battle from these structures, for instance a starport 
 will construct Wraith fighters and Battlecruisers. For the Zerg, all structures are biological, 
 as such the workers, (Drones) will actually mutate into your buildings and larvae will mutate into 
 the Drones. It's slightly more complicated than the Terran, but when you get it sussed out it's 
 an equally rewarding chain.
  
  The Protoss are possibly even more complicated than that, as all buildings seem to enter through 
 warp rifts in hyperspace, and your workers (Probes) will open up these rifts. All buildings have 
 to be powered by a structure called a Pylon, too. Now I'm going into more of a walkthrough rather 
 than a review, so I'll snap out of it. The point comes down to this - the concept of Starcraft 
 really works, and almost every aspect of its execution is topnotch. There are a few annoying flaws, 
 such as units randomly following enemy units, a few gaps in enemy AI, but they are just minor, 
 as for the most part, Blizzard built a rock solid foundation for this game nine years ago and it 
 still hasn't been shattered by a superior game as far as I know.
  
  And the storyline and plot haven't been surpassed, either - the voice-overs in the game are almost 
 perfect and the characters, as such, deliver the tale astonishingly well, and the script is really 
 well written. Blizzard always implement great stories into their games, and Starcraft has possibly 
 been blessed with their best work. It's sometimes surprising, sometimes emotionally charged, sometimes 
 inspiring, and sometimes plain kickass, but it never fails to stray from an incredible core science 
 fiction narrative.
  
  The graphics, as I've said, fit the game like a glove, and reek character from every single pore, 
 and even nine years later they truly do shine; even if the game does look rather dated it really 
 doesn't matter when the visuals have this much personality. The audio, however, is even better.
 
  
  Blizzard have always been pioneers of game music in my eyes, and Starcraft is a true testament 
 to that.
  
  Some people may point out that the music is maybe a bit over the top or maybe a bit odd, but the 
 diversity between the three race's music is obvious, and every single track will stick in your 
 head like some sort of glue. The Terran have a sort of weird infectious poppy vibe everywhere, 
 the Zerg get a rather spooky, ambient selection, and the Protoss music cannot really be explained 
 with words. The voice-overs in the game that document the story are again completely and utterly 
 at the top of their field. The assorted sound effects and responses from the units in the game 
 really have a sense of personality, too, especially the Zerg squelchings and battle cries.
  
  Everything about the sound has to be heard rather than explained, and I hope you're going to 
 buy the game after you finish reading this anyway.
  
  All in all, Starcraft is destined to be remembered as a piece of videogaming history, that is if 
 it isn't already. Everybody has to play this game, and I shall be staggered if there is somebody 
 out there who doesn't find anything to enjoy about this incredibly well designed game.
  
  Starcraft truly is a spellbinding, glittering example of real time strategy gaming, and it should 
 be experienced by absolutely everybody, whether it's to witness an almost perfect RTS, behold an 
 unbelievable storyline, or see the topnotch balance between three of the finest races in videogaming 
 history. It's just an amazing game. Simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wireman32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I played this while beginning college on my friend's pc. He was a computer guy and I had no idea 
 what a graphics card was. That was then, this is now. I am an avid gamer now and enjoy high quality 
 graphics and mostly RTS games. I have played all the newest shiyat and this game is better than 
 90% of them.
  
  It just makes me wonder, are games getting crappier and less fun? Because this game seems to be 
 more fun than all the new stuff out there... If they remade this game, I would be the first to 
 order it. Some updated graphics/sound would be awesome, but NOTHING else. It would completely ruin 
 this nice tactical game. Hell, the same missions and storyline would be fine too.
  
  This game suffers in the sound department. You will end up unchecking some options in the sound 
 category. Once you've heard You wanna piece of me every single time a new unit is created, you 
 will be searching all the options to find out how to turn that off....
  
  Menus are fairly simple. They TRIED to simulate some holographic stuff, but as I said before, making 
 things like that with today's tech would improve that in a heartbeat and add an even new level 
 of enjoyment.
  
  I like the end mission screeens, a load bar pop ups with stats, which is rarely seen today, most 
 of the time you get a graph... which is anti-climatic at best. In the background is a nice rendering 
 of your soldiers who brutally fought and won for you, or obviously were slaughtered and died.
 
  
  Gameplay. Basic operations include mining resources and gases. Your resource units are more mechanical 
 than normal units and have torches which mine the minerals and double as a weak weapon if enemies 
 should come into range. I like the way the resources are shown, you can click on them and it will 
 display how much is left. I noticed a few times where the miners would get stuck, but it's old 
 so you look past those things. A worthy feature is being able to float your barracks around, then 
 plant it somewhere new. There are different buildings to research and produce new units as well.
 
  
  Controlling units is the basic RTS style. You click a box around them and right click on enemies 
 or positions. You can select groups of soldiers and assign the group a number, which can come in 
 handy later.
  
  Upgrading is done very well. Things take time to upgrade, weapons, armor, and unit improvements 
 all take a decent amount of time but don't leave you waiting till next week, which adds reality 
 to the game.
  
  Most missions you will be fighting aliens. Who doesn't love blowing lifeforms up and watching their 
 guts splatter from their empty bloody carcasses, embedded deep into the ground, covering the surrounding 
 area with goey alien-gunk. The missions make sense as well, and are a good balance between challenge 
 and strategy (i. e. beatable, but hard)
  
  I'd love to give this game a 10, but the sound is a little lacking, and I am desperately dreaming 
 about graphic updates for this game including overall units/backgrounds/buildings, and the indentically 
 themed, but more detailed interfaces. I will be playing this for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptors_81
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  My first RTS, my favorite game, I&acute; ve played it so many times that I can&acute; t remember 
 exactly... It&acute; s easy to learn the buttons, the secuence, but it&acute; s not to easy to finish 
 this fantastic game, not everyone can finish it. (With out cheats)
  All the blizzard games are BEST-SELLING GAMES, from them, all the predecetors are comparated to 
 them...
  3 races, 3 cultures, 1 story to make history, not just in the RTS games, if not in all games, &acute; cause 
 this is one of the most popular games in videogames, I would like a secuel, but I&acute; m afraid 
 that it will not good enough, just the time will say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzcast
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Starcraft was the first strategy role playing game that fell into my hands. The very good moments 
 of this game started since the beginning... the frist scene was spectacular... to see those creatures 
 in a shady way.. challenging for playing its own campaings was real good. Later i get into the 
 tutorial mode, i presumed that no other game could ever explained better the way of playing... 
 u'll see the same in AoMythology, or Age of Empires, Warcraft, Warhammer, Command and Conquer... 
 so every game related to strategy has the same manner.
  To play the different levels was challenging.. you need to hurry to preserve your units, to find 
 more resources.. to increase your technology and to upgradeas soon as possible your units to get 
 the victory... it's not always good to have to much but it's better to know hoe to use what u get.... 
 since that i've tried to use better strategic positions like strongholds where to get defense not 
 givig up the ground...
  What could be the worst issue of Starcraft... i can't remember one... let me see Yes! so few campaigns... 
 and why don't we have a sequel with such good issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  How do we know this game is good? Because it's still popular around the world even though it was 
 released so many years ago. While the game has 2d graphics they still look great. The game is full 
 of nice effects and some actually look like they might be 3D models. The game looks good enough 
 to have lasted for so many years and it's a good thing it does have 2D graphics because there can 
 be really huge battles without any slowdown or lag online. The CGI cutscenes looked amazing for 
 their time and are still looking good today. The gameplay and storyline is what makes starcraft 
 so great. There are 3 races and they are so completely different to play with and yet so well balanced 
 that i don't think any other RTS has surpassed it in that area. There are so many things to say 
 about the gameplay that i can't possibly write it in this review. All i can say is that generally 
 the Zerg have advantage of being cheap so that they can be produced quickly and overwhelm the enemy 
 with many units. The protoss are powerful but are expensive and they overpower the enemy. And the 
 terrans Are balanced in between. The story is very well written and has many twists and surprises. 
 The sound in the game is also great. Every race has their own music while your playing and it never 
 gets old. The sound effects are also great but it might get repetitive if you play it a-lot but 
 i didn't find it annoying at all. The voice acting is top notch and very well done. Playing this 
 game online is great and it's free. It's still popular and full of people to play against. There 
 is a very huge mod community and it's keeping this game alive. Starcraft will be a game that will 
 be remembered for many more years to come and is a huge classic. It's influence over the genre 
 is still apparent in RTS games today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft is arguably the best real-time strategy game ever. The single player mode of the game 
 is extremely boring, however StarCraft is awesome online! Blizzard Entertainment's Battle. net supports 
 both StarCraft and Brood War, Battle. net has friends lists, channels, ladders, stat tracking, customizable 
 profiles, live tech support, automatic updates that you can cancel half way through and continue 
 where you left off the next time you run the game, map-downloading, built in e-mail, works with 
 mods, and so much more. Well StarCraft isn't all that great unless you have Brood War, which comes 
 with new units and is required to play most maps. Other than Battle. net, StarCraft stands out in 
 the crowd of other RTS games for having the most players and for having "multiplayer Use Map Settings" 
 (or just UMS for short) . Use Map Settings completely changed real-time strategy, it lets you make 
 movie maps, defense maps, bounds, RPG maps, Role Play maps, Evolves maps, etc. StarCraft also has 
 several other modes besides Use Map Settings, including Melee, One vs. One, Free For All, Top vs. 
 Bottom, World Cyber Games, Ladder, Team Capture the Flag, Capture the Flag, Slaughter, Greed, Team 
 Melee, etc. StarCraft is also known for it's support as an official game of the  
 Gaming Tour [/URL] . So the SS Free's official rating for StarCraft is 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is so good i still play it almost a decade after its release. In today's gaming world 
 graphics are substituting content, replay value is shot to hell as plot becomes one sided and boring. 
 The classics are hard ruined for us old school gamers because the graphics are just appaling in 
 comparison to any new game. There is however one exception: Starcraft.
  
  Starcraft is one of the most captivating stratagy games i have ever had the privilage to own or 
 play. I am devoted Blizzard fan and i have to say that Starcraft is one of their greatest installments. 
 In this game you have the gritty realistic graphics that are practically timeless and allow for 
 great gamplay a decade later. Blizzard has an instant classic right here.
  
  The game presents you with three different races that you fight with in different stories through 
 the campaign. That's just a quick synapse but you should really just try and play to really get 
 the feal of it. AS for the strait review: the game play is addictive, amazing, enticing, (its bloody 
 great, get the picture?) . You can play this game over and over again and not get bored. As for 
 the music its timeless, every time you play its just as enticing as the last and the score is just 
 wonderful. As i mention earlier this game presents graphics great enough to be captivated by years 
 past. This review also applies to Brood War which jsut betters the game as a whole. All in all 
 for anyone to consider themselves a gamer must own this game, hands down no questions asked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_hho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome and i love it so much im playin it like 247 and it is riged, i like the details 
 and the evolution whatever **** it is but is absoluelty craze
  i wud perfer this better than warcraft and diablo cus those arent as pro as this game and this 
 is pretty craze
  its fun when i p [lay online i pwn noobs really bad and i probe rush alot of em and it friken kicks 
 ass, eg e ge ge ge ge g eg eg ag a g ag a e gag ea geg ea gea gea gae gae ga gae gae gae gae g 
 aeg eage a egea eag gae gae gaeg ea geaga g eaag ae ga gae g a eg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't heard of Starcraft? Unless you don't like boats, or hate video games, you've heard of 
 Starcraft. What other video game series has retained such support over nearly ten years spawning 
 merchandise and tv shows. Fine, the Koreans might seem a little odd to us but the Progamers couldn't 
 love it anymore!
  
  Starcraft was released in 1998 and continues to play a major role in the Progaming scene. With 
 millions of dollars in sponsorship, it's amazing to believe that this is still going on today! 
 This game is based in the future and has three races that you can choose from. Either the Terran, 
 or humans that are further from Earth, the Zerg, a spreading almost mindless group controlled by 
 a pulsing living overmind, and the Protoss, a group trying to protect their planet of Aiur. In 
 the end, all three races end up meeting with each other. At first everyone is at odds, but then 
 the Zerg reveals itself to be the real threat. Suffice to say, the characters in the single player 
 campaign are endearing. In fact, they are endearing enough to have four books released on the matter.
 
  
  The constant patches are a real patch. Why is that? It means that though Blizzard makes no monthly 
 money from people who play on Battle. net, they continue to take care of the fan base because it 
 is so large. What other games has done that over nine plus years? How's Westwood chat? I thought 
 as much.
  
  What's really nice about this game is the fact that the gameplay is so equal. Though many professionals 
 would claim there is an imbalance, it is more balanced than imbalanced. How they managed to get 
 everything so near perfect is astonishing to me. Even today, someone who picks Terran versus a 
 Zerg or a Protoss versus a Terran, has a chance of winning. All the unit sounds are perfect and 
 the music is so memorable, I could be humming it right now and not know it that's how catchy it 
 is. There is so much replay value, it's scary. There's so many mods and players online, it seems 
 like it never ends. From the tower defenses, to the crazy RPGs, the game seems to be more full 
 of life than ever before.
  
  If you've never played Starcraft and love video games, the question you have to ask yourself is 
 why you betrayed the human race. Okay, that's a tad dramatic but you seriously have to give this 
 a whirl and those that have played it, should pick it up again because you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I first picked up Starcraft back in 1999 and proceeded to play it for obscene amounts of time on 
 line. The game is very well balanced so that anything you build can be countered by something else. 
 The three races are unique and different from each other from the ground up. Even the way you build 
 buildings and and units is different between the three races. They are the zerg who build a ton 
 of uints fast that can die fairly easy, to the more slow building and less units but more powerful 
 units of the protoss, and the versatile terran who require a fair amount of micro management to 
 master. Even after playing the game for large amounts of time a day for 2 years there were still 
 challenges to the game. One of the most impressive things about the game is that it is still played 
 a fair bit 9 years after its release, and in fact in some stores you can still buy a new copy off 
 the shelves. There are few games that can be said about, its a testament to how good the game is, 
 but what else would you expect from Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigo07
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a real time strategy game, from Blizzard, the makers of Warcraft II, Diablo, and Diablo 
 II. It features three unique races [Terran, Protoss, and Zerg] that are pitted together in an intergalactic 
 war taking place on the Galactic Rim. You as the player can take control of any one of these races 
 to victory in single player mode, being rewarded by awesome cutscenes that are a Blizzard trademark.
 
  And then Starcraft: Brood War features a new ladder, single player campaigns, tilesets, SCX's, 
 upgrades, and units. The Brood War ladder runs along side the existing one, so players without 
 Brood War will only be able to compete in the current ladder. There are no new buildings; new units 
 and their upgrades will be accessed through current buildings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perilslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Once again Blizzards multi player for its games are great. With the Starcraft editor, this game 
 is almost as good as Warcraft 3/Frozen Throne. It's too bad Warcraft 2 isn't played that much anymore 
 but Starcraft still lives on. I played Starcraft online after i had been playing Warcraft 3, and 
 i still thought that the game was awesome. There is so much to do, and one of my favorite things 
 to do is to play evolves. Starcraft is better that Warcraft 3 with its evolves maps. Just because 
 there are more of them. If anyone doesn't recommend my review, it's because they probably disagree 
 with one of the things i've said, but not the fact that Starcraft is a great game. This game is 
 definitely worth buying. Buy the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman313
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt the best game ever made for any system bar none. I have spent more 
 time playing this game than I have playing any other 5 games combined and that is including the 
 300+ hours I have spent on Counter-Strike/CS: S. The main features that I like about this game are 
 the completely different races which have totally different units and don't share any. *coughageofempirescough* 
 Even with all of the races being completely different, they are all perfectly balanced without 
 any of them being the strongest if they are in the hands of a skilled player. The best feature 
 this game has though is the online multiplayer. On B-net you can play games with anywhere from 
 2-8 people from anywhere in the world and you can choose to play either normal games or custom 
 games. These custom games, as in Warcraft 3, are what give the game an incredible amount of replayability. 
 With anything from a standard rts game to an rpg there is an uncountable number of custom games 
 you can play. The friends and chat channels system also works extremely well making it very easy 
 to get into the same game as your friends and beat them up at a game. It also comes with an easy 
 to use map editor which you can use to create the perfect map to play with your friends. All in 
 all this, game has everything you could ever want and more and is still fun even though it has 
 been out since 1998. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  After nearly a decade of on and off playing Starcraft still holds my interest. It just goes to 
 show that gameplay is a lot more important than flashy graphics. It also goes to show that the 
 RTS genre peaked a long time ago. Along with the first person shooter RTS's have merely been getting 
 prettier not deeper (Doom 3 wasn't that great... just turn down the brightness on Half-life and 
 it's pretty much the same) . Innovation isn't dead in gaming it's just that consoles seem do be 
 at the forefront of redefining genres and creating new ones. Anyway, Starcraft survives as more 
 than just a museum piece, it's a great game deserving of an update of some kind. Until then Starcraft 
 as it is today may look a little fugly, but it's what's inside that counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedddy_lee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  So when i first got this game i starting playing and soon found myself adiicted to the never-old 
 custom compstomps and extremly deep online multiplayer
  
  Gameplay 9: do you even half to ask the depth of the campaign mode and the solid online multiplayer 
 kicks the crap out of every other online game ive played (and trust me ive played a lot of online 
 games) and it is so fun getting on b. net playing a 1v1 game with some random dude chating, while 
 im positioning carriers outside his base :D
  
  Graphics 8: i cant say the graphics totally blew me away but their solid for the time
  
  sound 
 10: the sound of crakcling machine guns, cutting flesh of zealots energy blades and the carreirs 
 interceptors raining down air suport and the sound deathly screams while nukes rain down on the 
 orgainic zerg and the war music is one of the many things that suck my face into the moniter
  
  Value 10 (or higher if i could) the games campaign is realy deep as i spent 4 weeks trying 
 to beat the last level and the multiplayer never gets old with the maps people have made to play 
 on when the next next gen consels come out ill still be playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Starcraft was the king at its time. But all things that rise, fall one day. At the given moment 
 Starcraft is dieing a slow and painful death. But thats not important right now, lets talk about 
 what this game really is. Starcraft is a 2D Strategy-Game with a unique storyline and superb online 
 play. You have 3 factions from which you choose the most suitable one for you. You have the militaristic 
 Terrans, the high tech Protoss and the massive Zerg. All 3 factions are unique in a own way and 
 have strong and soft spots. The storyline is very interesting and hard to describe. If you want 
 a great plot that will keep you occupied for hours and more, Starcraft is worth a try. But yet the 
 storyline is not the gold behind Starcraft, mostly you will enjoy yourself playing countless fan-made 
 maps online. The online feature of Starcraft is the only thing that keeps the game alive, there 
 are infact so many maps made by fans for Starcraft that you can`t count them all. From puzzle maps 
 to movie related maps you will love Starcraft online unless you have played the game for 2 years 
 like me. If you know of a popular film that is on right now, there is sureley a server playing 
 a map that follows the films plot or lets you play as the characters in the film. The unique trigger 
 system in the map editor allows birth for great effects. Overall Starcraft`s sound and graphics 
 may look bad at first but it still plays perfectly and in no time you will even find the graphics 
 to be beautiful comparing to all the modern RTS`s out there. The sound if good for a game that 
 was created at that time. Mostly you will love Starcraft for its tactics, there is a uncountable 
 amount of ways to defeat your opponent. Rushing is preferred but a well placed attack will kill 
 even the biggest army.
  
  In the end, Starcraft is a great strategy game that rocks even today. Yet Blizzard is farming World 
 Of Warcraft and fail to notice how desperate Starcraft is for... attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  civilization and command and conquer cannot touch this game. This game is the highest selling rts 
 for a reason and is still played by more people than the newer rts releases. While other rts games 
 attempt to cater towards people who like high powered, apocalyptic class units, starcraft caters 
 towards those who like balance. Although unit production and building speed is relatively slow 
 to other games, units are much more personnal and mean much more than tokens that die for your 
 pleasure. Individual units can be wielded as strong weapons by a good micromanager or huge armies 
 can be raised to flood the opponent. either way is fun and full of interesting effects. The campaign 
 mode is especially good because the villians and heroes never break character and while you are 
 controlling the armies of your side, you can always feel emotions like surprise, anger and sadness 
 as events unfold. This game is gold. Even though it's dated, it will never die because it is a 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jistyr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a game that still remains as a classic today and it's for a reason. It is perhaps 
 the best game I have ever played. First of all it has a replayability rate that I have never experienced 
 before. I easily put hundreds of hours into this game.
  
  I'll admit that it's graphics aren't the greatest, and that singleplayer gets old rather quickly, 
 however multiplayer is just amazingly fantastic. The online community is great. Since Starcraft 
 has been around almost a decade, the online society has become so intricate and astonishing. I 
 have never played a game quite like this and I suggest you get it because it is worth every single 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  You may think im going kinda strong with best game on earth and 10/10 , but its very true. Literally 
 flawless. The graphics and sound might be outdated, but this game was made in 1998. Back then it 
 was good. The gameplay is perfect. The three factions are awesome. Zerg, the infectous aliens, 
 Protoss, the advanced aliens and the Terran, the humans. They are very equally matched. Also there 
 are tons of people online and tons of different types of maps. From traditional RTS fights to defences 
 to EVOLVES to many others. All of this awesomeness for $25 (the Starcraft Battle Chest (includes 
 StarCraft: Brood War, a must have also) ) . When people think of RTS', they think of Starcraft, because 
 it was revolutionary and an excellent game.
  
  Overall, its the best game out there. You don't have StarCraft? Get off the chair and go get it 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Even today, it is still played by countless players around the world, who don't forget the considerable 
 value of Starcraft in the history of RTS'. Even with his outdated graphics, it can still compete 
 with other well known strategy games, which makes him a classic that can't be forget.
  
  The three races in Starcraft are very well made and balanced. Also, it has a very interesting story, 
 which makes you want to know what happens next. The bad of this game, in my opinion, is that it's 
 story teases too much and delivers to little, with a very disappointing ending. Nevertheless, a 
 very good and entertaining game to be played for a long time.
  
  Fans of Starcraft all over the world, including me, hope for the coming of a sequel to Starcraft: 
 brood war. Starcraft: Ghost's release would make me and other SC fans happy, but for some reason 
 (a good one perhaps) it was cancelled by it's developers.
  
  The game's story is in 60.000 light years from earth, where political prisoners where exiled from 
 earth to a very distant galaxy, where they found themselves in the middle of a ancient war, Zergs 
 against Protoss, two races in a conflict that has last for generations.
  
  The Terrans (name given to humans in Starcraft) are technologically advanced, specially in genetics 
 and nuclear studies. Their buildings are easily repaired and most of them can flee from ground 
 units in a very funny way (they float) . They are the middle race (the balanced) , not too strong 
 nor too cheap.
  
  The Protoss (humanoids with high brain capacity) have extremely powerful and expensive units. They 
 take quite some time to create an army, but when they do, they crush everything on the way. Their 
 constructions have a relatively good number of hit points and a highly efficient shield but can't 
 be repaired.
  
  The Zerg (parasite-like creatures with high tissue regeneration capacity) are cheap, quick and 
 have no kind of technology. Their buildings are biological and regenerate their hit points with 
 time but can only be built in the creep (with exception of their main building) , a kind of biological 
 goo that covers the ground next to their main buildings or CREEP colonies.
  
  The Starcraft gameplay is very simple: It concentrates in gathering resources to create armies 
 and destroy your opponents, nevertheless it's hard to make the right unit combinations. Also, the 
 multiplayer in battle. net can offer you a nice and funny experience with your friends even in the 
 old Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderZiM196
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft is all round great game. The races are perfectly balanced. The
  (considering the time it came out) graphics for its time are pretty good. The sounds are amazing. 
 Its is Blizzard's best selling game ( though World of WarCraft is catching up fast ) . StarCraft's 
 story is what really makes it though. Once you get into it you just can't get out and when its 
 finally over your like No! Whens the next game coming out!!!! . There where able to connect all 
 the stories of each race to make the whole story. Most games fail in trying to do that when the 
 have a alien race. Yet StarCraft had two and pulled it off beautifully.
  
  The Terran are a races of humans living 60,000 light years from Earth. They are the balanced race 
 that don't rely on mass numbers or raw power. Most of all they're units are ranged. They have the 
 strongest unit in the game, the Battlecruiser, which can survive a nuclear strike ( another thing 
 the Terran can do )
  
  The Protoss are a highly advanced race of humanoids in war with the Zerg but who will crush any 
 one who gets in their way. They are the power race. There units cost a lot and fill the population 
 limits fast. They use their high hitting units the to take out their enemies. Their basic unit, 
 the Zealot, hits triple the Terran's basic unit, the Marine, and its attack its is almost as high 
 as the Zerg most powerful ground unit, the Ultralisk.
  
  The Zerg are a biological race thats goal is the destroy none Zerg and collect the strong races 
 into their gene pool. Zerg use mass numbers to consume their enemies. They are entirely biological, 
 even the buildings are alive. Their units are not very strong but you can make an army in a minute 
 or so if you have a good enough base or bases.
  
  Battle. Net is where you can play online with all your friends. Though there is normal games on 
 Battle. Net the majority are custom games made with the StarEditor. That have Mass Wars, you constantly 
 spawn units and use them to attack ( they have themes like 'family guy' or 'super smash bros') , 
 Defenses, you can't let units get to a certain point or you lose a life or the game, and other 
 games that are not really StarCraft but is made with it.
  
  Gameplay on StarCraft is easy you collect minerals and gas and make a base to attack. Its really 
 that simple. Though finding the right units mixtures to fend of an attack or to break down a defense 
 is not so easy.
  
  StarCraft is one of the best games out there that anyone who likes space warfare will love. remember 
 that its not WarCraft in space is much more sophisticated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosarcher07
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Of all games to come close to perfection, Starcraft and its expansion, Brood War, come the closest. 
 Starcraft is an RTS game that is the spiritual sequel to Warcraft II. Building on its success, 
 Starcraft has 3 very diverse well balanced races and excellent multiplayer gameplay. The excellent 
 balance and great map editor, along with a challenging campaign will have you hooked. Starcraft, 
 though 8 years old, is still played today online and is still featured in many gaming tournaments 
 worldwide. Battle. Net is still filled with many custom games and regular games to play. Buy it 
 now before its too late, the game is still easily found in the Battle Chest for pretty cheap. Starcraft 
 is one of the games everyone should have tried in their lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa_link
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  in starcraft there exist 3 species 2 of them being genetically altered by all-powerful beings believed 
 to be extinct, these races are the protoss who's powerful psionic abilities make them unique, and 
 the zerg who exist only to infest what they haven't all ready.
  
  both these races chosen by the Xel'naga battle for superiority as protoss beleive the xel'naga 
 were gods and zerg beleived they were just another race to wipe out.
  
  meanwhile a stranded terran confediratecy is caught in the middle that mainly consists of outcast 
 humans.
  
  starcraft is a game that combines good quality audio with really good quality gameplay while you 
 wouldn't think a game of '98 to have the best graphics i would have expected them to be a little 
 clearer then they were.
  
  i personaly think starcraft is one of those classic games of old times that should sit in the hall 
 of fame next to Unreal tournement.
  
  while some levels can pose a threat others are easy i think it has a good mix of levels in the 
 three campaigns and battle. net provides good multiplayer with friends and the game it's self is 
 good for LAN battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raulacho
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when i was in my Early College Years, and i got such an addiction on it, everytime 
 i got from school i got in front of the computer and started another campaign, beat them, eat and 
 play another campaign... the game was so inmersive...
  
  The final levels of each of the races campaigns were so hard that i used to spend my classes thinking 
 of ways to beat the enemy, considering strategies and so.... then going home to practice them... 
 until i finished the game...
  
  At least after i had skirmish campaign... and the expansions
  
  But nothing like the original 
 game, great gameplay, great cinematics, amazing story, unique races...
  
  It was a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  My title explains it all for me. This is the best game ever made as far as I am concerned. There 
 is simply no game more addictive then this game right here. Blizard needs to stop messing around 
 with Warcraft and start messing around with Starcraft. It is simply the coolest atmosphere for 
 a game ever. I love every bit of it. The multilayer packs an infinite number of hours of oh so 
 sweet replay value. The marine is by far the coolest thing in gaming history. You want a piece 
 of me, boy . No matter what PC you have, you should be able to run this baby on it. Simply a breeze 
 to install, not complicated at all. There is so much strategy involved in this game you will be 
 be playing this game for years and you will still find new ways to better your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livethemusiclif
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was released in 1998. I got it about two years after that. I still play it today, and 
 so do thousands of people online on Battle. net so I think that says enough. Originally, my friend 
 got this game and wanted to show me, I watched him play for a few and then I told him it looked 
 stupid. After playing for myself and figuring it all out, I was engrossed. We started to play online, 
 getting other friends in on it and had a blast for a couple years. This is the most I've had on 
 any computer game. Check it out - along with any Blizzard game because they are amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrecastillo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  It's been so long since I played, but I still remember loving every miniute of it. I return to 
 the game about once a year for a week or two just to get some kicks. It has serious replay value 
 and it is a fun game to play all around.
  There are plenty of cheats for the game but don't use them until after you beat it at least once, 
 then fire away.
  It's an old game by today's standards but it's a classic and just like you return to your NES system 
 every once and a while to break some bricks with Mario, you'll return to Starcraft to kill some 
 Zerg now and then too.
  
  HAVE FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntiH3ro484
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Starcraft? The game is simply amazing, even today. Its 8 years old and I'd 
 still play it over any RTS of today. Why?
  
  Starcraft features 3 races; Terran, Zerg, and Protoss, all of which are PERFECTLY balanced; while 
 they are all unique. There is no one best race because every unit has another unit to counter it 
 with. This makes starcraft have high replay value and encourages new strategies.
  
  The graphics are a bit outdated but they were great when the game came out. The only problem is 
 the resolution though. If you have a large monitor (over 20 inches or so) the game will look really 
 stretched out.
  
  Overall, Starcraft is a classic that should be in ANY gamers library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruexx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total classic. The game play is so much fun! The single player mode is progressively 
 more and more challenging, and it sucks the player in. think that everyone that is in to strategy 
 games should pick this game up. The single player is frustrating at times, but once the player 
 picks up the strategy and speed necessary, it gets easier. It's also fun to be able to choose what 
 race's single player campaign you wan to play. The game is also a great starter game for people 
 who are just starting out in the gaming world. One of the prime things that is great about this 
 game is the mutliplayer, a. k. a. Battlle-net. Battle-net has a great chat room system as well as 
 a great competetive system. It's also nice to be able to create your own custom scenarios to play 
 with others on Battle-Net. The graphics are a little but out-dated, but they were great when the 
 game came out. The sound has good quality, and the different units in the game have funny little 
 thinsg to say when you click on them alot. It's funny! Speaking of units, there is a wide variety 
 of units to control, and the units of the different races are actually UNIQUE. What a concept, 
 I know. But anyways, this game is all around a great game. It's a total classic, and a necessary 
 addition to any game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invinciblesuman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of the many strategy games that you will come across in the stores. At first look, 
 it would seem a same old game, same old galactic wars with stupid creatures and stuff [??] . Thats 
 when u come home and check gamespot for a review on yeah .. what was the nameahh Starcraft . And 
 u gaze at the screen as u see a dazzling 9.1 ! Yes , most new gamers havent heard of it . But 
 let me tell u no score on gamespot is 9.1 unless its superb or far above it. And Starcraft is far 
 far above it. Most people who buy the game nowadays dont get the accompanying booklet introducing 
 them to the games storyline which according to me is probably the most fascinating RTS stories 
 of our timesand would shake the strongholds of warcraft 3 and age of mythology. Though this games 
 lacks the beautiful 3d graphics of warcraft and modern strategy games for since it was developed 
 in 1998. WHATS IT ABOUT ?? ----------------------------------
  Well Starcraft is all about 3 species fighting for their rights and survival in a galactic battlefield. 
 You get to play 10 missions or so with each of the 3 species in time as the story develops. In 
 fact , the really startling factor is the story develops as each mission is completed no matter 
 which of the 3 species u r playing with. Ofcourse to understand the entire story and all the tit 
 bits or u just move to the protoss campaign !
  
  WHO R THE COOLEST FACTION ??
  -------------------------------------------------
  I prefer species to faction. Well u have the 
 advanced form of humans called the terrans. They are ordinary. A better option would be the fearsome 
 Zerg who assimilate every other species they come by. Finally come the Protossmeaning the first 
 born. They are the oldest species in the galaxy and have seen the Zerg and Terrans grow before 
 their very eyes. They use a cool form of enery called the psionic energy and their weapons are 
 hence pretty cool. BEST UNITS ---------------------
  Terran Ghost == A dynamic unit with invisibility capability and can plant nukes. The most lethal 
 stealth unit in the game. Protoss Arbiter == Probably the most deadly unit in the game when used 
 properly. It shrouds all other units under its influence in a time warp so that they become invisible 
 to the enemy. More laterstart the game.. i promise u you will love it ! Its 2wice been Game of 
 the Year ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I saw this game. I was really addicted to dungeon keeper at that moment, 
 and I went to a Computer store to play it, and then I saw a bunch of winged flying monsters (after 
 I knew there were called mutalisks) being slayed by 20 or 30 missile turrets, exploding into blood. 
 That was awesome! At the first time I thought it was 3D, and now if you see it you cannot tell, 
 but... who cares!, the game is perfectly balanced (after years of several patches) and you will 
 enjoy every second playing with it.
  
  The only bad thing about Starcraft is that after playing it, you will spend your life looking for 
 a game like this, and there's no other as good as this (your only chance is Brood war, the expansion 
 pack) .
  
  There are 2 races: Terran, Zerg and Protoss, Terran are tough, slow, and have a lot of cool weapons, 
 like the atomic nuke, or the yamato battlecruiser. They are difficult to control, but most of the 
 best players in the world like them. Their buildings fly which gives them a big flexibility in 
 long matches.
  
  Zerg are ruthless, fast and wild. You can make a big amount of them, and have the capability to 
 infest the other races with his scary defiler. They expand quickly and have good air and ground 
 defenses, but just after doing the creep colony in the expanding zerg ground surface.
  
  Protoss are the definitive race: clever, technologically advanced, and... honest. Probably their 
 bigger weakness. They are easy to control, especially with basic units, but really expensive, and 
 difficult to control in long matches, the cool thing is that they teleport their buildings, so 
 you don't have to wait as much as for instance terran do.
  
  The story is amazing, there are some books about it, and even there are projects about making a 
 movie from it, but still nothing for sure. I just pray to god that is not uwe bold who makes this 
 movie:
  
  http://videogames. aol. com/canvases/articles/_a/uwe-boll-secures-rights-to-starcraft/20060331100209990001 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psnr24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  At the time of this game's release, it was easily the best RTS to have ever been made. A revolutionary 
 story-line (somewhat rare for rts') in which 3 races are pitted against each other, a similar yet 
 amazing gameplay engine; and you have something that would not be touched for a quite a while. 
 One of the first games in which i've actually cared about the characters, or the storyline at all 
 for that matter, Starcraft combines all of the best elements required to create not just the perfect 
 RTS, but the perfect game.
  
  Challenging yet rewarding, it will take more than a solitary weekend to complete Starcraft, and 
 then there's the online play; pioneering the online gaming-world what was to come eg: WOW &amp; 
 Counter-Strike. For one of the most rewarding gaming experiences of a life-time, look no further 
 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiveball
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  RePlayability factor is good. This is due to the 3 different races to choose between. While the 
 units do balance out over scale, the visual differences and mobility of the units seem to betray 
 that statement. This also causes the user to have a definate favorite race to use. The graphics 
 are okay for an RTS- no serious fps issues, expecially nowdays the low end system can run this 
 game with no problem at all.
  
  Storyline is alright though not as engrossing as say Warcraft 2: Tides of Darkness. There are quite 
 a number of user-created maps out there for those that try the custom games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is classic. its pretty imazing how the graphics and the sound and the campaign are good 
 in 1998. ive seen worst game then this and they were made like 2005 to 2006. my favorite race is 
 the protos. they are the strongest army. when i first played this game, it was in korea in 1999. 
 it was famous untill there is better game then this (NOT) . i still wach the tornament in 2000 for 
 the starcraft. now they have these only in battle cheast, a good value. i sometimes like to cheat 
 by making my army go indestroctible and making my enemy die. its a classic game, nothing could 
 beat this old RTG game not even Dawn of War (even though im a big fan of Dawn of War) . people who 
 like RTG game, they should try this kick A$$ game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDizz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft went above and beyond all rts games of the past. The story mode is captivating and as 
 you can expect, it's huge success is online. Battle. net is one of the great online / matching systems 
 out there for any game. The style of the game was made for more small battles and precise strategy, 
 but if that's not your style, theres HUNDREDS of player created maps allowing for larger masses 
 and bigger battles. You can add / remove people to your friends list and play along with them! 
 Bring your friends and have a good time playing ranked ladder games, relaxed games or custom made 
 games from other palyers. Overall there's not much you can compare Starcraft with because it's 
 the best that's ever been made up to it's time. But if you are looking for a more up to date rts 
 you can try Warcraft 3 (made by blizzard also) . A must buy for any RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjt9
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game on computer so it was heaps of fun I got this burnt off my friend thats 
 how it all began .This game would be the best for 1st time strategy game players it has only 3 
 races on better in it own way- Terran, Zerg, and Protoss . I dont really play campaign much I 
 just play my made up games Im usually the Terran. I usually play where there is 7 other players 
 so I recon this would be a good game for first time strategy game players also the brood war expansion 
 pack is even better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXKINGPINXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of the the best RTS I have played ever, and I have plenty of experience playing 
 various RTS games. I bought Starcraft reluctantly on a recommendation of a friend, but it has been 
 one of my best investments in any game ever, as it has brought me hours of joy. Starcraft allows 
 you to play as one of three balanced yet diverse races -- the Terran, Zerg, or Protoss. The Terran 
 are, for all practical purposes, human; however the game describes them as cousins of humans. Most 
 consider the Terran to be the most balanced race -- they can not produce as quick or as cheaply 
 as the Zerg, but the Terran units are generally more powerful, and they are less expensive than 
 the Protoss whose units are generally power powerful than Terran units. The Terrans have a variety 
 of units and abilities that will make them a formidable force if they are handled properly. Personally, 
 I find Terran to be the hardest of the three races to play, but there are some exceptional Terran 
 players who can obliterate just about anyone they play. The Zerg are an interesting rates. They 
 rely heavily on massive amounts of relatively cheap units. Furthermore, all of the Zerg units, 
 including their buildings heal themselves over time. The Zerg buildings are made quite differently 
 than that of the Protoss or Terran. The Terran use a unit called an SCV to construct buildings. 
 While the SCV is building, it can not be given another task or it will fail to erect the structure. 
 The Protoss use a unit called the probe to warp in buildings. The probe can begin a warp and then 
 continue to move around. The Zerg, however, use a unit called a drone to morph into the building 
 they need to erect. This means that once you make a building with a drone, that drone is lost forever, 
 and only the building stands in its place. Another interesting fact about the Zerg is that all 
 their units are created out of one building, unlike the Terran and Protoss who have different buildings 
 for producing different types of units. Furthermore, the Zerg's buildings can hatch units three 
 at a time, whereas Terran and Protoss can only do one at a time, which allows the Zerg player to 
 create a massive army in a relatively short amount of time. The Protoss are considered to be the 
 most technologically advanced race in the game. They have the most powerful units, but Protoss 
 units cost more than either Terran or Zerg units. Protoss units and structures have a protective 
 shield around them which recharges over time. To destroy a Protoss unit or structure, one must 
 first get through the shield. The Protoss also have what I feel is the best defensive structure 
 in the game. The Protoss' photon cannon is equally lethal against both enemy air and ground units. 
 With these placed strategically around your base, an enemy will find it difficult to penetrate 
 deep into your base. The single-player campaign starts you out playing 10 Terran missions. After 
 successfully completing these, you progress to 10 Zerg missions, and then 10 Protoss missions. 
 Most of the campaign missions start you out with a base, and a limited number of units and resources. 
 You must then make either your SCVs, Probes, or Drones start mining minerals and harvesting vespene 
 gas. You can create new units and structures by paying for them through these resources. You then 
 generally have some mission objective to complete. Once completing this objective, you advance 
 to the next mission. There are some missions, however, that start you out only with a few fighting 
 units, and you can not create any more units because you have no units capable of erecting structures. 
 The multiplayer aspect of this game is in my opinion the most fun, and it's absolutely free once 
 you buy Starcraft. This puts you up against other gamers from around the world, who you can cooperate 
 with, fight against, or even backstab. These tend to be the most challenging games, as humans aren't 
 generally as predictable as the Starcraft AI. You have to learn and employ completely new strategies 
 playing against a human. When playing a multiplayer game, you generally start with 4 SCVs, probes, 
 or drones, depending on which race you have chosen to play. Your objective, then, is to take out 
 your enemies before they take you out. Starcraft also comes with a campaign editor, allowing you 
 to create your own maps and missions, however I have not experimented too much with that so I will 
 not go into detail about it. From what I have heard, though, it is exceptional. In conclusion, 
 Starcraft is an awesome game which never gets old, as their are so many different outcomes and 
 strategies to use when playing. If you do not have it, and are interested in RTSs, I strongly recommend 
 buying this product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Where to start with starcraft.... I'll just start with WOW! Such an amazing game. My favorite game, 
 too. The 3 races are VERY different yet balanced. The Terran are defense heavy, the Zerg are quick 
 assault, and the protoss are tanks. I love nukes, and everything about this game. If you are to 
 try any of the Blizzard maps, do lost temple. Its the most played online. If you are looking for 
 a map where you don't have to expand (but its highly recommended) and get another source of resources, 
 go off on battlenet and get Fastest possible map Ever . All the 5000000000000 different versions 
 are basically the same. My favorite map. Anyways, Go GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! Whenever someone disses 
 this game at school, I take it personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donnyz89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  How many games are you going to find on the shelf after 6 years? How many games will be reviewed 
 after 8 years? not many. This is truely one of the best game of its kind of all time. Its definitly 
 one of the most intriging, through provoking, flexible and balanced strategy game of all time.
 
  
  Strategy games can only be good with these elements.
  1) Uniquenes of the races
  2) Balance of races
  3) Flexibilty of units
  4) Simplicity vs Complexity
  5) Action
  
 
  1) The uniqueness of the races is absolutely incredible. I have not see a strategy game with so 
 many unique units. You honestly can not find 2 units in this game and say, they are pretty much 
 the same thing. Even the basic builders are different, with different abilities. No two spell are 
 the same or even close to the same. Every backup unit, every military unit has its own specialties 
 and EVERYONE has a place in the game. No one unit can be taken out of consideration. Many games 
 will have the god unit that everyone gets and is all set. Now this game, everyonehas a weakness 
 and can be unitlized in smart ways to win.
  
  2) Like uniqueness of the races, balance is highly important. when every unit is soo different 
 such as this game, the races needs to be balanced. I agree some races are easier to begin with, 
 some are easier to build with, some are easier to learn with but no one has a clear advantage in 
 the game. MAYBE over another race but that can also be countered by the 3rd race. ITs simple check 
 and balances at its best.
  
  3) Like I stated in #1, flexibility is incredible. I promise you will not find one unit to be useless. 
 There is a situation for every unit. Some units are less useful than others but when the times 
 is right, it can cause some serious hurt if its used right.
  
  4) This game is simple. 2 resources, 2 kinds of buildings, population limit upgrades... nothing 
 more but the complexity is limitless. There are countless numbers of strategies throughout the 
 game amongst the tactics used by many players. Its honestly a game that you can constantly improve 
 by gaining experience.
  
  5) The action is great. IT can be 5 minutes into the game or 30 minutes into the game. There is 
 just enough units to have massive attacks but not too much to make it hard to win. A race can be 
 destroyed in matter of seconds if the right tactics are used. Unlike some games where it would 
 take multiple attacks to slowly kill them off. Sometimes it only takes 3 units to take out a entire 
 race untouched. Overall, from a strategy game nut, after playing Warcraft, Stronghold, Age of Empires, 
 Empire Earth, and many many others, this is still, by FAR the deepest, funniest, most versaile 
 strategy game of all time. And I highly doubt it can get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the best real-time strategy game i have ever played. From the incredibly diverse and 
 amazingly thought out units to the incredibly fast-paced gameplay it towers at the top as the game 
 i will compare all other rts's against.
  
  Starcraft is based in the future which is opposite to Warcraft, being more fantasy. You play as 
 all three factions in the campaign to get the whole story and because each race is so unique, the 
 ten or so levels you play each race for are each unique. The tilesets for level are quite well 
 designed aswell, however, they are not a patch on the voice acting which makes the story seem so 
 much more life-like.
  
  Alone, the campains will take you a good 35 hours to complete but there is so much more as well. 
 There are normal campaign maps that can be played against up to 7 computer controlled enemies. 
 There is also a good (albeit complicated) map editor that you can create campaigns with too.
  
  However, the real attraction comes from the multiplayer both on the internet or over a LAN 
 connection. Online, you can use Battle. net (Blizzard's own server) to play matches with people 
 from all round the world. If you just want to compete against people at your house though, using 
 a LAN connection only requires one CD and it's even simpler to set up. Both are great fun though 
 the competition online can be fierce from over 9 years of honed tactics.
  
  Anyone who is even remotely interested in rts games should buy this as it is easy to get hold of 
 and doesn't require a modern supercomputer to play it. In fact even if you aren't interested in 
 rts games you should play it! This is gaming at it's best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The GRaphic's are exelent the game play is easy to learn but hard to master. And of course it is 
 a awsom game. Do you know y. It was made by bizzard. This game is sweet. It has a lot of veriety. 
 You will naver have 2 game exaculy the same ageain. This game is highly addictive and without it, 
 you are not consitered a person. If you can buy this game you should get it, because it will be 
 obuleat soon so get it wile you can. Bercause if you dont have it, you are missing out on a lot 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  If i could wipe my mind and play through a game again, it would probally be Starcraft.
  I nice control system, 3 races to choose from which are distinctlly different each time and the 
 story line is a script of genius.
  
  With the main story based on Humans, the ability to change from one race to the other thourgh the 
 game is something i havent seen again until they released LOTR Battle For Middle Earth, and even 
 then the LOTR game script was a little bit easy to anticapate as everyone has seen the movies.
 
  
  A fantastic game, if you see it for under 20 buy it!! (You could probally get ot for a tenner 
 now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calexriv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I have a screwed up computer so no 3D games can play on it. Only old ones. But I do have the Starcraft 
 series and they are some of the best games I've played. If you have played Age of Empires of Empire 
 Earth, you will easily get the feel for this game. This game is an RTS that takes you forward many 
 years into the future. There are three groups, the Terran are a race of humans that are trying 
 to survive and at the same time wipe out the aliens from the galaxy. They are highly advanced in 
 technology and thier soldiers are exyremely capable of surviving on their own. The other army is 
 the alien Zerg. These bloodthirsty pack of gross martians are constantly preying on the Terran 
 and are fending off a strange mass of other aliens. The other Aliens are called the Protoss. As 
 the smartest of the three groups, these aliens carry portable light swords, plasma cannons, invisibility 
 and more. The Protoss are also shielded and can receive twice as much damage that a human marine 
 or a zerg zergling. With these three teams at your hand, you have to complete the stories of all 
 three races. In this game, when you take control of a race, you are most likely faced with one 
 or two more of the other races. At the start of the game or mission, you have at least one main 
 building called a Command Center, Zerg Hive, of Protoss Nexus and a builder unit called a Terran 
 SCV, Zerg Drone, or the Protoss Probe. These units can build anything and are vital to the success 
 of each mission. They build buildings that either build other buildings, make infantry or artillery, 
 or do research to upgrade units and allow the creation of other units. Like the humans for example. 
 You must have a Command Center so that you can create and SCV. That SCV must build a Terran Barracks 
 in order to create marines, flamethrower wielding firebats, nurses, and ghosts (splinter cells) . 
 So you must create every available building in the race so that you can have a more powerful army. 
 Once you have created an army, then you go out and reign terror with flying vehicles and creatures, 
 robots, people, aliens, and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMER_SIMPSON
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  A great RTS and one of the best games out there. you notice some RTSs have 6 races/allignments 
 all the same and only different graphics. well starcraft's races are all unique with the zerg hatchery 
 and spawning pool or zergling and mutalisk or protoss zealots raging the battlefield. now you notice 
 the low graphics score. that is because of the 2D engine. now something that can be annoying with 
 the online mode is the hackers. people that make programs that edit the game for their own advantage 
 (for example the maphack lets them see the whole map and other units) . otherwise it is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  i think that my favorite game company is blizzard. their games are all fun classics that can't be 
 beat. the same can be said for one of blizzards oldest classics, Starcraft. Starcraft is the story 
 of 3 species, the human and the 2 other aliens. i think they were the protoss and the zerg. although 
 the formula for combat is what is now called "zerging", named after the zergs, because you just make 
 a bunch and rush them into the enemies base. that sounds kind of primitive, but it became beloved 
 to many gamers. the game had a large amount of fun modes: the story mode is where you have to beat 
 the human, protoss, and zerg missions in that order. the map editor lets you creat your own fun maps 
 for the game. the game has its own multiplayer, which is very fun as well. overall, i would say get 
 this game, but i have no idea where the heck to find it. i think i got it in the 90's, since i dont 
 know when it came out. well, if you want to take a break from all of the current base vs base games, bust 
 out starcraft. Skalokos _-_-_- _-_-_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game starcraft is very good RTS game and when it first came out i was into it like no other 
 game back in 98. This game was first RTS game to introduce 3 sides which overall incrases gameplay 
 big time. One problem with this game is that its been 8 years since its release and blizzard doesnt 
 care to make sequel to this game using up to date graphics engine and all there titles made them 
 good money but they more into warcraft and they dont care about starcraft. I am not asking for 
 world of starcraft which would suck but all i am asking is another RTS game called starcraft II 
 because i know they wont make WC4 for decades to come and Diablo is done so that leaves starcraft 
 and most game companies never listen to there fans exception of low budget companies cause they 
 need all fans they can get but just wish i was millionair so i can fund creation of this game or 
 buy out blizzard and give fans what they need cause apprently most game companies are ruled by 
 old men who dont care about youngsters but anyways this i great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feichi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is perhaps the most well known real time strategy game. A product of Blizzard Entertainment 
 released in 1998, Starcraft still holds up well today. It was the best-selling computer game of 
 1998 and won the Origins Award for Best Strategy Computer Game of that year. Nine million copies 
 of StarCraft and its expansion pack, StarCraft: Brood War have been sold since its release. It 
 has achieved an international cult-like status in the computer gaming world, especially in its 
 online multiplayer tournament format. This is especially true in South Korea, where professional 
 players and teams participate in matches, earn sponsorships, and compete in televised matches.
 
  
  In the game you have the option of controlling one of three futuristic races; the Terrans, the 
 Zerg or the Protoss. Each one has its own unique attributes, and it seems that not one is superior 
 to another. The game plays like any other of its genre. You build a base, gather resources, train 
 units, and duke it out with your opponent. Some games make this process really boring, but Stracraft 
 is really well designed and innovative. Somehow the standard gameplay in Starcraft doesn't get 
 boring. People have been playing it since 1998. If you want to play against other players then 
 you can access battle. net which is Blizzard's online gaming community. It's completely free of 
 charge and lets you play against other players around the world. You will still find thousands 
 of players at any time of the day playing Starcraft on battle. net (yes, it really is that popular) .
 
  
  Other than playing random battles you have the option to play the 3 campaigns in the game (one 
 for each race) . The Brood War expansion pack adds another 3 campaigns. The campaigns themselves 
 are very interesting. You not only control one of the races, but at times you control hero characters 
 which are stronger than standard units. These hero characters have speech, and usually tell you 
 what to do next. The campaigns are further aided by cinematics and pre-game discussions between 
 the main characters. The futuristic storyline itself is quite interesting though it's not something 
 like a novel.
  
  The graphics of Stracraft still hold up really well today. Everything looks detailed and imaginative. 
 The units are all well designed and interesting. The background music is fine, but nothing exciting. 
 The sound effects are a strong point in the game. Sounds like shooting lasers or firing missiles 
 have realistic sound effects to them. The game also features a world editor in which you can create 
 your own maps and campaigns. It takes some time to learn but works very well. All the hero units 
 and many more that weren't available in the campaigns are available in the world editor. Starcraft 
 is really essential for any PC gamer. It's a very entertaining game that you can play for months 
 or even years. It takes up a small amount of the hard drive, and doesn't require a new sound or 
 graphics card. It's also very cheap because it's been available for 8 years now. I recommend buying 
 the Starcraft Battle Chest which is readily available in stores and online. It includes Starcraft 
 and Starcraft: Brood War, as well as a strategy guide and several other manuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irunongames
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  It is a great game. You must get it. You can get it for 20 $ and get the expasion pack and get 
 the gameguide! When this review was publised 20,000 gamespot users had this game! And you get multi 
 player games and think about how many people you can play with. Also it might not be the best of 
 everything but it has great grapics. Do the math, you get the game and it's expasion pack with the 
 game guides and you can play multiplayer with millions of people and all you have to do is pay 
 20$ for it! I have to say it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Some RTSs are are slow. Some are too fast. Some lack other things, like good graphics, plenty of 
 options, and so on. I'd like to refer to Goldie Locks. (Remember, this is completely my opinion, 
 criticize me as you will) Civilization III, (I know its not a RTS) is like the hot porridge. Its 
 to slow for me, and has too many options for me. (Who knows, I may touch up on it and love it) 
 Warcraft II (I know its a great game, but at the moment:) is a little bland after many hours of 
 playing. Then the bland starts to grow, like eating a food that tastes fine at first, but tastes 
 terrible after eating a lot. Warcraft II is like the cold porridge. Starcraft is just right. As 
 you guessed.
  
  When I first heard that Blizzard was making a Sci-Fi RTS, I had mixed feelings. Some were that 
 they were messing up the formula. Others were like what Halo fanboys think of Halo 3: O. M. G!!! 
 But, when I first started playing... it was just shock. I was amazed at how good Starcraft was! 
 It all just came at me in one big chunk, and it was one big chunk to look at. 
  
  Starcraft is eye candy. It's like a jaw breaker, it lasts for so long, and when your done, you 
 want more. At any cost. Just looking at the models of any stucture or unit gives me this feeling 
 of.... wow. Just a gaping mouth saying wow. Obviously the graphics arent everything, but they sure 
 are a cornerstone to some. 
  
  Sound is more important than most think in a game. Just imagine playing Halo 2 with no sound. Sounds 
 stupid, doesn't it? Itsa cruicial part of the game. Some music gets annoying *coughs* Pokemon.. Well, 
 now on to describing Starcraft. The sound is amazing, and the 'tunes don't get irritating after 
 awhile. Even when there are hundreds of missle turrets in Turret defense, the launching actually 
 sounds cool. The sounds are well timed, and fit well with the units they come forth from. Sound 
 is good I say.
  
  Ah.. value. Starcraft has a lot of it. Well, the campaign is pretty lengthly. The multiplayer is 
 what takes all of your time though. Countless online games are setup perday, and the battle. net 
 online service is a really good fit for Starcraft. They'res chatting, organized games, and lots 
 of different categories. Lots of fun custom games are playable too. Multiplayer is the diamond 
 of Starcraft, and all you have to do is go to the jewlery store to find it. It's so addicting, 
 and so much fun. Don't hesitate.
  
  Well, not to the important part: gameplay. It's important. It's addicting. It's fun. The gameplay 
 is just one word. Actually, two: Almost Perfect. It's so close to perfection, it's almost unmeasurable. 
 So many units, buildings, upgrades, maps, variety.... The gameplay is just so hard to describe. 
 Sorry, I can't get into much detail, but that's all you need to know.
  
  
  
  Starcraft is a classic. No less. Thats all you need to know. Classic. If you are anyclose to an 
 RTS fan, you'll like this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilGenius_3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This truly is a perfected game. The artwork and the graphics are beautiful for such an old game 
 (8 years at the time of writing!) . I recently picked this up because a friend recommended it and 
 WOW I can see why he did. For a mere $20 I got both Starcraft and the expansion plus both guide 
 books. The online play is fun and addictive with amazing longevity due to the free, easy to use, 
 and very good map editor/maker. To be honest I havent actually gone into the single player 
 for there is so much more in the online play! The obvious flaw I find is just a couple of annoyances 
 such as the selecting 12 max units rule and some other minor problems. I would gladly 
 fork out another 10/20 dollars for an upgrade which changed some of these mechanics and updated 
 the graphics a bit.
  
  Well worth purchasing and remember this is based only on online play so there probably is a bundle 
 of more fun it the campaign!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: auron_xp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Not everyone likes RTSs but they should try this one out, Starcraft is its name. Stacraft is a 
 unique fast paced RTS from Blizzard. Its last RTS, Warcraft II, was indeed a already a great game. 
 Now Blizzard makes an improvement and it improved a lot. The single-player of Starcraft is just 
 awsome. Its got all the action and fast reaction all rounded up. Some levels are mazes which you 
 get a group of units and adventure a dungeon. The game also has some interesting characters, although 
 they dont seem to have deep personalities. Overall this is a fast action paced well-polished great 
 game for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixGod17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. Starcraft did things that some RTS have trouble doing today. Which is having 
 everthing totally blanced. Also or it's time and even today the graphis beat all. I would even go 
 as far to say that there were better then World of Warcraft III. It also has a story line that 
 yet the idea of the game has been used many times with this game it seems new yet old at the same 
 time. It also I would have to say music that never gets old. Starcraft has one of the bigest fan 
 bases for online which is called Batte. net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of Blizzard's greatest creation, probably for a long time. It's 2006, and people 
 all over the world are still addicted to this 1998 game. Because this truly is a wonderful game, 
 it has the depth and gameplay for the players to crave.
  
  Gameplay-There are three races in the game, their units, buildings, ways of building are completely 
 unique and fits their background while adding different use of strategies, VERY different. The 
 Zerg VS Protoss is like a battle of Quatity VS Quality, while the Terran's units are good at defence, 
 players might use turtle strategies of course there are plenty of ways to counter that. So there 
 might be a lot of units in the game, but each of them is unique and have a huge potential. This 
 brings depth to the game and in multiplayer, players can use all sorts of strategies and you must 
 try to counter it, or how about surprising them with a whole new strategie.
  
  Graphics-Well it is made in 1998, so you can't expect a detailed 3D world, but what you will get 
 is a detailed 2D world. Starcraft's building are very detailed especially the Zerg's building. 
 The blood, oh the blood. It goes everywhere, it's probably the goriest 2D RTS game I've ever seen. 
 It's actually pretty funny, when a marine dies, his body just blows up and splatter in blood, now 
 that's pretty realistic is he's killed a Zergling been ripped apart and all. But if he was killed 
 by another marine, it would be pretty weird, a machine can tear a guy apart.
  
  Sound-Excellent voice acting for Terran and Protoss, great screeching, roaring and other terrible 
 sounds for Zerg too.
  
  Overall- A totoally splendid RTS, no doubt one of the finests ever seen in the gaming world. You 
 can say C&C began the history of true RTS and Starcraft brought this ever-lasting genre to the 
 whole world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Three major games that brought me into the RTS world, Age of Empires, Warcraft, and Starcraft!
 
  
  Gameplay: Starcraft is different from most RTS's because the story is based into the future with 
 three different races the Terran, Zerg and Protoss. The 3 different races are really unique from 
 each other. My favorite happened to be the Terran, i really like their feature, that some of there 
 buildings can lift off from the ground and be taken away to a safer location, this really helps 
 out if you accidently built it in a wrong location or if your being attacked. The multiplayer in 
 this game is the same as most RTS's as just playing the game online, that's fine.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are solid and down to the core, Great! For a game that came out late 1990s 
 this game did a fantastic job, no framrate issues a bit choppy but who cares...
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is awesome! and so are the voice-overs. Not really much more to here.
 
  
  The value of this game is quite high, there have been few RTS's out there that i actually enjoyed 
 and this is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the most engaging games ever, I found starcraft to enthrall me from beginning to 
 end. Regardless of what I played, it was great...
  
  In single player, you begin as terran, and move onto 2 other races, protoss and zerg. The story 
 is capturing, and you begin to feel for your characters, associating with their struggle, and doing 
 your best to survive.
  
  Like any RTS, the single player missions require strategizing, and a willingness to be risky, try 
 levels again and again. If you cheat.... well, that takes the point of the game away. Anyways, the 
 main purpose of this game isnt the single player mission, but its excellence makes this all the 
 better.
  
  multiplayer is amazing, i remember playing for years on battlenet and improving my record, something 
 like 400 wins, 250 loses or so. definetly a great multiplayer game, there are no other games out 
 there that out match it!
  
  Sound quality is excellent, and watching each unit make a particular phrase was exteremly entertaining. 
 Also, explosion noises, and siege tank attack noises in siege mode was astounding (especially if 
 you have surround sound and a sub.... it makes it all the more deep and powerful)
  
  Graphics take a hit in this game. But it doesnt hurt the overall quality. Considering its a RTS 
 and that it was made in 1998 (almost ten years!!) it serves its purpose and is never unappealing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  
  The good
  Gameplay- Starcraft is an rts by blizzard entertainment, First you pick 1 of 3 races. These races 
 are. terrain, protoss, and zerg, Each race has different units . What ever the race you pick you 
 start out mining minerals and vespian gas until you can make buildings letting you create certain 
 units. Then you use these units to destroy each other. You can play campaign, custom game or online. 
 Campaign has you doing missions like protect your base for 30 mins. Custom game is basically kill 
 the enemy. Online lets you play real people u can always find a match because many people play 
 it.
  
  Graphics- its 2d. Which doesnt matter because its a great game.
  
  Sound- the music is alright its not the greatest thing you have ever heard. The voice acting is 
 good. the combat sounds are cool
  
  Value- this game is like 20 bucks. Money well spent, you can buy the battle chest for 30 bucks 
 and it comes with the expansion .
  
  The bad
  
  Graphics- they are just outdated but that doesnt really matter.
  
  Sound- the music isnt 
 that bad really
  
  Value- the price is right
  
  Final thoughts- you will love this game. its a just have for any rts fan.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puerto_nican
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  now-a-days the only pc game people are playing is warcraft and world of warcraft. but people still 
 dont recognize what was the first pc game that started it all. starcraft. although its an old game 
 its very fun. the graphics still look the same. the pc graphics still arent as advanced as ps2 
 or xbox. but this game is the best besides warcraft. and if you do like this game then you could 
 look into the expansion set- starcraft brood war. this is the same thing but you get to use kerigan 
 as a zerg. so yea get this game. and the good thing is that they dont exagerate with making sequels... 
 LIKE CAPCOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is arguably one of the best executed real-time strategy games to have ever been released. 
 There are a variety of options, none of them too complex that they aren't accessible to first-timers 
 and novice players. It certainly is telling how popular this game is when 8 years later patches 
 are still being released.
  
  You have the option of three different races, the Terran, the Zerg, and the Protoss. All of them 
 have unique abilities, pros and cons. The single-player campaign is decent for all three races 
 and is recommended so you can gain valuable experience necessary to compete on Battle. net.
  
  Battle. net is Blizzard's online service for Starcraft. The best part is that it's free and 
 you can usually find good competitors online. The true value in this game lies in its multi-player 
 so learn to build strong armies and you'll find yourself putting a lot of time in. The only complaint 
 I have as that between races there can be some balance issues.
  
  This game is visually impressive though it was released in 1998 I'm giving the graphics a score 
 comparable to games of that era. It's a shame that in Blizzard's numerous patches they never did 
 some tweaking so you can go higher than 640x480 but the game is still strong.
  
  Starcraft delivers and has stood the test of time very well. You can still pick it up with the 
 Brood Wars expansion for about $19.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  For those not aware of it yet, Starcraft is a Real-Time Strategy game where you must command your 
 army of units against enemy forces to complete objectives (more often than not destroying your 
 enemies) .
  
  Starcraft is somewhat of a spiritual successor to Warcraft 2 since it uses a lot of it's mechanics. 
 The formula stays somewhat the same, but this game features three races and a lot of units each 
 of them unique and perfectly balanced. 
  
  The three races are the Terran, a race of planetary displaced humans who use a standard military 
 (although technologically advanced) composed of units such as marines, tanks, wraiths (kinda like 
 a space fighter jet) and battlecruiers. The next race are the Zerg, a parasitic race of aliens 
 sharing one mind (the Overmind as it is called) whose strengh lies primarly in numbers. Thirdly, 
 there are the Protoss, another race of aliens who hav the strongest fighters thanks to advanced 
 technology and psionic abilities. 
  
  As mentioned before, this game uses a lot of conventions that were put in place by Warcraft 2. 
 You have two types of ressources which you must collect to build structures and units. Instead 
 of wood and gold, you harvest minerals and vespene gas. This works the same way as in Warcraft 
 where you need to create workers to harvest these ressources and build structures. MInerals are 
 harvested the same way as wood in Warcraft and gas the same as gold (except for the fact you need 
 to build an extractor on top of it) . There are some twists to this. For example, the Zerg drones 
 will morph into a new building themselves effectively costing you a worker to create a building. 
 Protosses (is that how you say it?) on the other hand, can initiate creating a building and walk 
 away while the building builds itself. This might seem grossly imbalanced at first glance but the 
 structure costs and build times are all adjusted to make this, as I mentioned before, a game of 
 perfect balance. Oh! and by the way Terrans build their structures the old fashion Warcraft-way 
 (by having a worker stay there for the duration of the construction) . Another familiar point for 
 Warcraft players is the food limit, where you have to build farms to have enough food to make new 
 units. This is quite twisted in Starcraft. Terrans build supply depots (essentially a famr) for 
 food but the similarities end there. Zergs for example, need to create Overlords which are (slow) flying 
 units and Protosses need to build Pylons (this building is also used to expand where structures 
 can be built) .
  
  The single player portion of the game is fairly lenghty with 3 campaigns (one for each race) of 
 10 missions each which get very challenging towards the end (and by the way what an ending.... the 
 ending itself deserves an award which I think Gamespot already did with it's 10 best endings of 
 all time feature [it was number 1] ) . These include numerous unique characters who make the story 
 go forward. These are some of the most memorable characters of any game. Who can forget Kerrigan, 
 the evil queen of blades or the dark and secretive yet insanely powerful Zeratul? But the heart 
 of the game lies in battlenet multiplayer. Battlenet made it easy to quickly find someone to kill 
 and the online matches are really where the balance and strategies come into play. I could go on 
 and on about how action-packed and satisfying the multiplayer is but this is something you need 
 to experience for yourself if you consider yourself a PC gamer. 
  
  The graphics of this game aren't really a selling point since they are locked at low resolution 
 and are completly 2D. The sprites look good and are well animated but their portraits and voices 
 are what gives them their personality (this being a Blizzard game it is a given that the game has 
 a lot of personality) . 
  
  Voice work in the game is nothing short of perfect. This is good since most of the story is conveyed 
 through briefings or dialogue during or after battle. In Blizzard fashion all the units in the 
 game have funny bits of dialogue when clicked on several times (except maybe for the zerg who don't 
 really talk) .
  
  In conclusion, with it's great storyline, memorable characters, distinctive personality and addictive 
 multiplayer Starcraft is a classic that must be owned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has demonstrated what great games they have made in the past 15 years. Starcraft is one 
 of their best games. If not, ever. It's one of the best games ever made. If you don't have it, 
 get it now. There are so many things unique about this games. There are three distinct races: Terran, 
 Zerg and Protoss. This is actually the first time I've seen three races that are so different. 
 Each one has a different campaign and a completely different set of troops. The campaigns are remarkably 
 different, from difficulty, to difference in objectives. The races in Starcraft are so much different. 
 The Zerg are weak but cheap to make and have numbers. The Protoss are strong but expensive and 
 often have lower numbers, and the Terrans are in the middle. The sound is also great. From nuking 
 a Zerg colony to a simple gunshot. There is a huge variety of sound effects and music, a lot to 
 keep you entertained for a while. The graphics, for its time, are also great. One of the best features 
 of Starcraft is its online play. You can play with up to eight people on a normal map, or you can 
 change strategies and play in a user created map (LOTR games are popular and probably the best) . 
 I spend many hours at night playing these maps. You can also create some yourself, the the difficulty 
 for beginners sometimes leaves making multiplayer maps until your more experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a rts which some people just dont like but if you play online new ideas pop up.
  Gameplay 9/10
  The story is sorta engaging exspecially with the many plot twists. And there is 
 3 scenarios to play from which just keeps adding more sights to the story.
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are ok but they were't that technological advance.
  Sound 10/10
  Like in most 
 rts blizzard makes if you click on a unit many times they say a special voice acting. Which i kinda 
 sweet.
  value 8/10
  This game offers the most replay value online cause people make their own games with there rules. 
 You can change everything in it. And at 5 dollars this is probably a steal.
  Reviewrs' Tilt 10/10
  I loved this game this game has been here for awile but i can never get 
 tired of the unlimited options online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a very fun game for RTS fans. If you enjoyed Star Wars or Star Trek, Starcraft is 
 a game to think about buying next.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Very fun and highly addictive. Many people will enjoy a game like this because it is 
 not too difficult or too easy. A game everyone will enjoy.
  
  GRAPHICS: Not bad, but also not good. They may look nice about the time of the release of Starcraft, 
 but now they look poor. There is worse looking games but still better looking games.
  
  SOUND: Lots of alien sounds and explosions.
  
  Value: One game that will never get old, except 
 for when they release a newer version of Starcraft. You will play this game for years and still 
 never get tired of it.
  
  TILT: Feels a lot like Ages of Empires. But this is a more challenging setup to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Starcraft For PC.
  
  I first played a demo of Starcraft on an old 486 back in 1998. Instantly, I was hooked as I played 
 the 4 Terran missions available in the demo to death, at the agonizingly slow speed of the 486. 
 Along with the rest of the world, I was witnessing the birth of an RTS phenomenon the likes of 
 which has never been seen or heard of in PC gaming history.
  
  Starcraft is probably the best RTS game ever made, despite the fact that there's a lot less strategy 
 or balance involved. That doesn't seem to matter though, because Starcraft's charm, its masterful 
 campaigns and its insane multiplayer make the small flaws seem minuscule when looking at the big 
 picture.
  
  Graphics : Starcraft looked good when it came out, real good! Sure, it wasn't fully 3D like Total 
 Annihilation, you couldn't change resolutions and there were some key animations missing (the water) 
 but it still looked good and it had style.
  
  When talking style, we really need to mention Starcraft as far as RTSes go. The direction in which 
 the developers went with the 3 races is unique, to say the least. Even the Terran, the obligatory 
 humans, have something new and refreshing about them. The Protoss and the Zerg, on the other hand, 
 are wholly new and seemingly interesting twists on pop-culture favorites or on our own subconscious 
 imaginations of what alien races might look like. 
  
  Units and terrain are well detailed in Starcraft. Each unit looks great, has a ton of animation, 
 and supports fairly advanced lighting and smoke effects while moving gracefully across sky or land. 
 The terrain suffers from a severe lack of tile sets but what it has looks phenomenal. Everything 
 looks authentic and you might find yourself just exploring the terrain to see what other kind of 
 inside jokes or animation queues the guys at Blizzard thought of next.
  
  Needless to say the game has hardly any framerate problems and works perfectly on the minimum system 
 requirements. The CG in Starcraft is also among the best ever created in a PC game and is in the 
 vein of other Blizzard games that've used GC before it. You won't mistake the style for something 
 foreign, trust me, but you will begin to love the particularities soon enough.
  
  Sound : Starcraft is a sound revolution in terms of RTSes. Not only because it is one of the first 
 (if not, the first) to have a fully voiced campaign but because it does so with style and with 
 REAL actors. Everyone who speaks in Starcraft puts a genuine effort in delivering their lines appropriately 
 and all the actors are perfectly matched to their digital counterparts avoiding clumsy or embarrassing 
 situations. 
  
  The sound effects and music are just as good. The screeching of the Zerglings or the Hydraliks, 
 the high-powered whoosh of lasers and even the death screams of the marines are all implemented 
 with professional precision and sound appropriately rich, terrifying or destructive. The sound 
 effects never drown out the music (or vice versa) ; they are the highest quality around and are 
 among some of the best in an RTS game ever. 
  
  The music fares just as well. The quick, heavy-metal riffs are very tasteful, unlike most other 
 music of this sort used in games. They help get the action pumping, they're recorded at a high 
 rate and they just sound good. Very good, not unlike the rest of the sound component!
  
  Gameplay : Let's get a few things straightened out here: Starcraft is far from perfect in terms 
 of gameplay. There are game exploits, huge nation imbalances, groups are limited to 12 troops, 
 there's more button mashing than there is actual strategy, etc. While this is certainly not all 
 that encouraging it doesn't wreck the fun of Starcraft and it doesn't undermine its formidable 
 multiplayer.
  
  What makes Starcraft such a standout RTS is its campaign. Composed of a series of interconnected 
 missions, tied together with a beautifully narrated story, Starcraft stands in a league of its 
 own as far as campaigns go. The flawless implementation of the game's story was revolutionary for 
 its time not only because it wasn't just an excuse to explain why the three sides butchered each 
 other but because it actually had characters that you would care for, whose personal lives you 
 gave a damn about and who were more than just units on the battlefield. Oh, and let's not forget 
 the amazing plot twists in Blizzard's classic, starting from Kerrigan's story to the Protoss power 
 struggles. All of this flowed together and fused beautifully in such a way that you were emerged 
 in the game and could go on playing for hours without feeling time slip away.
  
  Starcraft has 3 races: The Zerg, the Protoss and the Terran. One human and 2 alien (I'll let you 
 guys figure out who's who) . Each of these races has its own strengths and weaknesses, for example 
 Protoss troops are very expensive but they're also very strong while Zerg troops are the exact 
 opposite. The myriad of units available for each side is astounding; each of the three races has 
 their own particular units and these aren't just different skins of the same unit but they actually 
 function as different entities in the game. The Terran Battleship is not a simple counterpart to 
 the Zerg Mutalisk or the Protoss Carrier. This gives each side a huge amount of particular flair, 
 along with making the game an original masterpiece of both design and diversity. If there is one 
 real problem with the actual unit design in itself, it's the spell casters. Due to the fast paced 
 and frantic battles of Starcraft spell casters become useless as you simply CANNOT control them 
 well enough in a heated situation. Now, real problems start arising when units don't act like they're 
 supposed to. See, Starcraft assumes that "more and cheap" can combat "less but expensive", the 
 system really begins to fail though as soon as you get half-way through a game. In the original 
 release the Zerg were heavily underpowered and, despite the fact that they had 2 Mutalisks for 
 every carrier they were useless unless they caught the opponent off guard. So much of Starcraft 
 is based on simple things like "who attacks first" or "rushing rules" that it becomes impossible 
 for some armies to win against one another when facing each other in middle to late game. Sure, 
 the subsequent patches fixed things but then we reached one point were the Zerg were TOO powerful, 
 and then off we went to wait for another patch. In addition, the unbalances in the original release 
 have no way of correction. There are no paper-rock-scissors rules nor are the population limits 
 different for the races therefore, the only way to win is to be either the first attacking or to 
 be the one who can pump out units faster, depending on who you play as.
  
  The buildings in Starcraft share an equally as distinctive of a trait as the units. Each and every 
 race has their own ways of construction or supplying their troops. The Protoss build Pylons around 
 which they can warp new buildings, while the Zerg can only build within their "creep" which can 
 be expanded by either waiting or by building Spore Colonies. Even building the actual structures 
 is distinct for each race, as the Terrans must have a worker dedicated to constructing a building 
 while the Zerg have to sacrifice a Drone to build structures and, finally, the Protoss can just 
 initiate a building and then move on as the structure will build itself. And, amazingly, this actually 
 DOESN'T unbalance the game, as a Protoss building takes longer to build than either a Terran or 
 a Zerg building and might even cost more. Finally, using your buildings to spawn units also takes 
 an individual approach for each race. Zerg can only build units from their Hive, but as long as 
 they have enough larvae they can build as many simultaneous units at one time as they want while 
 the other two races are stuck to the regular pump out the troop from the factory-initiative.
 
  
  If Starcraft lacks in something, than it definitely would have to be the terrain tile sets. Starcraft 
 has very few actual tile sets and, generally speaking, the mutliplayer/idividual maps are very 
 poorly designed as you either never have enough resources or enough space for ground battles or 
 just simply easily blockable bottlenecks that make for one helluva' defense (especially since defensive 
 buildings in Starcraft are very powerful) . Ahh and speaking of resources, there are two types that 
 you can collect: Crystal and gas. Both are used in building units or buildings. 
  
  The AI in Starcraft is actually VERY good. I was caught off guard many times as the AI rushed me 
 before I even had a change to get some decent defense up. The AI really doesn't shy away from any 
 dirt tricks or human tactics it can use against you. I'd just wish you could actually choose a 
 difficulty, since adapting to the AI's draconic practices takes quite a long while.
  
  Starcraft also had quite a few bugs when it was released including the ability to speed up SCV 
 or Drone production by using certain game exploits or even to take the Terran Command Center and 
 move it closer to the resource patches giving you a huge bonus. Unfortunately, it took quite a 
 long time before these were fixed.
  
  Now, what must be discussed is whether or not Starcraft is really strategic. Well, yes and no. 
 Of course, as I've mentioned, you cannot group more than 12 troops together, there are no paper-rock-scissors 
 mechanics which pretty much forces you to spend a great deal of time babying your army. Click here, 
 click there, and click wherever you want them to attack because the most essential thing is to 
 keep up with the focus fire. Don't and you'll be toast. Despite this however, what makes Starcraft 
 so unique is the fact that all types of players are represented equally well in this game: If you 
 prefer rushes and are always first on the pitch for an intense battle, go with the Zerg. If you 
 like to take your time and do a massive build up of troops before attacking go with the Protoss. 
 Whatever your play style might be, Starcraft can accommodate it. Yes, one must be honest and say 
 that there are unit imbalances and that there is a severe lack of tile sets but it still doesn't 
 detract as much from this game as one might think mostly because of...
  
  
  I know I shouldn't say this but, I must: If I could I'd give this game an 11/10 for multiplayer 
 I would give it a 12! Everything would be for naught if it wouldn't be for Starcraft's divine multiplayer 
 which engulfs you in a world far away from yours, completely absorbing your problems for a few 
 hours.
  
  Multiplayer games can be played by either LAN or Internet through the Battle. net service and can 
 host a maximum of 8 players. Obviously enough, play through Battle. net is flawless. There are tens 
 of thousands of people still burning the midnight oil playing Starcraft to this very day and I 
 don't see that number ever dwindling. With a myriad of multiplayer modes, maps and strategies for 
 all to use.
  
  Ahh... and let's talk maps, because what Blizzard can't do Battle. net users EXCELL at and that's 
 map building. There are so many maps available for Starcraft now-a-days that you can live out any 
 fantasy or replay any game through a User Settings Map for Starcraft. Topics are as broad as you 
 can imagine, perhaps even broader, ranging from DBZ to Nude Kerrigan, to name just two of the thousands 
 of maps out there. That's not even the tip of the iceberg however, as besides the user created 
 maps, a wealth of other tournament or quick-game maps are also available which rid the game of 
 its pesky problems such as limited resources and impassable bottlenecks.
  
  And then there's the range of games you can pick from. Try out your wits and strategy muscle at 
 anything from a huge CPU crush, where 7 players mutilate a poor AI or even n00b sessions in a game 
 that has been out on the market for almost 8 whole years! That's the kind of community you can 
 only find in a few other games.
  
  None of this would matter though if multiplayer Starcraft wouldn't be a blast, yet, side imbalances 
 and all, Starcraft manages to carry itself through masterfully during multiplayer sessions. The 
 exhilarating pace of this game keeps you on your toes but it always allows you enough repose to 
 build units, or draft new strategies with your buddies in either massive team vs. team combat or 
 just try to survive in a brutal 8 man free-for-all. The experience is like no other.
  
  
  Starcraft is the best RTS to ever come out. It doesn't matter if it has problems, bugs or if it's 
 not perfectly symmetrical because it has one thing: Soul. Without soul there is no fun, and without 
 fun you can have the best, most balanced sides ever but it won't make any difference.
  
  If you don't yet own this game, do yourself a favor and go get the Battle Chest as you can simply 
 NOT have any more fun than this with a PC RTS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly one of the best Strategy games out there even Age of Empires can't compete with 
 the great story.
  
  Although sometimes a little boring this is certainly one of the best games released for the PC. 
 With fun singleplayer missions. Just like AOE you have to gather materials, build Barracks where 
 you train troops, and improve on everything from Armor to Weapons to special abilities. The game 
 in on word is perfect. No glitches and the game is very hard if you're new to this genre. You can 
 build massive armies and great structures, destroy aliens from a Bird's eye view, and play the 
 game in three different perspectives. I love this game and is one of the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yahiko182
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  First to start off star Craft has a very good story. All races are well balanced. Terran is good 
 against protoss, protoss is good against zerg, and zerg is good against terrran. The game requires 
 strategy. Multiplayer is amazing! you can go up against a ton of people! Just to top if off multiplayer 
 is totally free! The game is highly addictive. And the gameplay is great. The cut scenes were very 
 good for it's time as well. The music is nice and the sound effects are cool! Especially the sounds 
 of different races dieing. It's all there it's fun. It's good for all those die hards. And those who 
 have barely any time to play video games. Anyway for all you RTS fans this is definently a game 
 you should check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidthekid56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING, if you never tried Starcraft i feel sad for you. This is the first "real-time" 
 statagy game i've play, at first i tried it at a friends house and i had no clue what to do (and 
 i was playing it online so people yelled and me and stuff) later i vowed that i NEVER play that 
 game again cause it's dumb, but my friend told me to try it on one player and go though the whole 
 tutorial and when i got my own game it was AWEsome, i've never play a game soo good, i was spending 
 about 4-5 hours playing on the computer, and when i wasn't palying it i was THINKING about it. 
 so if you haven't tried this game you better, it will get you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This is another spanish review by me, since you have money to spend on Videogames, you should use 
 that money for something more productive and take some spanish lessons, this is an awesome game 
 anyway, i love it.
  
  Starcraft es un juego que ha hecho historia en el gnero RTS (real time strategy) , sin duda, uno 
 de mis favoritos hasta el da de hoy pese a su antigedad, un juego mucho mejor que el Age of Empires 
 (a mi gusto) , esta obra maestra de Blizzard se ubica en una era futurista, con una impresionante 
 historia de guerra entre 3 diferentes razas las cuales utilizars en tres diferentes campaas, 
 cada una con una gran historia y grandes secretos.
  
  Lo mejor del juego es que cada unidad tiene su "propia personalidad", marines, firebats, hydralisks... 
 todos ellos te contestan de dieferente modo, y tu eres tambin parte de la historia, actuando como 
 Magistrate con los terrans, Cerebrate con los Zergs o Executor con los Protoss.
  
  Todas las razas estan muy bien balanceadas con unidades nicas y armamento muy bien diseado. Los 
 Zergs se multiplican por montones, esa es una enorme ventaja, los protoss cuentan con sus plasma 
 shields y los terran con sus bombas nucleares y unidades con algunas abilidades especiales como 
 son los Ghosts. 
  
  Adems de una excelente campaa para un jugador, lo que le da larga vida a este juego es el increble 
 multiplayer, Battle. net, donde puedes unirte a partidas de diferentes tipos, puedes crear tus propios 
 mapas multijugador e incluso tu propia campaa para un solo jugador.
  
  El apartado grfico fue bueno para su poca, aunque actualmente ya luce antiguo, eso es lo de menos 
 comparado a lo que ofrece ste ttulo, los sonidos son bastante buenos, en especial las unidades 
 que te ayudan e instruyen en las batallas, como las computadoras terran o algunos cerebrates de 
 los Zergs.
  
  En cuanto a Replay Value, pues no necesita tarjeta de presentacin, an con todos los aos transcurridos 
 sigue siendo uno de los juegos mas populares de la red, Blizzard sin duda creo una obra maestra, 
 es una lstima que el Starcraft Ghost se haya cancelado, ya que soy muy fan de ste jeugo y su 
 respectiva expansin, espero que Blizzard lo desarrolle para el PS3 y el Xbox 360 para que haya 
 valido la pena la espera, un gran RTS, sin duda uno de los mejores de la historia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe_Laurence
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I guess it really doesn't matter what I say about Starcraft. It's a classic that many people still 
 play, now, eight years after it's release, making it by far the game with the longest shelf time. 
 It's name has become synonymous with real-time strategy games, and vice-versa. It has created practically 
 a cult of fans who (nigh mindlessly) devote themselves to glorifying and mastering this game. And 
 as for the Koreans, well... Go check out the Korean server to see what I mean. They're kind of 
 Good. 
  
  But when playing Starcraft, I felt that those thinking about going into it should go in prepared. 
 This game is not perfect. It definitely got more attention then it deserves, even though it is 
 truly great. The game can be endlessly frustrating, and while the actual learning process is incredibly 
 short, this game is excruciatingly difficult to learn how play well.
  
  If I had to pick the one thing I like best about this game, it would be the atmosphere. Starcraft 
 is, above all, an incredibly engrossing experience.
  A large part of this is the sound. The music is catchy and fits the action like a glove, the voice 
 acting is superb, and Starcraft remains probably the best-sounding real-time strategy game of all 
 time. The story is very, very, cool, and the single player campaign has a lot of interesting, likeable 
 characters to boot. The game's notification sounds are particularly cool, and the game does a fantastic 
 job of making you feel as though you are indeed a commander of a small group of warriors, especially 
 in the single player campaigns.
  
  As for the graphics, let me just get the bad news out first: the resolution is low, low, low and 
 the terrain is a little too unrealistic. Asides from that the visuals are bursting with personality 
 and the different races are quite aesthetically different. This game often just looks like art. 
 Which is great, considering this game was made in 1998. This game looks just fine for a 1998 game.
 
  
  Starcraft's value is frickin' insane. The single player campaign is long and very challenging (although 
 I am just awful at this game, so that might not say much) , there are a ton of maps to mess around 
 with, Battle. net is still an amazing and free online service (the game plays magnificently online) , 
 the game ships with a great map editor and their are thousands upon thousands of maps available 
 for download online.
  
  But what about a little thing I call gameplay? The gameplay in Starcraft is good, and one of the 
 best parts of Starcraft, but it's here that some serious problems emerge. First of all, you can 
 only select twelve units at a time, which is pretty strange for a game with a unit cap of 200. 
 There are ways to get around it, which includes control groups and hotkeys, thus a lot of multiplayer 
 games revolve around the player with the most ability of using hotkeys and getting around the selection 
 cap. The unit cap quickly gets annoying too as you're forced to build whatever raises your unit 
 capital CONSTANTLY. These really start cluttering your base and make the base-building portions 
 of the game often frustrating. There's a lot of micromanaging as well. Another problem with the 
 game is the rush "tactic". This is what the  rule was 
 supposed to fix, but it just forces you to master getting around it as you crush you opponent with 
 a massive army head-on.
  
  But Starcraft is like a tootsie-pop. Get past the hard crusty exterior to find the sweetness inside. 
 And it is sweet. The three factions are the imperialistic, tough terrans who are quite versatile, 
 the zerg, who are disgusting... creatures, for the lack of a better name, who are very offensive, 
 can horde masses of cheap units and regenerate health overtime, and finally the Protoss, an eldar-like 
 alien race who's units are most expensive and are strongest. These are races are all a blast to 
 play as and are meticulously balanced. They all require different tactics, and require very different 
 tactics to play. As such, it's probably best to master one race instead of switching between. There 
 are so many strategies in Starcraft it would fry Einsteins brain if they were all told to him. 
 Not that everybody does know them all. One of the things that make Starcraft so special are the 
 special abilities, which range from mundane things like damaging all units within an area to crazy 
 stuff like infesting a command and spawning infested marines from it.
  
  So what can I say about Starcraft? It's a classic. But if you frustrate easily, think twice about 
 getting it. Or at least get the demo. If you do want to buy Starcraft, you can still get it just 
 about anywhere. Yes, 8 years later. It's a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Fun, thats all i can say. not my type of game, i like RTS like Battle for middle-earth with armies 
 and swords and horses. But still, played this on a friends comp, and I have to say, its a good 
 game. I don't plan on ever buying it unless they give it away, but thats only because i don't think 
 much of the story. Needs more of a kick. This star craft ghost looks alright though, but like i 
 said, needs a sequel with BFME2 worthy graphics. only then will I play this again. But sci-fi RTS 
 game fans will have an absolute blast, i promise. The only reason this review seems low, is because 
 i really hated the graphics. Yes, i know it was 1998, but if they could redo it with improved graphics, 
 but same game, i would give it a 9 at least 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructort1st
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is THE best sci-fi rpg in ever hell i still crack it out and play it every now and then 
 its a must have game and if you don't own it and you like rts then you must buy it the graphics 
 are good for its day and the game-play is a hell of allot of fun and many many people still play 
 on-line so this game is very highly suggested from many people i know. 5 of my friends own it and 
 i think everyone should if starcraft 2 ever comes out i think there might be a riot to get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazingmp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is all good and very addictive. Most people will even spend the whole day playing this 
 game. i only play like three hours a day. The game does not take long to learn and later on the 
 game will become mad easy. This is my favorite PC game and it will forever be my favorite. This 
 game contains only three races, but everyone ends up choosing their own race and makes it their 
 favorite race. Sticking with the race for a long time can sooner or later make you an expert at 
 the race. After that you can try out the other races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Now that's what I call a game! Something that pelases the eye and brain... my golly, this creation 
 has a potential to lure an enormous audience and certainly plow in much cash to the company who 
 created it! 
  
  Playing with the knowledge that each unit functions differently and can be used uniquely to form 
 a personalized military strategy, there are endless ways to use about one's creativity and logic 
 to bring about an enemy's demise. Not to mention that one enjoys a great storyline in the process.
 
  
  If this game ever becomes overlooked, it would be so by a person who either is overtly obstinate 
 about his choice in gaming or one who has not taste in games at all. Play this game with passion 
 and conquer your foes with heart... it is the only way to beat any foe in this difficuly, eye-pleasing 
 and mind-boggling game that is bound to be loved by many future generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Starcraft? It's the first PC game I bought that got me hooked on real time 
 strategy games for years. Yes, it may seem strange to be writing a review for a game that is nearly 
 a decade old, but I'm at work and I have nothing better to do. Starcraft, for those who do not 
 know, is a real time strategy game from Blizzard. As you can tell from the title, it is based in 
 space for the most part. In this game there are three races, that each come with a separate campaign 
 that must be passed in order to complete the story. The races include the Terrans, who are humans 
 that were put in deep sleep and sent through space to colonize other worlds. The Terrans are actually 
 criminals that the United Earth Directorate (UED) sent off in deep sleep, of course you'll some 
 more information on UED in the manual, which has some really great stories about the history in 
 the game. The Zerg are a creepy, bug like race of aliens, while the Protoss are another alien race 
 that has cool powers like telepathy.
  
  Playing Starcraft for the first time, ( are there any RTS fans who haven't played Starcraft?) you'll 
 get the standard easy missions with in-game tutorials. The missions in the campaign are really 
 interesting, and there are great cut scenes in between every couple of missions or so. The cut 
 scenes were so great that I even bought the dvd collect Blizzard released. The animation and graphics 
 in the game are still good for today, sure it does seem dated and it is 2D, but it works and its 
 not too bad. The game play is amazing and fast, but most importantly it's fun. The music in the 
 game is also pretty good, even race has its own music that goes well with how the race looks and 
 plays.
  
  Overall, Starcraft is a must for any real time strategy fan. If you still have not played this 
 game, buy it now. For $15 to $20 you can get the Starcraft bundle which includes Starcraft, the 
 add-on Starcraft: Brood Wars and the printed strategy guides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leftyspal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS games of it's time. The graphics and soundtrack are superb although 
 the music can get repetitive if you get as addicted as i was. The campaign is long and presents 
 a challenge that requires you to think through some missions as you play them. Gameplay is easy 
 to understand and takes no more than the first mission to understand unless you have played an 
 RTS before. In that case, no time is required to learn how to play it. It can get tedious like 
 all other games in this genre with the gathering of resources and building of forces, but once 
 you enter a battle, it is all worth it. Right now, since you can get this game, it's expansion 
 pack, and strategy guides for 20 bucks, go buy it. It's a game you can't miss, especially if you 
 love RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prichard745
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Get reaedy to play the game that preaty much is an old game that was way ahead of its days this 
 sci-fi rts is the premium top games for pc in its age if this game hdnbe realesed i dont think 
 rts games would be around still today this inspired me to start to like playing blizzard game its 
 still one of the top games for pc and its been around for almost TEN YEARS!!!!!!!! great game really 
 addictive now its really cheap if you dont have it go out and get it and it will work on even a 
 really slow computer so dont worry about it not working on you computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damain1113ACS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Why am I Just writing a review for this game now? I haven't been able to stop playing this game 
 since the day it came out. Like Crack for to any Strategy loving gamer this game set the bench 
 mark and simply put that should be the last thing anyone says about this game. to put this game 
 up there with pong and pack man would not be over reacting.
  What keeps this game alive even til' today is the Battle net. Yes, the very imagineation of the 
 gamers is the thing keeping this game a must need daily fix. It's countless members who i found 
 are loyal to this game to the very end keep this game fresh with new scenarios, 
  But alas, the sad truth, no Starcraft 2. Yes Brood war was a good expansion ,but I am greedy MF. 
 To see a renewed Starcraft soon would make me down 10 no Dose pills the day before it came out 
 to be able to stand in front of wal-mart for 24 hours.
  Yet, I hear no news of a new RTS Starcraft and a small part of me dies a little. But, in the words 
 of TUPAC, Life Goes On. there will always be a small part of me eager fo Starcraft 2. 
  My Final Thoughts (no im not watching The Springer Show) , Thanks to this game we Have Warcraft 
 3, C&C, Warhammer, and many other Juagernauts soon to come out for the RTS Genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first PC games I have played. I remember that I was 10 years old. I really 
 didn't liked strategy games, until I played this one. This game changed all my concepts off strategy 
 games, it was amazing, and still is. This game has lots of things to offer. 
  
  Gameplay - When I played this game I was very exited, it was one of the best game I've everplayed. 
 It haves a really good gameplay, for example if you are using Terrans, and some one attacks your 
 base, you can move your constructions, they can fly, and you can send them at a place that you 
 want.
  
  Graphics - What mostly impacted me about this game was its graphics. It haves graphics that some 
 current generation games can't reach already, and it was released 8 years ago, 8!! This game haves 
 really good graphics, and they are better because computers become better.
  
  Sound - It haves an exellent sound, the voices, music, everything, is just exellent.
  
  I really 
 recommend this game, if you are new to the strategy games (hard to believe, but there are people) 
 you really have to check this game, you will like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Let me take you back to when i first played this game..... It was a rainy afternoon and i was at 
 my friend's house and he had just bought this at Game for about 10 and he was playing it... anyway 
 we played until about 10 o'clock and completed the Terran and Zerg missions. After that it was 
 playing it day and night and eventually we got bored of it and stopped playing it.
  Then 4 years later i come across it in the very same Game my friend bought it in, so i bought it 
 for the same 10 with Brood War also.
  
  So it is simple this game is a materpiece in gaming terms. Sure it was made in the 1990's but the 
 graphics are great for its time and you can now buy it very cheap.
  
  So go ahead you now you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julmer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a first love that every future strategy game will be compared with. 
  
  The graphics from 1998 may not be as flashy as they once were, but Starcraft continues to produce 
 amazing game play that is simply thrilling and unmatched. 
  
  Starcraft is a well tuned masterpiece, with three unique but amazingly balanced races. User interaction 
 with the game is immersive and just feels right. 
  
  The graphics and sound are good, and the storyline is great.
  
  For diehards gamers, Starcraft 
 has deep strategy, and challenging online multiplayer. 
  
  Other games have come along but Starcraft is still the best. It doesn't get any better.
  
  
 Starcraft is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunty91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Starcraft was probably one of the very first games that i properly got into in my younger years. 
 I just remember loving everything about it from day one: the units, the storyline, the great cutscenes, 
 the funny characters, the levels, the map editor, the campaigns, the races, and especially the 
 music which i still listen to today.
  
  Although criticised by many as being simple and actually a little behind some of the RTSs of its 
 time (Total Annihilation) , i think that it still stands as a great game. The races are balanced, 
 all with their own strengths and weaknesses. You don't feel that anyside really has the upper hand 
 from the start.
  
  I really enjoyed playing through the story-mode. Besides having a good storyline, the missions 
 themselves were varied. I especially enjoyed one of the earlier missions, i can't remember the 
 name of it, but it involved defending your base for 30 mins, culminamting in a HUGE attack from 
 the Zerg swarm.
  
  The map editor was one of the most advanced of its time, featuring varied toolsets, doodads and 
 triggers which could be used to create very professional maps. Not that i have the patience or 
 skill to do such things, but the tools were certainly there.
  
  However, Starcraft does feature some negative things. First of all, the queue and selection system 
 is primitive to say the least, and the graphics aren't top-notch either, even for that time. And 
 contrary to what i said above, the multiplayer is slightly imbalanced, with Prottoss rush tactics 
 using Zealots usually gets an easy early win.
  
  Besides these problems, Starcraft is a great game which i would recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigburito
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  the game is so cool that when i play it a mac freezes! (Proof that macs freeze uo :P ) also it's 
 vast amount of levels and units is astounding to boot when playing online people have so many game 
 modes it is always new when you play. I suggest golems for first commers! the games story lines 
 is a real good one in my book it can take a turn of events youd expect into something you have 
 never expected in the void of your mind! id suggest this game to anyone. it also has nice blood 
 splatter for a T game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3k0xp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  StarCraft is an RTS like no other.
  
  Everytime I bring up StarCraft I usualy meet a person who says something like "StarCraft sucks, 
 C&C is much better." But everytime I hear that I harass that person until they have to try it.
 
  
  And it always has the same results: They get addicted for some time and they never bring up C&C 
 again.
  
  When you look at each part of it, everything is perfect. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game consists of 3 races: Terran, Zerg, and Protoss.
  Despite the fact that each race is 
 entirely unique, the game is perfectly balanced. And its addicting, so expect to play for hours 
 at a time. And even if you're not good at the real battles, the online community offers a HORDE 
 of scenario maps for your enjoyment.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  At first look, the graphics don't seem too impressive. But then you see the date it was published: 
 1998. The graphics are just too amazing to be that old.
  
  SOUND:
  The game consists of 71 MB of sound that executes in complete perfection.
  There is a different 
 sound for everything! Even, if you click on a unit a certain ammount of times they will start to 
 get annoyed. How great is that?!
  
  VALUE:
  Well, as far as replay value, some people have been playing it for over 4 years. A man died once 
 during a 48 hour session of StarCraft! People in Korea quit their jobs and school just to play 
 this game for Christ's sake!
  
  God, if you don't have this game you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark2099
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a very hard game to master. Yes, the basics are somewhat easy to learn, and you will probably 
 beat the campaign with not much experience, but to make a different stragety based on your different 
 situations and win against an equal opponent (i mean online) takes many hours of practicing. 
 
  
  You got three races to choose. Terrans (humans, my favourite) , advanced race known as Protoss, 
 and the insect swarm race known as Zerg. Each one is in their own right "the best" and each race 
 is only as good as the players skill and preference is. 
  
  Control is done all through the mouse. You highlisght characters by dragging a box over them and 
 you click what you want them to do, whether its to attack, patrol, gather resources, etc. Its very 
 responsive, no complaints. 
  
  Point of the game is to collect money and use that money to build a developed civilization and 
 army, and use that to destroy your opponent. You can expand to other resource places to double 
 or triple your cash flow or you can focus on your main base. Its all very strategic. You act based 
 on what your opponent is doing (if you want to win that is) . You can't see your surroundings, its 
 all black. When you explore however, you uncover your maps details, try to discover your opponents 
 bases. 
  
  Online is fun and very addicting, as its all human opponents. At this point however, everyone still 
 online are pros, as this game was released in 1998. Get good and then youll get many hours off 
 this feature. 
  
  This game kept me from sleeping on a number of occasions. It keeps you coming back for more. I 
 personally found no downsides to this game. Like real-time stragety, then its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft in Space. That is how this game was described to me so many years ago. Did it disappoint? 
 Did it win me over? Read on to find out.
  
  Graphics- Not the best, but definitely not the worst, I give it a all right score because you do 
 have a lot of units running around, and it would be a bit hard to make every single one looks awesome.
 
  
  Sounds- Great. I love Starcraft sounds almost as much as I do Warcraft sounds. From the hilarious 
 voice acting to the cool background music, this game is pretty good on the sound.
  
  Gameplay- Sure this game needs some getting used to. Build orders and unit strengths and weaknesses, 
 but what RTS doesn't? This game let's you control 3 types of aliens, not just the 2 that were in 
 Warcraft when this first came out.
  
  Replayability- This game has 3 story modes. One for each race. These stories are pretty cool, but 
 all you really do is go in, bust some heads, and leave. Not much really to do other than that.
 
  
  Where replayability really shines is muti-player. There really isn't anything like seeing a zerg 
 rush or a fleet of Protoss Carriers hone in on your opponents base and watch the carnage. Yum.
 
  
  Like most Blizzard games, I bought this one for its muti-player. The single player was just your 
 usual bust 'em up, but I really liked that they actually tried to put in some story. Coodos for 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unarmedmaster
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft.. starcraft.. starcraft... who hasnt herd or played starcraft? any serious gamer has 
 played it. The graphics are very good for its time the story line is excellent. the online play 
 is amazing. you can make clans (manully) it just keeps getting better and better. You can say "i 
 dont like sifi games" but its more than that.. the Custom maps people make include (ww1 ww2 diplomacy 
 LOTR ect.) its amazing. You can have friends list, your own channel, multiple accounts and more 
 at no cost online. It is a must get for all gamers just give it a try download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najikill
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Well.. I dont belive anyone is still reading reviews about this good old game... But if anyone 
 should have plans about buying one of these "Best Seller Editions" for no money, i'll say: Go for 
 it! .... 
  
  I played Starcraft on a high skilled plan in 2001-2002 and it was great.. So many peoples stil 
 played it online at that time (and many still does.. especially Bloodwar) ... Since i haven't been 
 playing queit as serious n much... But i am still playing it even through nearly 5 years have passed... 
 It's a GREAT multiplayer RTS game wich have caused me and my friend LOADs of fun at LAN parties 
 'n' online gaming... 
  
  There is 3 totally diffrent looking, but very equel powered Races available to play... 
  
  
 Zergs - Wich is a nasty alien look alike race. Zergs is strong in the rushing periode of the game 
 and can produce Zerglings very fast if needed.
  
  Protos - Is an really intelligent and highly technologi based race. There units and buildings is 
 made of very strong armours and is therefore harder to kill than the non armoured Zergs. 
  
  Terran - Heavily metal armoured Humans. Terrans is great defenders.. Useing Siege Tanks and 
 Bunkers they able to hold back massive attacks. 
  
  I loved the game and still does... Online you can play the so called "Use Map Setting" maps... 
 With fooling around play... And serious Ladder battles!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameslb85
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  You have to look hard to find a game that has three completely different races so well balanced. 
 Zerg; a genetic engineering failure created by an ancient race, the Zal Naga. Protoss; another 
 race that were created by the Zal Naga and the Terran's, all with their own individual units, looks 
 and special abilities. The game blends together like a liquid and is virtually flawless. 
  
  It set the standards not only for single player, but paved the way for on line gaming. It has 
 been said that if it were not for this game, on line gaming would not be as world wide as it is 
 today. 
  
  The on line community is still thriving even now, as gamers find this game tucked away some where 
 in a games store for as little as a fiver. Too many games that are developed now quickly become 
 old, youve played it once, youve played it a thousands times. This game is different. The unique 
 interface coupled with the shear genius and individuality of this game has made it a timeless RTS 
 loved by any one who would consider them selfs a RTS fan. Its the one game that any self respecting 
 gamer owns and loves. 
  
  The single player story immerses you into the universe and you really feel part of the unfolding 
 story. You feel for the characters as the story is laid out before you and the sinister twists 
 and turns make the characters almost real. You can imagine the way they would feel when a comrade 
 lays down their life for the good of the race. At some points you find your self shouting at the 
 screen as you can see the betrayal of your so called allies. I cant think of any other game that 
 gives you this kind of relationship with the characters.
  
  As you can see Im pretty much in love with game. The graphics were an inspiration. Although the 
 game was not overly textured it still set it self as a truly ground breaking game in graphics, 
 game play and story line. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this review short and sweet. Okay maybe not, but here it go's. If you have never 
 played Starcraft and even somewhat enjoy RTS titles. Go buy this game, NOW! 
  
  I have been playing Starcraft since it came out and am still highly addicted to it. Since it is 
 2006 certain things may seem dated. Namely (and only) the graphics. Although thousands, maybe millions 
 of players cant be wrong. Its been over 6 years now, and Battle net (the title of the server, so 
 to speak) is almost always packed. Youll never have a difficult time finding an opponent. Even 
 at 3a. m. To me, that says alot. You are constantly learning, and always finding new strategies 
 and tactics to beat your opponents. Since everybody plays differently, you have to adjust to each 
 players styles, and learn to counter them. The possiblities are endless. 
  
  If i could wrap this title up in 1 word, "submersive" would be an understatement. Starcraft is 
 a PERFECT game that almost anybody can enjoy. On top of that, its only $20!!! What are you waiting 
 for! Find this game and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzle100
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is my all-time favorite game, and it is still fun to play today. The game is fairly well 
 balanced. So, it is possible for the better player to win regardless of which race they choose. 
 What makes this game a classic is that it is a real-time STRATEGY game. I emphasize the word strategy 
 because there are many different ways to be victorious in this game. There are also numerous counter-strategies 
 in the game. So, to win it takes some thought and some practice. When playing Terran, you can try 
 winning with marines or siege tanks. As Protoss, how about trying a large group of cloaked carriers? 
 An effective strategy with the Zerg, are many hydralisks or perhaps, a zergling rush. There are 
 many, many strategies that work. The game can be very fast paced, where quick thinking and snappy 
 maneuvering can lead you to victory. In addition, I really like the music soundtrack that goes 
 along with the game. It gets me energized for the contest. I've had a lot of fun playing the single 
 player missions and the Brood War missions were challenging enough. Multiplayer contests on Blizzard's 
 Battlenet can be quite competitive, and they are worth trying as well. As much as I like this game, 
 I cannot give it a perfect score because sometimes units have pathfinding problems. They can sometimes 
 get stuck. This does not detract from the game too much though. Overall, Starcraft is a classic 
 game that should appeal to many people, and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is such a beast at making strategy games as you can see. With warcraft series being so 
 successful and now their starcraft series, it's just incredible.
  Away from Blizzard and now focusing on Starcraft, starcraft is somewhat like warcraft but totally 
 different. Starcraft is more sci-fi whereas Warcraft is more fantasy. This is the biggest difference 
 between them as their base is pretty much the same. They play differently but if you've played 
 a lot of warcraft you can pick this up quick.
  The game consists of 3 races: Zerg, Human, and Protoss. They're all equally as good and have an 
 awesome amount of guys you can produce. Basically, the offline is the same as any strategy game 
 and it's doing a campaign with a certain race. 
  It's the online is where its at. It's got excellent online mini games which are highly addictive 
 and nothing is funner than whooping a whole bunch of protosses with humans. 
  Overall, this game.. damn addictive. You like strategy? You would be insane not to pick this up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrike00
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  COME ON what bad things can u say about a game that is so fun 5 people have died from it and its 
 televised live on some tv channels. starcraft has almost become a way of life with dedicated gamers 
 i am one 2 i dunno how many hours ive thrown away playing this awsum game but it must of been hundreds. 
 i grew up playing this game but i dont call myself a master yet there are still guys across the 
 world that can n00b my ass in an instand but i am still a great lover of the fantastic story and 
 immersive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  If you have never played StarCraft, you must buy it because you are missing one of the best games 
 you'll ever play in your life.
  
  Talking about the singleplayer; this game is divided in 3 episodes: Terran, Zerg, Protoss. They 
 will introduce you to the awesome world of StarCraft. The story is terrific you will simply become 
 addict the more you play it. The missions go harder while you advance assuming that you acquire 
 experience during your playtime.
  
  The 3 different races are extremely well balanced, all have their cons and pros, they play different, 
 and so... you wont fell like you are playing the same but in a different dress.
  
  The multiplayer is the place where youll spend all of you time, playing on BattleNet is great; 
 the gaming level of the people you will find in there is very high and shortly you will become 
 a great player (assuming you are a regular player and not a casual one) , because you will learn 
 a lot of tactics from us.
  
  The graphics are a bit outdated when compared to Warhammer: DOW or Age of Empires 3, but dont 
 worry, the gameplay will make you forget about that.
  
  Its hard to describe this game with words or screenshots; you must play it, and you will know 
 what I am talking about. This is by far one of the best RTS game ever made.
  
  You may also want to check the expansion pack: Brood War.-
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft has quite an interesting story, with 3 different campaigns to play (not to mention another 
 3 in the expansion pack, Broodwar) With the races: Terran, a human-like race with very advanced 
 mechanical technology. Zerg, the weak-but-cheap race that is very easy to get swarmed from. And 
 Protoss, a fantasy-like alien race with far superior weaponry. Unfortunetely I cannot really explain 
 the story in this review, but I can say how it starts off: You play as the Terran at first and 
 do a couple recon missions until you stumble upon a Zerg invasion on a Terran outpost and so on. 
 The graphics at the time were simply amazing with the units very sharp looking. But because it 
 is dated it has the "isometric" view that some may turn their heads to. But another great thing 
 about this game is the Campaign Editor mode which you can make your very own maps with specific 
 triggers and events, you can make your own campaign with this editor! From editing unit health, 
 to making triggers such as: 10 Terran Marines die, spawn a Terran Goliath. And you can even POST 
 your maps online with others! I still love this game, simply because everything is just perfect! 
 I would make Blizzard a medal if I could for making a long-lasting game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game I have ever played. It has one of the good graphics, the gameplay 
 is perfec, I also love how there a ghost, I havn't played this game that much, but still it is 
 one of the best game I played. Build a city, mine some ore, maybe move your city, create more warriors 
 and kill your enemy! What person would'n like this game, oh wait, I know one person, a weird reviewer, 
 I don't see why you think it's bad. It's one of the best game, I have played. So don't call it 
 bad. Also, the sound wasn't that near perfect, If I could rate it a bit more, 9.97, so I had to 
 round it up, and 10 came up! So this is one of the best games I have played! Also, the value is 
 great. The only thing thats bad about it is that its a bit hard, but not hard, just a bit, but 
 round this one also, and it's good. SO I would recomd this game to anyone, anyone, yep, anyone. 
 Even if your the smartess person in the world, or the most non-intallagent person, who cares, this 
 game is awesome! It's on fire, my joystick was on fire also, don't tell that to microsoft, thats 
 my 3 joy stick in a week, there getin a bit angry! But man, you should see my hand. This game is 
 cool
  
  With the end of killing your opponent, it makes this game even more superb and awesome. But what 
 makes this game so good, is the sound, the killing, but don't do that in real life and the shooting, 
 and the sound and graphics!
  
  This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KNives89111
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest game ever all of its gameplay is fun if u like blizzard games than this is 
 for you. I like this more than warcraft more. it lives up to its award greatest game ever by gamespot 
 and thats very impressive. this is the greatest online multiplayer game u can't talk when the lagger 
 might lag out like in warcaft pretty sad but overall this is the best game ever! the multiplayer 
 can also be hacked and that not soll right. thats the only thing i dont like every thing else is 
 good teir music story and the rest. ive never seen anything like this game and its rare for me to 
 give games a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacrx7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft have the most amazing storyboard of all the games I ever played. Is so imaginative and, 
 at the same time, so realistic, that makes you think if the things are gonna be that way in the 
 future of mankind. The battles are intense and futuristic. This is a game to remember.
  
  Starcraft tiene el argumento mas impresionante de todos los juegos que he jugado. Es tan imaginativo 
 y al mismo tiempo tan realista, que te hace pensar si las cosas van a ser de esa forma en el futuro 
 de la humanidad. Las batallas son intensas y futuristas. Este es un juego para recordar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  una de las mejores versiones hasta ahora en juegos futuristas, como jugador esperaba mas versiones 
 de este juego, lastima nunca aparecieron, pero si difrute mucho los niveles de juegos y los multiplayer 
 en general este juego es una buena imagen de un futuro lleno de promesas y destruvccion.
  
  se ria interesante y destructivo una nueva version de starcraft al buen estilo de warcraft 3.
 
  
  por ultimo excelentes garficos la musica y los heroes final mente mi puntage 10 y si p [udeise agregar 
 mas puntage lo haria, pero no... para los jugadores amateur o aficionados les recomiendo mucho 
 esta version de starcraft y lo importante de los juegos de blizzar es el uso del teclado n o del 
 mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paerole
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of the best games in its class. Blizzard has done an amazing job on this game, 
 and really deserves much praise.
  
  Starcraft is a very interesting game with a great story. The way that it was laid out was of such 
 amazing quality. This is a game that you can play no matter what level of gamer you are. If you 
 are just starting out, you could jump right in and have an amazing time playing.
  
  There are a perfect amount of choices for races to play as. There are 3, it may not seem like a 
 lot, but with the extensive amount of time required to finish each mission, you really don't need 
 any more that 3 races.
  
  The sound is quite good, except for the background music is somewhat questionable. This can always 
 be resolved by muting the background music if it bothers you.
  
  The layout of the missions is superb, and the difficulty is perfect. As you progress through the 
 missions the difficulty increases to a playable amount, it does not get too hard, and it does not 
 get too easy. The only time when it is ever "easy" is after finishing campaigns and starting new 
 ones.
  
  In addition to having a single player campaign mode. There is an online battle-net play, so you 
 can play against other starcraft fans. Or you can try your luck at ladder tournaments, and see 
 if you have the skills to climb to the top.
  
  The graphics are fairly good for its time, and for the style of game. The cutscenes are extremely 
 well done, and are quite commendable for the year the game was created.
  
  The only game that could possibly rival it would be Warcraft, but it was made by the same creators 
 of starcraft anyway.
  
  The variety of playable units is awesome, and there is a great selection in buildings. Coupled 
 with good variety is that fact that every unit has something that they are good at, making it very 
 fun for people that like to have a sense of strategy in their games. 
  
  I would recommend this to anyone. Especially people who are into strategy games or RTS. People 
 that like to rule over colonies and micromanage units to do what they have to do, would love this 
 game!
  
  There is never a boring moment while playing, because you are either being attacked or attacking. 
 Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is truly one of the most amazing games ever created, After 8 years, it is still one of 
 the most popular games I know of. The scenario is great, and the multiplayer is amazing.
  
  Graphics are amazing for the time this was created and are still up to par today!
  
  "Use Map 
 Settings" mode creates unlimited ammounts of customization and creation for maps, custom games, 
 and anything. Plus with all the software comming out thats created by users the campaign editor 
 has unlimited possibilites.
  
  Regular games are still popular today and require much skill and time to master but are pretty 
 easy to pick up and play.
  
  Definatly one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_renrow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played StarCraft, you must buy it because you are missing one of the best games 
 you'll ever play in your life.
  
  Talking about the singleplayer; this game is divided in 3 episodes: Terran, Zerg, Protoss. They 
 will introduce you to the awesome world of StarCraft. The story is terrific you will simply become 
 addict the more you play it. The missions go harder while you advance assuming that you acquire 
 experience during your playtime.
  
  The 3 different races are extremely well balanced, all have their cons and pros, they play different, 
 and so... you wont fell like you are playing the same but in a different dress.
  
  The multiplayer is the place where youll spend all of you time, playing on BattleNet is great; 
 the gaming level of the people you will find in there is very high and shortly you will become 
 a great player (assuming you are a regular player and not a casual one) , because you will learn 
 a lot of tactics from us.
  
  The graphics are a bit outdated when compared to Warhammer: DOW or Age of Empires 3, but dont 
 worry, the gameplay will make you forget about that.
  
  Its hard to describe this game with words or screenshots; you must play it, and you will know 
 what I am talking about. This is by far one of the best RTS game ever made.
  
  You may also want to check the expansion pack: Brood War.
  
  StarCraft 2 . 
  When.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I have spent countless hours playing on BNET for this game, it is by far one of the best games 
 of all time, if not the best game of all time. If Starcraft 2 comes out i will buy it without hesitation. 
 Warcraft 3, although great, pales in comparison with this game. The three forces all have hteir 
 strengths and weaknesses, there are many many different strategys, and best of all all 3 races 
 are equally balanced. It has the best story of any game, ever. Great Dialogue and Great Music to 
 complement its gameplay. If you dont have this game and are a RTS fan, BUY IT NOW!!! I command 
 you in the name of god! buy this game, the multiplayer alone is the greatest of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williegmc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game for pc you may think is stupid at the beginnig but you need to learn 
 after that is youll like it. I remeber I didnt like it but I got online to play an they gave quick 
 game i lost and save the replay and I learned from my errors. Im still a noob but im practicing. 
 It's fun because you have 3 species. Everyone should get this games its only 20 bucks you get this 
 game and the expansion pack the brood war plus two stagety guides. I think this game is not popular 
 bacause it release on 1998 and today we have all these consoles like the ps2 xbox gamecube and 
 nobody worries about ps games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a sci-fi RTS from Blizzard, the developer of Warcraft II and Diablo. This is another 
 outstanding game that has a very active fanbase. The game features three playable races: Human, 
 Zerg and Protoss. The Humans use technology to fight for survival in the galaxy, while the Zurg 
 mutate into what they need and the Protoss use ancient techniques. Each race has their own bonuses. 
 The Zerg are cheep to reproduce, but not as strong as the Humans or the Protoss. The Humans are 
 in the middle and have some pretty powerful weaponry, while the Protoss are expensive, but are 
 powerful. These three races fight eachother to survive. The gameplay does feel a lot like Warcraft, 
 but it is a different kind of RTS. Defence is much more important in Starcraft than in Warcraft 
 II. You have to defend from both the air and the ground, or you're toast. This is a great RTS that 
 any PC gamer needs to play. Until a Starcraft II comes out (because Ghost got canned) , this is 
 the sci-fi stratagy game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  A game that is played even now, 8 years later, is one of those few games that really prove that 
 graphics are not the dominating aspect in smart game development. Always a classic, Starcraft does 
 not dissapoint
  
  Gameplay: Arguably one of the best strategy games in existence, Starcraft made huge strides in 
 the popularity of strategy games to come. While there were games that were popular before, starcraft, 
 with its awesome balance and races, proved to be the best and favourite. a big 10
  
  Graphics: Back then, this game was beatiful, meticulously detailed and evocative in its art design. 
 even now, people can see what this games graphics did back then. Even now we can see that this 
 game was well made and excellent in everyway. a cool 9 here
  
  Sound: Who could forget such characters as jim raynor or tassadar, especially their great voice 
 acting. Not much is needed to be said about this great aspect of the game, Starcraft once again 
 suceeded in every respect. a nice 10
  
  Value: not much is needed to be said about value. after all, it is still played on battlenet 8 years 
 later, and is probably not done yet. a definitive ten
  
  tilt: In my opinion, this was the most influencing strategy game, but not just that, it was also 
 one of the best you will ever see. not many games have been able to hold a fan base as well as starcraft, 
 and not many will. another 10 here
  
  Overall, this game is just not to be ignored. for strategy fans of all kinds, it remains to be seen 
 when the end of the great starcraft will come. and it is not now. while just missing perfection, 
 as no game can be truly perfect as some have said, it will remain perfect in many minds throughout 
 the world. and to blizzard, i congratulate you for making one of the best games in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusrocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have ever played in my life, and well deserved Walk of Game. Forces on the three 
 teams very equal, although very old game, i still play it, even more than Warc 3. No wonder millions 
 in Korea play it. I would give it the best game in the 20th century. its expansion, Brood War, 
 once again proved very good with its excellent gameplay. Some times, i wonder what i would do if 
 this game was never realeased. Also, the best game storyline ever. Home of stretegy games, those 
 stretegy players who havent played this game are n00bs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JI1345
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is one of the best stategy games i've have ever seen in my years. You just can't stop 
 playing it, from any point of view whether it's Protoss, Zerg, or the Terrans it is just amazing. 
 
  I really enjoy the challenge of this game, it really makes you think, you have to work incredibly 
 hard to win, and there are so many different ways you can play. You can play Man vs. Computer, 
 Man vs. Men (LAN-Party) or battle. net. If you haven't played this game you don't know what your 
 missing and you should go out now and buy it immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a nice training tool for beginner RTS players. It gives the basics on how each 
 building can upgrade to produce better unit's. How to maneuvers., etc. The game is definitely easy 
 to play. Yes it is hard when your up against two other computers. They like to "Rush" as they call 
 it. They terrorize you while your still building up your command area. I've went all out before 
 lining my base with cannons (Proton's) . It was impenetrable. It's very exciting when you get a 
 large rush when it comes. Hehe. The music is kinda creepy (for it's time I guess) to an extent 
 it's just plain weird. I used to hook up my computer to my girlfriends, and we used to take sides, 
 and try to take on two computers at once. It was great! We had so much fun with the multi player. 
 It's what shes been hooked on for years. This helped her become a dork like me, game like crazy! 
 The races in this game were to few. Having only three. My favorite was always the Proton's. It's 
 so long I'm not sure if it was called that. They had the Humans, and the Zerg. Lol the "horse" 
 overseer (Zerg-looked like a floating brain with veins as legs drooped below LOL) . They had special 
 characteristics about each race. Like the Proton's could build faster quantities by actually warping 
 the building in then moving to another area to build instead of waiting for the worker to finish 
 with the first. The other's had to have their worker build until the structure was complete, before 
 they could move on otherwise the building would be left half done. The humans can repair building's, 
 vehicles, and heal their soldiers as well. The other's can't. The Zerg only had the fast mineral 
 harvesting. Their workers (Drones) were able to stack resources much quicker than the others. So 
 you could expect early "rushes" from them because they can get those little dogs after you while 
 your even putting up your first Gas Harvester. The graphics were mediocre, but ok for it's time 
 I suppose. I've put so many hours into this game then! Man! The actual game plays like missions 
 you have to complete on a "fog of war" map style, and you pretty much progress o the map as you 
 get farther. I never really got far with it. Seems this game was a pure on line fun only. This 
 game, and I think Delta Force were the two to start me on on line gaming more. I'd grab this classic 
 for sure!! I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  first i must state that this game was made in 1998, if you have played it and compared it to current 
 tgames you will see that the graphics arent cutting edge but for the time, they were awesome and 
 in my opinion, still are!
  in game you will have a choice of three races. the steady terran, the ravenous zerg or the super 
 advanced protoss, whichever you choose, your in a whole different world.
  terran: these are the all arounders, strong enough in all aspects, if you start playingh this fior 
 the first time, play as terran. the defensive capabilities are immense, bunkers with marines are 
 a must have and once seige tanks come into place large scale fground attacks become futile. offensive 
 tactics are too, very strong. the almighty battlecruiser!, bombarding lower units and building 
 with the yamoto gun, these are very powerfuyl indeed. finally, there is the nuke, with terran being 
 the only race able to use nukes, these are a very useful asset in both offline and online gaming, 
 however, protoss and zerg arent under equipped.
  zerg: not so much stronger but faster, the rate you can make units is much quicker, large scale 
 armies become am just have with zerg as small ones just dont last, however, they have some very 
 nice abilities. as some terran buildings can lift off, zerg ones can heal themselves as they are 
 alive! also, with units like the queen able to infest a terran command centre, there are some very 
 strong abilities, infested terran are suicide units bred for one reason, to take as many people 
 down with them as possible. zerg also have the ability to burrow certain units, this alows for 
 surprise attacks anywhere on the map, bobbing up just in time to take the rear flank of a marine 
 army. also, they have overlords, as these can see cloaked units they pretty much eliminate the 
 threat of a nuke.
  protoss: most powerful, the strongest, yet most expensive abd slowest to make, althpuigh zerg rushes 
 can be a pain, protoss zealots early on in the game can devastate even the most advanced defensive 
 system. with shields that regenrate these have the most health and armour yet they cannot heal 
 there actual health. these too have a range of special abilities and units such as the arbiter... cloaking 
 every unit in its perimiter this can lead to in base attavks before the enmy even know whats hit 
 them. also, photon cannons, the basic defense can hit ground and air and can see invisible units, 
 again eliminatimg the threat if a nuke if placed well. then there is the carrier, with 8 interceptors 
 the minimap goes nuts, watching an army of these going into a base is sooo much fun.
  overall this game is unbelievably balanced, all units have a counter unit, all abilities have counter 
 abilites, the protoss have zealots yet the terran have firebats and so on.
  did i mention the storyline, starcraft has to have on of the greatest and most innovative strylines 
 of all time, its the sort of story that wouuld be in a fantastic film or a book ,not a game. when 
 the storyline is mixed with the gameplay it makes for an all around unbelievabel experience.
  if you like rts' then get this i urge you, it is a blooming fantastic game. i love it so much i 
 formed a clan and a union dedicated to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshlindsay
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Just simply amazing. One of if the not the best rts out there. I don't think I've ever played something 
 so well balanced and fun. Fun, incredible, amazing, nothing better for comp, greatest rts of all 
 time, never seems to get old. Cooltastic yo. Show me something better and I will shoot myself. 
 Why do these have to be so darn long. Which of course I'm talking about the reviews. The characters 
 in the game are memorable and some are quite funny. I'm running out of ways to describe this amazing 
 game. It is simply amazing and I have no clue what else to write. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nielz_nl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is easily one of the best rts games ever made.
  
  Starcraft has everything a good rts game needs. Engaging and exiting single-player. Some very good 
 mp. Three unique races to play. Good graphics (at least for it's time) . This is one of those games 
 that never was equalled. Though some games did came close (Warcraft III) .
  
  Even after all it's years after release it is still played by thousands of people everyday on Battlenet. 
 If you are a rts fan and you don't own it yet (shame on you) you sourly most get it. If you ain't 
 a rts fan but you want to get one. Get Starcraft. Even after all these years it is still one of 
 the best rts games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mune3b
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  It is my first game on PC... My experience was awsome... the gameplay.. the sound effects.. the 
 storyline.. and the KILLING machines.....
  
  Though it wasn't 3-D, we have to play it on 2-D mode.... somehow, the Graphics were best in that 
 mode. movement of tanks, flying animals, and probes...
  
  Idea of inhabitant of probes was real ans ever lasting.. their power simply depend on Energy.....
 
  
  Starcraft offers a lengthy single-player campaign featuring ten missions for its three diverse 
 races, totaling 30 single-player missions in all (there's also an unsupported veteran campaign 
 included as part of the campaign editor) . The story is compelling enough to make playing through 
 all three worthwhile, and the campaign difficulty is tiered so that each is more challenging than 
 the last. While this may seem like an uninteresting point, it helps Starcraft to avoid the problem 
 that has plagued every other game in the genre: Each side is not the same. You don't have to go 
 through a set of training missions once you've already mastered one side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I went into the store looking for something to buy that would provide me with a challenge and some 
 degree of enjoyment. Buying Star Craft was an exercise in restraint because I broke every speed 
 record known to man getting home to install the game. My anticipation for this game was so great 
 that I nearly broke the CD taking it out of the jewel case. Two days later I emerged from my computer 
 room a burned out shell of a new man. I have found the holly grail of gaming and it was good.
 
  
  There is so much that is good about this game that I could never possibly type it all into this 
 review. If you love gaming, then you must add this game to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and its one of my favorites that I own! The single player and multiplayer are both 
 excellent! The create a campaign is fun and the units are cool looking and a large variety of them 
 and they can get upgrades! There are three races that are all equally awesomeness-fun to play with.
 
  My favorite race is probabaly the Protoss since they have great power, I like the Zergs too since 
 you can make a huge gang with them of at least 30, and the terrans are still fun but I dont like 
 them as much as the Protoss or Zergs! There numerus upgrades, nice variety of units, lots of missions, 
 excellent graphics, great sound, and super gameplay! I like to build a heavy defence then build 
 12 units at a time to constantly attack the enemies base. I love using the flying units quite a 
 bit since they cant be hit by ground attacks which makes them less vulnerable! I think Blizzard 
 did a bang-up job on this game! This is is definetly recommended for everyone, you can rent it and 
 buy it or just rent it but if you go with what i say, DONT RENT IT JUST GET IT!!! I beat this game 
 many times and i still play it and that will tell you how much of a great game it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game I have been hooked on for a very long time. I would play this for years and never get 
 bored of it with all of the custom maps that the players have made. Also, the map maker is incredibly 
 simple even when you try to make something semi complicated. For example making the computer spawn 
 and move is incredibly easy so that you can play with yourself against an intelligent computer 
 with a map that you created.
  
  My favorite types of maps were the defense maps where you had to build towers to try and defend 
 yourself which I loved to do. I loved how you had to use your brain to try and outsmart the computer.
 
  
  The only problem with this game is the battle. net. It was horrible at finding servers and at times 
 it would say that there are no servers. That was the only problem but after it worked itself out 
 it would be great.
  
  I would recoomend this to anyone who loves strategy games like Warcraft or Age of Empires. I also 
 reccomend being zealot since they are the best out of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoSae
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft. The real time strategy game debuted in 1998 with its various races and different stories. 
 It alows players to pick from three races, the Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. The Terran are a species 
 of humen, you could call them our futuristic cousins. The Zerg are a project created from the Confederate 
 Terran used to gain power over the enitre galaxy in which case would be used to anhilate all other 
 Terran, they may seem a bit more primitive but they're just as powerful as the other two races. 
 Protoss are an alien race from a distant planet called Aier, they are very advanced in technology 
 and probaly one of the more deadlier races in the game.
  
  The species are set into different episodes, 1, 2, and 3. The first episode is the Terran, it is 
 probaly best if you play these in order (thought you don't have to) because then you will understand 
 the story better and understand the gameplay better. Each side has their advantages and disadvantages, 
 their heroes and their zeroes. Simply placing units in the correct position can alow you to win. 
 If you have the expansion pack you can get some pretty cool other units along with a continuation 
 to the storyline.
  
  In addition there is a multiplayer mode and a campaign editor mode. In the campaign editor, you 
 make maps, or edit them, and make campaigns. Simple. In the multiplayer mode you can play the campaigns 
 you made or face off against computers or friends in a one on one melee matches. In the melee matches 
 each team starts off with 300 minerals and 0 gas. You mine for minerals, get gas, make units, make 
 buildings for your base, and conquer your enemy. Each unit has a set attack and defense that can 
 be upgraded in their species proper building. When your army is large enough, a 200 unit max, you 
 should attack the opponent's base, you probaly don't want to wait to long or they'll conquer you.
 
  
  All of these things are what have made StarCraft such a successful series. This is a definate buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callie789456
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  This is a good RTS, like most RTS's should be. Some missions you win, some you don't i think its 
 just right. Getting to master the races, learing the units strengths/weaknesses, and setting up 
 proper battle tactics can take some time, but blizzards RTS experience knows just how to make it's 
 learining curve. Alot of people talk about this game being sooo great. And yeah, i love it but 
 there are a few things that are just missing, or wrong, like only 12 selected units at a time. 
 I'm gonna wrap this up great sound, good graphic movement, but pictures a bit blury, and replay 
 can be a bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fronttrigger2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Son, I've played me a lot of games. There are a few out there that I can continue to go back to 
 and never seem to get tired of. Yes, this is one of those games.
  
  If you have never played StarCraft, just go ahead and buy you the expansion pack for a mere $19.99 
 at Target or something. You can't go wrong.
  
  Choose from three different species, Terran, Zerg or Protoss. The great thing about SC that's different 
 from other RTS games is that there is no duplicate warriors, like Age of the Empires. 
  
  You gather resources and build your army, then go whoop up the enemy. 
  There are loads of defensive 
 and offensive strategies that can be used.
  
  The game sounds and plays great. Music is pretty good. Forces are totally cool and the gameplay 
 keeps you on your toes. 
  
  30 missions for each StarCraft and the Brood War. Instant classic. Must have and must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGeorge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft to me is a milestone of Electronic Entertainment. Like Total Annihilation it is like 
 a pioneer of Real Time Strategy games.
  
  Blizzard introduces a complex story packed with action. Where you can play as 1 of three individual 
 races. When Compared to Age of Empires 2 for example, this variation makes a more complex and realistic 
 game.
  
  Oppossed to a game where each civilization has minor variations, StarCraft races have large variations 
 and each race has it's own advantages and disadvanteges. This makes universal strategies obsolete, 
 and allows you to go deeper into the core of the game.
  
  StarCraft graphics are 2D. But they are very detailed and make it still a very good game. The graphics 
 can still represent the 3D features of war. Like Cannon Strikes from higher terrain, and using 
 trees as cover.
  
  StarCraft lacks details of simple nature like treasures in Age of Mythology. But does not drag 
 it down from being an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  remeber when i first saw starcraft on the shelve of some pc store back in 2000 lying there waiting 
 for me to take it home. Couple of days later I came and I bought it for 15$. The best 15$ dollars 
 I have ever spend.
  
  Starcraft tell the story of three sapred spicious: The terrans, or humans as we call them that 
 strive to stay alive in the battle for their life. The zerg which are hoidius little monsters with 
 abillity to reproduct themselves, and the protoss, sophisticated supreme form of been with advanced 
 technology and weapons.
  
  When you start playing this game, you will begin with the terrans and then after complete their 
 campaign you'll go on to play with the zergs and list with the protoss. The game is all about the 
 plot. As you continue from phase to phase, you will understand more and more how complex the story 
 is.
  
  Starcraft is like any other original RTS game, with buildings and resources to collect. The more 
 money you get the more units you can buy and advanced your buildings and your units. But this is 
 the best part in the game: All of the spicious are equle and have the same abillities only in diffrent 
 shapes.
  
  First of all you play with the terrans which have the space marines- an elite unit of marine with 
 great fire power that is the basic unit of the terrans. There are also tanks spaceships and big 
 ugly battlecruiser. You can afcourse give them more power by advancing to the next levels of tech.
 
  
  Second in the campaign is the zergs. Those are little creatures (and sometimes big) with queens 
 and hugh animels to control.
  Third and list is the protoss which is probably the best spicious and most advanced with speical 
 abillity to clock thier units.
  
  The levels in starcraft are big and change from one to another so you won't counter in any recycle 
 gameplay. The in game movies are also something worth mentiond with high quality graphics and importnat 
 part to understand the story better.
  
  The graphics in game are beatiful and clearly give this game a unique quality over it's competetors.
 
  Sound in game is just a masterpiece. Never heard such good voices and backround noises, make you 
 feel like you in a real war in the 23rd century.
  
  Beside it's large campagin, there are also skirmish mode that enlarge the life content by 10 more 
 hours or more. 
  The multiplayer is one of the best there is and ever was with up to 8 players simultainesly in 
 one big map from the game or map you created.
  
  So if you have a computer in home, any computer at all, rush to the nearest store and purchase 
 this game even if it cost you 200$. It worth the price even now. I still wait for starcraft 2 to 
 come...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics; sound effects; and game-play; some cool units; lot's 'o' upgrades; the races are 
 cool and all are unique yet still balanced; outstanding video clips; great multi-player; great 
 storyline; will run on low end systems
  
  The intergalactic conflict between three different races make up StarCraft. These three races - 
 Terran, Zerg and Protoss - are radically different from each other, with different strengths and 
 weaknesses. The Terrans focus on mobility and rely on Marines for the bulk of their army; the Zerg 
 have cheap units that can be amassed quickly, but their production centres are hindered by their 
 need to be built only on 'the creep'; and the Protoss are extremely powerful, and can warp in buildings 
 without having to build them, but their extreme expense and slow build time can be a major hindrance. 
 No race is necessarily stronger than any of the others, but they may have certain advantages in 
 certain situations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe people say this game is like the best. It is like the worst. I don't know how you 
 can like this game. The graphics are lame, playing it sucks, the races aren't all that good, even 
 if it were remade it would only be a 7.0 if it's lucky in my opinion. The only reason I played 
 it so much was because my friends would play online and i had a sucky computer, but now i discovered 
 waaaaaaaayyyyyyyyy better games and i have a way better computer. This game is barely decent if 
 you play with your friends online or LAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killdread
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a fast action paced strategy game, in which takes place in a futuristic era. It combines 
 a good storyline in which the characters fit in quite well, and more action than you can imagine. 
 It includes three species, you will play a certain species according to the storyline. The terrans 
 which are the human specie, The zerg which are a fearsome, fast reproductive creatures, and finally 
 The protoss a far advanced alien species. This game contains over fifteen different units and buildings 
 for each species, tons of missions, a skirmish and of course a multiplayer. I recommen this game 
 for all the strategy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Starcraft, it's been 7 years since it was released (1998) but to me it's still the daddy of all 
 rts games!! No other rts game offers the same madness, excitement and tension you get when playing 
 starcraft.
  
  There are 3 different races which are incredibly evenly balanced. I mean when i first started, 
 i thought that the overwhelming strength of protoss was to hard to counter but soon realised it 
 is so easily countered with other units which are much cheaper and faster to make. Terran are really 
 the all round team with brilliant defence units and buildings (siege tanks, bunkers) which can 
 turn into an amazingly good attacking force. Protoss are just incredibly strong because they have 
 shields as well as health. They are like the futuristic, advanced alien race. And finally Zerg 
 which are incredibly versatile so they can change tactics completely at any point of the game by 
 morphing their units into others and they are also very fast to make. So that is how balanced the 
 teams are, there are units which have advantages over the same level units from other races but 
 they may cost more or be more prone to attack from a different unit (zealots - lose quarter combat 
 - countered by ranged and air units)
  
  The sheer madness a game can be is also incredible. Especially when you have these unlimited resource 
 maps such as 'fastest possible map' and others, teams can fill their supply limit, send the whole 
 army in and make another once that team is wiped out within a few minutes. But there are also maps 
 which require you to micro manage your team and keep each unit alive as long as possible . 
  
  Different combinations and tatics also hav a great effect on the game. Whether you are going 
 to 'rush' a team (make units faster than they can and attack before they have a defence) or build 
 an army and then attack, or wait for him to attack first and then counter attack. There are many 
 possibilities. Also, different combinations of units work better against a certain type of opposition 
 units so that has to be considered too. Or you could just build a huge army of the same unit which 
 attack ground and air and break through with overwhelming numbers.
  
  Nothing else compares to starcraft and with the expansion brood war, it gets even better.
  If 
 you like rts games, this is a MUST!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiser634
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Hoo-boy. All those long and delightful hours in computer club back in school were graced predominantly 
 by this wonderful game. After being hooked with my buddies on Warcraft II for so long, Starcraft 
 had a whole lotta' hype surrounding it before it hit the shelves. As soon as we got our single-player 
 fix satiated (which was QUITE satisfying... fantastic storyline) , we spent countless hours playing 
 locally and over Battle. net duking it out and having a blast. My AIM screen name is STILL "KAISER634", 
 with inspiration from the Ultralisk's Kaiser Blade tusks. And frankly, I could still go for another 
 round of Big Game Hunters. I'll probably go Terran for starters. Get those bunkers up, kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James00715
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a sci-fi real-time strategy game that takes place in our universe but many years in 
 the future. The game has both single and multi-player modes. It also includes a map editor where 
 fans can create their own maps for multi-player or even single player campaigns. Released in 1998, 
 it came out late in typical Blizzard fashion. The game turned out to be one of the most played 
 real-time strategy games in history. The game is still popular online to this day.
  
  A different kind of world
  The game starts out with a good cinematic to put the player into the 
 game. The game has the feel of an old sci-fi movie doing a good job of making the player feel like 
 they are in an alien place. The game takes place in the far reaches of space. Outcasts and criminals 
 from Earth are sent out to space but somehow end up surviving after their ships crash land on a 
 few planets. Over time they relearn how to build space travel ships again. Humans on different 
 planets start to fight each other and scouts start finding signs of hostile aliens nearby. Thus 
 begins the struggle of different races for power.
  
  Overall, the story is pretty good. It starts out somewhat overused but by the end feels like it's 
 very original. When the story starts to get boring a new twist happens and the player is left questioning 
 whats going to happen again. The story is helped by the various characters in the game. Each one 
 fleshed out over several missions.
  
  Story: 9
  
  Fast-paced and compelling
  The single player portion of the game is made up of three campaigns, one for each race. Over the 
 course of the game, the player is introduced to each of the races. Whether it be the mechanical 
 Terrans, the insect-like Zerg, or the psychic Protoss, each of the races is very fun to play. They 
 all have a different playing style. The terrans, or humans, are based on multipurpose units. Each 
 one can be used for multiple things. The Zerg completely different then the rest in that they are 
 completely organic. Every unit is a living insect including the buildings. The Protoss are the 
 most technically advanced race. In addition to special psychic abilities, they also have personal 
 shields. The races are very different from each other in play style, which keeps the game from 
 getting boring quickly.
  
  Each level the player is treated to a mission briefing voiced by the main characters. The general 
 level objectives are listed and explained. Then the player is sent into the level as the commander. 
 During the course of a level, the characters may speak to each other as events happen. New objectives 
 may be added to the existing ones. The player is free to choose how to complete the mission in 
 most cases.
  
  There is a short tutorial mission and then the actual game starts with the humans. The game is 
 fast-paced and encourages efficiency. Many times there are time limits or limited resources to 
 stress these principles. By the end of the game, the player will have mastered these two skills. 
 Each level more requirements are put on the players shoulders and they are forced to adapt by 
 retrying the mission.
  
  The races have about 10 units that reflect the style of that race. Only a few of the units are 
 actually used in every level. Most of the units are best for support and only a few need to be 
 trained. Certain levels are made to introduce new units and have perfect situations for their use. 
 For instance, the Terrans with their multipurpose units have the Marine which is cheap to produce 
 but pretty strong in groups against land and air targets. The Zerg, on the other hand, have Zergling, 
 small doglike insect, that in groups excels at taking down slow moving, large units.
  
  One of the few problems in the game is with the controls. You can only select twelve units at a 
 time. The same goes for creating preset groups. Each group can only have twelve units and you can 
 only have ten groups total making the total number of quick access units 120. The problem is that 
 there are a few times when the player will have more than 120 units in their army and you just 
 don't have enough space for all of them. You end up having to manually select units often in this 
 situation. This is not a huge problem though because this situation can only occur in a few of 
 the single player missions and even less in multiplayer games.
  
  The second gameplay mode is multiplayer The two most common options for multiplayer are LAN and 
 Battle. net. LAN allows friends to play together on the same network. The real meat of multi-player, 
 though, is in Blizzard's free online service, Battle. net. Once logged on, the player starts out 
 in a chatroom where they can find people to play with. Battle. net is not just a chatroom though. 
 It is a place for finding and creating games of Starcraft. The player can look through a list of 
 games to find one with the desired options or create their own. Before the game starts all the 
 joined players are in a private chatroom with each other.
  
  Another problem in Starcraft is latency. Online play is very fun if you can find a game with little 
 lag. Most games will have lag. Frequently, players will be kicked out of games because they lost 
 connection as the game started. The game handles disconnections by letting the current players 
 choose who is kicked, but this can turn into a problem. It takes over a minute before the game 
 allows people to be kicked. This just ends up slowing the game down for the players who are connected.
 
  
  There were a few balance issues at launch but since then Blizzard has released many patches tweaking 
 the game. The game is very balanced now and new patches are still released every so often to fix 
 various bugs and exploits. This has not stopped everything, however. There are still hackers and 
 abusers online. Blizzard can only do so much with patches.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  2D animation at its best
  Graphics are one of Starcraft's strong points. While not quite as realistic 
 as Age of Empire's, they are definitely just as good. All the units are animated fluidly. The sprites 
 are very detailed. Each race's console has its own theme. The unit portraits are all animated which 
 was quite an improvement over the still images of previous strategy games. In similar Blizzard 
 style, the cinematics are simply wonderful. They really help to put you in the universe. You get 
 treated to close-ups of some of the units in the game, which helps to show how they really look 
 in person. The maps all look good as well. There are a number of different tilesets used throughout 
 the course of the campaign. Each map has a number of doodads to add some personality to the level. 
 Two levels may have the same tileset but look completely different because of the doodads.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  As humorous as always
  The sound is also good. While some of the sound 
 effects are not original, most of them are. Some of the sound effects you'll hear in movies and 
 commercials as they were just cheap, generic sound effects. The original sound effects are great 
 though. Every unit has its own set of sound effects. Units can be clicked on multiple times and 
 different sound clips are played. Many of them say comical things if you are persistent. The voice 
 acting is also good. All of the main characters have a professional voice actor helping the story 
 come to life. What they say is believable because it sounds like they really care about what's 
 happening. The music was a little different though. The music puts you in the mood but you wont 
 catch yourself humming any of the songs after playing the game. The music fits with the race but 
 just isn't that interesting to listen to. Also, there are only a few tracks for each race, which 
 means you'll hear a lot of looping in the longer levels.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Combining the best elements of every RTS before it
  Starcraft doesnt innovate a whole but does 
 everything well. It just takes the best elements of every RTS before it and combines them into 
 one complete package. Everything in the game is high-quality. It feels like care was taken to make 
 sure everything worked well. Nothing feels two rushed.
  
  This doesnt mean that Starcraft is not original though. Starcraft introduces three unique races. 
 Units of one race are not just parallels of the units in the other race. The units are all unique 
 and all fit the style of the race. Players can master one race but be very mediocre with the others. 
 This helps to extend the replay value of the game especially in multiplayer. Mastering all three 
 races is a big feat to accomplish.
  
  Value: 9
  
  Near perfect
  Starcraft has some of the best graphics and gameplay of any RTS in its time. There are few problems 
 in this masterpiece. The controls can seem somewhat limited when there are large unit counts but 
 that's a rare occurrence. The music isn't all that interesting and there aren't a lot of tracks 
 but it fits the different areas well. With Battle. net, it also has the best multiplayer component 
 for strategy games. Starcraft is such a great game it's hard to call it anything but legendary. 
 Combining all the great things of previous real-time strategy games and adding a number of improvements 
 it's possibly greatest real-time strategy game ever made.
  
  Story: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value: 9
  Total Score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojangles454
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a marveled gem. Anyone who has had the pleasure of playing this great RTS game knows 
 what i'm talking about. I remember spending hours upon hours playing this with my friends and how 
 much fun we had. This game still to this day I play every once and a while and the value of the 
 game has not dimished one bit. Now thats a great game if I ever knew of one. All the different 
 types of games online you could play, the dragonball z, golem, resident evil games and so on. One 
 of the great classics of my time and one I will never forget for how it was single handingly the 
 reason why still to this day i play pc games. Thank you starcraft for coming out and gracing us 
 all with your presence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackstar_311
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Simply amazing in every way. Nothing beats it. ALl i am doing is typing one hundred words so i 
 can submit this review. If you have not played this game. You need to. It is the best strategy 
 game of all time. Every strategy game should be compared to the starcraft. Its a game you can still 
 play today. I love food. Espeically hamburgers. They just hit the spot. Buy this game. Amazing. 
 well... the human torch was denied a bank loan and the skeleton uses shampoo in the shower. .. hmmm. 
 Rome total war has got nothing on this game. The multiplayer is highley addictive and competive. 
 Which make for a fantastic dish. Oh ya. This game is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Starcraft, and the BroodWar expansion is STILL the best RTS game around - it's getting hard to 
 get hold of so don't hesitate if you see it. I was first introduced to the wonders of Starcraft 
 when I played it round a mates house and after that I wanted it. Its graphics are beautiful and 
 the game play is stupendous. It's very satisfying to watch your army absolutely Muller anothers, 
 and it can be very exciting. The units are original and imaginative, and fun to play with and send 
 them into battle. Place them tactically or go in guns-blazing, in to the enemys territory. The 
 game is then topped by the online game play, which is great fun to play on-line, and try new versions 
 of the game. You are set targets to destroy a certain building or character or just wipe out there 
 whole army. You can have up to eight players playing!!! 
  
  The single-player missions are good "stand-alone" gaming, and many people are happy to keep playing 
 the computer. But perhaps the real appeal is playing this game on Battle. Net against other players. 
 Humans attack and defend in ways computer AI can't dream of - and Starcraft has a near perfect 
 balance of forces and units that your success depends on your strategies. This game is the ultimate 
 in strategy. And it's fast. 
  In conclusion the game is brilliant and worth every penny. If you like Blizzard RTS then youre 
 not going to want to miss this, It has a loyal fan base with dozens of sites on the web with strategy 
 tips and replays of games. 
  A classic  A revolution in gaming  I still play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluespike000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Scared... you better be
  Ready... be it or die
  A Really Big Gun... Mandatory
  Wheres Our Tanks... The 3 words you never ever wana hear
  
  That is a brief summary of the 
 starcraft world, based on a universal conflict between the Zerg (which have a scaringly close resemblance 
 to Warhammer 40k's Tyranids) and everyones favorite under dogs the humans, add some techie alien 
 race the protoss and you got one crazy 3 way going.
  
  Masses... The only thing youll see
  Oh Look At The Pretty Colors... Oh yea lots of colors
  
  Things that go through your head in 
 the game, lots of crazy battles going on yet so much fun. The game itself is unexplainable its... 
 Fun a really fun rts that made the mold for RTS genre... I still play it after all these years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is really one of the all time greats. The graphics, although not up to the standards of this 
 day are really quite good. The single player campain for each race is quite interesting and keeps 
 your interest.
  The thing that makes this game so special is its multiplayer. When i finially moved on from SC 
 i had around 250-50 wins-losses on 1 account and 63-7 on another. I think this speaks miles of 
 the game as i generally tire of the repetative stratagies before i hit the 50 mark. I highly recommend 
 this game as it is one of the best all time stratagy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixc747er
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  
  StarCraft is a classic, everybody knows that, but I have to add my comments on this game. This 
 game was actually the first one that I played. This game is well balance, easy to get comfortable 
 with and so nice looking for a 2D game.
  
  Even in 2006, there are not a lot of games well made like this one, having these 3 species battling 
 for their survival and conquering each other. This game is easy to catch, actually if you don't 
 know anything about real-time strategy games and you're kind of curious, I strongly suggest you 
 buy yourself a copy (pretty cheap these days) and walk true it. It's simple and you can manage 
 the AI for not having too much heat on you when you start. This is the basic of what's out there 
 now, StarCraft is a great school to learn from, and the graphics are nice, naturally you need to 
 put yourself in 1998, but still it has a great look for a 2D game. I still surprise myself playing 
 this game once in a while and I love doing a Carrier 'rush' (it's a huge vessel carrying small 
 fighter) !!
  
  As well the multiplayer gives you and totally different perspective on the game, and can easily 
 keep you awake for a couple of nights in a row.
  
  Please give yourself a chance to see and feel how RTS (real-time strategy) games started, it's 
 worth the 10.00$, and it a great way to learn the RTS curve.
  
  Thanks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out since 98' if Im correct, and there is still a big community around this 
 game. The best thing is online! One of the best online games ever. There is so much you can do 
 online with people making new maps like Racoon City ( RE Map) , Marine Defence where you have to 
 prevent the CPU's units from getting throught yours and so much more. Shure it doesent have amazing 
 graphics but it doesent matter! This game is awsome! This game is better then most new RTS games. 
 It might take awhile to learn all the controlls and all but that doesent matter! 
  FOUR WORDS!
  
  GO GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strmcrw
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game from day one and let me tell you something I've lost count of how many 
 times I finished it so long ago, but hey, who's counting. Its fantastic, no other RTS has its versatility, 
 its balance between races, its storyline and if you think that back in 1998 graphics were'nt so 
 cool, play it, wait for the demos, you'll be emberassed you ever said that those days good pc graphics 
 were a lie.
  I'm telling you its awesome, even unbelievable. But let me warn you about its only downside, its 
 too addictive, if you start playing it, you'll be playing it for years to come
  
  EN TARO ADUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moored41
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Oh where to start. Get ready for the long haul for this one, cos its going to be a long one.
  
  Ok. Its 2666 (or something along those lines) and Earth has become vastly overpopulated. So 
 whats the solution? Gather up all of the people who have commited crimes and blast them into space. 
 Genious. Apart from everything breaks down.
  
  Bugger.
  
  Now the stranded humans (or terrans as they are called) crashland onto random planets and struggle 
 to survive, and, lo and behold, they do!
  
  MEANWHILE
  
  A super intelligent alien race known as the Protoss are created by another group of aliens called 
 the Xel Naga. They grow and prosper, grow too fast, have a massive war, the Xel Naga try to stop 
 things, fail miserably and vamoose, leving the poor protoss miserable and confused, banishing some 
 of thier kind and soon they collect thier minds and head off trying to be the next Xel Naga, mothering 
 lessser races.
  
  MEANWHILE
  
  A gruesome parasitic race known as the Zerg are created by Xel Naga after they flee from the protoss 
 homeworld. Less intelligent they simply struggle to survive by consuming others, and seeing weather 
 they are best to destroy and devour, or to use thier DNA to create new monsters. They consume enough 
 and find out they are being watched by the Xel Naga, attack thier mother race and win, and go to 
 numerous planets to infest or devour them.
  
  After all this has happened (all is explained in the manual which is SUPERB. Definately read it 
 if you get the game. which you should) the Protoss and Zerg find the Terran and do thier thing-Zerg 
 tryign to consume the Terran and the Protoss trying to protect them. And this is where you step 
 in. You command one side of each battle and the story progresses.
  
  The storyline is amazingly good, and if that isnt your thing, you can always play vs. 7 CPU opponents 
 or go online via the very sucessful and well implimented battlenet (Blizzard's online starcraft-opia) 
 and battle up to 7 human opponents. Up to you!
  
  The truly great thing about this game is the variablity. Each race is completely different. I dont 
 mean one gets a different man and that is all, it is completely different. The terran have tanks, 
 anti-air missiles, medics and flametrowers, buildings that have jetpacks, extensions and buildings 
 that slowly burn down when heavily attacked. The Protoss have shields, powerful psionic abilities, 
 buildings that rely on a link to thier homeworld and must be teleported rather than built, cloaking 
 ability and the ability to control time. The zerg, on the other hand have acidic suicidal maniacs, 
 flying acid spitters, dog like creatures with scythes, huge beats that act as battering rams, buildings 
 that mutate and evolve and re-heal and the ability to burrow. You can never get bored of this game. 
 It is actually impossible
  
  The graphics are amazing for such an old game. It still stands up to standards nowadays and considering 
 its about 8 years old is an amazing acievement
  
  The music is nothing short of legendary. Each race has an individual tune that matches it, the 
 terrans having an armyesque style of music, with cammanders sounding like true commanders and the 
 lovely touch of if you poke them too much (i. e. click on them) they get annoyed and even start 
 swearing. The Zerg have more of a slimy feel to it, and all of the creatures make creepy slimy 
 noises and the Protoss have a very hi tech musical influence, with commanders (called judicators) 
 sounding very formidable indeed.
  
  Simply put, this game is a must buy. Any gamer without this game you must taunt to ridicule as 
 they are no true gamer. This is the pinncle of RTS games, no less, but so much more.
  
  over and out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addictive exspecially a great multi-player game that youll never want to stop 
 playing even for how old of a game it is. The multi-player aspect of it is very very fun and not 
 only that the campaings well some of them are pretty fun as well. Even if you dont have the internet 
 to play this game it still very fin to play and you can make it very easy to play for begginers 
 and very hard to play for experts by playing the AI with the settings as free for all or mele (all 
 the AI against you) . The only thing that kind of sucks about this game is that there is a supply 
 limit and that is still not that big of a deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hen123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  when I first played this game I just wanted to play this game 24/7 because it was so good and the 
 online part of the game made the game even better then the game with out onlinethe game has really 
 good graphics for the age of the game and still a lot of people play the game online and not online 
 blizzard makes the best games the starcraft series and the warcraft series well that is all I have 
 to say about starcraft!!!!!!!!!!!! peace to all and I hope the ones that read this they vs me online 
 my username is Jeremy19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Everything that was said eight years ago is still true. Youre saying Warcraft 3? Youre crazy? 
 Its a good game but nowhere the level of this excelence! Why do you think Blizzard never made 
 a sequel? Blizzard must always best itself, and they still havent found a way to do better than 
 this. Sure the interface as been bettered (would love to see the war3 interface in Starcraft) , 
 but the rest is still as good or better than even the new RTS games. Sound, story, gameplay. Or 
 should i say 3 types of gameplay? But im talking too much! Why are you reading this?? GO get this 
 game! It was Koreas national sport. And it should be yours for the next weeks of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0L0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is really good... tough its quite hard, but a game whitout challenge is boring. I 
 like the missions but a custom campaign is just so hard, I mean they killed me in like 5 min.
 
  
  Tough it is very old the graphichs are pretty damn good. I love this game and thats why the game 
 is for me its one of the best strategy games Ive ever played.
  
  If you dont have this game just buy it or even better, load it from Internet and have fun! And 
 dont forget, that this game is very very very very cool.=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladerunner89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game is still a lot of fun even though it is old. Before Starcraft I had never played and 
 RTS but now I can't get enough of this game. Right now the game is kind of hard to find but it's 
 only 20 bucks so what are you waiting for, go buy this. I heard they're making a sequel and I know 
 I'll be waiting in line. The game also has free multiplayer which is a great quality because where 
 the game really shines is on the battlenet. The game allows you to play as three races, all with 
 varying stats and it; s almost guaranteed that you won't play the same round twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the kind of game that you need... Blizzard is infamous for making games that you have 
 to play... and games that are so great, that they could easily be confused with certain illegal 
 drugs. It's the kind of game that can easily destroy your social life... and you will love every 
 second of it. I wish I was playing this game right now... but my doctor says I need to chill out 
 a little bit. So, if you like games and you have a computer, you better buy this game for your 
 sake, for my sake, for humanity... oh and while your playing blast a couple of hydralisks for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonguyen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is game quite easy to get started playing. If you want to learn easily I suggest playing on 
 Single Player. If you think you can take on anyone go on USAEast where all the good people are 
 on. The sound is pretty good for the time it was created. Once you make a friend on this you will 
 notice you and him will spend countless hours playing together over a year. The people who make 
 the maps on USAEast are awesome. The classic Sunken Defense games are great for starters. Or the 
 Evolves series. Any Defense game you play should be of good value. If you think you want a challenge 
 try to make a good map. You will notice it's quite simple to make an advanced map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game sparked a generation of RTS games, and it should be considered as a "holy artifact" of 
 gaming. This gem of a computer game has, possibly, the best storyline, gameplay, not graphics (8 
 years old, people) but most definitely may be one of the best games. Period. Need i say more?1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I first played a demo of Starcraft on an old 486 back in 1998. Instantly, I was hooked as I played 
 the 4 Terran missions available in the demo to death, at the agonizingly slow speed of the 486. 
 Along with the rest of the world, I was witnessing the birth of an RTS phenomenon the likes of 
 which has never been seen or heard of in PC gaming history.
  
  Starcraft is probably the best RTS game ever made, despite the fact that there's a lot less strategy 
 or balance involved. That doesn't seem to matter though, because Starcraft's charm, its masterful 
 campaigns and its insane multiplayer make the small flaws seem minuscule when looking at the big 
 picture.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Starcraft looked good when it came out, real good! Sure, it wasn't fully 3D like Total Annihilation, 
 you couldn't change resolutions and there were some key animations missing (the water) but it still 
 looked good and it had style.
  
  When talking style, we really need to mention Starcraft as far as RTSes go. The direction in which 
 the developers went with the 3 races is unique, to say the least. Even the Terran, the obligatory 
 humans, have something new and refreshing about them. The Protoss and the Zerg, on the other hand, 
 are wholly new and seemingly interesting twists on pop-culture favorites or on our own subconscious 
 imaginations of what alien races might look like.
  
  Units and terrain are well detailed in Starcraft. Each unit looks great, has a ton of animation, 
 and supports fairly advanced lighting and smoke effects while moving gracefully across sky or land. 
 The terrain suffers from a severe lack of tile sets but what it has looks phenomenal. Everything 
 looks authentic and you might find yourself just exploring the terrain to see what other kind of 
 inside jokes or animation queues the guys at Blizzard thought of next.
  
  Needless to say the game has hardly any framerate problems and works perfectly on the minimum system 
 requirements. The CG in Starcraft is also among the best ever created in a PC game and is in the 
 vein of other Blizzard games thatve used GC before it. You won't mistake the style for something 
 foreign, trust me, but you will begin to love the particularities soon enough.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Starcraft is a sound revolution in terms of RTSes. Not only because it is one 
 of the first (if not, the first) to have a fully voiced campaign but because it does so with style 
 and with REAL actors. Everyone who speaks in Starcraft puts a genuine effort in delivering their 
 lines appropriately and all the actors are perfectly matched to their digital counterparts avoiding 
 clumsy or embarrassing situations.
  
  The sound effects and music are just as good. The screeching of the Zerglings or the Hydraliks, 
 the high-powered whoosh of lasers and even the death screams of the marines are all implemented 
 with professional precision and sound appropriately rich, terrifying or destructive. The sound 
 effects never drown out the music (or vice versa) ; they are the highest quality around and are 
 among some of the best in an RTS game ever.
  
  The music fares just as well. The quick, heavy-metal riffs are very tasteful, unlike most other 
 music of this sort used in games. They help get the action pumping, they're recorded at a high 
 rate and they just sound good. Very good, not unlike the rest of the sound component!
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Lets get a few things straightened out here: Starcraft is far from perfect 
 in terms of gameplay. There are game exploits, huge nation imbalances, groups are limited to 12 
 troops, theres more button mashing than there is actual strategy, etc. While this is certainly 
 not all that encouraging it doesn't wreck the fun of Starcraft and it doesn't undermine its formidable 
 multiplayer.
  
  What makes Starcraft such a standout RTS is its campaign. Composed of a series of interconnected 
 missions, tied together with a beautifully narrated story, Starcraft stands in a league of its 
 own as far as campaigns go. The flawless implementation of the games story was revolutionary for 
 its time not only because it wasn't just an excuse to explain why the three sides butchered each 
 other but because it actually had characters that you would care for, whose personal lives you 
 gave a damn about and who were more than just units on the battlefield. Oh, and let's not forget 
 the amazing plot twists in Blizzard's classic, starting from Kerrigan's story to the Protoss power 
 struggles. All of this flowed together and fused beautifully in such a way that you were emerged 
 in the game and could go on playing for hours without feeling time slip away.
  
  Starcraft has 3 races: The Zerg, the Protoss and the Terran. One human and 2 alien (Ill let you 
 guys figure out whos who) . Each of these races has its own strengths and weaknesses, for example 
 Protoss troops are very expensive but they're also very strong while Zerg troops are the exact 
 opposite. The myriad of units available for each side is astounding; each of the three races has 
 their own particular units and these aren't just different skins of the same unit but they actually 
 function as different entities in the game. The Terran Battleship is not a simple counterpart to 
 the Zerg Mutalisk or the Protoss Carrier. This gives each side a huge amount of particular flair, 
 along with making the game an original masterpiece of both design and diversity. If there is one 
 real problem with the actual unit design in itself, its the spell casters. Due to the fast paced 
 and frantic battles of Starcraft spell casters become useless as you simply CANNOT control them 
 well enough in a heated situation. Now, real problems start arising when units don't act like they're 
 supposed to. See, Starcraft assumes that "more and cheap" can combat "less but expensive", the 
 system really begins to fail though as soon as you get half-way through a game. In the original 
 release the Zerg were heavily underpowered and, despite the fact that they had 2 Mutalisks for 
 every carrier they were useless unless they caught the opponent off guard. So much of Starcraft 
 is based on simple things like "who attacks first" or "rushing rules" that it becomes impossible 
 for some armies to win against one another when facing each other in middle to late game. Sure, 
 the subsequent patches fixed things but then we reached one point were the Zerg were TOO powerful, 
 and then off we went to wait for another patch. In addition, the unbalances in the original release 
 have no way of correction. There are no paper-rock-scissors rules nor are the population limits 
 different for the races therefore, the only way to win is to be either the first attacking or to 
 be the one who can pump out units faster, depending on who you play as.
  
  The buildings in Starcraft share an equally as distinctive of a trait as the units. Each and every 
 race has their own ways of construction or supplying their troops. The Protoss build Pylons around 
 which they can warp new buildings, while the Zerg can only build within their "creep" which can 
 be expanded by either waiting or by building Spore Colonies. Even building the actual structures 
 is distinct for each race, as the Terrans must have a worker dedicated to constructing a building 
 while the Zerg have to sacrifice a Drone to build structures and, finally, the Protoss can just 
 initiate a building and then move on as the structure will build itself. And, amazingly, this actually 
 DOESN'T unbalance the game, as a Protoss building takes longer to build than either a Terran or 
 a Zerg building and might even cost more. Finally, using your buildings to spawn units also takes 
 an individual approach for each race. Zerg can only build units from their Hive, but as long as 
 they have enough larvae they can build as many simultaneous units at one time as they want while 
 the other two races are stuck to the regular pump out the troop from the factory-initiative.
 
  
  If Starcraft lacks in something, than it definitely would have to be the terrain tile sets. Starcraft 
 has very few actual tile sets and, generally speaking, the mutliplayer/idividual maps are very 
 poorly designed as you either never have enough resources or enough space for ground battles or 
 just simply easily blockable bottlenecks that make for one helluva' defense (especially since defensive 
 buildings in Starcraft are very powerful) . Ahh and speaking of resources, there are two types that 
 you can collect: Crystal and gas. Both are used in building units or buildings.
  
  The AI in Starcraft is actually VERY good. I was caught off guard many times as the AI rushed me 
 before I even had a change to get some decent defense up. The AI really doesn't shy away from any 
 dirt tricks or human tactics it can use against you. I'd just wish you could actually choose a 
 difficulty, since adapting to the AI's draconic practices takes quite a long while.
  
  Starcraft also had quite a few bugs when it was released including the ability to speed up SCV 
 or Drone production by using certain game exploits or even to take the Terran Command Center and 
 move it closer to the resource patches giving you a huge bonus. Unfortunately, it took quite a 
 long time before these were fixed.
  
  Now, what must be discussed is whether or not Starcraft is really strategic. Well, yes and no. 
 Of course, as I've mentioned, you cannot group more than 12 troops together, there are no paper-rock-scissors 
 mechanics which pretty much forces you to spend a great deal of time babying your army. Click here, 
 click there, and click wherever you want them to attack because the most essential thing is to 
 keep up with the focus fire. Don't and you'll be toast. Despite this however, what makes Starcraft 
 so unique is the fact that all types of players are represented equally well in this game: If you 
 prefer rushes and are always first on the pitch for an intense battle, go with the Zerg. If you 
 like to take your time and do a massive build up of troops before attacking go with the Protoss. 
 Whatever your play style might be, Starcraft can accommodate it. Yes, one must be honest and say 
 that there are unit imbalances and that there is a severe lack of tile sets but it still doesn't 
 detract as much from this game as one might think mostly because of...
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  I know I shouldnt say this but, I must: If I could I'd give this game 
 an 11/10 for multiplayer I would give it a 12! Everything would be for naught if it wouldn't be 
 for Starcrafts divine multiplayer which engulfs you in a world far away from yours, completely 
 absorbing your problems for a few hours.
  
  Multiplayer games can be played by either LAN or Internet through the Battle. net service and can 
 host a maximum of 8 players. Obviously enough, play through Battle. net is flawless. There are tens 
 of thousands of people still burning the midnight oil playing Starcraft to this very day and I 
 don't see that number ever dwindling. With a myriad of multiplayer modes, maps and strategies for 
 all to use.
  
  Ahh... and let's talk maps, because what Blizzard can't do Battle. net users EXCELL at and that's 
 map building. There are so many maps available for Starcraft now-a-days that you can live out any 
 fantasy or replay any game through a User Settings Map for Starcraft. Topics are as broad as you 
 can imagine, perhaps even broader, ranging from DBZ to Nude Kerrigan, to name just two of the thousands 
 of maps out there. That's not even the tip of the iceberg however, as besides the user created 
 maps, a wealth of other tournament or quick-game maps are also available which rid the game of 
 its pesky problems such as limited resources and impassable bottlenecks.
  
  And then there's the range of games you can pick from. Try out your wits and strategy muscle at 
 anything from a huge CPU crush, where 7 players mutilate a poor AI or even n00b sessions in a game 
 that has been out on the market for almost 8 whole years! That's the kind of community you can 
 only find in a few other games.
  
  None of this would matter though if multiplayer Starcraft wouldn't be a blast, yet, side imbalances 
 and all, Starcraft manages to carry itself through masterfully during multiplayer sessions. The 
 exhilarating pace of this game keeps you on your toes but it always allows you enough repose to 
 build units, or draft new strategies with your buddies in either massive team vs. team combat or 
 just try to survive in a brutal 8 man free-for-all. The experience is like no other.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Starcraft is the best RTS to ever come out. It doesn't matter if it has problems, 
 bugs or if it's not perfectly symmetrical because it has one thing: Soul. Without soul there is 
 no fun, and without fun you can have the best, most balanced sides ever but it won't make any difference.
 
  
  If you don't yet own this game, do yourself a favor and go get the Battle Chest as you can simply 
 NOT have any more fun than this with a PC RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Star craft is an amazing stratergy game that is definatlly worth buying... well there are 3 teams 
 you can choose from and they have their advantages and disadvantages. You can choose the Terren 
 which are the humans and they got all sorts of high tech gagets and stuff. Then there are the zergs 
 which are my favorites cause they are nasty and stuff and there are the protoss which are kinda 
 aliens which are from the future or something and they are powerful but there stuff cost a lot. 
 As far as replay value goes this game really has it going on with that including online play which 
 i find is very good... well thanks for your time bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader92
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft is the best game i haveever played. for 1998, it has pretty good graphics. sound is great. 
 single player is the best EVER. Multiplayer is awsome. Long and replayable. Jimmy Raynor, Samir 
 Duran, Kerrigan, Artanis, Fenix, Duke.... the list goes on. The greatest game playing greatest EVERYTHING. 
 i love this game and i still play it today, along with MANY others online. This game was beautifuly 
 designed by blizzard.
  
  I just hope that blizzard makes StarCraft 2.
  
  If you love RTS nad old school games, you will NOT be dissapointed if you buy this game. it will 
 stay around for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Starcraft for about 5 years now... and I love it still! The graphics arent 
 too bad for todays games and the gameplay is amazing! Just like all the command and conquer games 
 this game is the best of the best for strategy and war based themes. Also I love the storyline 
 that goes with this. It is somewhat deep and you can interpret what is going on in the game. The 
 first time I played this game was in 1999. and I got so addicted that I had every strategy in mind. 
 Then I started playing it on the internet and then addiction came. I played multiplayer games about 
 1765 times. This game is so wonderful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarcraftLegend
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  This game is simply the best RTS game ever made. If you are looking for game with excellent Muiltiplayer 
 this is your game. This game is so balanced that it would be diffcult to built a Starcraft 2. Thats 
 why the developers at Blizzard won't make it. Anyways this is a intense game espically if you like 
 controlling massive armys. The graphics are on the edge and have good terrain. And gameplay is 
 simply fun and exciting.
  Battle. net just kicks ass, espically if you like fastest possible map or Zero Clutter. Just buy 
 the game and you will fall in love nad never want to leave your P. C. Blizzard please make another 
 Starcraft 2!!!!!
  
  P. S If you want to challenge me my name is Legend] Lord and I am logged on Friday - Sunday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I give much due respect to Blizzards other more senior RTS series, Warcraft, but 
 after all, Starcraft was the last rendition of the traditional style RTS from blizzard before they 
 went fully 3d with Warcraft III which needless to say is different but not automatically better.
 
  
  Set in a fascinating world with an amazing back-story about a manmade prison colony drifting through 
 space, only to become a colony across the galaxy completely disconnected from earth. As per usual 
 Blizzard makes reading an instruction manual very enjoyable.
  
  The RTS controls and hierarchy are bar none, with the building structures upgrading and having 
 add-ons as well as having flexible construction rates with multiple units working on them, the 
 game was a joy to just build up massive high tech bases.
  
  The units were peppy and fun as usual to click on, as well as control, as their invisi-machine 
 gun fire to take down enemies was very cinematic.
  
  The graphics were the best blizzard had done for a quasi-2d RTS title before they made the switch 
 into 3d, I can only hope that they try it again someday.
  
  Oh and how could I forget the music! Although not as dramatic and standoffish as other games, the 
 music definetly had a dstinct feel to it, almost at times a rather poignant mid-90's rock theme, 
 with some very muted tones, something that definetly sticks in your mind though and brings you 
 back when you here the laid back errie guitar strummings that accompay many of the levels.
  
  In the end, even as I wait complacently for the next iteration of Starcraft, I can only hope 
 that it's as fun as this, even though the interface is expected to have some rather large changes 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  this game lasted for like like a year and half this to me was the most addicting rts i have ever 
 played the game featured 3 races and all had thier own look and feel to them whether it were the 
 humans with morines the zerg with the zeerglings or the protoss with the zealots this game had 
 awsome graphics awsome gameplay and everything u would want out of a game of this fashion and u 
 only didnt fight on the ground with ur massive amounts of units u also faught in the air with ariplanes 
 and such this game was just plain awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft is possibly the #1 PC game of all time, according to many loyalists. Those who arn't, 
 still think that it is one of the best. Blizzard have created something of a masterpiece here. 
 StarCraft, when it was first released, defined the word of RTS and set a new standard of how they 
 should be made. It took the world by storm.
  
  Lets do this thang!
  
  Overview
  StarCraft (SC) is a real-time strategy computer game by Blizzard Entertainment. Introduced in 1998, 
 it was the best-selling computer game in that year and won the Origins Award for Best Strategy 
 Computer Game of 1998. Blizzard estimated in 2005 that 9 million copies of StarCraft and Starcraft: 
 Brood War had been sold since its release, and it has achieved an international cult-like status 
 in the computer gaming world, especially in its online multiplayer form. Set in a science fiction 
 environment, StarCraft is broadly similar to Blizzard's popular game Warcraft II. Developers tried 
 greatly to steer the game away from being "Warcraft in Space," eventually rewriting the entire 
 game engine. The game's main storyline follows a war among three galactic species: the human Terrans, 
 the hive mind-sharing insectoid Zerg, and the psychic humanoid Protoss warriors. It was initially 
 released for Windows, and later for Apple's Mac OS and the Nintendo 64. Though a best-seller all 
 over the world, the game is especially popular in South Korea, with nationally recognized tournaments, 
 training groups, professional players, and televised cable-access competitions that often broadcast 
 live tournaments, leading some to refer to the game somewhat jokingly as South Korea's national 
 sport.
  
  Story
  The plot of the original StarCraft game revolves around the Terran civilization in the Koprulu 
 Sector, which was founded by former prisoners. The most powerful Terran faction is the Terran Confederacy. 
 It is opposed by other factions, such as the terrorist organization "Sons of Korhal". The arrival 
 of the Zerg, led by the Overmind and its Cerebrates, greatly complicates matters for the Terrans. 
 The Zerg Swarm is itself closely followed by a Protoss fleet, led by High Templar Executor Tassadar, 
 which burns all worlds the Zerg infest. After the Protoss destroy the Confederate colony on Chau 
 Sara, the Zerg are used by the rebel organization Sons of Korhal, whose leader Arcturus Mengsk 
 lures them to a number of Confederate installations using psi-emitters to further his own goals. 
 Mengsk acquires the services of General Edmund Duke, a Confederate general, and sacrifices his 
 right-hand woman, the psychic Sarah Kerrigan, to the Zerg after she begins to object to his morals 
 and tactics. This action alienates another of his followers, Jim Raynor, who, along with the unnamed 
 commander played by the player, flees from Mengsk with a small number of soldiers. After the Confederacy's 
 fall, Arcturus Mengsk reorganizes the Terran worlds he controls into the Terran Dominion, crowning 
 himself Emperor. Meanwhile, the Zerg flee to the planet Char with their prize, Kerrigan, who is 
 in the process of becoming a Zerg in a cocoon under the protection of a Cerebrate under player 
 control. Tassadar discovers that he can disrupt the Overmind's control over the Swarm by eliminating 
 its Cerebrate servants with the help of the Dark Templar, a group of Protoss who have forsaken 
 their ancestral psionic powers and the religion of the Khala. While on Char, Tassadar encounters 
 one of the Overmind's newest servants, the recently infested Kerrigan, a powerful psychic. The 
 involvement of the fallen Dark Templar will prove to be fateful; indeed, while slaying the Cerebrate 
 Zasz, the Dark Templar leader Zeratul briefly comes in psychic contact with the Overmind, which 
 is then informed of the Protoss home-world Aiur's location and directs its Swarm towards the Protoss 
 world. This contact also gives Zeratul knowledge of the origin of the Zerg. The Zerg inflict a 
 number of heavy defeats upon the Protoss, who fight back bitterly, but are simultaneously involved 
 in a civil war between the Protoss high authority, the Conclave, and the alliance between Tassadar 
 and the Dark Templar, with whom the player's character is aligned. In a desperate attempt to put 
 an end to the Zerg's destructive rampage, Tassadar, Zeratul, and the remaining Protoss unite their 
 strengths with Terran forces and attack the Overmind itself. They manage to crush its outer shell, 
 and Tassadar sacrifices himself by ramming his ship into the vulnerable form of the Overmind, thereby 
 killing it.
  
  Gameplay
  Much like any other RTS, but the formula is still as fresh as it ever was. Many consider this to 
 be the king of RTSs and the foundation of them. The simple point and click gameplay is easy to 
 get used to, and easy to love. The addicting gameplay will keep you coming back for more, and it 
 never grows old. 
  Verdict - 10
  
  Graphics
  Although dated and tired nowadays, in 1998 they were awesome, fresh and quite cutting edge. The 
 characters look great on the map, and some of the animations such as the nuke is pleasure to the 
 eyes. Everything is done well, the maps look good, the characters are great, and the cut-scenese 
 blow others out of the water. The small character icon gets repetitive after a while, but adds 
 comic value. Overall, the graphics are great, and I am looking forward to seeing the visuals in 
 SC2.
  Verdict - 8
  
  Sound
  The sound is superb. The voicings in the game is pure bliss. Everything suits. Each character seems 
 to have more of a personality thanks to the voices. The music in the background is nice to hear 
 and suits fighting in space well. The rock-like music adds to the value. Its very recognizable, 
 and sometimes hummable. Its great to hear, was perfect back then, and nothing short of superb today, 
 and fares against some of this gens games.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Value
  Very, very, VERY cheap nowadays. Part of the players choice series, making this one of those superb 
 bargain buys. Theres easily over 100 hours of gameplay, no questions asked, not just on singleplayer, 
 but online as well. This is a must have for any PC owner.
  Verdict -10
  
  Starcraft is one of those rare gems that seems to captivate people in their millions. Blizzard 
 sure know what theyre doing when it comes to RTSs.
  
  My Score - 9.6 - Superb.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowen999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  this was one of the best and most addicting games i, ve played in a while. not many stack up to 
 it. not the best graphics but for the time it is assume. i loved it even if you play it over and 
 over still fun has a high replay value. i would suggest getting it. its cheap easy to learn and 
 is different every mission because you can not duplicate the same movement every time. excellent 
 multi player good maps plus one of the best map editors i, ve ever seen you can change every detail 
 from map to character. there is always people to play and the best part it is free, yes free. that 
 is one thing that sells me. but if this does not convenes you to go out and buy this game then 
 all i can say is that you are missing out on one of the best strategy game that has come out so 
 give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeMaster75
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 5/5
  Breaking free from RTS conventions of the time, StarCraft featured three playable races that differed 
 in more than just aesthetics. The resilient Terrans, swarming Zerg, and high-tech Protoss each 
 have their own unique styles and approaches to combat, and remain distinct from one another right 
 down to their worker units. Yet ten years later, despite the diversity of its factions, StarCraft 
 is probably the most balanced RTS in existence.
  
  Story - 5/5
  StarCraft takes place in a gritty, violent world with few real heroes, a couple of familiarly evil 
 villains, and a whole host of ambiguous opportunists with no real loyalties beyond the highest 
 bidder or the best chance of survival. Toss in a few betrayals, several layers of conspiracy, and 
 a fourth race of mysterious extraterrestrials and you've got one hell of a story.
  
  Graphics - 5/5
  Following the usual Blizzard delays in the name of quality, including a complete 
 overhaul of the game engine when it was mockingly referred to as "WarCraft in space," StarCraft's 
 graphics weren't quite up to 1998 standards when it was finally released. Having said that, the 
 game boasts some of the best graphics you're likely to find on a 2D game, and the storyline is 
 packed with several full-length cinematics that help illustrate what your actions throughout the 
 galaxy mean to the average guys on the ground.
  
  Sound - 5/5
  The music is memorable, the sound effects are realistic, especially for the Zerg, and the voice 
 acting is top-notch.
  
  Lasting Appeal - 5/5
  StarCraft's near-perfect balance and strong visual clarity, which allows you to assess the way 
 a battle is going at a glance, make it an excellent game for competitive play, while its diversity 
 of races and range of strategic styles make it a fun and lasting game for casual play. Add in the 
 first (and best) built-in online service made for a PC game, make it completely free, and you've 
 got yourself a game that'll last for years.
  
  Overall - 5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NerokuTheMaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a great game. If you have ever played an RTS before, then SC was one of them. With 
 three races to choose from, you have a lot of variey. There about 30+ units per race, and they 
 are all inventive. The campaign, though damn near inpossible in some spots, is very fun and addicting. 
 You get very attached to you're heroes. My personal favorite is the protoss' Fenix. Though, you 
 gave to kill him, he is still great. I have never played that mission the whole way thought. But, 
 the best part of the game is Battle. Net. It is Blizzard's online chat/tournament/battle thing. 
 Hundreds of thousands of people are on there at one time, with the majority being on Starcraft. 
 Also adding to Battle. Net, the Campaign Editor is absolutly great. You can make small scale 1v1 
 matchs, or vast 8 player free-for-all, battle to the death, battle royale. I have made about 225 
 maps sense I got the game. You can meet people online, battle them, lose, battle them on you're 
 map, and kill them. It will happen a lot. Starcraft is just a great game, and I see no major flaws! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak10605
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Strategetic, smart, amazing, awesome, fun, cool, best, are just some of the words that describe 
 this game. this game is a must need for your pc! it has awesome graphics, probably the best story 
 line i've ever heard and played on for any game, strategetic needs, and...... WOW! this game also 
 includes a campaign editor where you can make your own PLAYABLE levels for this awesome game! the 
 music is also pretty cool. yea, this game is a tiny bit oldish but god, this game is pure fun, 
 addicting, awesome, and everything else thats good! get this game! its cheap and if you don't have 
 this game, shame on you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely the best Real-Time Strategy ever made. There are still many people playing 
 it online through Battle. net or offline - via LANs and completing the single player mode. I don't 
 know, why it's so perfect. Maybe because many players from Blizzard community has a low-spec computer (lower 
 than Pentium 1) ? OK, OK, it was a joke ;) I'm saying I don't know why, but I am wondering: maybe 
 cause it's so simple? Simplicity in some games decide their value. No matter why. Now I'm going 
 to kick Blizz's ass for the bugs. Why I can't play on Radeon 9550 and Sempron 2600+ with 512 MB 
 RAM onboard and 128MB on my GFX? I can't play on 1.13F patch. On older patches all runs fine, lol.
 
  Okay, time to write some info about the game.
  The human race is stationing on Tarsonis, human capitol world, which is situated far away from 
 Earth. Terrans are conquesting more and more worlds than Zerg and Protoss - alien races. The mentioned 
 aliens are fighting with each other. Some day one of the most important Terran worlds, Chau Sara 
 has been burnt to the ashes. And it goes, goes and goes huge... I told you that multiplayer along 
 with gameplay is the best in the world. Graphics (YES YES YES!!!!) and sound too. Game is brilliant 
 and cheap so go to the shop and buy it. Nothing more, nothing les..
  
  eXPeCT MORe QUaLiTY ReVieWS FROM Dr4goN ;)
  
  ...: LiGHTSP33D:... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWRocks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Many Warcraft II fans were reluctant to hold Starcraft in the same light as they did with Blizzard's 
 other masterpiece franchise. Many believed the science-fiction and ultra-reality themes of Starcraft 
 would mar the overall quality and presentation of the game. Finally, so many people were already 
 entrenched into Warcraft II that few of them wanted to switch over to Starcraft. Blizzard has since 
 proved that all wrong.
  
  Released on April 1, 1998, Starcraft drew upon the inspiration of Warcraft II and Total Annihilation 
 to pioneer a new standard on which all RTS's then were crafted upon. What Starcraft did was not 
 completely mind blowing. Blizzard aimed to create a strategy game based on three completely differing 
 factions. This seemed a novel idea considering their previous effort, Warcraft II, simply had two 
 factions which (to a great extent) mirrored each other in units and strategy. With Starcraft, Blizzard 
 crafted the 1) Terrans: a race of mechanized human beings left to survive and colonize on their 
 own, the 2) Zergs: a race of parasitic invaders controlled by a totalitarian centralized "brain" 
 or mind, and finally the 3) Protoss: a race of zealous warriors humbled in their honor and appreciation 
 for battle and death.
  
  The new precedent that Blizzard set was balance. For prior games, companies simply made each side 
 equivalent, allowing for a complete but dull balance. Starcraft achieved balance between three 
 completely different races and all were viable against each other in terms of Units and Strategy. 
 What perhaps should be more noted is Blizzard's constant revisiting of the balance in the form 
 of patches which they released periodically to the public.
  
  The game featured three excellent campaigns featuring memorable heroes, fantastic level design, 
 and a sheer and utter amount of polish on all aspects of the game. The story traces the foundation 
 of the Terran empire and the insurgency of various Terran sects, the arrival and enslavement of 
 the Terrans by the hands of the Zerg, and finally the sacrifice of Tassadar, of the Protoss, to 
 ebb the flow of Zerg power.
  
  The graphics and sound, although were not technically the most impressive, showed character and 
 suited the needs of the game perfectly. Where upon the majority of the games themes are cacophonous 
 and relatively negative, one needs the tacit humor that arrives from the mouths of the various 
 units. The graphics showed the edge of 2D gaming, and still looks good in comparison to the 3D 
 age of gaming.
  
  What finally sealed Starcraft's destiny as one of the Greatest Games ever was the fun, varied, 
 and free multi-player available on Blizzard's Battle. net Internet service. Whereas the campaign 
 was the drawing point of the game, the multi-player was its sticking point. The online component 
 included variants to the original game's formulae, tournament style battles, and an ever evolving 
 ladder ranking system. All this worked in conjunction with the core of the game to create an excellent 
 and viable product.
  
  Starcraft was Blizzard's masterpiece. Whereas they gained the majority of their notoriety from 
 the Warcraft series, Starcraft was the brainchild of Blizzard and is the culmination of everything 
 great in Real-Time strategy gaming. Starcraft helped cement Blizzard's reputation as one of the 
 greatest developers in the world.
  
  (***Note: this review did not receive a 10 because of Blizzard's Warcraft III, which in my opinion, 
 has even surpassed Starcraft and taken the mantle as the definitive RTS game ***) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmalatestinic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The fact that the game is several years old and you've likely junked your computer at least once 
 since this game was released should tell you something. 
  
  It stands the test of time and nowhere else will you find the combination of playability with great 
 cinematics tossed in. 
  
  My only advice is get it - I bought the game immediately when it first came out and even though 
 it's available now at the fraction of the original cost (not to mention that it comes bundled with 
 Brood War) it's well worth whatever I did pay for it. 
  
  Blizzard goes to the Hall of Fame for this one. 
  
  This game's cost me sleep, days playing 
 hookey from work, vacation time and added probably 10 pounds - all well worth it and I'm not even 
 considering what a blast it can be multiplayer.
  
  Keep the sequels coming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigga24540
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  this game is old, but its a new game for me. (considering that I don't usually play PC games) and 
 i like it, its like crack. very addictive. once I got into the controls and the "create, seek, 
 and destroy" method, It was great. its not for the people who try to just, "run n gun" through 
 the game, or for the ones who just "out number" the enemy either. U really have to be a thinker. 
 "don't worry, U don't have to be scientist, U just got to think a little. but all in all, this 
 game is good for a all PC heads. to make it simple, if U can use Windows, U can play this game. 
 I recommend it for the PC. buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealityO
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Some people says the graphics are bad. You just have to go back in time. In 95-96s, those graphics 
 were just awesome. And today, I still think they are attractive in a certain way. Simple, not too 
 flashy for the eyes, just perfect for gameplay. It's a 2D game, but the uses of cliffs is still 
 in the game. Thousands of different strategies, 3 uniques races with their own construction system, 
 units and abilities.
  
  You can play this game for so many time on Internet against other player and have a hard time to 
 leave. You can speak with your friends on everygame that use battle. net without troubles. The Battle. net 
 Interface is easy to use, simple.
  
  Sounds are great. Everytime I hear a sound that comes from Starcraft makes me smile. I played this 
 game for so long, and I know every sounds. They're funny when you click units until they get mad 
 at you. The music is great. It really fits with the game.
  
  This game is not a pain for the computers anymore. You can open the game in less than 5 seconds 
 with almost every computers, even if they are around 5 years old. And it's not expensive anymore. 
 If I had to buy another version of this game, and had to pay 50$ for it, well I sure would do.
 
  
  When you have enough of the single player or the Internet Melee matches, you can make your own 
 scenarios or custum maps with the friendly Editor.
  
  I recommand this game to all RTS player. But I'm sure every RTS player already played this game 
 at least once, or else, they are missing the best opportunity. I also recommand the expansion, 
 StarCraft : Brood War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  You can't deny that at its release date, Starcraft had graphics which rivaled those of the best 
 games. The movements are smooth, with only minor glitches which don't affect the flow of the game 
 overtly much. Also, the best thing going for Starcraft is the unique units available to each race, 
 which expands on the number of different units that the player could view in action.
  Sound: 9/10
  Again, Starcraft excelled in this category. The main reason for this is due to the 
 numerous different voice records for each unit that is randomly played each time the unit is selected. 
 Other than this, I found that some of the sfx were quite unique and fitting for the action, such 
 as the protoss warp gate and the zerg mutation sfx.
  Gameplay: 9/10
  First the bad news, then the good news. The bad news is in the maps. There simply isn't enough 
 variety and use of the landmarks in the maps. It lacks the map interaction that other RTS games 
 use, such as the trees and mines in AOE. Now the good news; Starcraft was hugely successful in 
 creating balanced races. After playing over 100 games both against computers and human players 
 alike, I have found that all three races are able to win, which is quite rare in RTS games nowadays. 
 Again, in comparison to Age of Empires, Starcraft's races were more balanced. On this note, it 
 is also good to note that because Starcraft is an RTS, the replay value is almost limitless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffflol
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  very good it should have were you can play against computers. the multy- player connections are 
 very good. they should make it for a console. but themn again it would have more loading screens. 
 i hope the xbox version will be good. any one wan't to play against me my onscreen name id ffflol. 
 if you don't have the expansion pack you have to get it you get medics and more zerg poeple. and 
 more protoss. i think it is a great and if you don't like taking time to play games don't get this 
 game you have to be patient. becuase the stuff take time to build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was my very first game that my friend's father bought me for my birth day. This game 
 is what got me started on playing games. Starcraft is a solid game with lots of mods and multiplayer 
 game types you can make with map editor or download others online. This game has endless fun and 
 creativity and thats what keeps it going even today. For those who have never played or seen the 
 game this is probably a game you must try. The fun never ends with mods so there is always something 
 new changing the gaming experience like you've never played this game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh947312
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves every perfect it gets, but unfortunately with the little button criteria it 
 won't get it from me. 
  
  Starcraft has to be one of the easiest games to learn because Blizzard has always been great with 
 their tutorials. Sure learning every single aspect of the game may take a little bit longer, but 
 you can easily learn the basics needed to play within a half-hour. The singe-player missions are 
 fun at first but can quickly become too easy and really do not hold much replay value, but that 
 is ok because the games true strength is it's multi-player mode. Players put so much time to create 
 enjoyable maps for endless replayability and with so many different people playing it is almost 
 guaranteed that you will have to play each game differently. Heck people go so far as to create 
 games within the game because of the easy to use map editor. The Used Map Settings allows for games 
 such as a Starcraft styled Frogger or Dodgeball and endless other options.
  
  The graphics were/are great. The unit design is absolutely perfect for this style of game as are 
 the structures and everything else. Other games may come out with prettier looking graphics, but 
 most of those games cannot touch the unit/building design for Starcraft. 
  
  The only knock on this game I really have is the sound... well actually just the music. The music 
 gets extremely boring extremely fast but the actual suond effects are great as are the unit commentaries. 
 
  
  This game has endless replayability and is extremely addictive... heck I still get on and play 
 for a few months at a time before I have to take a break and try another game, but I always end 
 up back on Starcraft... at least for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Before Starcraft, only Age of Kings and Civilization held the mos mairovm as consuls to the strategy 
 genre. Now comes a third- Starcraft. Most games in the genre were in the past epochs, games that 
 were situated in the future were mediocre and needed urgent aid of an auxiliary cohort. With Starcraft, 
 that particular epoch is now in demand and one of the greatest of the cosmopolitan trend. Starcraft 
 with its immense latitude and scope, numerous gameplay features, excellent AI that is stubborn 
 and stands its ground, and online carnage galore- Starcraft has it all.
  
  Starcraft takes place in the far off future. Earth no longer is restricted and limited to its biosphere, 
 but has far-flung colonies in the outer reaches of the galaxy. You are either the Terran who are 
 trying to cover up the existence of the Zerg, and at the same time trying to be left unscathed. 
 The Zerg (grotesque and chitinous behomeths) were actually created by the Terrans and now run rampant, 
 and the Protoss an alien race with a rigid heirarchy of honor and glory, appear to be neutral to 
 such a carnage. You must choose one of these three races and seize the day, occasionally stepping 
 on the bones of your slaughtered victims. The Terrans specialize in both offense and defense. Their 
 siege tanks in siege mode can vanguard the particular base or outpost, while their cohort of velites 
 (light units) can act as garrisons of limes, and their heavy infantry and air force can go on the 
 offensive, with the velites as principes or reserve in epic battles. The Zerg are best offensive 
 as their units are quick in speed and attack. They are more reliable in lasting longer than the 
 Protoss or Terran units as they can heal themselves automatically. (Note: zergling rush is a good 
 hastati assualt, perhaps followed by hypaspists as triarii or reserve of the legion.) The Protoss 
 have one of the best early units such as the zealot but they take too long to create, rather they 
 are best at defense. Their proton cannons can attack BOTH air and land, and are built quickly by 
 the peon droids. Their air force challenges the Terrans for supremacy. Their units also have the 
 best defense as they not only include the armor or carapace as the other races, but also have a 
 proton shield which must be dismantled first before even the armor is taken into consideration.
 
  
  Starcraft- splendid game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so some people might think just because this game came out in 1998, that does not mean it 
 is not good. The graphics are still quite good, the sound are extrodinary... (wonder how they got 
 all the sound effects for the zerg... hm) . And to tell you, there are still many people playing 
 online with starcraft, so don't worry. The three different races with totally different units are 
 the closes you are going to get to one of these games. Many times you will buy a game with 12 civs, 
 but only a few different units. But in this game, all of these units are different, and because 
 of that, your strategy changes as well.
  The campaigns are solid, good fun. The gameplay cannot go wrong, its like solid. And there are 
 absolutely no bad points in this game... absolutely flawless.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSnake89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The games is an old one but i still keep on playing it the multplayer is awsome with triggers and 
 mods you can basicaly do anything you want with it. the graphics are out dated but its still a 
 great game. didn't like have limited number of units or that u cant control of for ur units at 
 once. the campain is a little bad comparied to the multiplayer. it is just a great game and with 
 a price tag of 20 dollars u shouldn't miss it. go buy the game right now. the sound can be bad 
 somtimes and the learning curve is okay. if u go onlie now u will brobly get owned but its easy 
 to catch up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianthe12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  omfg this is one of the best game ever. the online game is free. unless u dont got internet. fuk 
 this is one of the best game in the fuking world. dotn ever buy age of empires 3. fuking rippppp 
 offffff that fuking cost u like 70$ when u fuking can get a better game just for 25$!!!! ye we 
 allll fuking noe this game was made in fuking 1999. and people say this is crap cas they fuking 
 suk at it. ye it is hard game. but if u are over average..... fuk u will play 24.7 never ever get 
 boring!!!!!!!!!! fuk all those people who say this game is fuking old and the rating is going down 
 cas all these new games fuking come out. fuking noobs. i own anyone in this game. fuk..... its 
 worth sooooooooooo much playing this best game..... dont get me wrong. there are not just stragities... 
 there are use map setting made by defferent p [layers to make their own campaign. there are over 
 1,000,000 deffernt games in this game. this game still owns alllll the others like warcraft of 
 age of empires. fuk.... no I AM NOT AZN.!!! IM WHITE BOY. K? EVEN I ADMIT THIS GAME IS FUKING AMAZING. 
 THERE ARE LIKE  DEFFERNT STRAGITIES.
  OOOOO MYYYY GOOOOODDDDDD THIS IS TOO GOOD GAME.!!!! 
  BUY THIS AND U WILL NEVER EVER FUKING BUY 
 ALL THOSE **** GAMES LIKE AGE OF EMPIRES 3!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafs_ducks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  OMG.. all i have to say is this is the best game i have ever played and might be one of the best 
 game ever made!!! The first time i played this game was at a friends house, after a while.. i got 
 hooked to it.. amazing game.. i spent countless hours on this game.. even till this day i'm still 
 playing now and then.
  
  Gameplay- Best strategy game ever.. if you like commnand and conquer or warcraft games.. this is 
 a must buy!! I'm absolutedly in love with this game.. no game can ever be compared to it..
  
  Graphics- the graphics are pretty amazing considering it was made in the late 90s.. 
  
 
  Sound- the music is totally cool...
  
  Go out and buy this game right now!! it won't disappoint!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  No game has kept me playing this long. This game has a descent plot and is loaded with missions 
 to play through. Not that those matter but they are extra. The online experience is what it's all 
 about. If I have a computer in front of me... screw chess. 
  
  This game has the some of the coolest characters I have ever seen in a video game. Look at zealots... shiiiiit. 
 Those things are rad. Tanks are cool too. Blowing the hell out of everything coming... just watch 
 the guts of aliens spill all over the screen.
  
  I really hope starcraft 2 is made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Any fans of strategy games will love this game! The best thing about this game is that it is pretty 
 old, and it will run on most computers, even the mac!
  For its time the graphics are great! Your troops actually listen to you and carry out your commands. 
 The voice overs during battle are very well done. The only bad thing audio wise is the battle sounds, 
 but you will not notice because you can have a very huge army! Which makes the game very fun! The 
 game also comes with cheats so you can play the game different ways. Sadly there is no online play, 
 but you will still spend hours and hours playing this game! Bottom line if you have a crappy computer 
 this game is for you! You won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  If you don't already own Starcraft your crazy. Go out right now and pick up a battle chest for 
 $19.99. Every aspect of this game is fun. From the campaign mode to the huge online play. Where 
 this game really shines is online. Not only playing real matches vs people but playing custom maps 
 is worth a buy alone. Not to mention you can make your own custom games without having to buy or 
 download anything. Although this game is not graphically impressive the hours you will spend playing 
 it make up for it. The game is very easy to control it is simple and not complicated RTS. The music 
 in this game fits perfectly with the situation and different races will keep the game fresh for 
 you. If you don't already own this game you live in a box. Now go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Starcraft when I was only 7. Now, I'm 14 and I still love the game. It's always 
 a challenge. There are hardly any 'simple' missions and mostly, you are at your seat and you feel 
 like you're really in the battle. Out of the three armies, the ones that made my lust for war and 
 victory the most extreme are the Protoss. Despite that, I love it how you are never better than 
 your enemy. You think you are going to be the triumphant commander in a battle against some wimpy 
 Terrans until suddenly, an unseen Ghost unit goes into your base and uses a nuclear missile and 
 blow up over 75% of your men and then, BOOM! They attack at full force and you are in no condition! 
 The tables will turn when you least expect it! Also, all the units and their different abilities 
 are very simple and easy to learn. Not only that, but the fact that you can go online and fight 
 other people on Battle. net, is simply mind blowing! Personally, Starcraft outrates Halo, Halo 2, 
 and (what's probably going to be as crappy as Halo 2) Halo 3. The expansion pack, Brood War, unleashes 
 even more chaos in the tides of war with new units, new characters, new storylines, and new opportunities 
 to win or slip up and lose a battle. Starcraft also presents great voice-acting, important briefings, 
 and units who are ready to kick some major ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kq167
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. good sound, gameplay, fun factor and price range. I used to love this game 
 to death. Just for the online because i couldnt touch the single mode without any hacks or cheats. 
 This games multiplayer deserves to compete with Halo 2's if they came out the same generation. 
 I love getting the old profile up in the 7 vs 1 comp stomp and after killing the comp backstabbing 
 or being backstabed by other people across the star craft net. Not to mention the great clan and 
 clan making in the game. 
  
  But this game isnt a 10 out of 10 in everything. The graphics are awful compared to blizzads other 
 money maker war craft. The 2d graphics look like they belong on a super nintendo. No fence to the 
 Super Nintendo cause I still love playing those old 2d graphic games. But for its generation I 
 believe it could have been better.
  
  As i said before, this game is fun until mastered. It's true, thats why i got a little bored. If 
 its killing off newbies or backstabbing experts, this game can still be fun time to time. But after 
 getting a record of 800 kills and 150 losses it gets boring. But I still come back to this game 
 time to time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  although the graphics are kinda out dated by now, its a no brainer this game isn't all about graphics. 
 its about the fun. the single player campaign might last you about 10-14 hours or so, but the multiplayer, 
 battlenet, will keep you hooked on and coming back for more. from the crazy cannon defence games, 
 to the yugioh -starcraft style, theres always something to play. the multplayer is something you 
 will be playing for a really long time. with the expansion adding a whole new campaign list and 
 about 7 new characters, its a must buy if you like the original. the game also comes with a campaign 
 editor (or map editor) . so if you download a map (a multiplayer game) and you think there should 
 be some changes wince there's glitches or problems, you can. you could even add your name to the 
 mission briefings and let everybody know you helped with designing the map (sorta) . theres also 
 three different factions. the zerg, protoss, and terran. the zerg which are primitive aliens, their 
 attacks and units are more about speed and they take less resources to make (faster spawning too) . 
 the protoss are hightech aliens, which is undoubtly the strongest group, take alot more resources 
 than any other group and take much longer to spawn, but are more powerful in terms of attack damage 
 and they also have a second layer of health which is the sheild. the terran are normal humans which 
 make them all around normal. they spawn normaly and have normal damage. my favorite of all 3 is 
 the protoss. each faction or group has unique powers and abilities to make this game even more 
 strategic. the zerg are the weakest, but if they are damaged, they can slowly heal little by little. 
 the protoss are the strongest, so they have a sheild that protects the health until the sheild 
 is wasted or destroyed. the sheild however gets replenished, but a protoss can't have its health 
 healed (atleast not in this one, but in the expansion pack) . the terran have no special abilities. 
 non that i can think of though. all that info was only on single player, in multiplayer, the map 
 and units is however the maker decides to change it, like a protoss unit can have 9999 (the highest) 
 health and 9999 armor or 0 for everything. in the end this game is one of the best rts' for the 
 computer. the multiplayer will keep you playing for a really long time, since the players always 
 make new maps, or you can always host or join your favorite game/map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirMango
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  Easy to play, easy to learn, fast paced, great strategies, simple gameplay, clear interface and 
 great story. What else can I say? This game is just what RTS has to be: nothing bloated, nothing 
 too complicated, just straightfoward gameplay (the game is 2D, but even so, who needs 3D?) . Once 
 you master the game versus computers, and think that the game is too easy, hop onto Battle. net 
 and play some multiplayer games. VERY INTENSIVE: everyone has their own strategies and you gotta 
 be real fast to find your own. You can even lose in like 2 minutes! 
  
  Briefly: StarCraft is a game that will stay with us for a very, very long time. I played it since 
 it came out back in the 1998's and am still playing it. HIGHLY ADDICTIVE, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. If 
 you are a RTS player, you will sure love this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Yes, that's not far from the truth. Orcs have taken on another form known as the Zerg or Protoss. 
 This is what Blizzard does best, RTS. It was the rave in the late '90s, people where reading into 
 this stuff and trying to turn it into a science, like such and such an upgrade gives you so many 
 more bullet hits... get a life you dorks. The rise of the Zergling rush, how most people preferred 
 the Zerg. Some of the levels are incredibly hard and take a lot of commitment and time to finish. 
 Ever wonder the irony when you're given control of an army, it consists of a few units and some 
 vehicles? Whatever happened to all your past victories when you had tons of units, where did they 
 all go? Such things bother me. It's like the game almost wants you to fail given the thrifty resources 
 at the outstart of every mission. The story in the manual wasn't really important, although the 
 story in the game really got the player immersed in the plot. Some nice plot twists, difficult 
 to master but easy to learn. You'll also find the number 1 reason why this was such a hit - the 
 perks of each class. Blizzard really lead the way in this area, giving each faction unique attributes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  A reference in the domain of gaming, StarCraft is written in our heart as THE RTS. Gameplay, story, 
 multiplayer, stability... Graphics... (eurk) All is good, except the graphics. This game's not 
 dead and it will not die until Blizzard makes abother StarCraft, though I'm not sure that this 
 will do it. I remember the LANs... Playing for hours and hours, just StarCraft, gaming at it's 
 finest... Counter-Srike can undress himself to the glory of StarCraft. The game was that good, they 
 made books, which sucked, but they made some! Incredible! Now they want to make a movie. Please 
 not a movie  la Doom, which wasn't not really inspired about the real game itself. (doom 3)
  
  If you don't have it BUY IT !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Unforgettable storyline and characters; fantastic voice acting; three balanced races; engaging 
 multiplayer; awesome array of sounds and music; challenging AI
  BAD: Game mechanics getting outdated; multiplayer overrun with "money maps" and cheaters
  
 
  I first played this game when I was 9 years old, when it had recently come out. I was hooked on 
 Age of Empires at the time, and since I had to try out every new game that we got, I decided to 
 give Starcraft a try. Within 2 minutes I realized that it was the greatest game I've ever played.
 
  
  Let's start with the single player. The campaign in this game, with perhaps the greatest ending 
 in the history of video gaming. This campaign is full of unforgettable and likeable characters, 
 complemented by amazing voice acting and an epic storyline, with amazing twists and its fair share 
 of cinematics and mission objectives. I have not yet played a better campaign than this one. All 
 three races are memorable and classic, and the characters will always have a place in your heart, 
 whether it be the evil Zerg queen, Kerrigan, the typical "knight in shining armor" Jim Raynor, 
 the heroic Tassadar, or the backstabbing, greedy, power-hungry Arcturus Mengsk.
  
  In the actual gameplay, all three of the races are almost perfectly balanced, every unit has a 
 practical use, and there are a limitless number of maps, with unlimited replay value. It took me 
 a grand total of 5 years of nearly constant playing to get tired of this game. By today's standards, 
 the gameplay is relatively simplistic, and I think I've used up all of my flare for the game itself. 
 This doesn't erase the fact that I would spend 6-10 hours almost every day playing this game. Multiplayer 
 offers limitless possibilities with simply addictive, unmatched, fast-paced, interesting matches. 
 On single player custom maps against computer opponents, they still provide a difficult enough 
 challenge to keep you occupied. 
  
  The sound is also excellent. Every sound is believable and rich, the music, while limited, is catchy 
 and entertaining (yes, even the slow tracks) , and the voice acting is superb. While the number 
 of sounds is limited by today's standards, each and every one sounds incredible. One unique feature 
 is the funny and interesting things units will say if you click on them enough. This is a classic 
 trait of Blizzard games that I wish more games would try to replicate. The graphics look outdated, 
 but by no means are they horrible. Blizzard has never been known for its graphics, yet every one 
 of its games has been a best seller, proof that graphics aren't very important anyway. The graphics 
 do appropriately convey the atmosphere and mood of the game (which is well-done throughout the 
 campaign) , and the music complements this well.
  
  All in all, Starcraft consumed 5 full years of my life. Long hours in my childhood were spent imagining 
 this world as it existed, and even today, even if I have fallen away from playing the game itself, 
 it will still have a place in my thoughts when I'm 90 years old and confined to a hospital bed. 
 The universe it is set in and the overall ingenuity and classicness of the game are still forefront 
 on my mind at many times. While in sheer gameplay value and traits, it is not the best game ever 
 made, in replayability, sheer entertainment value, classicness, and in how memorable and unforgettable 
 it is, it might as well be the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games i have ever played, i was instantly hooked and mesmerised. Playing 
 it countless hours at end, and i was not know to do that on one game. A thrilling in game experience 
 with three unique races having their own benefits and disadvantages. A wonderful use of resources 
 as well as units and a great diversity. 
  
  Map creating takes the games new levels to the point you can go as far as to create your own game, 
 publish it online and play with others. As well as playing others innovative games utilizing this 
 great tool. A wonderful soundtrack, great voicing and sound effects. The storyline is one of the 
 most interesting, realistic, storylines of corruption and discord.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Flawless, wonderful strategic elements and a great diversity as well as a wide amount of abilities 
 all at your disposable. 
  
  Sound - 10
  A great sound from voice acting, sound effects and suiting background music that really lingers 
 long after battle.
  
  Graphics - 10
  On its own spectrum the graphics are just right, overhead view with unique unit models as well 
 as crisp terrain design.
  
  Storyline - 10
  The storyline is equally enjoyable to the mutliplayer mode.
  
  Replay Value - 10
  This game 
 is instantly addictive, even to people who dislike strategy game. And battle. net is going on strong 
 so you can play a wide variety of online games as well as publish your own.
  
  Overall - 10
  This is one of the greatest games ever to be made. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebareyes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  excelent game !! very solid trama 
  the three campaigns are fun and special
  one of the best RTS !
  
  La campaa de los humanos es intesamente adictiva desde la rpida 
 identificacin que uno tiene con Jim Raynor, el Marshal de los terrans que rpidamente lucha contra 
 la imperalista confederacin, pasando por la dramtica escena cuando kerrigan es abandonada en 
 campo lleno de zergs.. absolutamente intrigante y adictiva 
  la campaa de los zergs nunca la habia gozado tanto como la segunda vez que la jugu, la versatilidad 
 de la raza de los insectos, las estructuras mutantes, la unidad de los zergs mejorada, es lejos 
 la que mas dao hace a las unidades enemigas y estructuras cuando la lanzas al ataque de a 20 unidades.. 
 imparables.. me encanta la unidad de la Queen, del Zerg defiler como busca el corromper, infectar 
 a las otras unidades.. absoultamente delicioso.. y por ultimo la raza de los Protoos, la hiper-tecnologa, 
 los escudos de plasma, los droides que pueden construir varias unidades al mismo tiempo, los zealots, 
 los dragoons, y sobre todo el cdigo de honor de la raza que nos vuelve a los valores de honor, 
 la valenta, el sacrificio.. etc
  la escena final de Tassadar lanzndose en picada hacia el Overmind es absoultamente pica.. de 
 todas maneras uno de los mejores juegos que he jugado en mi vida, y lo estoy jugando por 3a vez 
 y an lo sigo gozando
  
  Una Joya
  Sebastin Reyes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghost69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  When i was little, i would allways used to watch my cousin play starcraftm and i wouls just thing 
 it was SOOOO complicated, untill i hit anout 8 years old, and when i started playing, i started 
 thinking that Zerg was to scary when the died, untill one day, when i found out this magical thing 
  CODES!!!
  i was playing zerg, and i thought that is i build more buildings i will have better production 
 of everything! so i built TONS of buildings and had TONS of zerglings any way its a great game. 
 and ivlah blah lbah blahlb **** faggfga fagdagag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard entertainment created Warcraft series back in 95 and they where superb and fun to play 
 but many people asked themselves how would Blizzard continue to deliver more of RTS genre. When 
 they announced Starcraft and their plans for it many people where a bit unsure if Blizzard could 
 make this really happen, so now Starcraft is finnaly here, does it deliver or does the promises 
 really paied off for Blizzard? 
  the answer is: YES, it does. It feaures 3 totally different races and they are not a mirror images 
 of each other, they look different and most importantly, they play different.
  
  Of course, you want to begin with the campaign mode to learn the basics and then advanced gameplay. 
 You begin with the first race, Terran, that represent us, humans in the space, you are a commander 
 of a small colony and you work for the confederacy, they sent you to colonise the Mar Sara planet 
 for your goverment. But something strange happens to your colony, you are under attack but it is 
 unclear what it really is so of course, you start to investigate and as more you know the more 
 you are in trouble. But what you dont know is that you will be a part of much larger war than 
 it first seems and you dont really know how to trust. I will not spoil the story for you but it 
 is one of the best RTS campaigns i ever experienced, you will do much more advanced missions than 
 simply build up and destroy the enemies base, every event is planned with extreme detail. You relly 
 feel that your effort will make a difference the the war.
  
  Terran race is you basic real time strategy play, you have marines, tanks and airplanes but all 
 usal RTS thing ends here. Next race is Zerg, a alien race that reminds me of Starship troopers, 
 they are best in numbers and not only do they require different strategy that other races but the 
 tech tree is also very different comapared to Terran. And the last one is Protoss, the oldest race 
 of the three. They focus on high tech weapons and warfare, they build different that Terran and 
 Zerg does, their technoligy requries more resources and time to build or research them.
  
  When there is 3 reces in one game, how is the balance then?
  It is very good balanced game, it 
 works well and when you start to play online or skrimish game you will notice more of balance that 
 Blizzard put time into. There are some things that must be further balanced but the game is new 
 and Blizzard will support it as they are known for. When people starts to play on Battle. net, there 
 will be more balancig, tweaks and so on.
  
  Starcraft is extremly good and one of the best RTS games of all time, other developers needs to 
 learn form Blizzard here, 3 totally different reces, good balance, very fun skrimish and online 
 mode, very intelligent Ai and one of the best story driven campaigns avalible for a RTS game. When 
 you play a skrimish game or online, you will see how much strategy and deph there is to gameplay, 
 more than most RTS games today dont even bother to offer. This is the result of a hard work and 
 not to press out a game to earn fast money. 
  
  RTS genre have now its own king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untame_Zerg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  With massive multiplayer capabilities, superb single-player missions, and a program which allows 
 you to create your own maps and share them with other players, Starcraft is my all-time favorite 
 PC game to date.
  The game starts you off as Terran and gives you a tutorial about how the game works. Then, after 
 Terran, you gain access to Zerg then, finally, Protoss.
  The learning curve depends on how concentrated you are on the game. You can take anywhere from 
 5 minutes to an hour just to learn about every game mechanic. Most people fall into the five to 
 twenty minute range, though.
  This game is cheater-friendly, however, and there are many codes you can use in the single-player 
 campaign. Also, almost all of the multiplayer maps can be rigged into the favor of a single player, 
 or a Force (group of players) . The chat rooms aren't censored, however, so dont let any seven year 
 olds play, unless you want them to learn how to swear.
  Starcraft, in my opinion, is Blizzard's "Killer App". From the amazing soundtrack, to the sheer 
 number of units and scenarios, the game will suck you in and not let you back out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanzoso
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  starcraft is my favourite from blizzzard because its just so much fun, the graphics arent that good 
 but the gameplay is so good you dont realize that the graphics arent good but the sound can get 
 repitive but it sounds real good how you click on a character and it makes the noise i love it. although 
 the sound and gameplay are really good. the multiplayer is really harsh theres lots of lag and people 
 will boot you if your record isnt good so if you didnt play this game from day one watch out for 
 hardcores. but this game is repitive since you do the same thing every time but it is also differnt 
 every time becasue the outcome of the match is different. the single player for this game is really 
 exciting but the cutscences are great... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masters1989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft has been around along time now, yet this game is still going strong in my collection. 
 Infact it was my first pc game. I have been playing this since 2000 and i still cannot get enough 
 of this game. While the graphics are not 3d and up to todays standards, the gameplay is what makes 
 this game. 
  
  You choose 1 of 3 races The Ambitious and Corrupt Terran, The powerful and honourable Protoss or 
 the Nasty and plentiful Zerg and pit them into 10 missions that hooks you in from the word go. 
 Objectives such as eliminating any resistance, stealing secret plans, defend your base from a zerg 
 swarm until reinforcements arrive, it's all here. This gameplay mechanics set the mark for such 
 successful games as Warcraft 3 and are the reason for their success. 
  
  If you have finished or stuck on the campaign there is the most funnest aspect of the game, Multiplayer. 
 Pitting against computers or other humans, you go head to head with the most skilled of players 
 on the net. Not crazy about melee games, then there are plenty of user created scenarios that provide 
 fun and addictive entertainment.
  
  For anyone wanting to get back into the old classics or just venturing into the strategy gaming 
 world, Starcraft is indeed the perfect choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tron6691
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  This was a cool RTS it only cost me five pounds for this and the exspansion.
  When i got it i wasnt exspecting much i was just exspecting another RTS..
  But when i installed 
 this and played it it was soooo awsome.
  At first the game put me off because you could not change the resolution
  higher than 800x600 
 and am not used to that..  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  I must make a review now about the best RTS game how ever had come to our planet. I remember, I 
 was 12 years old (now I'm 20) I was with my mother, sister and her boyfriend and was on shopping. 
 We walked into a videoshop, and there in the gameshelf I saw "StarCraft", I started to look at 
 the screenshot's behind the SC box, and read about the game, and started to became very excited... 
 One of the thing I became exited about was that SC had 3 totally different races! My sister's boyfriend 
 knew about the game and he told me that how great it was, so I buyed it. 
  
  (Ofcourse) At the same day I installed it, and after I played it in maybe 1-2 hours I just said 
 "WOW"... But I wanted to play multiplayer, so I" walk into the battlenet" and started my new account 
 there, and after that I was "paralysed", I just sit there in the room front of my PC and play hours 
 after hours and didn't do something elsethan play on internet. (That was the years most of the 
 peoples had 56k. I had it to.) 
  I became SC junkie, and some days after I maked my best friend to a SC junkie to. (We played a 
 lot at my home 1on1 because I had 2 PC's in the same room at that time) . We also played a lot of 
 Quake to change time to time, but most of the time we played StarCraft. 
  
  And in that way it all started, more and more of our friends started to play, like us on the internet, 
 I have maybe been in totally 20 different clane's. We played nearly 2 hours every day on the battlenet 
 (at least) and every friday evening we played 7-8 hours. Since 2 years ago (around, when I was 
 18 I havn't play SC more.) But in 6 years I played a lot. If I give a guess, on how many matches 
 I've played in battlenet and LAN together, my guess will be around 15000 [!] I think I havn't play 
 a game so much that I have played SC. And by the way; I've always liked the original SC better 
 than BW, but BW is pretty fun to. 
  When SC came, the graphic was totally wonderful, and still has when you think how old it really 
 is now.
  
  The game is so complete perfect that, I can't understand how Blizzard did all the races so complete 
 different but so strong and week on that own ways. No race is better than another, it's just depends 
 how the gamer play with it (and how good he/she is) and wich race he/she met. So always when I 
 played It I was random, because I think a real good SC player can play with them all three and 
 not just with a specific race!
  
  I have so much good memories of this game, so I become happy when I just hear someone say "StaCraft". 
 Okay I was "little" or a "big cind" of a SC junkie, but who wasn't that?
  
  It's the best RTS game ever made, and I really, really hope that StarCraft 2 will come someday... 
 SC is worth a real follow-up! I don't see the "SC: Ghost" game like a SC game, because from my 
 eyes, SC will always been a RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  Came out in 1998, still playing in 2005. Starcraft provides a space version of the Warcraft series 
 that includes three races and three completely different sets of weapons, vehicles, and buildings. 
 The single player mode runs through ten missions that complete the storyline for each race. The 
 terrans are trying to stop the alien forces, the zergs are trying to infect the galaxy, and the 
 protoss are trying to figure out who to trust though they are still worried about the infestation 
 of the zerg. I personally enjoy playing the protoss because of the advanced looking technology 
 and the defense capabilities, but each race has its own strong points. The multiplayer mode provides 
 its own network, though it is dominated by cheaters and professionals at this point. You can also 
 connect on a LAN or directly to other players you know to set up games that way. There are several 
 modes to choose from, so you can try to dominate by yourself or with your team of players.
  
  Until Blizzard expands the series further, this is the only option you have, though you will 
 not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyomaster25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is most likely the greatest RTS game I have ever played. It is better than Command and 
 Conquer any day of the week . I was in love with Tiberian Sun and then i played Starcraft again 
 and completley forgot about any comand and conqer game. The missions throughtout the game are phenominal 
 and cant be beaten by any other RTS game and as if that were enough if you ever get tired of the 
 story mode you can create your own missions and maps and engage yourself in entirely new battles 
 that are different every time. Starcraft is god and Starcraft will never be beaten..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimpool999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  when i first bought this game i thought it would suck some major rear-end, boy was I wrong! this 
 game was probibly the best game of its time. with 3 bifferent storys to follow it has that WOW 
 effect like Halo2 has. the story lines were sooo deep i played for 6hours strait at 1 time. I have 
 seen so wicked crap from blizzard but this one is my favorite (including the expansion pack) . I 
 am also waiting for Starcraft Ghost to come out (if it hasn't-if so let me know) witch will be 
 as good as the origional. A fun game and an instant classic, a 5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing for its time as a pc stategy game. The story mode was well worth the money 
 it was kinda cheesy but it was long and gave you plenty of challenge. I played it at least 20 hours 
 but being a bit ADD gave it up for a different game. The online play made the game worth it, hands 
 down. It was one of the first good online games I had ever played. The online has a few flaws but 
 it flows pretty well. And when you play custom games like Helms Deep and Mercinaries it really 
 shows how much the game can do. (MERCINARIES KICKS A$$) When you play the regular games against 
 other players it gets pretty difficult and there are cheaters all the time but overall it is really 
 fun getting your stats up but the ranking thing never really got fun because you had to play in 
 ladder games and ladder games were kinda sucky. GREAT GAME FOR EVERYONE WHO USES THEIR MIND AND 
 HAS A NICE MOUSE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junaidasm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Considering the time when it hit the game market, I would rather say it's even way ahead of many 
 strategy games of today. It's very difficult to find appropriate adjectives for this one. It's 
 almost perfect in every respect, as I said, considering the time of it's birth. But you know what? 
 A very few games are revolutionary and are to simply defy the ages ........ this is undoubtably 
 one of them. I have been playing it for 7 years or so, and I am pretty sure I'll continue doing 
 so. Surprisingly enough, I never felt that this has been lagging in any respect to the games these 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlord300
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a game based on three races, Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. They are all figthing for survival. Thats 
 where regular one player comes in. You do all the missions and see which is the ultimate race. The 
 real reason you should buy this game is is online [play on battle net. Yuo could jion a clan and 
 make it the number 1 clan in the game and youl get rep. or you can just play Ums (use map settings) WHere 
 people create games from shows, anime, imagination. There is a lot you can do in this game and i really 
 reccommend you buy it. YOu wont be dissapointed. BEsides UMs games you can play mellee (where its 
 a free for all) 1v1 2v2 bottem vs top Ladder match. All those things gets you stars and a bigger 
 rank. The bigger your rank the more respect you get. Then if yuo get a big rank people will know 
 your too godd to beat and youll learn to be the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragman_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I've owned this game for coming up on 8 years and I still try to get in a multiplayer game every 
 week. It has an engrossing story, and though the replay value in single player may be a bit boring 
 after a while, the multiplayer more than makes up for it. I don't know if it is even possible to 
 find this game anymore, but I would advise buying it if you ever see it.
  
  A classic of the RTS genre that helped to define Blizzard as makers of some of the best games around, 
 and don't forget to check out the expansion pack, Brood War. It adds a surprisingly large amount 
 to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Blizzards first and only entry so far in this series. Still one of the most played RTS games. AMazing 
 when you think about how flooded that genre of PC games in how well blizzard stands up to the competition. 
 WC3 (which came after starcraft) still didn't really take the crown from Starcraft, even though 
 it is my favorite of the two. Starcraft had a much bigger scale approach to it's RTS, with larger 
 amounts of units and buildings in play at any one time. Warcraft 3 on the other hand, focused on 
 less units and a more frantic, micro managing experience. Both games are awesome in their own right, 
 and Starcraft was BY FAR the best RTS in it's time. Obviously, I'm writing this review a little 
 after the fact but I clearly remember the campaign being great, and reasonably long, and the multiplayer 
 being a total blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Even almost ten years later this game still stands the test of time. It has a simple yet sophisticated 
 interface. Great balance between the races. Awsome graphics, EVEN NOW. good sounds. A great fanbase. 
 And a fun single player campaigne. I suggest getting broodwars with it also, if you dont your deffinitely 
 missing out. And once you have it and have played it through go and play some FREE multiplayer 
 online! Against thousands of players. Its simple fast and fun. 
  
  The game sells with its expansion for about 20-30 dollars nowadays. And all the content you can 
 get for that price is crazily amazing. 
  
  Id say one of the ten best games ever desiegned. Do not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlayerX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I recently saw this game at a store bundled with the expansion "Brood War" for twenty us dollars 
 and remembered that I spent like fifty bucks on them when they where released. By all means BUY 
 THIS GAME! It is not only a classic rts but if you think your really good at rts games youll get 
 your "anus" handed to you in multiplayer (unless your really really good) . So just by it for the 
 single player and avoid the online geeks that have most likely been playing longer than you (and 
 me) . and even though it doesnt sound like Ive said (or typed) anything good about this game just 
 look past my complaints and look at my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atelus_Broken
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the game that I can give the most credit for bringing me into the strategy game genre, 
 or even computer games as a whole. The gameplay is immersive, well balanced, and extremely addictive. 
 
  All three races are perfectly balanced with each other, but all very fun to play in very different 
 ways. The terran are balanced and adaptive, the zerg have weak but cheap units that are powerful 
 in numbers, and the protoss have powerful energy effects and expensive, powerful units.
  The whole game begins with the Terran campaign. After years of playing the game I found the campaign 
 extremely simple when I went back and replayed it, but still quite fun. The zerg and protoss campaign 
 were possibly more difficult, but still easily as fun. 
  As soon as you've played and replayed the single player campaigns, you can try out the custom maps. 
 Here you play against the computer players on premade maps, or even use the map generator to create 
 you own. This can give a great amount of practice for my favorite part of the game, the multiplayer.
 
  Here you can play against players all around the world. You can join clans, groups of players 
 together that often have clan wars, where clans fight each other for dominance. You can play against 
 people with intelligence, creating new challenges you'll never find in the campaigns and custom 
 maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game is still on the pooter and it's not been removed yet...
  
  Well, its got a charm about it... the graphics are still good, the individual units have their own 
 voices... you can build, upgrade get new stuff ... attack with tanks and walking gun platforms,,,, 
 and then after you have played one race of characters you can do it all again with the enemy you 
 fought from the beginning.
  
  Brilliant still.... There are even nice little movie clips thrown in which aren't shoddy... Old historical 
 references in a sci-fi world are there also. It's enough to keep anyone happy for quite sometime, 
 even now.
  
  It's unsurprising to think this game is still uttered amongst the aging gameplayers around the 
 world that this game is enjoyable to play... it seem to have a cult status about it.. And at a snipe 
 of a few quid with the bonus cd throw in as standard it's got to be amongst them games on the shelf.
 
  
  I don't guarantee that you'll play it all the time but every now and again through time you'll 
 find yourself playing it be it for an hour or two...
  
  I can say you won't regret playing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very good because you can creat and army attack retreat patrol build bases make 
 maps, chage the units names vs alot of comps its a great game. and the graphics for its age thats 
 preety old but still on the movies are like 2003 or more even know its 1998 its just great the 
 way the ships are in the movies when you beat levels. It took me 5 hours to beat the game. The sound 
 is awsome the way they die and the bombs and bangs.
  
  Its value is great. Game spot make it 10 please i think it is right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicianky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I discovered Starcraft when I was but a pimple covered teenager. I had never seen anything like 
 it, had never played a real-time strategy game, and I believe it was my first non-Mortal Kombat 
 M-rated game. Even after all these years, I still enjoy and want to play this gem.
  
  So what makes this such a great game? It certainly is not the graphics, at least not by today's 
 standards. Though it is great, the sound is most definitely not what makes it so awesome. Starcraft 
 is a prime example of a game who's greatness is defined by the one thing that gaming is all about, 
 having fun. 
  
  Even the games that I lose I still have fun playing. Seeing a massive wave of Zerglings rushing 
 my base gives me a surge of adrenaline as I think, "Can I survive that?" Hearing the dreaded, "Nuclear 
 launch detected" sends me on a frantic search for that lone cloaked ghost who could (with the help 
 of a rather large missile) wipe out half of my operation. Starcraft LAN parties are filled with, 
 "Siege tanks, siege tanks!", and "Ling rush, ling rush!" Even at 4 in the morning my friends and 
 I, falling asleep on our keyboards, convince each other, "Come on man, just one more," and that 
 one more game proves to take 2 or 3 hours.
  
  Having played countless other games in the genre, what still stands out about Starcraft and it's 
 expansion (which did nothing but add to awesomeness) is how balanced the three races are. While 
 one species may be more expensive than another, they make up for it with stronger units and abilities. 
 But that doesn't make them the perfect race to play, as they obviously have their weaknesses. One 
 race may have a great airforce, but there is another race who can absolutely decimate said airforce. 
 All three races' defensive capabilities are essentially equal, once you realise how to utilize 
 them. To put it simply, harmony (on the battlefield) .
  
  The single player campaign has an absolutely wonderful story, with great plot twists and characters. 
 If solo-multiplayer (?) games are great fun to play. I've been to known to set up a 3 on 3 on 1 
 game and see how long I can live. But then, there's multiplayer. 
  
  This is Starcraft truly shines. Between the ease of setting up a LAN game, the incredible stability 
 of the best online gaming service ever (i. e. Battle. net) , and the infinite customization possibilities 
 through the campaign editor (which is also easy to use, yet impossible to master) , I have never 
 had more fun playing any game with other people. I remember the first time we tried playing against 
 the computer when it was set to Insane difficulty, whose help bubble says, and I quote, "The computer 
 will build all units, and research all technologies. After doing so, the computer will school you 
 in the art of playing Starcraft." We thought to ourselves, "Surely it's not THAT hard." We were 
 wrong, we did get schooled. But, we still had fun. And that's what gaming is all about, having 
 fun.
  
  While it isn't the prettiest game ever, or the most epic, or the most hyped, it delivers exactly 
 what a real-time strategy game should. It will be a sad day indeed when Starcraft can no longer 
 be purchased. But until that day, anyone who has a computer should play this rare, genre re-defining 
 game, because it truly is a masterpiece of electronic entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game is what got me started in gaming. Without it I do not think i would have gotten into 
 the gaming world as I have now. It is a very simple game, with only three civilizations, and 2 
 resource types, you do not need to put much focus into gathering resources, but you can spend more 
 time spending those resources. The game becomes very complex after you get into it though, with 
 all the different players and different playing strategies, so it is one of those easy/hard games, 
 while still being fun the whole time. Despite the graphics, which were top of the line when the 
 game came out, the game still met my expectations of a RPG for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazinf, the first game i ever bought and the last game i will ever sell 
 (if ever) . This game is unbelievable i have been playing it for 6 years and still havent gotten 
 tired of it. The gameplay is amazing and the thinsg you can do with the map editor makes me come 
 back to this game time and time again. Use Map Settings has revolutionised the way i thought about 
 this game. The gameplay is amazing, dont get me wrong, but it was lacking a sense or diversibility, 
 i found it. You can do anything with the editor and totally change the way you play the game, it 
 not only is great fun , but it helps u in normal games too! This game would have to be my all time 
 favourite game, amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19liam86
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the best strategy game EVER! It has everything; good graphics, fantastic game play, 
 great story line and mint characters. only problem is I can not think of any real problems with 
 the game. It could be improved in a few ways such as being able to select more units at one time 
 but I feel if they did this, it would take away quite a bit of the strategy behind the game. The 
 only thing missing from this game is maybe water units. We have air and ground but no water. thats 
 all I can really think of really only compliments about this game. Just everything is almost perfect. 
 By the way if you keep clicking on a certain unit, he/she will start swearing at you and saying 
 funny comments. If you have the game you probably have already done this but if you haven't try 
 it; it's rather amusing. Any of you out there without this game, GET IT! You'll thank me believe 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  Keeping in mind that this game was released in 1998 I have to say this game is the best Real Time 
 Strategy game Ive played. The graphics are good, and the sound is well chosen. But the game play 
 on it is what makes a diference. It set a standard to all RTS games out there. I was not a big 
 strategy game fan until I met starcraft. Its fun, its simple, and its easy to learn. But what 
 can be simple, can also become dificult and nerve wrecking. To the point that a second can make 
 a diference between a win or loss, where positining can decide that game, and where experience 
 speaks louder. Multiplayer games vary from a plain, 1 on 1 to 4on 4 to 8 player free for all. The 
 game has its missions, which are great fun, and you can play versus the computer itself, or various 
 computers. This game is just perfect gameplay in my opinion, I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcompman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a very classy and well put together game. It has all of the elements of a good game 
 (storyline, graphics, yadda yadda) Each race (Terran, Protoss, and Zerg) each has unique units 
 that can counter balance each other. There is no one dominant race/unit, which forces gamers to 
 mix and match combinations untill they find one that works best for them.
  
  Granted, Starcraft may not live up to today's standards of gaming, but it is still one of my favorites. 
 If your up to and old school type game, then Starcraft is one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmysFire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the best game out there when added with the expansion pack. It comes with hours of 
 fun and great stratagy. One of the best parts is the Campaign Editor program that comes with it. 
 It makes the multiplayer games a lot better. Also, the battle. net is fun to play on. Your software 
 will require updates periodically to play on Battle. net, but they are free and realively fast downloads. 
 You don't have to exit the game or anything. I recommend it to anyone who wants a quality game 
 for a low price. The graphics are 2D because it is old. But very advanced for their time. They 
 are on th edge of 3D. Definately the best game money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the most amazing game ive ever played. Its great. The multiplayer is the highlight 
 of the game. Starcraft utilizes battle net , blizzards form of gamespy, to hook up people from 
 diffrent areas in battle. The online community is very deep. If your new, there are new people 
 to face you. If your a pro, there are pros. if your in the middle, there are people to face you 
 just like you. 
  Since there is a pool of around 1000 people to play at any time, the learning curve is never ending. 
 The more you play the better you get. this is deffintley a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a very simpl3e gasme but you still have to have common sense.. missions get a bit 
 dreary at times and get a little hard to do and control from certain camera views, but if you are 
 looking for a non performance CPU game this is the one to buy. Voice acting is superb sounds and 
 graphics are decent, good variety of buildings and defense/seige equipment, could use a rejacked 
 control scheme though.. not anything to pee pants over but still a worthy game to add 2 your collection. 
 I spent a long time playing it and i have mastered it inside out. So it was a good enough game 
 for me to have reviewed/played it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drake_Clawfang
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is one the best computer games you can possibly play. It's just another RTS game on the 
 surface, but there are so many extras, playing it for only a few minutes is guarenteed to get you 
 hooked.
  
  There are 3 playable races, each with it's onyl strengths and weaknesses. The Zerg can easily swarm 
 an enemy with their insect-like Zerglings and Hydralisks, and even take over enemy buildings with 
 their fearsome Queen. The Protoss are quite difficult to group since training them is costly to 
 your supplies, but they have superior firepower early on when opponents may struggle. And the rag-tag 
 Terrans use rusty, clunky, tried and tested machines like the Vulture Hoverbike or the mighty **** 
 Siege Tank. Every species demands it's own style of play to succeed, and this make for a game that's 
 easy to learn, but difficult to master. The units complement each other in an infinate ammount 
 of ways, allowing you to mix and match your attack for maximum power. Ultralisks rip apart ground 
 forces, but are helpless to air units. But a Defiler's Dark Swarm power makes all air attacks useless. 
 Combined, air units can only watch as their ground-bound brethren get destroyed by Ultralisks under 
 the protection of Dark Swarm. Siege Tanks can blast enemy units with their high-range motars. But 
 they have no short range blow. Protected by Spider Mines around it, a Seige Tank can attack units, 
 knowing that any unit that survives to attack it will be crushed under the power of the minefield. 
 The possibilities are endless. 
  
  Not only is the gameplay amazing, but the plot is there too. Unlike a lot of game, Starcraft never 
 sacrifices plot for playability. Each campaign takes you through the war in the Kropulu Sector, 
 as the Terran Government begins to fall to rebels, the Zerg Overmind gains a deadly, powerful new 
 servant, and the Protoss valiantly try to protect their homeworld and contain the ravenous Zerg 
 from consuming them all. The lines of good and evil blend so often, and your character, be you 
 a Terran Magistrate, a Zerg Cerebrate, or a Protoss Exectuor, will often change sides as allies 
 turn traitorous, and former enemies become your only hope for survival. Every campaign pits you 
 against your own kind at least once, making for truly strategical missions when your opponent has 
 access to all the same powers as you do. And perhaps the most laughable missions are the ones you 
 are fighting those who, previously, were allies. Irony bounds and suspense, drama, and sometime 
 a pinch of love are whoven into the story wonderfully. Even clicking on a unit enough times will 
 yield hilarious hidden phrases like these.
  
  Battlecruiser; Shields up, weapons online. We're not equipped with shields? Then buckle up!
  
 Kerrigan; You begin to annoy me... but don't think that I need you.
  Dragoon; Unauthorized transmission... incorrect protocol...
  Dropship; In case of a water landing, 
 you may be used as a flotation device.
  
  Overall, an incredible game. Worth playing over and over. The Campaign Edtior lets you design your 
 own maps, rename characters, organize enemy attacks, then lets you play the mission you just made. 
 'Free' maps drop you into a map alone with a single bas, from which you must overhwhelm and obliterate 
 anywhere from 1 to 7 AI opponents. And for a real challenge, try the 'Melee' maps, where it's you 
 against the world. How would you fare when 7 opponents ally to take you down? Play Starcraft and 
 find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  So far for all the stratedgy games that came out in 1999-2005, this is the best stratedgy game 
 I played. The gameplay is very simple for beginners, you can play 3 different teams and each of 
 those teams have specials. The single-player will get you playing knowing that the story in each 
 of the races are very interesting and challenging. And the multiplayer is very fun too, it's free, 
 it's simple, it's fun. Even if I played stratedgy games that have better graphics, the gameplay 
 counts. This is highly recommended to people that love stratedgy games, or heck probably you don't 
 have to be a stratedgy lover. The don't like stratedgy games, but starcraft is one of the best 
 games I ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Some people may think that this review is crazy... not exactly.
  
  Graphics 9/10 
  
  You have to realize that this is a real time strategy game not World of Warcraft. It has great 
 graphics for any game. The main reason i give this game a 9 in graphics is because I play a ton 
 of real-time strategy. Starcraft still is up there. Battle for Middle Earth is the only game i 
 have seen that has better graphics as a real-time strategy than Starcraft. That's 7 years of being 
 the best! 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  This is the best real-time strategy of all time. I am one of the biggest Lord of the ring fans 
 of all time and I liked starcraft better than Battle for Middle Earth. For everyone to know this 
 is how big of a Lotr fan i am; I have seen the fellowship 5 times, The two towers 11 times, and 
 the return of the king ( which is the best one) 8 times. Still I say that Starcraft is better. If 
 some how amazingly you get bored there is an insanely fun and simple campaign editor.
  
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  What can i say about the sound. It's barely beaten by Metroid Prime. Metroid 
 Prime has the best sound a game i have ever played. But second isn't bad right? 
  
  
  Value 10/10
  
  If you enjoy playing and beating through the game 2 times then this is the game 
 for you. As far as value goes I spent 30 hours beating this game 2 and a half times that's when 
 I got Broodwar. The multi-player online (Battlenet) I spent at least 210+hours on Battlenet my 
 record for any of my games. Plus I spent about 15 hours on the campaign editor.
  
  
  
  Tilt 9/10
  
  This game was just way tooooooo fun. I still play it today 7 years since I first 
 got Starcraft.
  In short I will never forget Starcraft. The only problem with this game is the fact that the computer 
 can be very difficult to beat!
  This game to-date is still the King of all strategy games
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunamaker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Starcraft on pc is the best example of an RTS period. Ever since it released people have been playing 
 on battle. net its great multiplayer set up. The graphics were good when it came out but look a 
 lot out-dated. Starcraft isn't a graphical game its all about gameplay. The campaigns are good 
 and teach you the different races. B. net play is awesome! I play it still and it never gets old. 
 Different strategies make this game the opposite of repetitive because you can always start using 
 new strategys to win games. Units and races are perfectly balanced so one race doesnt have an obvious 
 advantage all though some races are "user friendly" for the new gamers. Overall, this game is done 
 very well and is basically the benchmark for the rts genre in a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Another game that show the power of Blizzard Entertainment. Well maked in all the aspect, this 
 game is gonna give you a lot of hour of play. This game have been a big part of my childhood and 
 I will never forget this game. One of the best multiplayer for the time and still really good at 
 this time and really easy to understand. The only thing I have to say is : if you have never played 
 this game, you won't really like it becasue now there is better game like Warcraft3, but you missed 
 something. This game is THE classic of the end of the 20's century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougarwsu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  And I am still playing this game. It is one that seems to never get old for me with the online 
 play. There are so many ways you can play this game. The game gives you option of 3 races, all 
 with there own strengths and weaknesses. This strategy game is one of the best that I have played, 
 ever. They really need to make a sequel for it. The single play campaign is fun and addicting also 
 letting you play through each race and learn the story behind the world of Starcraft. 
  
  The online for this game is still amazing letting you go head to head with 7 other players via 
 battlenet. Or IPX or LAN or so on and so forth. It has a map creator feature so that no dream is 
 ever inprobable, Yes I might have to say I give this gem a 9.6, out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage_Of_Crow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a RTS game like AoE The difference is that here the battles take place all over the 
 galaxy. You can choose from 3 different races in the game. The Terran, The Zerg and The Protoss.
 
  
  Each race has different capabilities, in buildings and units. The best part is that each race is 
 well balanced on weaknesses and strengths, so no matter what race you choose to play, you will 
 have the same chance to destroy your opponents.
  
  The Terrans is the first race you will play with. Buildings can lift and move to another location 
 the only catch is that if the building has an add-on it stays on the ground. Ghosts and Wraiths 
 can use cloak and be invisible for a while. The ghosts can use nukes and give a base a lot of damage. 
 
  
  With the Zerg you can only build in the creep (a purple kind of slime on the floor) you can make 
 it bigger by building Creep Colony. Buildings were very cheep but you loose a drone. The Mutalisks 
 can morph into Guardians that only attack ground units and buildings. Can take down an entire base 
 in minutes.
  
  The Protos they are stronger and had many special abilities but also are the most expensive. A 
 probe can warp many buildings at one time, also they can only build inside a pylons energy field. 
 The Carriers are like mother ships and need interceptors to attack. Arbiters are one of the most 
 useful unit because they cloak units below them.
  
  The game has an scenario editor were you can create your own battle fields and play them on a multi 
 player game on battle. net. This game will give lots of entertainment playing by yourself or in 
 multiplayer.
  
  If you haven't played it, Do it you won't regret it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  Why am I such a fool? Why must I love this game so much. The answer only lies in myself. I don't 
 know why I like this so much. Here is is 2005 with graphics like Half-Life 2. And I am loving this 
 game so much. It is addicting to me! I dont know why! I can't really say much for online play because 
 I haven't played online yet. But I love techy stuff with robots and upgrading. And boy did this 
 hit the spot! The cheap price is good. If your an old computer type person who cant afford a 2004 
 computer or are stuck with a pc with like...128 MB RAM, spend your money on this, this is the best 
 game for windows 98 i think. Of course i have a XP 2005 Emachines, but..... still.... the best game 
 for 98. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftguy321
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2005 1:55 am PT
Review:  A while back my dad picked up a demo of a game called StarCraft made by the people that made my 
 favorite game at the time, WarCraft 2. I was excited to try out the game and since we were out 
 of town I had to resort to playing it on my dads notebook computer. I had to play as the humans 
 called the "terrans" in this and thought they looked pretty cool in the combat armor.
  
  In game I was assigned to send worker units called "SCVs" (which I later learned ment Space Construction 
 Vehicle) to gather minerals which took the place of gold. After constructing my barracks I started 
 getting Marines. They had combat armor on and some cool looking rifles. The game seemed to be sort 
 of the same until... Zerglings attacked! I absolutely loved watching as my Marines began firing 
 their rifles at the incoming creatures. From that point on I knew this was great.
  
  I soon got two copies of the full version and tried a game with my dad against a computer. Even 
 though we were both allied we got wiped out since we were new and just learning how to get the 
 stronger units.
  
  After playing a few games I stumbled upon nukes. I tried getting one but realized I didn't have 
 a Ghost and began to get one. I cloaked my ghost and sent him into the enemy base. I activated 
 the nuke and heard the noise "nuclear launch detected" for the first time. After a few second of 
 waiting I saw a missile begin to come down and then, BOOM! Nukes have since been my favorite weapon 
 in the game and I am able to get a nuke in 5 minutes (if you don't believe me all of my friends 
 and my dad have seen me do it and I can demonstrate on-line) and I have launched 15 nukes on my 
 friend once.
  
  Overall StarCraft is a very fun game. I really love it and have had at least 100 hours of game 
 play since I got it (battle. net is very great) and can't wait for a sequel. When Blizzard Entertainment 
 finally decides to make a sequel for this, they will have a hard time beating the originals greatness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  Masterpiece is a word rarely bestowed upon games. Very few will ever receive such a rating, but 
 the few that do are something special indeed. Starcraft is one these phenomenal games.
  
  Save Warcraft 3, I don't think there is another RTS that created such a craze in RTS gaming. Starcraft's 
 strategies are still being perfected and mastered by obsessed fans, all over the world.
  
  In Starcraft, you will play as three races. The Terrans, who are a futuristic human race, the Zerg, 
 a race of organic alien beings (similar to Tyranids in Warhammer 40K) and the Protoss, an advanced 
 and enigmatic alien race. During the campaign you will play as all three races, and the story will 
 twist and weave infinitely before the end of the game. This of course all leads to a epic final 
 battle. It is hard to describe the story, as it greatly develops over the course of the game, but 
 it is basically about conflicts and warfare of the three aforementioned races. 
  
  Graphics are crisp, smooth and visually inviting. Sound is also quite good, and distant battles 
 sound fantastic. Graphics and sound don't make a great game, but Starcraft excels in both departments.
 
  
  Now, gameplay. Starcraft is exciting, frenzied and addicting. The AI is very intelligent, and because 
 of a high population limit battles can become epic clashes between massive forces! The campaign 
 keeps you absorbed, while the custom battles are thrilling matches. Each race is well balanced, 
 having their pros and cons, and all the races have a wide variety of units and structures. Starcraft 
 can be played over and over again, each match taking a different course to the other.
  
  Excelling in gameplay, value, graphics and sound, there simply is no reason as to why one would 
 not own a copy of Starcraft! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a game similar to Warcraft but takes place in space, but what really makes Starcraft 
 different is that it's a game that has a unique feel to RTS games. Normally in RTS games you have 
 different teams or sides that you play against but they have their own similarities. But what makes 
 Starcraft so unique is that there are 3 different races in the game. They are the Terran, the humanlike 
 race, The Zerg, an organic alien race, and the Protoss, which is the high tech alien race. 
  
  When you play this game you will learn that each race has their differences in strategy. Non 
 of the races use the same strategy to win a game since they all have their differences in building 
 time, structure, and units. So basically non of the units are the same and they do not use any 
 of the same attacks since they are completely independent of each other. Whats surprising about 
 this kind of gameplay that each race is perfectly balance to accomadate their weaknesses and strength, 
 so no mattwer what race you choose to play as, you will have an equal chance to win any game depending 
 on what kind of strategy you use.
  
  Now that we have that settled, Starcraft is a pretty long game which gives you 10 missions for 
 each race to play as, which adds up to a total of 30 missions. As you play through the game you 
 will learn how to use and build up strategies to win the mission presented to you. Each of the 
 missions have different playing times since the earlier missions are rather simple, but they start 
 to test your abilities toward the end of the game. As the game goes on, you'll periodically get 
 cutscences which looks pretty nice and listen to the storylines of the game.
  
  One of the better things in this game is that you have a campaign editor which allows you the ability 
 to make your own maps and games. So you can practice making you own missions and try to beat them 
 yourself. But thats not just the best part of the game, theres also online play which is one of 
 the first games that does it pretty well. You can test you skilled against other players in free 
 for alls, team games, or even map setting games which might possibly be the best part of online 
 play just to name a few of the options available to you. In map setting games players make their 
 own map in a mission type game that breaks away from the RTS style of just killing your oppenents, 
 and puts you in a different style of gameplay. It can be pretty addictive playing these game since 
 some of these maps are well made enough to be play again and again. 
  
  All in all Starcraft is probably one of the greatest games ever made and a well crafted game that 
 anybody should try out. It's an extremly addictive and innovative game that changes the style of 
 RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purpl3Haz3Masta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Best Online Game Takes Many Days/Months/Years To Master The Game Online
  I have been playing for 2 years and i am very good at the game it is realy fun custum match games 
 dont build much skill so if u want to get good just jump right into 1v1 2v2 3v3 i dont like 4v4 
 cause it is laggy or someone leaves Find People you like so you can play with them and build skill 
 to gather and join a clan a group of people who you like and play with alot. There Are 3 Races 
 Protoss, Zerg, and Terren My Favorite is Protoss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft will never die until starcraft 2 comes out. Who knows when that will ever happen though. 
 I simply cannot wait for starcraft 2 though, damn. 
  
  If you've never played starcraft, you have to buy it. It will run on a very low end computer, since 
 the game is 2d. Being only 10 dollars, its definatly worth it to skip 3 lunches at school to go 
 buy it. Its a classic game. It is the very reason that I am a pc gamer today. 
  
  Gameplay: This game had amazing AI in my opinion, and althought dragoons and goliaths sometimes 
 get lost, the units usually find their way perfectly to the place you told them to go. THe races 
 are balanced though, and units respond quickly and efficiently. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are 2d, which wasn't uncommon back then. They look pretty good, but only 
 good. When first playing you'll wonder what some of the things are. The game runs smoothly though, 
 since the graphics aren't complicated. Its a good thing. 
  
  Sound: The sound is perfect. The terran, zerg, and protoss music goes perfectly with the game. 
 Being the dork that I am, I have the terran music on my iPod. The unit attack sounds are awesome 
 too. The voice acting is also pretty good (Fenix sounds awesome)
  
  Value: Its a timeless classic that I've spent OVER 100 HOURS PLAYING!! thats a long time. The cd 
 is lost somewhere, but Im sure my 30 dollars (In 2000) buying about 300 hours of good fun was worth 
 it. 
  
  Tilt: The amount of time I spent with it deserves a 10 alone, but battle. net still being operational 
 is amazing. Starcraft has its own culture, and a newbie-friendly map editor that will just keep 
 you coming back until the cd disappears. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 22, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  There has only been 3 games in my entire life, that have kept my attention for longer then a year 
 let alone 7 and StarCraft is one of them. Granted I dont play it as much now as I did back when 
 it first came out, but it never gets old. I cant explain how, but every time I play this game its 
 like a new experience. This is one of the few games that have with stood the test of times. This 
 the best example of Gameplay   Graphics that I can give anyone. StarCraft will always have a special 
 place in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoeonip
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 20, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin when reviewing a game like this. Starcraft began as a successor to Blizzard's 
 immensely popular Warcraft series. However, the original production of Starcraft looked clumsy 
 and uninspired and was often jeered at as "Warcraft in Space". Taking its fan's cries into consideration, 
 Blizzard delayed the game and completely rewrote the game engine for Starcraft. From its frankly, 
 ugly, beginning, Starcraft exceeded any expectation that Blizzard fans could have had of the game, 
 delivering one of the smoothest, most well-rounded games to be produced in the history of the RTS 
 genre.
  
  One of the most important parts of an RTS game is the balance between races. While Warcraft consisted 
 of races with largely similar units and just a few specialists to differ between the races, Starcraft 
 went into territory where very few games ventured, with each race having completely different units 
 right down to the mining units. Through sheer ingenuity, Blizzard managed to create three separate 
 races with completely different units, but none of the three races has a distinct advantage over 
 the other two. The balance is overwhelming, down to the minutest detail. For instance, the insect-like 
 zerg produce all their units and buildings from larvae, which are generated by central hatcheries. 
 This allows them to create units faster, but they must also sacrifice units to create their buildings. 
 On the other hand, the human race, the Terran, create their construction units separately from 
 their attacking units, and do not have to sacrifice the unit in the construction of the building. 
 Finally, the Protoss with their psychic abilities warp in units, meaning no unit has to be dedicated 
 to the construction of a building, but their units are far more expensive. This is part of the 
 magic in Starcraft; that no one unit, strategy, collection of units, defense, or anything you wish 
 to create in the game is "perfect". In a very complex rock, paper, scissors relationship, any strategy, 
 base design, or unit can be countered efficiently. This incredible relationship that Blizzard created 
 is one of the reason that Starcraft is so addictive; players can spend literally an infinite amount 
 of time perfecting their strategies.
  
  Control of units in the game is also surprisingly intuitive. The controls are designed for a keyboard/mouse 
 tandem, but new players will find that they can perform all the basic functions with only the mouse, 
 if at a slower rate. Units are selected by the left mouse click, and a movement or attack command 
 can be issued with the right click. Starcraft also includes more sophisticated commands, such as 
 attack-move, patrolling an area, and movement queues, all of which can be accessed with the mouse 
 on the bottom control panel, or more efficiently through keyboard shortcuts. Speaking of which, 
 the bottom control panel is extremely useful and intuitive, showing the status of as many as 12 
 units at once, having a collection of buttons for specific unit abilities, and minimap. The limit 
 of being able to select only 12 units at a time is one of the major gripes some have about Starcraft, 
 however, it is arguably a benefit towards the game, as it rewards more experienced players who 
 can manage large masses of units more efficiently than novice players.
  
  The graphics in the game are outstandingly sharp and aesthetically pleasing. Units and buildings 
 stand out clearly from the terrain, and it is easy to distinguish flying units from ground units. 
 The artistic involvement in the game is excellent, with a wide variety of terrain types, from charred 
 ashlands to space installations. Also, each of the races has a distinct style which carries over 
 throughout their unit and building hierarchy. The cutscenes in the single player campaign are enjoyable 
 and were suitable for the standards of quality in 1998, when the game was launched. The largest 
 concern about graphics is that Starcraft runs only at a native 640x480 resolution, and no windowed 
 mode is available without a third party "hack".
  
  Voice acting in Starcraft lives up to, and even exceeds Blizzard standards. The heroes in the single 
 player campaign all deliver a convincing and memorable performance, while the units in general 
 each seem to have their own attitude. Clicking on units repeatedly incurs them to say comical lines, 
 a traditional Blizzard easter egg. 
  
  The single player storyline is decidedly linear, taking you through the story as you play the three 
 races in succession. Thankfully, the first few missions are easy enough for anyone to beat. The 
 difficulty increases at a manageable rate, but some will find the final few missions as quite a 
 challenge. The storyline is rich and deep, and to my delight, supplemented by an excellent game 
 manual, which gives the background stories to each race. The campaign is overall a little on the 
 short side, but not lacking in variety, as missions range from the typical base building and destroying 
 the enemy, to managing a limited group of soldiers through an installation. What sets the Starcraft 
 campaign apart from other games is that each mission is significant to the storyline; it doesn't 
 feel like you are limited to 12 units just because the game designer wanted variety. All missions 
 are dictated by the storyline and related to you in mission briefings. By the climactic cinematic 
 at the end of the game, you'll be screaming at units on your screen, "No, don't do it!!!!"
  
  Multiplayer games are facilitated by Blizzard's free battle. net services. The never-ending 
 appeal of Starcraft is apparent through the multiplayer aspect, as tens of thousands of online 
 players can be find around the world at any time. The variety of online modes is also staggering, 
 from ladder matches, to so called user created "money maps", to user created "map settings" maps, 
 which through triggers and heavy modification, can turn Starcraft into almost a completely different 
 game. Blizzard shows constant vigilance in updating the game for imbalances and new improvements. 
 The patch installation mechanism is seamless, and Blizzard has patched the game to version 1.12b 
 now, with the latest patch coming out this year....7 full years after the games initial release!!!
 
  
  Well, you've heard me rant about this game for long enough. Is it perfect? Reservedly, I say no, 
 but it is probably the closest to perfect that an RTS game will ever come. The few faults in the 
 game do little to detract from the overall masterpiece that Blizzard crafted.
  
  
  Cross posted at: http://www. epinions. com/content_179861491332 (epinions. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2005 1:40 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is a great game, it is for the PC and in a RTS or a strategy game (thats what I call 
 them) . This game is an amazing accomplishment for Blizzard and will keep players playing well after 
 they have beaten the main story because of the online play.
  
  The gameplay for Starcraft is just like any orinary stratrgy game, you see from a birds eye view 
 and you must collect minerals to build structures or produce soldiers. But Starcraft is different, 
 it plays way better than most strategy game and has an very deep storyline to back it up. Simply 
 if you really enjoy played strategy games and games that make you think your mind then Starcraft 
 is the game you've been waiting for. The value for this game is also great, theres a long campaign 
 (its like 25 levels) and some levels may even take you like 5 hours to beat. When you've finally 
 beaten the campaign you can play online against tons of people all over the world. You can find 
 out other people strategies, find more friends and maybe more.
  
  The sound and graphics for this game are good but nothing special, since you are looking down on 
 your soldier and structures from a birds eye view, you dont really get to see much of the characters 
 (except the cinematic scenes, or the small display box when you click on your warrior) . The sound 
 is really good, all the characters (or units) have there own unique voices and attack sounds. Like 
 a marine would be like "Hey sarge" or something like that while a Protoss Zealot may say something 
 weird like "Asaw chu"! But the sound is still very good.
  
  Overall this game is one of the best Pc games available and if you like long stratergy games like 
 Warcraft or something simalar then Starcraft is a must have. But if you havent really ever tried 
 out a strategy game (like I never did before Starcraft) theres still no reason to atleast try this 
 game out if not buy it in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxpimp18
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  Alright, StarCraft is THE best RTS game ever made. Everything about it is perfect! The soundtrack 
 is pretty good, while it does loop alot, the sound effects are AMAZING! All the voices for the 
 characters are done well, and the effect of a nuke exploding NEVER gets old. The single player 
 game is well done, but the mp is where its at! Blizzard always does a great job with Battlenet, 
 and this is no exception. Now the new patch has a built in friends list and everything, which is 
 a really nice thing to have! This game is entertained me from day 1, which was 6 years ago! A lot 
 of people still play this game, so it isn't hard to find a game, even at 2 am! The races, the Protoss, 
 the Zerg, and the Terrain, are all play completely different, and all are varied and interesting. 
 The graphics look great, you will see bodies explode into pools of blood, tanks explode, nukes 
 destroying EVERYTHING! Its all very well done. The gameplay is very good, with a very simple menu 
 for noobs, but a boatload of hotkeys for the vets of the game. You wish that all RTS games could 
 be this good, but they can't, so just play this until SC2 comes out! Great game, DEFINITELY get 
 it! You can get the whole Battlechest for $20! A steal! Go grab it NOW! If you like RTS games and 
 don't have this one, you owe it to yourself to get it! Forget Warcraft 3, forget Rome: Total War, 
 forget Rise of Nations, get SC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  Some games hold very special places in our hearts and Starcraft is one of them. It's gameplay is 
 simply flawless with its amazing balance of the races. Its so fun with using the different styles 
 of each race and units. The sound also contributes to the experience as well with funny voices 
 of the race and cool music. Back to the gameplay though, it runs amazingly smoothe and is just 
 so much fun to play. Blizzard also did the little things right with making the buildings very unique 
 and perfect balance of them. If you actually pay attention to the graphics you may notice that 
 their not up to par nowadays but were still good for the time and don't really bother your gameplay 
 very much. If you do start to bore of the single player then there is battlenet with to put simply 
 is astonishing.
  
  In the end Starcraft is an amazing achievement to still be so enjoyable after all of these years, 
 and deserves to be on all pc hard drives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenTa_613
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  i say that starcraft's gameplay is perfect. even with all the bugs. the game has 3 races to use... 
 that means people get good at it easy. And the way you play fastest is all about cordination and 
 skill. 10
  
  graphics:
  the game was made in 1998... 8
  
  Sound:
  the voices were simple and clean. nothing special and easy to remember. also the GPX.8
  
  Value:
 
  A must have game. U dont have this game you really should get it. STILL IN STORES!!!10
  
  Tilt: The multiplayer & the b. net is Superb it has a campaign editor also. If you're one of those 
 guys that like to bring things in your own hands. Campaign editor is the best for u. unlike me 
 im more into the fastest maps. And the bgh. There are lots of people in b. net i suggest u join.10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disordered
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to Starcraft a long time ago, I remember watching my brother play and I wanted 
 to try playing so bad. As soon as I got the chance to play, I was instantly addicted.
  
  To be honest, I've never fully played the Single-player campaign, through all the years I've owned 
 the game; I was always more interested in brawling it out multi-player style.
  
  In this game there are 3 races: The Terran -- humans, the Zerg -- primitive aliens, and the Protoss -- high 
 tech aliens... each race has it's significant flaws and powers and each holds something over another 
 race and it's like a power triangle.
  
  The gameplay in this game is amazing, online at battle. net. There are thousands of people to play 
 with, some newbs and some incredible gamers, but you get your wins in. Some battles last 30 minutes 
 to hours but every minute your mind is into this game, thinking where and when to attack, building 
 defenses and attacking or defensive units. It's just an amazing, immersive real time strategy game 
 that any one who enjoys any genre, would love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chAzN93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Blizzard after releasing Warcraft II and Diablo II came out with a new RTS. Very similar to Warcraft, 
 Starcraft was amazing with the best gameplay and stunning graphics. Warcraft and Warcraft II had 
 a choice of being 2 races. Starcraft came out with 3 races and it gave more variety on gameplay 
 and gaming style. Terran, Protoss, and Zerg were very different, each having pluses and minuses, 
 which made things challenging but better.
  
  Zerg
  Zerg was a very different race but was very good after getting used to it. You could only build 
 in the creep but other teams could not build in your creep unless they were Zerg. Buildings were 
 very cheep but you could make much more. When making a Zergling, instead of only obtaining one, 
 you got two. The same happened with Scorges. Some great units for Zerg were Mutalisks, Hydralisks, 
 and Ultralisks. Mutalisks could morph into Guardians and were much stronger but could only attack 
 ground units/buildings. Defliers could make Dark Swarm and it made units under it invincible.
 
  
  Terran
  Terran was the race to start with. It is the most basic race but has special abilities. Buildings 
 could lift and it helped when enemies attacked. Ghosts and Wraiths could cloak and the ghosts could 
 use nukes, which destroyed a lot. Battlecruisers were strong and same with tanks. Add-ons to buildings 
 were for advanced units but they got in the way. Turrets werent very strong and they could only 
 attack air. 
  
  Protoss
  My personal favorite was Protoss. Even though they were only able to build inside the phylon ring, 
 they were stronger and had many special capabilities. A probe could warp many buildings at one 
 time but didnt have stand at it to build it. Many units and buildings cost much more but it was 
 necessary saying how strong they were. They had many good units such as Carriers, Scouts, Reavers, 
 and Dragoons. Arbiters were useful when massing Dragoons or Reavers because they cloaked things 
 and had the ability to recall units. One of their best ability was warping High Templar together.
 
  
  Battle. net
  Online play for Starcraft is unbelievable. Blizzard used Battle. net for Warcraft II, Diablo, Diablo 
 II, and currently Warcraft III. Money maps are created and when playing, one can download it before 
 playing. Allying other users is possible and some people enjoy backstabbing other teammates. Fastest 
 and Lost Temple are the most played Maps. Ladder games can be played and you can move up ranking. 
 People also play Use map settings games. People talk in channels and they add each other on their 
 friends list and one can whisper to them. Battle
  
  Gameplay
  It has the best gameplay ever. So good that people still play the game. Battle. net makes it even 
 better and it changes the style or gameplay. The 3 races allow a variety of style.
  
  Graphics
  The maps and all the little things on the maps make the environment amazing to play 
 in. The missiles and all the explosions are perfect. The graphics as a whole makes me speechless
 
  
  Sound
  The voice acting fits incredibly in this Sci-Fi game. The music is amazing and it fits with the 
 environment and gameplay.
  
  Value
  Blizzard again makes an instant classic. Im still playing it along with many others
  
  Tilt
 
  Simply stunning.
  
  Blizzard makes many Masterpieces and most of them are AAA games. Starcraft just released World 
 of Warcraft and are now planning a Diablo III and Starcraft: Ghost. Starcraft with unbelievable 
 gameplay, graphics, sound, value, and tilt, value easily gets a 10 from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2005 12:46 am PT
Review:  This is such an incredibly entertaining game that I really don't know where to start. Unlike the 
 majority of strategy games I've played, Starcraft has an endearing and wonderful storyline; the 
 game features some truly outstanding cut scenes and the level of detail Blizzard put into it really 
 shows. The story is based on the Terran, a group of humans living on a remote planet in the not-so-distant 
 future and their interactions with two alien species: the Protoss and Zerg. The Protoss are a highly 
 evolved and technically advanced race whereas the Zerg are a species seemingly created to breed 
 and overwhelm enemies with sheer numbers. The Zerg are the simplest of creatures, using little 
 technology but are powerful and ruthless just the same. Each species has its own unique feel, sound, 
 look and units, although serving the same general purposes with few exceptions, they vary so much 
 it almost seems like there is a never-ending stream of new units to create over the three races. 
 
  
  Maps, like in most strategies, are hidden until revealed by means of exploration, for some reason 
 discovering a Zerg hive or colony is much more exciting than finding the enemy in other strategies. 
 The thought of knowing it's only a matter of time before the Zerg will be coming after your colony 
 if you don't stop their breeding fast enough is thrilling. The game allows you to choose which 
 of the three races you'd like to play; personally I prefer to play the Terran as the Zerg just 
 fit the stereotypical ideal of what the bad guys should look like. 
  
  Overall, Starcraft is a superb strategy game with amazing shelf-life and replay value. Graphics 
 are quality for the genre and the score and sound effects are done very well. I'd recommend this 
 title for strategy enthusiasts and novices alike. If you have never tried a strategy game before, 
 this is where you should start. Explore, build, invade the enemy and defend your colony for hours 
 and hours of entertainment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCraftZeAlOt
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  What a masterpiece this game is. Produced in 1998, could you have expected any more? And still, 
 we have over 100,000 people online most of the time. All I have to say is wow. 
  The graphics, amazing for when this game was made.
  The sound was perfect, each unit having it's 
 own voice and phrases, and the music was excellent.
  The gameplay, I must say, is unrivaled. The closest thing that has come to even coming near this 
 game's gameplay is Warcraft 3. Online play is perfection, as you can choose the exact game you 
 want to enter, or create you're own game with you're settings and have it be public. 
  The value is simply amazing. For $10, you should go to jail for stealing if you pick this up. 
 
  I've probably played for well over 300 hours. I've beaten campaign 6 times. I've played online. 
 
  You're proably wondering why I didn't quit so soon. This game is very addicting, and when I was 
 about to quit, because I was tired of the games to play online, I discovered you could create your 
 own in campaign editor. WOW. 
  Again, I think this very well could be the best game ever. You gotta stick it out for the first 
 hour or two to really get into it though, just like a good book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I can't say much about Starcraft that you haven't heard if you're into computer games. It is a 
 legend in its own field, the standard by which other realtime strategy games are judged. I can 
 only reinforce that. 
  
  The 2D graphics hold up well even today (Sept 2002) , even though they have been showing their age 
 for years now. The sprites are just detailed enough to deliver a perfect idea of what the character 
 should be like. Each unit's appearance is paired with its power level, and combined with a character 
 portrait that lends a sense of the backstory that accompanies that unit. 
  
  The RTS genre is not well-known for its stories, but Starcraft is one of the best tales in video-gaming. 
 While you have zero choices as far as its outcome, you will still be drawn into the struggle at 
 a very personal level. This is naturally accomplished through the staples of good multimedia storytelling: 
 strong acting (overall) and great writing. 
  
  But the reason for the games immortality and overwhelming success lies in the sublimely well-balanced 
 game design, not the meaty story. The three races in Starcraft are an even match for one another, 
 and each caters to a certain style of play. Although multiplayer matches are somewhat rush-prone, 
 if you can't beat a rush, it's a fault in your skill, not the game. Through the years and with 
 the expansion pack, the game has become fine-tuned, and it stands today as the ultimate example 
 for all to see, a textbook realtime strategy game. 
  
  If you haven't played Starcraft, stop reading, stop surfing the Internet, stop doing anything but 
 breathing and using the most convenient form of locomotion to take you to a place where you can 
 purchase the game. If you are not really into RTSs, buy Starcraft to see what all the fuss is about. 
 If you like them and haven't played Starcraft, perhaps because you have been wooed by the spectacle 
 of Warcraft III, pay some homage to history and see RTS history incarnate. Play Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When Starcraft was released 1998, no one could forsee this being one of the worlds, most
  popular games to date. The game campaign had you choosing from Terran (humans) Protoss (looks like 
 predators) and Zerg (alien like cretures) It did'nt have many new elements in terms of gameplay, 
 though it played well and the game has become nothing less then a cult legend. The game proceeded 
 with great sucess, and is till this day one of the worlds most sold games.
  
  You control your forces by marking them, and moving them too their goal, building by gathering 
 resources and gas, the mission is usually get from A to B, survive for a set amount of time or kill 
 the opposing forces. Each of the factions had diffrent ways of building, weaknesses and strengths. 
 Like the Zerg uses small larvas that transform into soldiers, thay again can mutate into organic 
 lairs. While the Protoss warp stuff in where they need it, so you can use your builders to harvest 
 minerals and gas without having to spare one to build. The Terran can repair their vessels, and 
 they can make their buildings go airborn.
  
  The graphics are good even though it's been years since it's release. Even the lipsynqing isn't 
 too bad. You have a third person view of the characters (godview I call it, since you see everything 
 from above.) The characters are good looking and the enviroments are good too.
  
  The game's soundtrack is perfect, it seems too fit to any situation. Not only that,
  the game 
 also has voicing making it almost unique for it's time. You have explosions,
  sword swinging, gunfire etc. which bring more depth to the game.
  The unit say all kinds of stuff 
 when you select them for an action, though more variation
  in their talking would be preferable.
  
  Everyone knows it isn't Starcrafts campaign mode that's 
 so facinating. It's the multiplayer
  online mode. As it gives you an endless variety of maps, this game can give you hours and hours 
 of entertainment. The game is definetly worth the money if you like these types of games. As it 
 can be purchased for only a few bucks now a days. The game is quite interactive as you can team 
 up with friends and make clans. If you play alot you can get quite the cult status online. People 
 can say stuff like:"OMFG, we're playing against Fateless??? S***" and things like that when you get 
 known. Which is quite cool.
  
  Starcraft is an enjoyable game with tons of variation and interactivety, if you ever see it
  
 pick it up, play, enjoy. Fans of Age of Empires will like this even more, if thei're after a bit
 
  more action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, this certainly one of the best games Blizzard has ever created. This RTS game is so freakin 
 awesome, it blew my socks off. In fact, I think it blew 20 pairs of my socks off. It's that amazing.
 
  
  Starcraft is arguably the best RTS ever made, and I truly believe it.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely NOTHING wrong here. This is certainly a game that many people will still play. 
 There are still ALOT of people who play Starcraft.
  
  Graphics: OMG so amazing!!! The gunshots, missiles, explosions, and environment is done perfectly!
 
  
  Sound: Wow. The voice acting fits incredibly in this Sci-Fi game. Music fits remarkably with the 
 gameplay. Everything fits perfectly in this game as far as sound goes!
  
  Value: This game is an instant classic, and you will keep playing this game FOREVER.
  
  Tilt: 
 AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time, an already moderately famous company called Blizzard created a gem of a game, 
 called Starcraft. The best RTS ever, and easily the best game ever period, Starcraft rose in rank 
 on the popularity chart until it rivalled Counter-Strike. There are close to 35000 players playing 
 it even in the middle of the night.
  
  Oh wait, that isn't a fairy tale. Blizzard really did prove themselves to be quite possibly the 
 best developers out there, and they really did make the best game ever, Starcraft. Combining great 
 storytelling, a fairly long campaign, breathtaking graphics, and multiplayer that's top-notch even 
 today, as well as revolutionary map editing tools that keep mappers busy even today, Starcraft 
 is still the best game ever. Even with all the new, flashy, heavily-advertised games, Starcraft 
 proves that you don't need great graphics to make an outstanding game- they just help it stay timeless.
 
  
  The best part of Starcraft, which is hard to say since every part is flawless, is that all three 
 sides- the Zerg, a vicious, hideous alien species; the Protoss, a proud, high-tech alien species; 
 and the Terran, an advanced human race- had their own strengths and weaknesses. The Zerg were very 
 fast and numerous, but not particularly strong. They also had very poor defense unless you used 
 offensive armies as defense. The Protoss had incredible defense, with kick-ass Photon cannons that, 
 usually, can take out entire enemy armies- they were, however, dependant on their nearby Pylons. 
 They also had incredibly powerful armies that were very dangerous and very enduring, but they took 
 a really freaking long time to build. The Terran were slow and bulky, but, in numbers, could easily 
 rip apart even the most poweful enemy armadas. These races were all incredibly fun to play, and 
 because of that, in multiplayer you often would just choose Random and be surprised with whichever 
 race you were.
  
  The campaign isn't the absolute best part of Starcraft, but it is breathtaking. You basically take 
 control of the leader of the Zerg, Terran, and Protoss campaigns through seperate groups of missions 
 for each race. There were plot-twists, epic missions, great dialogue, beautiful and symbolic cut-scenes, 
 and an extremely satisfying ending that actually made you feel sad. The campaign lasts about 10-15 
 hours on average, though if you're somehow playing Starcraft for the first time, it'll last you 
 even longer, because this is a game that's very tough to get the hang of.
  
  The multiplayer. That's where the real value is at. Aside from offering dozens of great maps, Blizzard 
 also included a revolutionary, extremely cool map editor. This let you make simple battle maps, 
 crazy maps based on movies or other games, or epic single-player-only maps. There are millions 
 of great maps, my personal favorites being Backwoods (included with Brood War) , "Fastest Possible 
 Map Ever" (made by fans) , and the "Crash" series (made by fans) . These are only a taste of the 
 plethora of great, brilliantly crafted maps that both Blizzard and fans have made in StarEdit.
 
  
  The graphics, surprisingly, still hold up today, with very detailed 3D-looking sprites, animated 
 character portraits, rich backgrounds, and the amazing cut-scenes I mentioned before, which, usually, 
 rival PIXAR films in terms of realism. The audio is also great, with tons of catchy music for each 
 race, detailed sound effects, great unit speech, and some brilliant dialogue that pulls you into 
 the story in single-player.
  
  Today, you will still find thousands upon thousands of people still playing Starcraft. And the 
 game still deserves all those players. It's compltely flawless. Every side is balanced, so you 
 never feel like you're screwed if your entire team is Terran and the enemy team is all Zerg, or 
 if you're using any other combination of the races. The single-player is surprisingly brilliant, 
 the multiplayer is addictive and is timelessly fun. The graphics and sound are both great, even 
 today. There's no reason to not have Starcraft. If your PC can view these forums, it can run Starcraft, 
 and if you're a human being at all, you can enjoy Starcraft. It's easily the best game ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstarzyk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2004 3:59 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is very possibly the best Real Time Strategy game ever made. It offers an intriguing 
 single player campaign, as well as AMAZING multiplayer. The multiplayer options on Battle. net MUST 
 be stressed, as I have yet to find a game that could out do Starcraft in that aspect.
  
  Starcraft is relatively easy to pick up, and playing through some of the single player modes will 
 familiarize you with each races specific traits. Each side (Protoss, Terran, and Zerg) has strengths 
 and weaknesses that keep the game interesting and entertaining regardless of how much you play 
 it. I'm not going to bother discussing the single player options much further than this, but you 
 should definitely try them out.
  
  Starcraft's major legacy will be its superior multiplayer experience. One to eight players can 
 meet on this sci-fi battlefield, and if you have friends who play, the game only gets more interesting! 
 Anyone who is in to online/LAN gaming needs to get this game. If you have never played an RTS game, 
 you will quickly learn, as Starcraft isn't all that difficult. Blizzard will soon have you hooked 
 on what is very possibly one of the greatest PC games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcaster_98
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2004 4:48 pm PT
Review:  So, if you like RTS games, then this game will be entertaining forever. By far this game has the 
 premiere founding basis for all RTS games. All the elements including the character voices and 
 mini-animations are exciting and well layed out. Many of the features in the game are amazing and 
 truly legendary. The graphics for their time are outstanding. The amount of gameplay in Campaign 
 mode is plenty to fill your spare time with hours of enjoyment. One of the best aspects of the 
 game that really stands out is the use of good strategy. You have many different weapons that allow 
 you to customize your personaly strategy in the game. You can have tanks following behind your 
 flame troops to allow for long range support with extremely powerful upclose firepower provided 
 by the flame troops. There are different key features exclusive to each race, such as the nuclar 
 strike ability provided by the Terran (human) forces. If you play as the alien race known as the 
 Protoss, you gain access to a good assortment of fairly powerfull troops with spectacular weapon 
 effects. The game by itself if amazing, but if you want an even deeper level of game play with 
 new characters than I highly suggest getting the Brood War expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Srinivassa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2004 2:20 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite real time strategy (RTS) EVER! I guess Blizzard's own Warcraft series is credited 
 with starting the genre, but StarCraft is still my favorite.
  
  I still have a fond memory of being introduced to this game. I was travelling by plane from college 
 (Texas) to home (Alabama) , and the guy seated next to me had a laptop, and was playing this thing. 
 I was kind of in a gaming slump at the time, but this just looked cool to me. It reminded me of 
 one of my top five games of all time, Civilization, but more fast-paced and visceral. I think I 
 managed to pick up a copy and install it on my parents computer for about $30 at the time.
  
  At this point, people who haven't picked up this game are probably more interested in picking 
 up a newer RTS. This is not a bad option, and I can't dissuade you from this. Heed this though, 
 if you're not caught up in flash, StarCraft is a great title to pick up on the cheap. You will 
 find its graphics, while very old school, are still creative and suited to the game. (as well as 
 its sound) Also its gameplay is stellar. There is nothing in my opinion that any modern RTS has 
 done better gameplaywise. They have done things differently, and just as good, but not, in my opinion, 
 better.
  
  One of the great things about this game is its three races. This is not a sexy feature because 
 many games can boast a dozen races, or something similar. Still, you have to look at substance, 
 and these three races are incredibly diverse. If you look at one of StarCraft's contemporaries, 
 Age of Kings, you will see it has many races, but be wary. These races are only different subsets 
 of a globally shared skill/building/unit tree. There is only ONE unique unit for each race, and 
 no unique buildings. StarCraft, on the other hand, shares almost NO units in common between the 
 races! (with the exception of the humble peon, I believe, none) There are no common buildings either. 
 These races all play completely differently! What's more, with the modern patches, they are INCREDIBLY 
 well balanced, not to mention fun to experiment with.
  
  Another legendary thing about StarCraft is its mission system. It has a great story, as well as 
 diverse mission goals. This is a standard now I'm sure, but it is not absent, even in this ancient 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic too. Although, if you're like me, you'd probably rather play this with 
 friends than with the cheaters, idiots, and trolls you find online. (note: this user is very jaded 
 about online communities for gaming in general. This is not a symptom of StarCraft itself) The 
 game is incredibly deep, and if you go to a site like starcraft. org, you can download game replays 
 that are very fun to watch. (One in particular had a guy playing Terrans who was MAD sick.)
  
  I'm still a sucker for vanilla StarCraft, but there is an expansion available for people who 
 want to mess with new units and new missions.
  
  The only complaint I could possibly muster about this game is that there is no adjustable level 
 of difficulty for computer opponents in the multiplayer mode. The computer will slaughter you when 
 you first start playing against it in multiplayer, but later on, it isn't even good enough to provide 
 a real challenge, and it doesn't help you practice your skills. Still, I have read that it actually 
 doesn't cheat! (I believe this. I have watched replays, and while the computer does have inhuman 
 reflexes, it seems to move units and harvest resources and build upgrades and buildings all according 
 to the rules. This is a great achievement in AI that is not often found in games of this era. ( 
 e. g. the aforementioned Civilization) )
  
  Overall, this is a great game to pick up, especially if you have an old computer. Almost anything 
 bought within the last few years would run this game I bet, and it's cheap! If you do buy this, 
 I wish you fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2004 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing. Starcraft was the game that got me hooked on RTS way back in the 
 day. In its time, starcraft had good graphics coupled with amazing sounds and solid gameplay. The 
 three factions in the game, the Terrans, Zerg and Protoss are all incredibly unique, but are still 
 incredibly balanced. This game combines a solid storyline in its Campaign, along with extremely 
 well done voiceover, as well as fast-paced action in the skirmish and multiplayer modes over Battle. net. 
 The thing that kept me coming back was the custom maps online. Every time I come back I check battle. net 
 and find a whole slew of new custom maps that everyone loves to play. This is the game that defines 
 RTS. Whenever I play real-time strategy, the first thing I will think of is, "This game is good, 
 but is it as good as Starcraft?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadoDragon56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 11:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the first "Real" PC game that I ever played. My cousin introduced PC games to me for the 
 first time in 1999, when i was 9. It became the base to my new found love for gaming. It is still 
 one of the most played games in my collection, simply because there is so many UMS games (User 
 made maps) .
  
  The Campaign Editor is also very versatile. There are thousands of games made by ordinary users, 
 and tens of thousands of versions of these games. There are also many new maps coming out every 
 day.
  
  Also, if you join a game, and the host is able to keep re-making it, then you can very well be 
 hooked to that one game until you finally complete the game, or beat your opponent (depends if 
 youre playing melee or UMS)
  
  If you dont have a very good computer, I would recommend buying this game, especially since its 
 only $12. Its really easy on the budget. But if you do have a very good computer, you might want 
 to get the more recent games that have also become hits; I dont think anyone would want to buy 
 this game now since its old. If you have this game already, I would recommend buying the Brood 
 War expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojabulldawgs91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2004 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a great game for the PC. I usually don't even play games on the PC, but when my friend 
 let me play it at his house i was hooked on it in no time. At first it's complicated, but after 
 about 30 min to an hour. You will like this game. It's a war type game. Three tribes (clans) are 
 in this game and there is a lot to learn about each tribe. There are missions too so you won't 
 be done with this game too quick. I've had it for about a week and play it all the time and am 
 about halfway done with it. It lasts a while. Once you get done with the missions you cna play 
 custom mode which is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 29, 2004 8:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay in Starcraft is fairly similar to other strategy games. You climb a tech 
 tree and build units. But that's just the start of it. The most amazing thing is how Blizzard was 
 able to perfectly balance each of the three races without having the units being the exact same 
 like Warcraft 2. For example each race has there starting unit, Protoss Zealot, Zerg zergling, 
 and the Terran Marine. A zealot can kill any of the other, maybe even 2 or 3, but he also costs 
 alot more to make and takes longer to build. So by the time you have 1 Zealot the Terran may already 
 have 2-3 marines ready for it, making it an evenly matched battle. The units continue doing this 
 too as you advance through the tech trees and are able to build stronger more powerful units. Another 
 nice feature of Starcraft is the variety of each races units. Each having there uses so you'll 
 have to have a good mix of units to take out some armies. (unless your in a multiplayer game then 
 it's mainly massing one type of unit) Starcraft may seem like any other strategy game when you 
 look at it, but thats because it shaped and crafted many of the strategy games you see today.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are also great in Starcraft. The different unit effects are great, aswell 
 as there pictures on the control bar. Each unit has a totally unique and creative look to it. But 
 easily the best part of the graphics were the cinematics, it's what Blizzard is known to do and 
 here they were done stunningly. The first time I saw each cinematic I went back and watched it 
 maybe 3 more times just to soak in it's beauty. 
  
  Sound- The sound in Starcraft like the graphics and Gameplay is top notch. Each unit has different 
 well acted voices and they really do fit the unit. Once you get into a battle you'll be able to 
 hear the sound of all the different weapons going off and the units dying, all going on at the 
 same time and it's all done really well, makes it sound like your listening to a war. The music 
 is also done very well and will really get you into the game. The only problem with the sound is 
 like most strategy games it the units voices can get fairly repetitive.
  
  Value- Starcraft has 3 great and fairly lengthy campaigns for each of the three races. There all 
 fun to play through, but it's not over once you've finished them. You can go off and play a custom 
 game against enemy A. I. which is great. But the value is really in the online on Blizzards Battle. net. 
 You can play with people against other people, or with people against computers, and some of the 
 matches can last for a long time and get pretty exciting, aswell as people having the ability to 
 make there own maps, so you will never run out of variety. But that's not all B. Net has to offer, 
 there are also people out there who create there own custom type of gameplay, called "Use Map Settings". 
 There is a limitless amount of value in Starcraft as long as the community keeps it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentzed
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is, what an awesome game that is, perfect storyline, perfect view from all sides, 
 the races are awesome, the missions are fun, the units are cool and combat is crazy and fast paced. 
 Great musical score too, plus if you repeatedly click on a unit they start to say some pretty funny 
 things, it's a perfect RTS for the ultimate RTS gamer. plus it's got tons of good mods too. It 
 is truly a work of art and a revolutionary game, no matter how many RTS games come out, Starcraft 
 will come out on top all the way! Don't be fooled by the price it will always be awesome it's just 
 old thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2004 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is from the makers of some of the best RTS in the world, Blizzard! Starcrat takes place 
 in a futuristic world, and this game is very addictive. First, i palyed lots of LAN games, and 
 i wasted many hours playin BroodWars. My neighbors (college) found it soo awesome that they all 
 had this game, and we would play this until like 2 in the morning! It was just insane. Single player 
 mode is just as good, and the missions varries from having few people on your group to having a 
 whole dision of Army as your command. There are different "races" you can pick, and they all have 
 their advantages and disadvantages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mop88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2004 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic RTS without doubt, better in some ways than the new WAR3. (which i have played 
 extensively) You should know that the bad reviews come from people who never expericenced what 
 this game has to offer. Mostly u read complaints of how someones comp. didnt run the game right 
 or Battle. net didnt work. Well thats their fault for letting virus' get onto their computers. Nowadays 
 anyone with a half decent computer can run this game. It now only costs 10 dollars give or take, 
 and u can still find upwards of 50,000 people playing at any given time. I think u should know 
 that this is higher than the number of people playing on WAR3 regularly (That game average 30k 
 people) 
  
  THe gameplay is really fantastic and doesnt get old even with age, its BLizzard and u should know 
 u cant go wrong there. I want people to realize that every bad review this game has ever received 
 here or anywhere is false and should be disregarded as trash. THis game IS a classic and anyone 
 considering themselves a game can admit that. Go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevorino
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2003 7:42 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is the most-played game ever for me. Over 4 years I've probably spent at least 500, 600 
 hours playing the game. Definitely the best RTS game ever in my opinion, beating Blizzard's Warcrafts 
 and the Command and Conquers. I don't care when this game was released, if you don't own it, you 
 should.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Wow... amazing. Addicting. The online experience is absolutely amazing, and you never get sick 
 of it. This game is PERFECTLY balanced, and if you disagree, stop playing "money" maps and insisting 
 that Zerg is the best. This game is so fun they have TV shows showing games in Japan (link in the 
 Greatest Games feature of Gamespot) . Also, the Map Editor adds a whole other experience to the 
 game. Use Map Settings games online is just a blast and a nice break to the "real" game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Even if I was only 12 when I played Starcraft for the first time, I still remember 
 how amazed I was at the graphics. For its time, the graphics really are nice.
  
  Sound
  
  Not much music in the game since it's a fastpace RTS, but the sound effects are great. The 
 voice acting in the CG movies and in the game is great. Good stuff.
  
  Value
  
  Like I said, I played this game for at least 500 hours, and I'm still not sick of it. Online and 
 the map editor gives this game an infinite amount of hours of life. If you want your moneys worth, 
 pick this up for $20 bucks, amazing deal, even today.
  
  Summary
  
  Possibly my favorite game of all time, and definitely my favorite RTS. If you don't have it, get 
 it. That simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeskillet305
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2003 8:27 pm PT
Review:  starcraft is not just a good game. it is one of the classic games that people will keep playing 
 forever. its one of does game that doesnt continue a trend, it starts one. even thought this game 
 is about 5 years old (i think) i still play this game like the day i frist played it, nonstop. 
 if you try to sit for one game session in starcrat you will end up playing ten game sessions. even 
 a regular person thats not into video games can easliy play a few hours. 
  
  starcrafts gameplay is revolutionary for its time. the ease to move troops or to make out attack 
 with them, but yet so deep that its impossible to master.
  starcraft is the best way to spend $10, so if you dont own it go pick it up.... NOW
  
  see you 
 online........ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
