-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Yoda Stories
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/yodastories/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 246 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 1997
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In Yoda Stories, you assume the role of young Luke Skywalker, Jedi junior varsity and errand boy 
 for Yoda. 

 It would seem that after all these years, Yoda, the 900-year-old sage, would have some stories to 
 tell. Between tutoring Jedi Knights and giving jump-starts to X-Wings, he must be one experienced 
 little muppet. The stories told here, however, aren't the rich historical fare one would expect 
 from such a trove of knowledge.  

 In Yoda Stories, you assume the role of young Luke Skywalker, Jedi junior varsity and errand boy 
 for Yoda. Using the game engine from Indiana Jones and His Desktop Adventures, Yoda Stories has 
 you wandering all over creation to swap items. This model makes it simple to live up to the claim 
 that "you'll never play the same game twice" - it's a simple matter of replacing characters, bad 
 guys, and a host of items to find and trade. Re-using this engine seems as much like a bad case 
 of deja vu as it does a painful reminder of what made Indy such a mediocre game. The missions, 
 character behaviors, and game tone seem to be secondary to the repetitive task of finding item 
 A to trade for item B.   

 If a Jedi is not supposed to crave adventure and excitement, it seems strange that Yoda would send 
 Luke on a mission to destroy Imperial outposts. Apparently, because Luke is a fledgling Jedi, his 
 influence inspires others to give him items such as... powerdrills? That same drill was then traded 
 to someone for a... Jawa? Because objects are only placeholders, their correct use seems very vague, 
 if not frustratingly random. Rocks and cargo crates can be shoved around to find hidden items or 
 to clear the paths of a maze. In fact, most of the game is spent looking under nooks and crannies, 
 as if Luke has lost his keys to the X-Wing. This adds up to as much fun as waiting out one thousand 
 years in a Sarlacc's gut, trying to figure out what went wrong with your rocket-pack. The lack 
 of logic or continuity between the characters and the gameplay is another problem - it seems strange 
 that Ben Kenobi can be yanked from the hereafter by moving boulders into the right configuration. 
 What would you choose to clear away a blocked cave entrance? A blaster? A thermite bomb? The Force? 
 If you picked a fusion cutter, you win a year's supply of Wampa chow.   

 Combat is awkward and in no way satisfying. Most of the time you'll be using your lightsaber - that 
 "elegant weapon from a more civilized age" - to dispatch beetles and snakes. Character movement 
 is jumpy, and shooting those caffeinated beetles with a blaster is a downright bummer.   

 The graphics are kind of cute, and maybe this could have been part of a new "Star Wars Babies" line. 
 The big-headed Stormtroopers look like they would have made better plush toys than the Ewoks. On 
 the other hand, the backgrounds are as flat and lifeless as the gameplay. It's too bad too, because 
 the Star Wars universe is one of the most three-dimensional and familiar licenses around, especially 
 with the recent re-release of the trilogy. Yet, slapdash applications of this awesome responsibility 
 tend to make half-hearted products such as Yoda Stories seem as if they've succumbed to the Dark 
 Side.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamebender
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Yoda stories was fun while it lasted. Of course now it's impossible for me to play on XP and I 
 haven't downloaded DOS box, I wont even bother though.
  
  It was fun, but it can get very repetitive. You control Luke Skywalker, the famous Jedi wannabe 
 thats never as good as the prequel Jedi. At first you have a blue lightsaber and as you advance 
 in the game you will challage the Vader spector or whatever in a clearing on Dagobah. He will drop 
 a new lightsaber for you, this time it's green. I knew it! Luke couldn't build his own! He just 
 got some fat lute from Vader :)
  Anyway the saber makes no difference, other than to compell Yoda to mix it up a little, which he 
 does albiet, subtley.
  
  Let's wrap this up!
  
  
  Pros: strangely enjoyable, sort of interesting quests for a while, then you start so see some patterns, 
 although you never actually repeat a quest, which is definitely a pro.
  
  Cons: graphics, repetitive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Yoda Stories was priced for the bargain bin when it was released, and with good reason. The game 
 puts you in the shoes of Luke Skywalker, Jedi-in-training under Master Yoda. Yoda assigns tasks 
 to Luke, who must then venture to worlds of the Star Wars universe such as Dagobah, Hoth, and Tatooine 
 in order to accomplish his mission.
  
  Unfortunately, the missions usually made no sense. Yoda Stories promised that the player would, 
 Never play the same game twice. The random mission generator resulted in all sorts of nonsensical 
 - and often repetitious - mission objectives. Typically Luke must fly off to find a specific item 
 , and use that item to retrieve another item.
  
  You will be whining as much as Mark Hamill did in his real Jedi Training of The Empire Strikes 
 back after the fifth item-finding mission, when you realize that the game has no end. Each mission 
 accomplishes nothing except granting you a new mission.
  
  Further, the graphics were poor even by 1997 standards. Quake had been released a year earlier, 
 while Yoda Stories featured a windows-based environment of super-deformed Star Wars characters. 
 Movement is choppy and fighting is boring, at best, though you will have access to a light saber, 
 thermal detonators, and blasters. The most difficult aspect of Yoda Stories is navigating the randomly 
 generated maze of each world.
  
  Any Star Wars fan who owns a PC today has access to numerous superior titles from Dark Forces to 
 Galactic Battlegrounds, depending on taste, relegating Yoda Stories to collector's piece more than 
 a game purchased to actually enjoy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicwolf359
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Yoda Stories was one of the first computer games I had ever played. It was great, Albeit a bit 
 frustrating at times. The random level creation idea kept you involved and the innovative puzzles 
 were very well integrated and thought out. Sometimes the weapons/items use system was a little 
 finicky butt once you got the hang of it, It would become easier.
  The levels themselves are adjustable from large to small, Super easy to super difficult. They can 
 be so large at times, Its a pain to navigate but the gameplay makes up for it. Sadly this is a 
 severely underappreciated game. Graphics don't always make the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  I remember buying this game on release. No I didn't wait in a queue for weeks. I noticed it in 
 a Star Wars section at a local games shop and decided to give it a try. This game uses the same 
 engine as The Indiana Jones Desktop Adventures. This game is superior though, well better, but 
 it's not a game that will impress you with it's graphics or sound.
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  
  Unlike a lot of games, there isn't really a point to Yoda Stories. I really believe that this isn't 
 a game you are meant to sit and complete in one or two sittings. It's a game to open up when bored, 
 waiting for something to download or when avoiding work. Theres a feature to hide the window then 
 your boss is near! Every game will start with Luke arriving on Dagobah, you must first find Yoda, 
 he isn't always in the one place though, sometimes beside a random shrub or inside his hut. He 
 will tell you your mission, give you one object which will help you on your quest. You will then 
 fly to a certain planet, again not always the same planet depending on the mission! You can choose 
 the amount of screeens in options, it's usually 100. You move from screen to screen. You can find 
 a locator (map) within one screen of where you land, it's usually under a rock or a certain someone 
 will be carrying it. To progress in the game, the player has to make errands, such as finding a 
 key, or an object, until he reaches the final puzzle. The force I hear you ask? It is in this game, 
 you can meet the ghost of obi wan who will grant you power, it is useful to stop enemies in their 
 tracks or to move an object. You have a lightsaber to help you deal with your enemies, this could 
 be tusken raiders, stormtroopers or even animals. Thermal Detonators and Blasters can also be used, 
 against you too! Luke CAN die in this game, thats where medipacks and rations come in handy. So 
 whats the point in playing? well you do gain somethings, in the fifth game you will duel Darth 
 Vader himself, if you win you will now carry a green saber. After ten you will gain the power of 
 the force, you will no longer need to sense a disturbance and require the help of obi wan. Then 
 finally after fifteen games you will gain Spirit Heart , which is a second life that will be useful 
 if you have no health kits left!
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  They definetly aren't amazing. They are as good as you require from a game like this. It's very 
 cartoonish which is good most times, most maps kind of look the same, except with the basic colour 
 of the terrain, sand, ice or forest. Nothing much else to say here
  
  SOUND 4/10
  
  The only sound here is the waving of your lightsaber, certain themes from Star Wars which appear 
 at certain times for a few moments, such as feeling a disturbance. There is no speech, just comic 
 like text boxes.
  
  VALUE 7/10
  
  If you can find it, it's definetly worth a look. Don't expect it to be an epic 30hour game. You 
 will most likely play it at certain times and have some fun. When it comes to replay value I really 
 don't know what to say, you will probably never complete it, you will complete some missions a 
 couple of times and then get a new mission, just depends. You don't really need to be a die hard, 
 no one is kidding themselves saying this is a classic, it's just a small fun game.
  
  OVERALL 7.0/10
  
  Quite a high score, I thought it was unfair to give this a fair rating. It 
 definetly is a likeable game, instead of playing solitaire, hearts or minesweeper, I played this 
 instead. Nothing wrong with playing a fun game like this over those other tedious desktop games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game gave me some problems while beginning to write this review. Would I dare to recommend 
 everybody a game that's not so good? Certainly not. But how could I condemn a game that's not so 
 bad? Perhaps the right thing to do is to simply state the facts about it and let you decide.
  Yoda Stories is not an original concept. It's the same thing as Indiana Jones and his Desktop Adventures: 
 the same engine, the same graphics, the same interface, the same game. However, it has two differences: 
 it's set on the Star Wars trilogy from episode 4 to 6, and it fixes a lot of the characteristic 
 annoyances of its predecessor.
  In case you haven't played Yoda Stories before, let me tell you what is all about. You incarnate 
 Luke Skywalker, and your task is to complete the quest Yoda gives you at the beginning of the game, 
 which is a classic point-and-click adventure but on reduced scale. The program has a lot of different 
 missions for you to accomplish, and it has a randomizer that assures you that even if you play 
 the same plot again you will have different maps to explore and different puzzles to solve.
  The first thing to do any time you launch a Yoda Stories game is to find Yoda (that's very easy, 
 since your starting point has only four squares of extension) so he can give you your quest and 
 one item you'll need while solving puzzles. The second thing to do is to jump into your X-Wing 
 and fly to the planet where you will have to accomplish the quest. And the last thing to do once 
 you arrive there is to find the world map (since you start the game with no map at all) , which 
 is usually hidden near the starting screen. From then on, it's only adventuring.
  The map is extremely necessary and useful in this game. It gives you the complete outfit of the 
 world, tells you if a screen was explored yet or not, and marks all the explored screens that had 
 something important with an icon, so you can recall what was there. A puzzle piece icon suggests 
 a screen with a puzzle. A doorway icon tells you that if you solve the puzzle there you may travel 
 to another location of the world, which is otherwise inaccessible. A starry icon marks the screen 
 where the ending will take place. An outlined, blank icon suggest that the puzzle of that screen 
 wasn't solved yet, and clicking on it may give you a clue about what you need to do so. A filled 
 icon tells you that the puzzle was already solved.
  Adventuring is not so exciting as the map feature. It's true that adventure games are mainly about 
 finding objects and using them or trading them, but in Yoda Stories this feature becomes annoying. 
 Most of the time you will do errands strolling along the whole map. You will trade with X an object 
 for another object that will be traded with Y on the other corner of the world for yet another 
 object that must be carried to... And so on, until you managed to retrieve the two or three objects 
 you really needed for triggering and completing the final screen.
  The interface is very easy to learn and to use. There's no music or speeches in the game, except 
 for some sound FX and clips from the movie soundtrack. Interaction with the NPC is text-based, 
 so expect to read a lot.
  When you're finished, the program will give you an score rating your performance in a similar way 
 as the IQ points of the Indiana Jones series. A feature that is not present on Indiana Jones and 
 his Desktop Adventures is that the program keeps an statistical log of how may games you've won, 
 how many games you've lost (yes, you can lose: you can get killed) , and your highest score. This 
 is important, since some special events will be triggered only after winning a pre-established 
 number of games. After winning ten games, Yoda will give you a new light saber that is more powerful 
 that your starting one. The other special event that can be triggered is to duel with Darth Vader 
 himself, but I haven't figured out how many games are necessary for that.
  Compared with Indiana Jones and his Desktop Adventures, Yoda Stories is a much better game because 
 is not as annoying as the other one. For example, in Indydesk (sorry, I wanted to abbreviate) , 
 there's no medikits. The only way to cure yourself is to return to the village in order to eat 
 some weeds some Mexican guy hands to you, so is not infrequent that you die and lose while trying 
 to return to the village in order to get cured. In Yoda Stories, you may return to the village 
 to get cured, but you will find a lot of medikits in all of its flavors (First aid kits, roots, 
 fruits, bacta fluid, food, and others) , so you probably don't meet the doctor robot ever.
  There was a lot of controversy about this game and its predecessor, and people didn't agree yet 
 if it's a bad game or not. They complain about its graphics, about its Game Boy feeling. I think 
 that we cannot demand those games a complexity that was not their authors' intention. LucasArts 
 designed them as a quick game for you to play in those direst straits of life when you are forced 
 to play only Minesweeper: at a lunch break at the job, or at school, or while travelling (the game 
 even has a boss feature that instantly hides the game from view, which is very useful on those 
 unpredictable boss rushes through the office) . In those occasions, Yoda Stories really rules!!! 
 With only 6 MB, it's a far better experience that Minesweeper or those pathetic and boring Flash 
 web games that seem 8-bit console games fatted with hormones. Obviously, is not a choice when you 
 have the possibility to play something else. If used in the situations it was meant for, it's terrific. 
 And since some abandonware sites have Yoda Stories and Indydesk for you to download for free, you 
 certainly should give them a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
