-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Starfleet Command III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekstarfleetcommand3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 793 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Taldren
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 6, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Taldren has overhauled the Starfleet Command series to appeal to a wider audience, and the changes 
 are immediately noticeable. 

 A few years ago, it seemed that pretty much any game with "Star Trek" in its title would turn out 
 to be terrible. One of the first games to buck this trend was Starfleet Command, a tactical starship 
 simulator from Interplay and developer Taldren. Based on the Star Fleet Battles board game, it 
 was a modest success among strategy gamers and was well received by Trek fans for its slavish devotion 
 to Trek lore. Today, old Trek seems a distant memory, and the newest installment in the Starfleet 
 Command series is boldly striding into the future with a new publisher, a new setting, and many 
 changes to gameplay.           Power management, like moving power from shields to weapons at opportune 
 times, is easier than ever.    

  It's clear from the outset that Starfleet Command III is striving for a broader audience. While 
 the first two games were applauded by Star Trek fans and hard-core strategy gamers, they were also 
 maligned for their cumbersome interfaces and complicated gameplay. Taldren has overhauled the Starfleet 
 Command series to appeal to a wider audience, and the changes are immediately noticeable.   

  The biggest difference from previous editions is a change in setting from classic Star Trek to 
 the Next Generation. The new setting means that all the ships, weapons, and technology are brand 
 new, and the races are significantly changed. The numerous factions of the previous game have been 
 pared down to the four core races of the Next Generation canon -- the Federation, Klingons, Romulans, 
 and Borg -- which also translates into tighter campaigns and more-focused gameplay.   

  The single-player game takes place after the U. S. S. Voyager has returned home but prior to the 
 events of the upcoming  Star Trek: Nemesis  movie. The designers have crafted a more interesting 
 plot to tie together the campaigns, and so you'll play as the Klingons first, then the Romulans, 
 and finally the Federation. Now that relations between the Federation and the Klingons are at an 
 all-time high, the two factions are preparing to construct a joint space station called Unity -- on 
 the border of the Romulan Neutral Zone. Of course, the Romulans are dead set against the alliance 
 and the space station, and over the course of the campaigns, they engineer a series of events to 
 imperil both the starbase and the alliance.   

  The Borg don't have a story-based campaign, but you can play as them in multiplayer and in the 
 conquest campaigns, which are open-ended games without a plot. The victory condition is simply 
 conquest of the galaxy. These campaigns aren't as interesting as the story-based campaigns, since 
 they lack unique missions, but they're ideal for those who just want to amass bigger ships and 
 crush AI empires.   

  However, the campaign itself is secondary to the game's missions. All the action unfolds in the 
 tactical missions, and it is here that most of the improvements have been made. The interface and 
 gameplay have been streamlined immensely from the previous Starfleet Command games. The interface 
 is less cluttered, though it may still seem a bit overwhelming to more-casual strategy gamers. 
 Thankfully, the game has excellent tutorials to teach you the basics of controls, gameplay, advanced 
 tactics, and the differences between the races. It's too bad the developer didn't add similar tutorials 
 for the game's clunky campaign interface.           The campaign still uses a primitive interface, 
 but it has interesting story-based missions.    

  Nevertheless, within the tactical mode, things are easier to handle. There are now just two weapon 
 types: primary, which consists of standard phasers and disruptors, and heavy, which consists of 
 torpedoes and specialized beam weapons like the Klingon ion cannon or the Romulan myotronic beam. 
 In addition, managing power between your shields and weapons, which is the key to winning battles, 
 is handled easily with sliders. Starfleet Command III's tactical battles also have streamlined 
 shields and warp-drive travel. The game has four shield facings instead of six, and reinforcing 
 shields is done simply by clicking on the desired shield in the ship schematic at the bottom left 
 of the screen. Unlike in previous games, your ships can also engage their warp drives. Not only 
 does that mean you can shuttle across the levels easier, but the warp drive can also be used tactically, 
 for high-speed strafing runs (you can fire torpedoes while in warp but not primary weapons) , for 
 shaking off pursuers, or in other ways.   

  If your ship gets damaged, repairs are easier to perform, and you no longer have to manually purchase 
 spare parts. Instead, you can use prestige points to customize your ship. You can refit your ships 
 with new shields, weapons, transporters, computers, armor, warp cores, and more. Like in FASA Studio's 
 recent MechWarrior games, you need to make sure you can afford to buy the equipment you want and 
 that your ship has the available mass and power for the modifications.    

 There is a lot of strategy involved in customizing your ship in Starfleet Command III, especially 
 when you must decide whether to modify your current ship or buy a higher-end model with default 
 weapons. You'll also have to decide between upgrading different parts of your ships, like choosing 
 between better shields or better torpedoes. Despite the tough choices, it's actually a lot of fun, 
 and with more than two dozen ships and more than quadruple that number in different parts, Starfleet 
 Command III offers hundreds of different combinations, most of which are perfectly feasible combinations, 
 so you may find outfitting your ship to be almost as enjoyable as fighting a battle.           
 Each race has unique advantages. The Borg, with their mighty cubes, are all about offense.    

 
  Starfleet Command III makes plenty of other changes, too. Crew members now gain experience levels, 
 which lets them perform additional tasks. You can also use prestige points to recruit new crew 
 members to replace old ones. Also, the game simplifies shuttles (there's only one shuttle available 
 in the game) and removes missiles, and it also changes tractor beams so that they can't stop attacks 
 but can still help you lock onto a target.   

  But having to arrange a firing arc to lock onto a target, as well as having regenerating shields 
 and relatively slow ships, sets a plodding pace for the game. There's quite a bit of strategy involved 
 in each battle, but they take time to resolve and seem more like drawn-out waltzes than exhilarating 
 space battles. All the hardpoints for your weapons have firing arcs, which are in most cases 45-degree-angle 
 cones. So you spend lots of time just maneuvering your ship into position to fire and then spend 
 more time waiting for the weapons to recharge, all while trying to keep your enemy's weak spots 
 in your sights. And because the enemy is moving his strong shields to face you, you have to outmaneuver 
 him. The end result is lots of circling around each other. Since maneuvering is so difficult, you'll 
 really appreciate the small Klingon ships or the Federation's 360-degree, saucer-mounted phasers. 
   

  Starfleet Command III's AI is tough but predictable. It does a great job of rotating its ships 
 to move its unshielded sections out of the way and position its intact shields toward you. And 
 it's good at turning the tables on you and maneuvering into position to pick apart your weak side. 
 The game itself is well balanced, yet all the sides are still different, with unique strengths. 
 For instance, cloaking has been enhanced from previous games so that Romulans and Klingons can 
 cloak their ships to position themselves in just the right spot before unloading a full attack. 
 But since you can't usually destroy an enemy ship with a single volley, cloaking isn't some kind 
 of unbalanced instant-kill tactic. And there are built-in balances to keep cloaking in check: You 
 can't fire when cloaked, and while you're decloaking, your ship's shields will be briefly offline, 
 which makes your ship vulnerable to enemy fire and boarding soldiers.           Starfleet Command 
 III has made the jump to  The Next Generation .    

  Other minor problems mar this otherwise well-executed game. The biggest is that you can't save 
 during a mission. The game's graphics aren't great either, though they are serviceable. Starfleet 
 Command III's explosions all seem pretty uniform, and the game's cluttered campaign interface is 
 unintuitive to say the least. Also, actually moving your ships on the campaign map is tedious, 
 as you have to click on one hex at a time, and you can't see what missions are available in surrounding 
 hexes. And despite all the enhancements, the game is still slow-paced and rather complex, at least 
 compared to a conventional real-time strategy game, so those who prefer the quick action of Command 
 &amp; Conquer or Warcraft III may not enjoy it.   

  However, Starfleet Command III is a great game overall. Its voice acting, with the exception of 
 the Borg, is superb -- the game even features Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard, who provides voice-over 
 for the game's tutorials. The online campaign, called Dynaverse 3, is also playable right out of 
 the box and is as robust as the single-player conquest campaign, though it lets you group with 
 players in fleets to take over other players' territories. The Dynaverse 3 campaign is a semipersistent 
 world, with a winning empire declared after a period of time. This aspect of the game sounds like 
 fun (except for having to bid against your allies to buy ships) , but at this point, the online 
 campaigns are so sparsely populated (or run as exclusive clubs) that it's hard to find good action-packed 
 games at any given moment. Still, as more people come to realize the depth of rewarding gameplay 
 in Starfleet Command III, it should hopefully be only a matter of time before both the Dynaverse 
 and the Starfleet Command series attract more fans and would-be starship commanders.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sirolf21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is the best Starfleet game to date. A pre is that the time era is in the 
 TNG, better then the TOS from Starfleet 1 and 2. The story line in this game is better because 
 you play it from 3 different sides. Commanding the starship is easy. Hotkeys can also be used. 
 Secondly customizing your ship works great. You can ad different weapons an other systems to your 
 ship.
  
  Another aspect to the game are officers. In campain and skirmisch you can buy better officers for 
 more abbilitys or better prestations.
  
  The Borg are the only empire which you can only play in skirmisch or contest mode. But there cubes 
 are the best ships in the game.
  
  Of course you have multiplayer options in sfc3. These can be in skirmisch multiplayer or contest 
 mode where you fight on the side of one empire with dozens of other players for winning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jduck1979
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I'd been a bit of a fan of the STAR FLEET COMMAND games since I bought my first ever PC back in 
 Summer 1999, and the demo of the original game off a magazine cover disk was one of the very first 
 things to get installed on it.
  
  My first PC was a bit of an old banger even then... originally equipped with a 75MHz Pentium1 processor, 
 but later upgraded to a 233MHz one from EVERGREEN Technologies, but of course even that became 
 a bit long in the tooth and come September/October 2002 I eventually admitted defeat and bought 
 a more powerful 1.1GHz AMD Duron powered part-built jobbie off someone trading on EBAY as "Ginger6" 
 so I could play some of the newer games I'd bought........ this "Star Trek: Star Fleet Command 
 III" being one of the 3 games that prompted me to make the change (the other 2 being "Microsoft 
 Train Sim" + "Sim City 3000".
  
  I absolutely loved this game, finally fulfilling my long held desire to do battle with the Borg, 
 and / or command a Klingon warship (complete with Cloaking device, etc) .
  Unfortuntely in December 2006 that PC fell victim to what I suspect was a motherboard failure, 
 and had to rush into service a project PC I'd started in the summer but given up 'cos I couldn't 
 get the damn thing to work properly..... when I did get the damn thing working (with the aid of 
 a relative to finish the job off) , I've no longer been able to play this game....
  The new system =
  Asrock ConroeXfire-eSATA2 motherboard
  Intel Celeron D 356 3.33GHz Processor
 
  GeIL 1GB (2x 512MB) PC5300 667MHz Value DDR2 RAM
  Leadtek GeForce6200 Turbo Cache 256MB DDR graphics card
  MS Windows XP Home SP2
  DirectX9.0
 
  
  Now even with the proper DirectX9 patch downloaded from Gamespot the flamin' thing won't work properly.... 
 shows the intro. vids fine.... and the game menus / maps... but as soon as you click to go into 
 a mission, the game shuts off completely... GRRRRR! 
  
  Looks like I'll never get to finish this game : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, and its easily one of the best star trek games ever made once u go online (Campaign 
 is good too, but online to me was amazing.) could have been something special, But....
  
  After logging online & doing a few missions raising some cash for a new ship etc, the server (official 
 ones) would randomly disconnect u & u log back in, find ur missing all ur latest purchases & pretty 
 much end up back at the begining with an extra few 1000 credits, this was a major gremlin but me 
 & 6-7 other ppl i found online played it for about a week despite these problems. 
  
  We hoped for a patch to fix it, we carried on playing.... no patch.
  we carried on playing some 
 more.... no patch
  Beta patch was released..... woohoo is this the end of our problems?.. No.
  if anything it added 
 alot more issues as we now had 2 different versions of the game which caused more issues online 
 etc & we still suffered from disconnects / losses / crashes blablabla.
  
  That was back in 2002... and as far as im aware, its still the same (no patches since the beta, 
 still crashes, and i believe theres no "official" servers now)
  
  If only the Taldren etc had looked after this game rather than "Release & Leave", it could have 
 been one of those iconic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Starfleet Command III is superb and as great as Star Trek: Armada, though they are different 
 kinds of games. If you are a Star Trek fan, you will love both of them extremely. I know there is 
 another good Star Trek game called Bridge Commander. I have played the demo of Bridge Commander. 
 Somehow I just don't like it. Maybe I prefer to control a ship directly and to see the whole ship 
 on my screen, not doing some tasks in the bridge room.
  
  Starfleet Command III can be treated as a semi MMO (massive multiplayer online) game. Now I am still 
 amazed whenever I think of it had official servers recording all your data online (including what 
 ship you fly, what planet you ever captured, and what equipments you ever bought and loaded on your 
 ship) . Starfleet Command III reminds me of lots of good memories, especially the multiplayer. I 
 remember my Romulan Warbird flew with 2 players' starships to assult defences of a planet. I felt 
 so great then!
  
  Star Trek: Starfleet Command III is one of my favorite Sci-Fi games. I miss it forever. And I hope 
 Star Trek Online can do the same great job.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCuttell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I think this game is what a star trek game should be. I've played a few star trek games in my short 
 life span, but none have ever lifed up to what people say it would be. But no more, SFC3 brings 
 star trek to a whole new level, ship combat in space, and we all know how big space is. Adding 
 some off gamespots downloads and it brings the game itself to a entire new level, adding more ships, 
 changing the aim at the game, or whatever download you put on it. Me, i've downloaded 150 new ships, 
 thanks to gamespot and its members. Although having said so many good things about it, it does 
 have downsides. I still get a couple of glitches on my SFC3, despite some of gamespot downloads 
 ( but it could be my computer, i dont know for sure) and some of the fighting does some times take 
 sooo long to finish, and some of the missions on the game itself are like..... yeah whatever. They 
 bore me sometimes, i like action, just read my profile :) . But i've got to say, altogether its 
 a brilliant game, despite what some people will say. Thank gamespot and its members again for the 
 downloads, without such i wouldnt, or be able to, play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  ok i played bridge commander, being a starship but just 2 starships in da story and thats it
  
  strategy games is building a base and attack and stuff
  
  This is between them, you are 
 a starship but you can form a fleet and u do your own missions, your own storyline
  
  the points
  
  gameplay, Great but some fewer -`s
  Graphics could be way more better but keep 
 up the good work
  Sound is good as always
  Difficulty the game aint so easy at the beginning but its not hard eighter
  Good tutorials, clear 
 for everyone even if your english is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: data2161
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE BEST STAR TREK GAME I HAVE PLAYER YET TO DATE. IT IS A GREAT MIND THINKER FOR 
 HOW TO MAKE YOUR SHIPS AND STAY ALIVE. IT IS ALSO EVERY GOOD FOR LONG TERM CONQUEST OF THE STAR 
 TREK UNIVERSE. YOUR BEST RACE TO PLAY IN CONQUEST MODE FOR AN EASY GAME IS THE BORG, BUT THE REAL 
 CHALLANGE IS TO PLAY USING THE ROMULANS, THERE WEAPONS ARE SLOWER TO RELOAD THEN ANY OTHER RACE 
 IN THE GAME AND THEY TAKE A LARGE AMOUNT TO THINKING AND PLANNING AN ATTACK AND ON WHAT YOU ARE 
 GOING TO ATTACK. ONE LAST THING, WHEN IN CONQUEST MODE BE VERY CAREFUL OF WHAT SHIPS YOU ATTACK 
 AND HOW MANY SHIPS THERE ARE IN YOUR SECTOR WHEN YOU ATTACK THEM BECAUSE SOME TIMES AN EXTRA SHIP 
 OR TOO WILL SHOW UP TO HELP AND THEY ARE MORE THAN LIKELY GOING TO BE MUCH LARGER AND MORE POWERFUL 
 THEN THE ONES THAT YOU WERE PLANNING ON ATTACKING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game more than I ended up liking it. It has all of the elements that 
 make for a good Star Trek game but the overly complicated control system just takes to much time 
 to master. The ships all look great but there is a real limit to what ships are available for use 
 and they really don't behave the way you would expect ships like these to. Some seem over powering 
 while others just seem weak.
  
  All in all it is a good game to have if you like this kind of game, but don't expect it to blow 
 your socks off. I only played it for about six hours before uninstalling it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumen222
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I played the first Starfleet Command and thought it looked great. Let down by lack of te original 
 Star Trek score and non original sound effects.
  I skipped the second on as it looked pretty much the same, so when I heard the hype about SFC3, 
 I ws really excited, went out and bought it.
  Started it up and was narked off immediately.
  Good Graphics severly let down by no shading, 
 improved on the sound effects making them authentic, but again let down by the lack of Star Trek 
 theme score. Gameplay was was pretty much the same a ever, bored after 3 or 4 missions. But .......... hold 
 it there, I found I could use notepad to re-prog the game powers, then I found that I could access 
 the net and dowload mos, new missions ans ships etc.. I was ecsatic, then I tried to take my new 
 ships and designs online to play and test against others, only to find...... NO MODS ALLOWED!!!!!
 
  Alot of swearing later, it was exiled to the games box, never to see the light of day again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I pretty much thing my review title says it all. I am not a hard core star trek fan by no means, 
 but I will watch it over star wars anyday. This game has the 4 coolest races in the trek universe. 
 Federation Klingons Romulans and Borg. 
  
  Graphics- this game was released right before the movie Star Trek: Nemesis (which is a good movie 
 I might add) came out, so the graphics are a couple of years old, so their not the best, but considering 
 the time period it came out, i think they're pretty good. 
  
  Sound- The sound in this game is incredible. i really love the sound, sound effects come straight 
 from the movies and tv series so it's very authentic to what it 'would sound like'. 
  
  Gameplay- there is a lot of stratigizing in this game. Although you are one ship, you must take 
 care of it and make decisions on how to keep it up and running during combat. For instance, do 
 you want power to go to the shields or to the forward torpedo tubes. It gets very immersive.
  
  Conclusion:
  Star Trek command 3 is a very cool game and I recommend it to all types of people 
 for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you be a captain of a Star Trek vessle fighting as the Federation, Klingons, Romulans 
 and even the Borg. The feel of this game is acutally pretty damn good, having icons for officers, 
 different sections of the ship, different icons to direct fire on. Very good idea. Why only a 7? 
 I'll tell you...
  
  Graphics- Great. Honestly makes you feel like your in the middle of the fight. The detail is very 
 good, and you can turn it up and down depending on your preferences, (as in most games) . But the 
 best part of this is how accurate it is to the show.
  
  Sound- Great. All the sounds are straight out of the show, having you feel emerced in the environment. 
 A great feel indeed.
  
  Playability- Great. Except for one little detail, this game is pretty damn good as far as gameplay. 
 What's the hickup? Turn speed. Yes, your ships turn as fast as a slug who is tired of living. What's 
 that, a super-turning ability? Oh, it didn't work, and now my ship is compeletey defenceless, thanks 
 game. I hate you too.
  
  Re-playability- If you can handle the game enough to play it more than once, you will find the 
 game to be a good replayable one. For missions depending on your race are plenty and it really 
 makes you feel like a Klingon going after poor little ships, this game delivers in that respect.
 
  
  If you can handle the horrible turning speed and the giant amounts of sheilds that the ships have, 
 this game really does make you feel like your in space, along with Capt. Picard and Gen. Martok. 
 But unfortunately, due to the turning, this game can be really boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiralhobbs
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a good game. What can i say it has the Federation, Klingons and the Romulans. If you 
 play the galactic conquest missions then you can even be the Borg.
  
  Never played the ones before this but I liked this game, admitedly I am a Star Trek fan, but I 
 still find myself going back to this game every once in a while. The appeal of running about with 
 an Enterprise E class ship which you can upgrade is briliant. Well who wouldn't want the biggest 
 most powerful weapons on their ship. I did.
  
  If you are a Star Trek fan then you will love this game. I only felt let down by the games lack 
 of progression there is an option there to be an Admiral but you get stuck with being a lowly Lieutenant. 
 Other than that one minor fault this game has survivability. The graphics are somewhat lacking 
 in relation to newer games but the gameplay is still there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of either of the first two, you will love this game. Finally, the developers took 
 out the very non-Trek missiles that were available in the first two games. There are campaigns 
 included in this game that help you get the whole feel of the game and are very enjoyable. There 
 are also free-roam conquest campaigns that do not have a storyline so you can conquer whatever 
 your hearts desire. 
  
  This game seems more stable than its predecessors. The second game was a little bit unstable but 
 this one runs like a champ. 
  
  One very nice feature is the refitting of your starships with various combinations of shields, 
 primary and heavy weapons, bridge systems, and engines. You can make an all energy weapon vessel, 
 all heavy weapon, or a combination of the two. There are also various heavy weapons besides the 
 ubiquitous photon torpedoes. 
  
  Overall, I love this game. I have recently started playing it again after a multi-year hiatus and 
 am enjoying it immensely. A must-play for any Trek fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDV779
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Being a Star Trek fan myself, I immediately wanted to get this game and try it out. The predecessors 
 to this game were, well, okay to say the least. For Command 3, though, they obviously made some 
 adjustments, and with only a few bug's (however consistent) its a great game to play. Like I said 
 before, if your a trek fan, you will especially love this game. I would highly recommend downloading 
 the Mods made available for this game, which greatly expands gameplay. All in all, a great game, 
 especially if you have some background with the movies or shows. Also, its a very innovative game, 
 allowing you to control massive, or tiny, starships and fighting and blasting your way through 
 space, with custom battles, so on and so forth. A nice change from games like Homeworld where you 
 control an entire fleet of ships. Ever wanted to control just one, but have total control of it, 
 including its tactical situation? Taking evasive maneuvers, concentrating on a target? This is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Time Played: ~45 hours
  Platform: PC
  Control: Keyboard + Mouse
  
  Any Starfleet hound will tell you that this is probably the best Star Trek game that has been made 
 to date.
  
  The game as a whole is quite a lot of fun - in fact, I finished all 3 campaigns in 3 days, much 
 to the chagrin of my sleeping habits.
  
  Its a typical space SIM where you start out with a small ship and puny weapons and get brought 
 through progressively harder missions, winning Prestige points that will buy you larger vessels 
 and weapons with more punch. There are 3 campaigns - Klingon, Romulan and Federation, to be done 
 in that order to follow a chronological story. The story line is quite good, and Patrick Stewart's 
 voice talent adds a lot of class to the Federation roles.
  
  The game also has "conquest" mode, where you are basically just supposed to take over the galaxy 
 - I havent played with that much, but it just seems to be more open ended action of the same ilk 
 as the campaign. That is probably a good and bad thing - good because it allows you the freedom 
 to fix and re-supply your ship when you want, and bad because it can potentially get monotonous.
 
  
  You can also play as the Borg in conquest mode.
  
  Now for a few flaws - 
  
  Combat can be quite fun, or really frustrating, depending upon the situation. Sometimes it feels 
 like a Ballet of Hippos with these ships just endlessly circling each other, trying to get in the 
 next shot. Other times there is so much going on, you really feel that it is pushing your limits 
 of tactical awareness. So, flaw 1 is potentially monotonous combat situations where you just pick 
 away at each other until one of you dies.
  
  Flaw 2 - the map mode is horribly unintuitive and sometimes quite buggy.
  
  Flaw 3 - actually 
 flying the ship can really be a pain in the tush. Basically you click with the mouse on the 3D 
 window indicating the direction that you would like to turn in. The ship then plots a set turn 
 and executes until that point, with a clock style thermometer reading to let you know how much 
 further you have to turn to meet you last command heading. 
  
  I haven't found a way to tell it to just KEEP turning in that direction. There is a "Set Course 
 to Orbit Target" mode, but that doesn't work very well i my experience. I have to see if it can 
 be done with a joystick, but I don't think so. In fact, using the ships systems probably precludes 
 that, because you do have to go back and forth a bit with the mouse to do things like beam assault 
 teams, etc.
  
  Conclusion:
  Anyway, despite a few flaws that bugged be me the whole time, this is an awesome game, and one 
 that I'll play for quite some time from now. Its an oldie that requires some looking on EBay, etc, 
 but it is more than worth it.
  
  If you like the Star Trek Universe and space SIMs in general, you'll find this to be a lot of fun.
 
  
  Closest Games for Comparison: Master of Orion II (3 sucked!) , or Freelancer, sans the merchant 
 aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeFight_RB
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  SFC 3 is in many aspects, quite similar to SFC 2: Empires at War, but with improvements. The main 
 map is based on hexagons, when in one you may easily move to another by clicking on one of the 
 surrounding six hexes, so movement is easy. Some differences in game play is that there are no 
 more fighters, the interface is simpler, and all around less complex. To begin, although there 
 are no more fighters available in the game, a feature I really liked, there are shuttles that have 
 a single phaser. These aren't the shuttles of the previous games that can be converted for other 
 uses but are still quite useful. Moving on to the interface, it is largely scaled down, which I 
 like because I did not use half of the tools available. That really makes the game easier to play. 
 There are fewer ships than the previous version, but the process of acquiring new ones is much 
 easier, as well as the fact that you can refit and upgrade them any way you like, within mass limits. 
 Weapons are better in this game and shields have been reduced to four, instead of six. With the 
 streamlining and reduced interface the game is much more fun to play as well as being easy to learn. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
