-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Starfighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/starwarsstarfighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 231 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Jan 20, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you feel like playing through a solid arcade shooter set in the Star Wars universe, then you 
 might want to give Starfighter a try. 

  Star Wars Starfighter originally appeared on the PlayStation 2 about a year ago, and the new PC 
 version is basically identical to the original. The game itself is reminiscent of last year's Star 
 Wars: Battle for Naboo, which was also based on  Star Wars: Episode I  and was also easy to pick 
 up and play. While the missions in the two games are somewhat different, Starfighter takes the 
 same basic arcade-style shooting of Battle for Naboo and improves upon it with a better sense of 
 flight, significantly improved graphics, an original story, and the ability to issue orders to 
 wingmen, much like what you'd find in other space combat simulations. That's not to say Starfighter 
 is the ultimate Star Wars flight combat game -- it's rather short, and it also has a number of problems, 
 ranging from the somewhat unresponsive controls to some uninspired and sometimes confusing missions.
 
 
 Starfighter takes place just before the events of  Star Wars: Episode I , and it begins with you 
 in the role of a young Naboo pilot named Rhys as he goes through a series of training missions 
 in the canyons of Naboo. However, Rhys' trainer, Essara, is killed in the midst of combat, leaving 
 Rhys drifting in space before meeting up with a Toydarian named Reti, who repairs Rhys' ship before 
 joining him on a mission to find Essara's assailant. While all this is going on, a mercenary pilot 
 named Vana happens to stumble upon a Trade Federation droid factory that's preparing for an invasion, 
 but unfortunately, a space pirate named Nym captures her before she can alert the Naboo. Starfighter's 
 rather complex narrative is relatively solid, if somewhat out of place. Since the game is essentially 
 an arcade shooter, the story -- which unfolds through prerendered cutscenes and cockpit chatter -- is 
 easy to ignore while you focus on the tasks at hand.
 
 The types of missions you'll encounter in Starfighter are fairly basic, and they don't feature the 
 same level of creativity as those in Battle for Naboo. That's partly due to the fact that you'll 
 only pilot three different ships in the game, and they're all essentially the same, so you'll be 
 trying to complete the same types of objectives throughout almost every mission. Needless to say, 
 it gets a little repetitive, and even the different environments -- with the exception of the two 
 canyons stages and the droid control ship, which are interesting -- don't really do enough to break 
 up that repetition.
 
 The mission objectives themselves can occasionally present problems as well. There are usually several 
 objectives per mission, including optional secondary objectives, and you'll typically have to complete 
 the main objectives before you can complete the stage. The problem is that new objectives are usually 
 given to you through cockpit chatter, and it can occasionally be difficult to hear the directions 
 you're being given, especially if you're under heavy fire at the time. Of course, you'll also be 
 able to read what the next objective is in a window, but these descriptions are often vague. Beyond 
 that, as you progress through the game, you'll undoubtedly be struck with a sense of dj 
 vu, as so many of the missions in the game seem the same. There isn't much variety overall, and 
 there are no multiplayer features. Starfighter is quite short, and it can be finished in one long 
 play session, although there's some replay value to be found in the secondary objectives and unlockable 
 secrets.
 
 The ability to issue orders to wingmen is one of Starfighter's notable features. At any time during 
 a mission, you can order your wingmen to attack your target, form on your wing, or help defend 
 your ship. Though you might find yourself ignoring this ability in some of the more hectic battles, 
 it becomes an invaluable tool during defensive missions and attacks on larger targets, such as 
 freighters.
 
 Controlling any one of the three ships in Starfighter is fairly straightforward. You can use speed 
 boosts to get away from or close in on enemy ships. There are also breaks, which are quite useful 
 for taking out some of the larger targets. Firing primary and secondary weapons is as simple as 
 pressing the corresponding buttons -- though you should keep an eye on your primary weapons, as their 
 strength dissipates while you're holding down the fire key and gradually recharges when they aren't 
 being used. Unfortunately, actually maneuvering of your ship can take some getting used to, as 
 the controls don't seem to be as responsive as they probably should be. You'll notice this especially 
 if you're using a flight stick, as it takes a considerable amount of pressure just to make your 
 ship perform even the slightest turn or tilt. Fortunately, those who were frustrated with the "invisible 
 ceiling" problem in Battle for Naboo -- which limited your movement in each stage and made loops 
 quite difficult to execute -- will be happy to know that you don't feel nearly so constrained in 
 Starfighter.
 
 Battle for Naboo was originally developed for the Nintendo 64, and since Starfighter was originally 
 developed for hardware that's significantly more powerful than the N64, it also has the luxury 
 of looking much better than Battle for Naboo. Actually, the game looks better than the original 
 PlayStation 2 version thanks to the higher-resolution graphics. Most of the environments in Starfighter 
 are huge, the special effects are great, and the textures generally look good -- though you'll probably 
 notice some rather ugly ones during some of the game's cutscenes. Despite all this, the frame rate 
 manages to stay consistent throughout most of the game, even during battles with well over a dozen 
 ships on the screen at once. The mission in which you fly into a massive droid control ship and 
 through a series of its air ducts should give an idea as to how massive the areas can be.
 
 The sound in Starfighter is made up of all the usual music tracks and blaster effects found in previous 
 Star Wars games. While none of them are bad, those who have had their fill of "Duel of the Fates" 
 or other  Episode I  music tracks may find them a little overbearing. 
 
 Starfighter looks great and has a good story, though not all its missions are engaging, and they 
 start to feel repetitive as the game goes on. The game doesn't last that long, either. Even so, 
 if you got some satisfaction out of Battle for Naboo, or you feel like playing through a solid 
 arcade shooter set in the Star Wars universe, then you might want to give Starfighter a try. 
 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Starfighter. Great game. Starfighter throws you in Episode uno of the Star Wars Trilogy. 
 You start the game as hotshot Rhys Dallows from Naboo. From there, you get hyperspaced away in 
 a storyline that is engaging and has missions actually related to the plot. The voice acting is 
 great and sometimes outright funny. The graphics are very good for between Gamecube and N64. The 
 cutscenes are beautiful but sometimes too dark to see. [maybe it's just my screen] The laser sounds 
 are not that good. I like that there are bonus objectives that make you play the missions again 
 and again. The last mission is just obnoxiously fun and challenging. There is also bonus mission 
 mode where you have some challenging objections to meet. Some of the bonus missions seem like they 
 should be included in the actual campaign. Overall, Star Wars Starfighter is a great game that 
 didn't get much publicity. It seems like Freespace and Starfighter were two hidden gems that will 
 be in my collection forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Star wars: Starfighter, Mirriors and resembles the good game Roque Squadran and that game was a 
 favorite of mine, So I knew when, I purchased this game I knew I would have something that was 
 like Roque squadran, When I first played it I couldn't figure out the control system so it's been 
 sitting in it's case on the display cabinet, for like 6 months having not been played. Seeing only 
 yesturday I decided to give it ago since I knew I have a decent joystick now. So I spent some time 
 getting use the Joystick controls. Looking for the Configure option, was the only thing I had trouble 
 with I was expecting it to be inside the game, It isn't you get the option with the autoplay menu, 
 so if you have autoplay disabled you will miss it which I'm sure will or has caused trouble with 
 people. However after spending like 10 minutes trying to fiqure it all out by Trial and error (before 
 I found the configuration options.) I started to get into the game. Once you manage that you find 
 the game isn't that half bad. The enviroment can be a bit clumpsy, as if you keep bouncing against 
 the roof of the play area enough, you can break though and fly about. Couple of other bugs emerged 
 that put a damber on things. Bugs Such if you bump into something you will or can totally flip 
 out or your ship goes into a endless loop that will have you killed, because you need a minute 
 because you've become dizzy from having watched it.
  
  The cinematics brings a nice touch, good voice acting and you feel for the main character at the 
 start when he looses his teacher. The story jumps around from place to place which can leave you 
 disorintated with the story so you may decided to skip them all the time and you wouldn't really 
 miss anything except you will miss out on the depth of the characters and a couple of the cinimatics 
 have the characters explain some of their specal abilities to their ships things you wouldn't know 
 from the manual or just flying about.
  
  The Game, and game play is simple granted however I knew what I was buying and I figured as much 
 as to what I would be getting.
  
  You get 12 missions, but it's actually 48 missions if you go through them all getting the Silver 
 and Gold medals for completeing certain tasks, each will unlock the bonus missions which gives 
 you good fun and practice to train up on.
  
  The game isn't hard for me and I found it rather easy, simply because I have skill at this sort, 
 not brilliant TOp gun type of skill, just having played games like Freespace/Freespace2, Star lancer, 
 and other type of games. Once you've figured out the controls everything becomes second nature 
 to you. This game is one for the Fans of Star wars and perticular for the Fans of Rogue Squadran 
 that wanted and always had the Naboo star fighter mod attached to that game. In a real sense Star 
 Wars :Starfighter is just simply another Rogue squadran just with a different name. You wouldn't 
 be far wrong saying that. However as a fan I really like it. So what can you do.
  
  (look out for some User videos I'll be uploading soon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I played most of the game this morning. It's not bad but it's not great either. If you enjoy an 
 arcade space sim that is more shoot-em up than anything else, with a minimal and rather lame story 
 that features a few annoying cliche characters, then maybe you could like this. My biggest gripe 
 is the level of difficulty is ridiculous later on in the game even on easy mode, which I find to 
 be typical of the older Lucas Space arcade space sim games. So it wasn't really a surprise but 
 it was annoying just the same.
  
  Call me a lame noob (I beat all the Wing Commander games back in the day, does that count?) but 
 after having to replay the same frustrating mission repeatedly which involved flying through a 
 very narrow canyon while escorting someone who must live to win the mission, I actually switched 
 to easy mode and failing still, invoked God mode so I could NOT die and I still failed it because 
 the guy being escorted died. I'm sure I could have won this with persistence but at some point, 
 it becomes more frustration than fun and winning under those conditions is not a win at all so 
 I uninstalled it then and there and that was that. If you hit the canyon edge in this run, you 
 die and fail. It's painfully easy to do and you have to ride the brakes the entire time to go slow 
 enough. This wouldn't be so bad but the way the control scheme is setup by default for a gamepad, 
 this is very awkward and error prone when you try to take out enemies and maintain control of your 
 ship in such tight quarters at the same time. However, you need to kill a lot of the bad guys along 
 the way or they kill your escort. So it's a painful process of dying over and over until you get 
 it just right. That to me is not especially fun so I decided I was done at this point in the game.
 
  
  The graphics are not bad, but nothing to write home about either. The sound and music are good 
 as you might expect from a Star Wars title. Some of the missions were fun but I found them very 
 uneven in terms of difficulty. It isn't like I haven't won plenty of games like this before, but 
 I guess this just wasn't worth the effort to me and that probably says a lot right there.
  
  I'd recommend passing this one by, even for cheap money. There are much better games to be 
 playing than this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
