-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/starwarsknightsoftor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 9.3, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 10,145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 18, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A number of technical issues in the out-of-the-box product mar what otherwise is the best version 
 of one of the year's best games. 

  Canadian developer BioWare is well known for producing high quality role-playing games, thanks 
 to its successful Baldur's Gate series, and offers up what is, in many ways, its finest such game 
 to date in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. LucasArts wisely delegated the task of producing 
 a deep and involving Star Wars-themed RPG to BioWare, which has done a remarkable job of making 
 Knights live up to the Star Wars name. In fact, Knights arguably lives up to the Star Wars name 
 better than any other Star Wars property in years, including the last two theatrical releases. 
 The game's greatest accomplishment is its focused-yet-open-ended plot progression, which gives 
 you the freedom to play as either a morally good or evil character -- or shades in between. The struggle 
 between good and evil is, of course, central to Star Wars and manifests itself extremely well throughout 
 this outstanding game, which debuted on the Xbox earlier this year. For good measure, Knights features 
 hours and hours of top-notch voice-over (all the dialogue is spoken) , so you'll certainly be impressed 
 by how different characters respond differently to you, and you'll also be impressed by the sheer 
 size of the game. Sadly, a number of bugs and technical issues in the out-of-the-box product mar 
 what otherwise is the best version of one of the year's best games.  

          Knights takes place thousands of years before the Star Wars films, but you'll recognize 
 a lot of the technology.     

  Those who've played BioWare's computer RPGs -- either the Baldur's Gate series or last year's Neverwinter 
 Nights -- will recognize the influence of these games on Knights of the Old Republic. In fact, the 
 main difference between the gameplay of Knights and BioWare's previous games is superficial. This 
 one is played from a third-person perspective and thus resembles a 3D action adventure game rather 
 than one of BioWare's older isometric RPGs. Other than that, gameplay is similar. You create a 
 main character and then explore many different areas, interact with many different characters, 
 settle many different disputes, solve many different puzzles, and engage in plenty of combat. Combat 
 appears to be in real time but actually uses a turn-based system "under the hood" just like Neverwinter 
 Nights, which means that your character's statistics and attributes (and your strategy) make all 
 the difference, and your personal reflexes and hand-eye coordination have no bearing on the outcome. 
 Most importantly, Knights is very different from your average RPG in that you'll always be an active 
 participant in the storyline, rather than a passive observer. You don't just read, watch, and listen 
 to a lot of text, cutscenes, and dialogue; instead, your character is constantly invited and required 
 to make difficult decisions, and that's ultimately the most entertaining, impressive, and rewarding 
 aspect of the game. The interface has been completely overhauled for the PC release of the game, 
 and it works exceptionally well by taking full advantage of the familiar mouse-and-keyboard controls 
 you're used to from other games. Additionally, it gives you easy access to all your options, as 
 well as your inventory, map, and quest log, at all times.  

  Knights of the Old Republic actually takes place thousands of years before  Star Wars Episode I 
 , though you'll still see many of the same sorts of alien creatures and technology in the game 
 that you probably associate with Star Wars. The story begins in the midst of a power struggle between 
 the Republic and the Sith, an evil Imperial power that's encroaching on Republic space. Your character 
 seems to be just another Republic trooper, and, at the beginning of the game, you manage to avoid 
 certain death as your spaceship is attacked and destroyed. Your escape pod lands on a world that's 
 been put under quarantine by the Sith, so your first order of business is to find a means of escape. 
 You also need to find out what happened to Bastila, a gifted young Jedi who is key to the Republic's 
 war efforts and who also managed to flee your doomed ship. Later, you'll be charged with uncovering 
 the secrets of an ancient relic, called the star forge, apparently the key to the Sith's seemingly 
 limitless supply of weaponry.  

          You'll meet a wide variety of interesting characters in the game, a number of whom will 
 join you in your journey.     

  You'll end up visiting a number of key Star Wars locations, including the wookie homeworld of Kashyyyk 
 and the desert planet Tatooine, in what's, by all means, an adventure of epic proportions. The 
 game's main storyline isn't remarkable and eventually boils down to squaring off against your standard 
 bad guy, and the main plot twists along the way don't really seem plausible. You'll encounter so 
 many great little subplots and characters as you go along that this really won't matter. You'll 
 investigate murders, become a bounty hunter, resolve cultural disputes, find a cure for a deadly 
 disease, take sides or play both sides against each other in various ambiguous conflicts, and find 
 out how life really treats citizens of the Republic and followers of the Sith. There's just a lot 
 to see and do in this game, and it'll last you a good 40 hours or so from start to finish. You'll 
 never see all that the game has to offer if you finish it only once. Actually, the PC version of 
 the game adds a good amount of new content that wasn't in the original Xbox release, and it mostly 
 comes in the form of some powerful new items.  

  It may seem strange, but Knights of the Old Republic actually uses a slightly simplified version 
 of 3rd Edition Dungeons &amp; Dragons rules for both combat and character generation. So, despite 
 the obviously different setting, fans of BioWare's D&amp; D-themed games will be in relatively familiar 
 territory here. Your main character starts off as a male or female soldier, scout, or scoundrel. 
 These three basic classes roughly correspond to D&amp; D's fighter, ranger, and rogue. The soldier 
 is straightforward but very strong, and he or she begins with proficiencies in various types of 
 weapons and armor and gains the most vitality points per experience level. The scout is slightly 
 less tough than the soldier but gains more skill points per level, thus allowing him or her to 
 do such things as repair droids, pick locks, and disarm land mines. The scoundrel is physically 
 the weakest class but can disappear from sight by using special cloaking devices; after "cloaking" 
 he or she can inflict great damage to a foe if that foe is caught unaware of the impending attack. 
 The scoundrel is also best suited to talking his or her way out of situations where the other character 
 classes might have to resort to violence. Your choice of gender also has a bearing on the outcomes 
 of some situations.     

  It's not spoiling anything to point out that you eventually gain access to Jedi powers. In turn, 
 there are three different Jedi classes available, which emphasize either the Jedi's prowess with 
 a lightsaber, his or her Force powers, or a balance of the two. Force powers are basically like 
 magic spells, allowing you to do such things as stun opponents, knock them down, and choke them. 
 In addition, you can heal yourself and use the Force to persuade characters to see things your 
 way (the option will come up at times during dialogue) . Some powers are inherently light-inclined, 
 while others are dark-inclined, and though Jedi characters may gain access to any Force power as 
 they gain experience levels, powers that match a Jedi's moral alignment can be used at a lower 
 cost in Force points (which steadily recharge, thus allowing you to use your powers continuously) . 

          Will you choose the light or the dark side?     

  The game does a fine job of letting you customize your character and his or her companions. Nine 
 main different characters may join you over the course of the adventure, and you'll be able to 
 travel with up to two of them at a time. They mostly do a good job keeping pace, but in some of 
 the more mazelike environments, they're liable to lag behind, which can be slightly annoying. Most 
 every character has an interesting story to tell that unfolds as you converse with him, her, or 
 it over the course of the game, though some are developed better than others. The most entertaining 
 of the bunch is probably HK-47, who's like a homicidal and slightly insubordinate C-3PO. As you 
 and the others gain levels, you develop your abilities by choosing from a wide variety of skills 
 (repair, stealth, persuasion, and so on) and combat feats (critical strike, two-weapon fighting, 
 toughness, and so on) .  

  Ultimately, the 3rd Edition rule system works quite well for the game and makes for an experience 
 that seems consistent with the Star Wars mythos. Namely, the game presents Jedi as extremely powerful 
 beings against whom conventional weapons are practically useless when opposed to the Jedi's lightsabers 
 and Force powers. However, a few things don't quite make sense, such as how your strength statistic 
 (rather than your dexterity) is tied to your proficiency with a lightsaber and how ranged weapons 
 generally seem too weak, thus offering no substantial advantages over melee weapons since it's 
 easy to close the distance between you and a gun-toting opponent. Also, much like in 3rd Edition 
 D&amp; D, fighter-type characters in Knights of the Old Republic can become overpowered to the point 
 where they're virtually unstoppable. If you focus on building up such a character, you'll find 
 that most of the combat in the game will be rather easy at the default difficulty setting, though 
 you can crank it up to make your enemies stronger.  

  Combat looks dynamic, and, at a glance, you could mistake Knights of the Old Republic for an action 
 game. You'll see characters firing away with their blasters, while those armed with melee weapons, 
 like lightsabers, will perform a variety of close-combat moves. Characters dueling with such weapons 
 will block and feint while looking for openings in their opponents' defenses. It's all clearly 
 inspired by the dramatic lightsaber battle at the end of  Episode I  and also resembles the outstanding 
 lightsaber battles in the recent Jedi Academy and last year's Jedi Knight II.  

          Blasters, grenades, and melee weapons are available, but nothing beats a good ole double-bladed 
 lightsaber.     

  Despite appearances, though, the combat is really just a series of statistical checks, just like 
 D&amp; D. Your character's "to hit" rating, determined by his or her class, level, and weapon, is 
 added to a random 1-20 dice roll and is then compared against the opponent's defense rating. If 
 the to-hit roll is greater, you connect and deal damage. Your characters will automatically attack 
 any foes nearby until either you or they are all dead, so, in some cases, you end up simply watching 
 the fight as it unfolds. You'll only need to intervene to use healing kits, stimulants that boost 
 your combat abilities, Force powers, and the like. You may also intervene, if necessary, to prioritize 
 targets. You can pause the action at any time and can easily queue up specific orders for all your 
 characters, but you can usually get away with just looking after your main character and will rarely 
 need to micromanage things (your party members will lag behind once in a while, as you're running 
 around, but it's not a big deal) . Generally, the combat is exciting to watch and is paced nice 
 and fast. You needn't worry if one of your characters falls in battle, as he or she will simply 
 get up once the fighting is over -- though you're tossed back to the title screen if your entire 
 party goes down.  

  The combat and the dialogue are the two main elements of Knights of the Old Republic. Other than 
 these activities, you'll find yourself running from place to place, but you'll have little interaction 
 with the environment other than being able to open footlockers and other objects that contain goodies. 
 You can sometimes hack into certain computer systems, but this is all done in text and isn't very 
 interesting. Loading times between areas can feel a little disruptive, especially when you have 
 to backtrack. Fortunately, there's an option to instantly return to your hideout or ship if you're 
 not in a dangerous area. Some of the environments are pretty big but most aren't, and a mapping 
 system clearly shows where you can and can't go and what the points of interest are in each area. 
 There's also a very clear record of all the quests you have pending (and all the quests you've 
 completed) . As such, you'll probably never get lost in the game, though, at the same time, you 
 might feel a bit confined by where you can and can't go. Fortunately, the game opens up later on, 
 thus allowing you to freely travel between planets to accomplish numerous tasks in whichever order 
 you please.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (389 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I must first admit that I am a decently big fan of Star Wars to begin with. Yes, I watched all 
 the movies and know a pretty large amount of information outside of the movies. The most information 
 comes from the two KotOR games.
  
  First off, the timeline of this game is about 5,000 years before the existence of Obi-Wan and company. 
 Do not expect to see anything that reminds you of the movie, other than a few ships. And lightsabers.
 
  
  The game is pretty interesting as almost anything you do gets you either "Dark Side" or "Light 
 Side" points. If you've played Fable, it's somewhat similar to that, and you even gain appearances 
 that look more evil and such. Because you get to customize your character a pretty good amount, 
 it can either be a female or a male, even. This ultimately gives you, the player, about 4 different 
 stories to be able to play through (Light Side Male being the canonical one) .
  
  Next is the storyline, and it's amazing. I find the storyline of this game to be more interesting 
 than the storyline of the movies by far. You play as a 'new' recruit who has apparently passed 
 through training and all that stuff with ease. You don't know your past, but you keep getting visions/dreams 
 that show a deceased Sith Lord fighting, or some random event that happened with him/her. What 
 you have to do with Darth Revan (the Sith Lord in your visions) is something you can find out on 
 your own. If you care.
  
  The gameplay plays like many MMORPGs, to be honest. You point at an enemy, click, yada yada yada. 
 When you click the enemy, you attack, and it attacks back. Winning and losing mainly depends on 
 your level, not how 'good' you are at fighting or playing the game. As expected.
  
  You get to have 2 other party members, who almost all have pretty interesting back stories. The 
 existence of all these potential back stories makes it really hard for me to choose which 2 characters 
 I want to play with. I usually end up going around and playing with almost all of them, until their 
 stories are continued, then switch them out for other people. Don't worry, they level up with the 
 rest of your party members.
  
  Well, to put it simply, this game is amazing. It has a very interesting story, a good system of 
 battling, very good graphics for its time, and a cool cast of characters. I'd give it a 10, but 
 it doesn't have all that great of music. Seriously, that's all I have to complain about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azoth-Akanian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is pure awesome. It's got great gameplay, very detailed story, sidequests to keep you 
 occupied, and lots of different areas to explore.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 5/5
  
  The combat system is very good. Lots of different attacks for melee and ranged players alike. A 
 nice mix of turn-based and real time fighting, which makes it unique. Easy controls to master, 
 and not too hard. There are also a few different minigames to play, such as swoop racing and pazaak. 
 There's up to 25+ hours of playtime with this, if you take your time and do all the sidequests 
 you can find. Very good gameplay with this.
  
  GRAPHICS: 5/5 
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, especially for the time it was made. The cutscenes are very 
 realistic as well. Not much else to say that I haven't already said.
  
  MUSIC/SOUND: 5/5
  
  Unlike a lot of other Star Wars games, Knights of the Old Republic comes with all-new sound 
 tracks. There is also superb sound for blaster shots, exploding grenades, etc. It makes you feel 
 like your in the game. There is also extremely good voice acting in this as well. I never get tired 
 of it.
  
  REPLAYABILITY: 4/5
  
  The game has very good replayability, but once you do the dark side ending and the light side ending, 
 you get sort of tired of it. But oh well, it's still a very good game. This is the only problem 
 with it.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10
  
  This game is very good, and I highly recommend you get it even if your not a big Star Wars fan. 
 It's made by my favorite game company, BioWare. They've made many other games such as Baldur's 
 Gate, Mass Effect, Jade Empire, and more.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radman2117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:39 am PT
Review:  Hi my Name Radman2117 and this id my review of Star Wars Knights of the old republic.
  
  Star Wars Knight Of The Old Republic is the story about an everyday normal Customiseable character 
 learning that they are force sensative and capable of becoming a Jedi Knight. Its a story based 
 in the Old Republic Error way before the movies and the skywalker story. It is packed with fun, action 
 and adventure, it also has great replay value. If your a Star Wars fan and like RPG's then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  Good points about the game are its Great storyline and Interesting characters which contribute 
 to the story, Its about the right length for a game and has great replay value.
  
  Bad points are the Glitches but there arent many.
  
  I give this game 9/10 and Recommend Star 
 Wars and RPG fans play it, and if your both youll be very happy with the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioanmosx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  If you're one of the type who wants to be a jedi master searching throughout the galaxies, killing 
 sith lords and savage beasts, dealing with bounty hunters and having other jedi companions on your 
 shoulder - this is the game for you. You start like a republic soldier on a mission to rescue a 
 jedi and later you understand that you are bound with this jedi and share same visions and dreams. 
 But enough, you must try this game on your own, after all if I say what happens next you won't 
 be so curious about it. I recommend this game for everyone, for its addictive - very interesting 
 missions and something new on every mission, fun - sometimes the game can be pretty fun for example 
 by the phrases you can tell on the dialogue (like for example you enter the room of an alien bounty 
 hunter, and there is an option which you can say to him : 'Time to die bug-face' :D ) and easy 
 to play, especially with the pause function which allows you to think your next move, and the missions 
 aren't that hard and are possible for every player. Now jedi, go go go and play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterVulcan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  There are only 2 things in the world better than this game. Final Fantasy VII, and weed. It is 
 unbelievable. Two Sith Lords that betrayed the Jedi and started a war are Darth Revan, the master, 
 and Darth Malak, the Apprentice. In a battle, in which Revan's ship is distracted by battle, Malak's 
 ship is order by the Sith Lord, to strike his master's ship. You journey as a smuggler who awakes 
 on the Endar Spire, a Republic Ship, that is transporting a powerful Jedi named Bastila, who has 
 mastered a powerful force power, Battle Meditation. After you pass maybe about 1/6 of the game, 
 you go to the Jedi Academy on Dantooine, because you yourself, are a Jedi. Your character develops 
 a link between Bastila and you two must find the Star Forge, the item Malak and Revan were searching 
 for that turned them, and the item that Malak holds in his possession. Now unfortunetley I will 
 spoil the biggest plot twist in history. When Darth Revan's ship was destroyed, Revan lived. He 
 had lost his memory, and Bastila and other Jedi brought him back before the Jedi Council, who decided 
 to spare him, and hope to keep his power at their disposal. You do not find out about this, until 
 near the end of the game, at the confrontation with Malak. Malak capture Bastila, and turns her 
 to the Dark Side. Then you must enter Malak's ship, and defeat him. Depending on how you play it 
 out, you can kill Bastila, or turn her back to the Light Side. Then move on to defeat Malak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanebrant
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game go F&%#*$^ play it!!! 
  I've beaten it at least a dozen time, and this is a 20+ Hour game!
  This game feels just like 
 star wars, its the perfect franchise for this game type. By the games end you will have laughed, 
 maybe cryed, and probably not put the controller down once. All the characters are completely fleshed 
 out and the dialog options are simply wonderful. And the combat; it couldn't be better. The quick 
 pause is a great feature. All of the force powers are great; along with the feats. Trust me you 
 won't be able to play this game just once. The choices between good and evil are very satisfying, 
 because they seem to have a very large impact on the game. I my self almost always play on the 
 light side, if you play on the dark side you actually feel guilty sometimes. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplagued
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Even at what Gamespot calls 'great', K. O. T. O. R. is an underrated gem in the midst of the RPGs of 
 all time. Though I preferred real-time RPGs to those centered around 'turns', I was shocked, amazed, 
 and shocked again by this completely interactive classic. The choices, weapons, quests, places, 
 all make up Bioware's signature in the game industry. Even though it was completely interactive 
 and 'fulfilling', I felt it could have been longer, if it was lacking anything. Its plot was deep, 
 thematic, and truly represents what Star Wars should be about.
  
  The dark side is much stronger than good, for those out there wondering which path to take. It 
 is equally tempting to be good and have your allies by your side through and through but it brings 
 hysterical laughter to gut innocent people and scream insults. 
  
  The weapons and combat system are all top-notch. When I first played it, I clicked recommend to 
 choose which skills each level points allowed me to access. I recommend against the recommended. 
 Do it for only your main character, if it is too time-consuming. But truly, it makes your character 
 more like you and creates your character as how you want him to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic is the first Role Playing Game I can honestly claim to have played 
 to fruition, which is testament to its true awe-inspiring glory. I've ventured several chapters 
 into Baldur's Gate, given my due to the nights in Neverwinter, and sliced my way close to the conclusion 
 of Titan Quest (for variety) , yet I've never sat back at the end of a marathon session, sighed, 
 and reveled in the experience. These Old Republic knights seized my attention and kept hold throughout 
 this week, not allowing me to become disinterested with the galaxy's plight, or the epic struggles 
 between the forces of good and evil. From the opening firefight to the final lightsaber duel, Bioware 
 has crafted a gleaming tale of intrigue, betrayal, passion, friendship, all with a heavy moral 
 overtone. Certain parts were clunkier than others, yet even the rough edges weren't enough to keep 
 this galactic opera from powering forward with the draw of a tractor beam. And as a word of warning, 
 consider this review to contain minor spoilers, although nothing which should ruin the gameplay 
 experience all that much.
  
  It's been several years (closer to a decade) since my Star Wars days passed me by and real-world 
 concerns became paramount, yet traveling to and from familiarly-named worlds brought back the boyish 
 gleam which had long since been absent in my eyes. The accuracy with which Bioware has recreated 
 oft-forgotten pieces of this universe's lore is startling, so much so that I went back and dug 
 around on the internet to confirm scrabbles of information throughout my adventures. It really 
 is worth taking the time to note how excellent this rendition is, since the movies only exact a 
 minute window of the rich history crafted from thirty years of fan support and neglected graphic 
 novels. Regardless, the game begins with your created character escaping a dying ship to a (Star 
 Wars geeks feel free to become angry now with my limited expertise) new planet. Taris, as it's 
 called, has been bypassed by new galactic trade routes and is quickly going south. The Sith blockade, 
 created when Bastila -the woman you are attempting to locate- crash-landed in the city's underworld, 
 is not helping matters and tensions across the world are rising. This is the stage from which the 
 game unfolds in all its grandeur, and you must decide which course of action to undertake.
  
  It is fantastic to experience your character's growth in power and fame throughout the course 
 of the game, and is particularly exciting by the end of the game when it is hard-pressed to be 
 wielded to perfection. At the beginning, battles are difficult and many are lost, but by the game's 
 conclusion, each conflict is packed with explosions, lightsaber duels, and blaster fire; each small 
 incident becomes its own mini-real time strategy ordeal which is fascinating considering the game's 
 RPG backdrop. I opted to play the game as a melee fighter, which is truly the way to go considering 
 how feeble ranged weapons are in the latter stages -although I generally had my weaker character 
 brandishing some form of blaster to weaken my foes and not soak up countless medpacks. Melee fights 
 are amazing to partake in, and the first lightsaber duel will knock your socks off. However, battles 
 are not heavy on player participation, and instead unfold with small commands or adjustments, such 
 as "Force Lightning" or "Critical strike," whereupon the characters enact the given directives. 
 No other game I've played uses quite the same strategy, although it creates a heavily-cinematic 
 air which fits perfectly into the Star Wars mantra. When PC Gamer stated that Knights of the Old 
 Republic might be the best Star Wars movie since the classic trilogy, their words were spot-on, 
 even provided the third episode had not yet been released.
  
  Dialogue, which is the meaty core of any genuine role playing experience, is nearly flawless. In 
 fact, all of the character choices and paths unfold via response selections, which makes the "Persuade" 
 skill a vital tool in shaping non-player characters to your will. There were many times rowdy humans 
 or aliens would approach me, demanding funds or a task be completed, and I merely persuaded them 
 otherwise. One particular sequence on the waterworld of Manaan presents you with a defense trial; 
 I successfully finagled my way out of the crime I was being pinned with (which, to the native's 
 credit, I was happily guilty of committing) by convincing the jury it was the vile Sith who had 
 done the dirty deed. Knights is littered with all sorts of thrilling role playing elements such 
 as this, providing hours and hours of diverse entertainment (it took me about eighteen hours to 
 slash and electrocute my way through the game) . Writing is superb and references all sorts of obtuse 
 Star Wars happenings, which also flash on-screen while traversing between areas. Side quests are 
 numerous and generally interesting, although I made a devastating mistake in planning my game: 
 I only completed approximately ten percent of the available non-core quests, deciding instead to 
 go back after I had run through the main story. Unfortunately, Knights of the Old Republic concludes 
 following the final showdown and does not allow you to meander through what remains of the galaxy 
 at your leisure, which was both frustrating and disappointing.
  
  As previously stated, Knights isn't without flaw. First and foremost: excessive amounts of running 
 to and fro -most notably on barren worlds such as Tatooine or Dantooine. When the meat is boiled 
 away, every quest falls into "fetch" or "assassination" categories which, while not inherently 
 foul whatsoever, requires much hunting and seeking to carry out. It is good that each individual 
 area isn't as expansive as other RPGs, yet the level of detail is somewhat lacking, especially 
 on Kashyyyk or the Leviathan level. Furthermore, pathfinding is heinous. Characters will frequently 
 trap you in corners or against walls, and one such incident forced me to reload a game fifteen 
 or more minutes previous, which was the apex of frustration. The "gun turret" interruptions are 
 likewise bad, and are no more than a brief annoyance when traveling betwixt planets.
  
  However, the conbobulation of superb elements is what propels Knights of the Old Republic to instant 
 classic status. The melding of pants-soiling lightsaber duels with a Hollywood-grade story and 
 memorable characters produces a science-fiction epic which should be experienced by every self-righteous 
 gamer and Star Wars nerd alike. Even those who don't consider themselves gamers would do well to 
 give this game a try, since the amounts of spontaneous interactivity are low and would be easy 
 for a beginner to become swiftly acquainted with. In summation, Knights is a title not to be missed 
 by any gamer, Star Wars fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanrules13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  The game it self is fantastic. It's just that once you know what you are supposed to do you just 
 feel you are doing the same thing over and over again getting star maps on planets. I actually 
 hadto take a break from the game because i got so bored doing the same thing ovoer and over. But 
 never the less it is still the best star wars game ot there. What i did like was the battle modes, 
 i hate the battle modes where you have to keep clicking to attack. I also like how your party members 
 actually have personalaties when you talked to them and that they were interactive when you talked 
 to them. The last thing i liked was the balance between regular soldiers and bosses. I want to 
 shoot the people that make the games where the boss is just a bigger version of the regular soldier 
 of that level (about a foot taller) and is 5000x stronger the soldier is and is impossible to beat. 
 This game did a good job of NOT doing that. So i guess with only one flaw i cant help but frickin 
 love this game. So buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorlau
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game in about 45 hours for the light side and an additional 5 hours for the 
 dark side. The save game system is good, as you can save anywhere. The transport system also saves 
 a lot of time so you don't have to walk back and forth when completing side-quests. Overall it's 
 a easy game without the "grinding" level up process in many other RPGs. The game is never too difficult 
 and the puzzles make sense and are even fun. The several worlds were well created, but not expansive. 
 Some planets are take longer than others to complete. This is a great classic RPG. I originally 
 bought this for XBOX 6 years ago but was too busy to play it. I sold it and got a copy for the 
 PC this fall. I am glad I gave it another chance and played the game to completeness. Impressive 
 storytelling by Bioware and Lucas Arts; if only, the Star Wars movies were as cinematic as this 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skar3d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Kotor is by far one of the best games out there, and my favorite game of ALL time. 
  
  Gameplay: This game will make you want to play it 2-4 times over. Each play lasts around 30-40 hours 
 depending on if you finish the side quests. The turn-based combat shines in this game and REALLY 
 brings out the lightsaber combat. There are a few minor bugs such as when you fight the opponent 
 will stand still, but you can look right past that and love this game. The force powers are really 
 well done and and are very numerous, making your choices great and helping you approach to playing 
 the game.
  
  Story: The story in this game is brilliant. It sucks you in and makes you feel like you're really 
 the main character. It is somewhat predictable but has a huge plot twist that I personally didn't 
 see coming. The story as mentioned is long and very well done, with all the side quests fitting 
 in perfectly.
  
  Voice acting: What can i say? The very best. All the voice acting has emotion to it and doesn't 
 at all seem monotone. To me, bad voice acting can ruin a game, let alone a rpg.
  
  Graphics: Good for when they came out. Crank up the anti aliasing and it looks good in my opinion.
 
  
  
  
  
  Final Thoughts: Get it. You will not regret it. It is one of the best games ever made. Right up 
 there with other classics such as Half-Life 2 and Command and conquer.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Graphics 9/10 
  
  Final score: 9.5/10
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  BioWare offers us a major success with KotOR: not only it is based on an amazing story, but the 
 gameplay, the graphics, the voice talents, the menus and even the extras touch perfection.
  
  Darth Malak, a Sith Lord launched a brand-new army against the forces of the Republic. So your 
 character, who can be fully customized to be male or female, is awakened into a frigate of the 
 Republic by a Sith attack. Of course you start your journey to stop Darth Malak. En route, you 
 will gather fellow and poweful companions, in order to collect all the pieces of the Star Map across 
 the galaxy. And there comes the beauty of the game: the fate of the galaxy will be decided by your 
 own decisions throughout the journey. You may choose to follow the light side and lead the Sith 
 to extinction, or become the new Sith Lord, by following the dark side of the force.
  
  Starting the game, you will be asked to make your character with whom you will play. You ccan choose 
 his name, gender and class before you start. Aftera while, a tutorial will show you accurately 
 how to play the game, and what you are capable of doing. Of course like in many role-playing games, 
 you will be followed by many other characters, like the pilot of the frigate you start, jedi Bastila 
 and many others. Of course the foes are many more. Every criminal, sith master and bounty hunter 
 will be after you in this epic adventure.
  
  And in such a game, your character is fully upgreadable. Your skills can raise when you get experience 
 points, and you can place them everywhere you want to, emphasizing in a certain skill, or progressing 
 slowly but overally. Your actions consequence your interior balance of the force. Depending on 
 what you decide to do in the game, you gain light side or dark side points which will change the 
 fate of the galaxy. You can also control a crew, deciding who is going to join it or who is going 
 to be disbanded. Besides, social reactions are very important in KotOR.
  
  The locations and characters, and I don't only mean the protagonists but also the background minor 
 characters are all very well-designed. Throughout the game they will either assist you or hate 
 you, they can inform you, they can sell or buy vital stuff from you, and they invite you to participate 
 in minor quest of the game which have to do with your reputation and popularity. And the playable 
 environments are not worst: detailed and artisticly designed, they are all fully-destructible without 
 any seriously dumb restriction of movement.
  
  The technical graphics of KotOR are quite complex, which makes them additionaly interesting to 
 try. They mainly focus on the characters and not the environment, which is a problem, but not a 
 major one. The biggest problem with the visuals is that to really turn them on, a very powerful 
 PC is needed, upgraded to the latest drivers. And the music, sounds and voice talents are all perfect: 
 no game could ever reach KotOR in sound. In addition to this perfection, there are menus which 
 will navigate wherever you want to go in no time, and there are also some interesting extra features 
 which you may like to see.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic will be always remembered for its hardcore gameplay and 
 its amazing and innovative graphics. The rest positive notes are just the peak. It is accurately 
 considered the second best RPG of all time, next to Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauronthehun
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  In Knights of the Old Republic, you are a soldier fighting for the Republic around 4,000 years 
 before the start of the Phantom Menace during a war between the Jedi and the Sith. At the start 
 of the game, you are aboard a large space ship boarded by Sith soldiers. A fellow soldier guides 
 you through the ship, teaching you the controls as you go. It seems like a bit to learn at first, 
 but once you get the hang of it, it's very easy to use. 
  
  Your character is then forced to escape the ship, and you crash land on the planet below. This 
 is where the game actually begins. You start to search with another Republic soldier (not the one 
 you met on the ship) for a Jedi who also crash landed on the planet. Along the way, you make decisions 
 that affect how your character looks, how other characters react to you, and which force powers 
 you can use. For example, you can choose to save an old man from some mercenaries, and receive 
 light side points which will allow you to use powers such as healing and stunning. You can choose 
 to rob the old man, which you will give you dark side points, giving you grayish skin and allowing 
 you to use force powers such as lightning and choking. 
  
  Throughout the game, you will meet characters who will aid you on your quest. These characters 
 pasts can be revealed if you question them hard enough. Unfortunately, your decisions will not 
 change their likeliness to confide in you. Once you rescue the Jedi, Bastila Shan, you will head 
 to Dantooine where you will receive Force Powers and your lightsaber. From there, you will head 
 across the galaxy to stop the main villain's plot. 
  
  Combat in the game is a lot of fun. Enemies are not too difficult, but not too easy. You select 
 different types of attacks that you learn, and then you use it on enemies. You can choose to do 
 this in either turn based or real time. The combat is based on dice rolls no matter which one you 
 choose, so there are no advantages to picking one over the other. There is only one slight problem: 
 Close range combat is much better then ranged combat. Close combat does much more damage, and the 
 time it takes to reach the enemy is minimal. However, having party members using ranged combat 
 to support you can be very useful. 
  
  The graphics in the game still hold up today. However, the framerate has some major problems (*cough* 
 Dantooine *cough*) . I ran the game on Windows XP with a 6800 gt, which is way past the recommended 
 video card, and I was averaging 10-20 FPS in the Dantooine fields. I personally didn't mind it 
 that much, but if you enjoy running games with 60+ FPS this can be a major issue. 
  
  The story in this game is top notch. You explore the Star Wars galaxy like never before, meeting 
 interesting and unique characters. The plot will draw you in, and there is an excellent plot twist 
 close to the end. 
  
  In conclusion, Knights of the Old Republic is an excellent game. However, it several small flaws 
 which detract from the overall experience. For some, they can be a major problem, but for others, 
 they can simply be a minor issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpfaff11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  When the game starts it seems a little slow and petty. But as the game goes on you'll come to like 
 it. The ending has a nice "oh snap!" moment. Definitely worth the money though, put up with the 
 first couple worlds and it'll work out. Good game play overall lots of freedom. However, they do 
 a good job of making all of your actions whether in or out of your main mission effects the overall 
 outcome of the game. Make your decisions carefully it will determine whether or not your a Jedi 
 or Sith. It has the feeling of Oblivion, I think, but with a Star Wars twist. Whenever, their is 
 going to be a game regarding Star Wars, your always gonna have a lot to work with. Whether it be 
 the hundreds of different planets, tons of different aliens, just the overall atmosphere of it 
 has RPG written all over it. I wish they would turn this into a WOW type thing where you can do 
 your own thing under the realms of Star Wars. Nonetheless, Lucasarts did a great job with this 
 game setting the tone early and creating a great storyline and intriguing game play inside and 
 out. Kept me on the computer for 10 hours at one point, saying this means a lot I'm not a person 
 who spends more than 3 hours on any single thing. Like a said it has a slow dragging start but 
 once it picks up it doesn't look back, and takes to a galaxy far, far away... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this game is definitely the best Star Wars game I have ever played hands down. KOTOR 
 is placed 4000 years before the events of Star Wars Episode 4, where there is not only alot of 
 Jedi but a whole Sith army to face aswell-with the Sith Lord Malak ruling over all the Sith. You 
 also have the option of joining the light or dark side of the force, aswell as being a male or 
 female-who at first can choose what kind of member of the Republic to be (and later you'll have 
 the choice of what kind of Jedi to be) . The graphics for KOTOR are very good, the storyline is 
 amazing with good twists in it, and the characters you have at your disposal are very memorable (you 
 can also learn about there life after gaining experience in the game) . There are many light and 
 dark force powers you can acquire aswell as skills, and feats. Theres lots and lots of different 
 weapons, armors, and energy shields to use. The sidequests in this game are very interesting and 
 make up a very large portion of the time you spend playing it. So I would recommend this game to 
 any fan of Star Wars, RPGs, or any one looking for a good game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  StarWars Knights Of The Old Republic is a masterpiece. If your a star wars fan its even better than 
 a 10, we might need to change the ratings from 1-10 to a 100 for this one. This game is set a few 
 thousand years before the original movies. This game pulls together a fantastic story with the fantastic 
 RPG gameplay of the D and D 3.5 rule system and turns it into a world and star wars fantasy so 
 real it seems like your in it.
  
  Today the graphics are good but not great. The Music is great and makes you feel like its star wars 
 as does the setting and everything else. You get to customize your character to a large degree and 
 this helps make it feel even more amazing. Then there is the story that is the best and I do mean 
 the best story since the original trilogy. I won't spoil it for you but just know its great. If you 
 played neverwinter nights you'll be at home here because character creation and most things relating 
 to your character are really similar. The only difference is it seems bioware pulled out all the 
 boring stuff and just put in all the stuff that makes it fun.
  
  Don't listen to the hype this is a great game but sometimes you get this picture in you head and 
 its not what you thought. With that being said you should really check this game out. This is our 
 most desperate hour, help us {your name here} your our only hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freaksavior
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  not many star wars games are good. episode 3 was too short, episode 2 was too... weird. and many 
 others. but KOTOR is a different story. kotor takes place thousands of years before the movies. 
 its the first star wars RPG and the best as well. the story is amazing and the difficulty is pretty 
 hard. you have to have a strategy to really beat the enemys. if you have sucky attacks and lame 
 armor your probably gona die. the lenghth is just right... not too short but not too long. the music 
 and graphics are really good. and you actually have to learn to be a jedi, your not just super 
 powerful at the beggining of the game. i love this game because of the story... l8er in the game 
 there is a huuuge twist. you'll just have to play it yourself and find out :D. if you love rpg's 
 and star wars than DEFINATELY get this. its the first rpg i've played and easily the best. don't 
 second look this game, when you see it.... but it!
  
  hope this review helped :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTS_Fanatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok ladies and gents I'll try to make this review as unbiased as I can, I freaking love Star Wars, 
 but sorry if i get up into it XD
  
  Pros: Ok first off we have a very nice leveling system. It tells you what things you can spend 
 your points on be It repair or persuasion and It'll influences the way you wanna play your game. 
 Another thing is the near-perfect voice work. Raphael Sbarge, who did Carth's (Mr. paranoid) voice, 
 did an amazing job same as Jennifer Hale for Bastila Shan and so did the rest of the cast for the 
 characters that speak in the game. Next is the gripping story. In my honest opinion, It felt like 
 I was watching A New Hope all over again for the first time ever. It just felt so magical to me, 
 but that could just be me.
  
  Cons: Oh boy this will be tough, well we can start with the glitches. Some glitches I have encountered 
 with this game can be a tad bit annoying, but not anything threatening the story or gameplay in 
 anyway. Glitches like NPC's not spawning when they should (very rare) or not facing our face when 
 we talk to them, that kind of thing. Another thing that got me was the sometimes lack of info, 
 at one point you have to fight a few driods that resist lightsabers, which the NPC there convientely 
 didnt tell you it wouldnt work that well, and you just got a lightsaber, so what do you do? You 
 try to kill them with a lightsaber of coarse but it doesnt work so we have to switch to a vibroblade 
 (best choice of weapons and, i swear those guys are made of freaking cortosis or something!) or 
 something else to kill it. Lastly is about the sheer amount of time it takes to become a Jedi most 
 people want to be a Jedi right off the bat with Star Wars games and such. The first planet your 
 at is essential to the storyline and it could be telling you the story of how non-Jedi would get 
 around and such but it just kind of feels like an extra chore.
  
  Bottom line is that KoTOR Is a fun game to play and If you have a PC that can run It go and get 
 this game immediately, it should be fairly easy to find. If you dont have a PC then It's on the 
 Xbox also though I dont know how easy that one is to find. All in all I would give this game a 
 9.5/10 for It's great leveling system, awesome voice work, and amazing story that puts it on par 
 with A New Hope make it worth the buy. On the other side however it should be noted that the glitches, 
 sometimes lack of info, and a chore like planet to get to Jedi status make it less desirable to 
 those of us wanting to hear that awesome sound of a lightsaber igniting. Though there are mods 
 for PC version of the game so you can start as a Jedi but that's not what I'm reviewing about so 
 sorry guys, google it or something guys. Also sorry for the wall-o-text thing here XD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic captures the Star Wars universe in much the same way that the movies 
 created it: with great and varied characters, detailed and varied worlds and aliens, brilliant 
 story telling and great cinematic experiences, and takes all of these a step further with a character 
 development system, good/evil mechanic, and combat system that still stand up (and in some cases 
 even best) games of today.
  
  In a rare situation for a game, while playing KotOR, you actually feel like you have to go out 
 of your way to gind out certain aspects of story. This is done through a relatively simple system 
 of talking to your group members, but works so well. The good and evil mechanic also stems from 
 conversation, and bests games lorded for such systems (for example: Fable 1 [I can't comment on 
 2] ) .
  
  The characters are all varied and specialised at certain tasks, as well as have their own varied 
 and unique stories, personalities and opinions. The story is long, engaging, and has too many sidequests 
 to count.
  
  Probably the absolute best thing about it though, is the length of the game. Quite honestly, in 
 a time where I've been struggling to find a game to last me more than 10 hours, KotOR, a 5 year 
 old game now, lasted be 25 hours for my first play through in a good game, and 23 hours a second 
 time through in an evil game. Essentially the same story in both, but with very different endings, 
 and probably worth playing through twice to see both sides.
  
  I'm not going to go into too much depth, but this game is definately a brilliant game, and probably 
 the best Star Wars game out there to date. I recomend it to anybody who likes a good story, Star 
 Wars, and roleplaying or action-adventure games. 9.5 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickyfingers87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When I popped this game into my PC 4-5 Years ago, I never was able beat Taris and I thought it 
 was one of the worst games I had ever bought. 1 week ago I decided to go out and buy it again (I 
 had sold my first copy) . After beating Taris I was immersed in this Star Wars world. Every night 
 I would go to bed wondering what would happen next. Being the lame person that I was I went to 
 the Light Side first. While playing the game I found that the combat was great except for the fact 
 that I couldn't upgrade my Force Powers enough and I wasn't that powerful because I chose Recommend 
 Feats and It kept telling me to choose Blaster-related feats. I chose Recommend because I wasn't 
 that experienced with the game. When I got to Malak I had died about 6 times before using the Jedi 
 to my advantage. I found that the Party Members could have been explored more. The only major problem 
 I had with the game was Manaan. The part where you had to go underwater to get to the Star Map 
 was incredibly time consuming and confusing. I should have been able to walk a "little" faster. 
 But all in all you should definitely purchase this game for both systems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  i love this game for 5 reasons 1. it is a star wars game 2. you can just wander around 3. almost 
 every were you can get a battle 4. you can choose what type of wepon you have and 5. nice graphics!!! 
 !!! !! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! 
 !!! !! ! !! ! !! ! !! !! !! !!! ! !! !!!! !!!! !! ! !! ! !! !! !!!!! !! !!! ! !! !! ! !! ! !! ! 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitejedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the Lucasarts games I've played this one is the top of the list. It surprises you by 
 taking you away from all that you familiar with the fast paced fps style that all the other lucasarts 
 games. Instead it thrusts you into a lightsaber wielding rpg where you have to save the galaxy, 
 or conquer it as your taste may be. It's gameplay is strangely enough built on the classic dungeons 
 and dragons d20 dice system and haves all the stats said system entails. However it does so without 
 detracting too much from the game play. It accomplishes this by implementing the die system while 
 not cluttering up a text box, a mistake that neverwinter nights made. Furthermore its plot, the 
 main point, in my opinion, of rpg's takes many twists and tuns over all the galaxy and people will 
 react to what you do and say. Overall it is one of my favourite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  The first minutes were hard. By that i mean that the game was boring og looked uninspired. Large 
 areas with few decorations and fewer interactive items. The combat system was a total letdown in 
 the beginning, when the choices are few (attack, throw grenade..) . Luckily I continued to play, 
 and everything grew on me, especially the story. It is immersive and it's great that you can turn 
 to the dark side or the light side almost at your own leisure. Many missions will let you have 
 two or more choices on how to complete it (how about killing everybody?) . The missions are diversified, 
 that's great (taking in mind how the game is structured around combat) .
  
  The combat system got better and was playable, but sometimes having to rely on pausing several 
 times during a battle, is quite destructive for the cinematic flow of the game that is so likeable.
 
  
  The planets and their inhabitants are very well made, and the sound effects and speech are extremely 
 rich, which is pleasing.
  
  Towards the end, you begin to see the bigger picture, and upon meeting a new character; you can 
 almost picture how the mission you are getting from him is going to go along.
  
  What really angered me at times was when my character would collide with other persons or the wall, 
 while in combat mode. There were other little bugs. Like the one where a party member suddenly 
 teleports himself away from you so that you'll have to wait for him to come back, irritating.. 
 Or when missions canno't be completed because you went somewhere to soon; and the quest is still 
 displayed in the quest book.
  
  All in all, it is a great game i recommend to anyone. You will learn to love the game after a half 
 hour and after that you'll feel like you must complete it. However, some details mentioned above 
 drags the game down, making it not a classic, but simply a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game comes as close to perfection as I have ever seen. The story is hugly deep, the characters 
 realistic, the gameplay brilliant and the size of it all is just startling. 
  
  I got it as part of a 20 "star wears; best of pack" and adored it from the moment it started to 
 the final scene, 45 hours of gameplay later. 
  
  to give you an example of how good the story is; you allways have the option of taking the dark 
 path, but I never do because you actually feel guilty, the game makes you feel guilt. That never 
 happens in GTA or Fable but this is so frightningly real that you can't help it.
  
  I'm playing this through for the third time despite having never touched the sequel. BUY IT, there 
 is absoloutly no risk of being dissapointed. 
  
  So, Best RPG ever? Yes. 
  Best game ever made? I can't imagine anything that could top it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Tic-Tac
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  KoTOR became a legend ever since it came out. It's the greatest role-playing experience I ever 
 had. The greatness of KoTOR is the fact that it's so special that it makes the not-so-special story 
 one of the greatest ones about that galaxy far, far away... The basic plot is really nothing special. 
 (There is a Dark Lord, he is evil and all, and you, the common nobody have to stop him!) But it 
 works out SO well, and there are so many twists in the plot... it's hard to describe. So you start 
 off as a common trooper from the Republic Fleet, and you have to save a young Jedi (the beautiful 
 Bastila) . But before you know what's going on, you are surrounded with allies and chased around 
 by the Sith. And since 80% of the Star Wars protagonists are Force-Sensitive, you quickly join 
 the ranks of the Jedi Knights as well. Now you have to discover how the hack did the Sith get such 
 a huge fleet in a very short time. You face countless enemies with barely a handful of allies, 
 visit well-known worlds like Tatooine, and even worlds never seen before (like Manaan) . 80% of the 
 game is conversation with others, and GOD it's so good. You can choose between several dialogue 
 options. Based on your comments and actions, you gain light-and dark side points. These determine 
 what kind of person you are. You can be a Jedi goody-goody or a Sith conqueror in the end, it's 
 completely up to you. Almost all the quests can be approached in different ways (like you can either 
 negotiate with the Sand People or slay them all) so there is plenty of replay value. The only thing 
 I didn' like in the game is Carth crying around like a wussy. Legendary soldier my.... But the 
 game is still the best SW game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pizzaro13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Even though this game came out 5 years ago it still manages to amaze me. Sure maybe the graphics 
 aren't as good as the ones now but i still like them. The amazing plot and storyline combine to 
 make a spectacular game. The upgrades and customization are also superb. There are also many choices 
 in this game which allow you to choose which side of the force to be on. With the dark side you 
 earn evil force power such as kill or choke. With the light side you can use powers like hand of 
 light and knockout. There are also neutral powers which both sides can use. You can also gain lightsaber 
 crystals which can be used to customize your lightsaber. The millennium falcon is your base which 
 you use to travel form planet to planet. Every planet has a different quest to do. All of these 
 attributes are amazing and make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe just how wonderful and innovative this masterpiece of a game truly is. This 
 game set the bar for all RPGs since it launched in 2003 and has been copied many, many times over 
 again. From the very beginning you are immersed in a world that is very different and at the same 
 time earily familiar to the Star Wars films that we all grew up loving. The story is classic trilogy 
 and has an enormous twist (Think Sixth Sense) that will have you wanting to play the game ALL over 
 again just to see it all over again. Choose light, dark or a neautral path and watch the consequences 
 of your actions like never before seen in a video game. Amazing combat, perfect story and characters 
 and an adventure that will leave you breathless and wanting more. What are you waiting for? Go 
 get it! Five to Six years old and still one of the greatest journies you can ever hope to take. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I consider myself one of the last true fans of Star Wars. The fan that knows there is much more 
 to Star Wars then newbies swinging glow-bats around and dressing up like sith. The fan that knows 
 about the great legends such as Han Solo and storm troopers, who I might add are the only fan base 
 who have a real-life organization (lets see you top that pj wearers) ! The true saving grace of 
 this game is that it was designed by one of the most underrated companies up until this point. 
 While the world left legacy titles such as Baldur's Gate behind for the next big graphics bling, 
 that is no longer the case. Bioware has shown their greatness to the masses, and everything has 
 been down hill for them since.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is designed to entertain you and provide plenty of detail while doing 
 so. The game world is divided amongst seven planets, which each have a unique feel and bring plenty 
 of "Star Warsy" content to the player. There is the Wookie world of Kashyyyk, the always present 
 Tatooine, a world devoted to the Sith that properly mirrors their alignment, and even a planet 
 that is closely resembles the origins of the Mon Calamari. While these planets are full of life 
 and plenty of quests, they are strongly restricted to set areas in the same way a Final Fantasy 
 game would be. Fans of Bioware's Baldur's Gate loved how you could move practically anywhere on 
 the map, which isn't the case here.
  
  The gameplay uses a derived form of the d20 D&D system. The main character starts out by choosing 
 one of three different classes. Each class provides different advantages and disadvantages but 
 also make the game highly replayable. Player characters pick skills and feats each time they level, 
 providing plenty of customization based on your play style. After getting about 1/4th your way 
 into the game, you will be forced to multiclass your character to one of three jedi classes. This 
 is also around the same time when you find out that some of the feats you took are completely useless 
 now that you are just another glow-bat swinger. 
  
  The game focuses on a light/dark side system based on the main character's actions. While this 
 sounds intriguing and can be entertaining at times, it is strictly elementary when it comes to 
 your choices. If you want to be a dark jedi, all you have to do is act like a jerk to people and 
 its pretty straight forward from there. Some of the light side quests can be tricky to complete 
 if you fail to select the correct dialog, but once you get the hang of this it becomes trivial 
 in conversation.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is a streamlined product compared to other RPGs developed by Bioware. 
 In fact, it might be too easy if you are used to how Bioware crafts their gameplay. What the game 
 does do well is tell a fantastic story that splits off into two directions depending on your choices. 
 For this, I must give nothing but the highest respect to one of the greats creators of Role-Play 
 in the land of 1's and 0's. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  After I discussed Fallout and its subtle and deft handling of "good versus evil" and how the character 
 interacts with players, my mind wandered immediately to Bioware's usual offerings. In what case 
 wouldn't this happen? Bioware is one of the few houses still making PC RPG games (not to be confused 
 with console RPG's) , and one of their key themes through their games is the "good versus evil" 
 choices the player makes throughout the game. The beginning of the entire system was arguably Baldur's 
 Gate 2, but it really became fully explored in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  KOTOR was notable in many ways, especially how it made a good interactive Star Wars world. It took 
 the Star Wars mythos and spun them in a way that not only added to the canon fiction (which isn't 
 always as high quality as some Star Wars geeks might try to let you to believe) but turned it into 
 a universe that worked very well as a video game, something that had not been accomplished before. 
 By the end of it, it sure felt like a Star Wars game, but it also felt like something better than 
 just another version of the movies. Personally, I enjoyed KOTOR more than Star Wars itself, because 
 the pacing and worlds are so much more interesting to me in the game than they were on the silver 
 screen. And you don't have to worry about bad directing and wooden acting in a video game, thank 
 goodness.
  
  I played the game like a TV show of sorts; I'd play an hour a night, exploring and taking in the 
 game in increments. This turned out to be a very smart move, because KOTOR handles its story in 
 chunks that complement small bits of gameplay. Subplots that take around an hour always end with 
 some overarching "galaxy saving" tidbit that usually wraps up each session perfectly, much like 
 a serial TV show. Each little world feels like its own contained, smaller game in a way, with of 
 the excellent art design and Star Wars mythology, making KOTOR feel very episodic and, because 
 of this, more epic.
  
  And each little conversation the player has with each character does make a difference in the way 
 the story progresses. The game does have two campaigns in a way, the light side and the dark side 
 of the force. Being nice and helping people out will bring a very different game flow forced on 
 the player than being a jerk and pushing people around all day. While this is fun, there's a certain 
 weakness to it all: there's no middle ground to stay within. You have to heal Jar Jar or kill Jar 
 Jar; you can't just walk away. If you don't gravitate toward a side, then both dark and light subplots 
 will be closed off until you make your final choice near to the end of the game. Because of this, 
 the dark/light system doesn't really feel as natural as it might be, because it's only really used 
 for statistical gain.
  
  That's okay, though, because the rest of the game makes up for this. The gameplay is a perfect 
 balance between Final Fantasy turn-based-sword-swinging and real time Diablo hack-and-slash. While 
 the battle happens in real time, you can pause at any time to administer commands to your party 
 for a few minutes. This lets players choose how to play; you can command on the fly and experience 
 the blistering speed of KOTOR's Dungeons and Dragons based combat, or you can pause after every 
 sword swing and plan out every second. This makes for a battle system that's, while not original 
 for the PC (it's been used in all of Bioware's old games, plus some old Black Isle gems as well) , 
 perfectly suited for the Star Wars universe.
  
  And it never actually leaves Star Wars, even with its plot. The storyline is long and sweeping, 
 covering six or seven planets and always instilling a sense of scope and paranoia in every scene. 
 The player usually has some small input, so it's never a passive experience; most of the time every 
 scenario will end up the same, but it's usually interesting and very well voice-acted anyway. Some 
 of the camera angles and rendered cut-scenes are a little off, but this is to be expected with 
 a game that has this much to handle, and when the quality is this constantly high, there's bound 
 to be one or two forgivable blemishes.
  
  Without a doubt, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is the best Star Wars game. This is because 
 it doesn't try to pander to the movies, cartoons, books and lunch boxes; it effectively starts 
 back over and creates something new out of something that's fairly old. It didn't shake the very 
 foundations of the video game industry or create an amazing masterpiece, but it's still a solid 
 PC RPG that deserves to be played several times through. A fun, impressively licensed game, and 
 one I plan to install again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  It is the game which gives the best Star Wars experience. The characters and the story KOTOR offers 
 are without peer. After having finished the game I thought: this was a more memorable adventure 
 than any of the Star Wars movies, a complex story which is exciting from the beginning to the end. 
 
  Several years have passed since I played the game but I still remember how hard it was to stop 
 playing to go to sleep, and how much I wanted to continue the next morning. It was a hard choice 
 in the game when I decided to change the green crystal of my lightsabre to a red one, thus joining 
 the dark side. I would have never imagined that I will choose to be "evil" in a game but the events 
 and the behavior of the "good" ones stirred me up so profoundly that I had had no other choice. 
 And this was only one of the remarkable moments of the game, so shortly, KOTOR is a masterpiece.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The Star Wars Universe is full of information and fun lore to pull from. With that, making an RPG 
 out of it doesn't sound too hard. If that is the case, why has it taken so long just to make one? 
 Maybe because there is too much information at stake with the movie timeline, or maybe nobody was 
 up to the task. Nevertheless, Bioware decided to pick it up and chose the perfect time period to 
 set the game in (a time period which in my opinion, has the most interesting stories to go with 
 it) : The Old Republic aka about 3900 years before A New Hope.
  
  With that being said, I will tell you right now that the story in this game is nothing short of 
 amazing. There is information all throughout the game that reveals tidbits about the ancient past 
 of the the Star Wars universe (like the Mandalorian Wars, the war against Exar Kun and even some 
 fun information about Naga Sadow and Marka Ragnos... not to mention a lot of other stuff) . Besides 
 the fun lore spread throughout the game, the main story itself is very in-depth and interesting. 
 It starts off being as simple as there being a Dark Lord of the Sith trying to take over the galaxy, 
 and you and a small group of people are trying to stop him at all costs. Each individual character 
 also goes through a very high level of character development, which is nice because every person 
 has their own personality and each player will connect with each character in a different way. 
 There are a couple of major twists also that are extremely insane. Even during slow moments, you 
 will find yourself continually playing this game just to enjoy the extremely well thought out story.
 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, it can be extremely complicated or extremely simple, depending on how 
 you want to play. The game allows for you to choose your gender, class and gives you the opportunity 
 to manually set your stats and powers. But if you don't want to do that, you can allow it to automatically 
 choose everything for you based on your class as you level up, or you can allow some things to 
 auto-set and do some things manually. This allows for a great level of freedom for those who want 
 it, while allowing those who just want to be able to choose their force powers (for example) , to 
 be able to do that.
  
  The game allows you to traverse between 7 'planets', 1 being a bonus mini-planet and another being 
 the final location. The overall world is vast, and there is a lot of exploring to do. The thing 
 about this game though, is that it really revolves around conversations quite a bit. Since everything 
 you say affects not only your personality (and force alignment) , but it affects your relationships 
 with the other characters and outcomes of different scenarios. There will also be all sorts of 
 fun sidequests you can partake in in order to gain experience or prestige (there are a LOT of these... which 
 is nice) , not to mention the swoop racing and random space battles.
  
  The interface of the game is simple enough to handle. You can play the whole game just with the 
 mouse, though you will likely learn to use the keyboard as well for quick actions (like pressing 
 1 to attack, or U to bring up the equip screen) . The HUD isn't too cluttered since it only takes 
 up a small portion of each corner of the screen and is simple enough to understand after you get 
 past the first hour or so of gameplay.
  
  The combat is also mostly standard RPG fare. While it simulates real-time by allowing you to turn 
 off game pausing (which gives you time to decide what you are going to do) , it still boils down 
 to being a turn-based battle system. It runs off of the D&D system so everything is well thought 
 out and calculated. You don't have to worry about random and unfair things happening. The combat 
 is as simple as choosing between an attack option (ranges from standard attack to a flurry attack) , 
 a force power (which obviously consumes force points and re-energizes over time) , throwing a grenade, 
 using a healing force power (usually on your party) , using a medpack, or using a special item (like 
 an energy shield or a stimpack which can do something like augment your strength) . It is standard, 
 but effective. Also, you don't have random encounters, you can see the enemy and if you want to 
 avoid them, you can choose to do so maybe by going stealth or perhaps trying to take another route. 
 It is also nice that each character (including yourself... though once you become a Jedi, wielding 
 blasters is a little... odd) can use melee or ranged weaponry, depending on what you want them to 
 do.
  
  The graphics in the game are great (for their time of course) . Most of the areas are well-detailed 
 and are appropriately themed (like Manaan's serene city, or Dantooine's beautiful landscape, or 
 Korriban's mysterious wasteland, etc.) . You don't really have repeating textures amongst the varied 
 locations which is very nice. The facial expressions are a little off sometimes, and there is an 
 overall lack of character model variety amongst the non-important NPCs, which can get annoying 
 when 4-5 characters you need to do quests for all look the same. On the bright side, for the character 
 models that ARE there, they are well done, and the animations are mostly pretty nice in the game 
 (lightsaber combat... or melee combat in general is actually pretty well coordinated) . The special 
 effects in the game on the other hand are mostly mediocre, with some exceptions being better. Also, 
 there are only a handful of cutscenes and they don't look much better than the game itself (even 
 though they obviously run on a slightly different engine and are therefore obviously scripted and 
 pre-rendered) ... and sometimes look even worse, which I guess means is a good thing that there are 
 only a handful of them. Overall though, the game looks good, detailed and well-done.
  
  The sound in the game is mostly amazing. What does that mean? Well the voice acting is some of 
 the best I've heard, and with how much talking there is in this game, I'm glad it is good. All 
 of the voice actors did a great job of capturing the characters and you will always be satisfied 
 with listening to them even if you can read the subtitles faster (I especially liked the voices 
 for Carth, Bastila, HK-47 and Darth Malak) . There is a slight problem though, in the form of aliens. 
 At first, hearing the aliens actually talk in their language is really neat, but over time you 
 realize that it loops the same 3 or 4 sentences per language throughout the whole entire game. 
 Now I understand recording all the alien lines in their language would be a task in itself, but 
 hearing 'muchu chaka paka' every other line kind of gets annoying considering the subtitle says 
 something different everytime. This is a minor problem though, and can easily be overcome by just 
 reading the subtitles and pressing enter when your done so you don't have to hear the long incomprehensible 
 repeating lines.
  
  As for the sound effects, they are standard Star Wars fare, though that isn't a bad thing. They 
 all sound appropriate and well done, though it is nothing to write home about. The music also, 
 is actually well composed and original. I like it a lot, but the problem is that oftentimes it 
 is so subtle that you don't really pay attention to it (like in the final battle, which is a wonderful 
 piece... but isn't really... loud enough... even with messing with volume controls) . That being said, 
 the music IS fantastic.
  
  Since there are two endings in this game, both involving quite different approaches (though involving 
 the same main story elements in regards to gameplay) , you will likely want to play this game at 
 least twice. It clocked in at about 55 hours my first playthrough and 40 hours my second and third, 
 so you can expect a good amount of time being put into this game. There are of course no real extras 
 to do upon completion, and like most RPGs, the main draw for replay is just the sheer fun of the 
 game (and the two endings of course, one being canonical and one not) , especially since you can 
 play around with powers and stats and different party setups each playthrough just for fun.
  
  In the end though, this is a nice, in-depth and lengthy Star Wars RPG that truly can be enjoyed 
 by non-Star Wars fans (though if you are a fan, trust me when I say that you will enjoy it ten 
 times more) . If you have the patience for RPGs, and have a computer that can play this (which is 
 highly likely at this point and time) , then you should NOT hesitate in purchasing this. Enjoy.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdxermacx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best games i ever played. I played it over and over again and it never a gets 
 boring. I here they may make a mmo Im gunna buy that the day it comes out!!!!!!!!!!! If there is 
 a mmo coming out my names gonna be Tony Gray Or SD xERMACx Or IVISwatRavenIVI I will accept freind 
 requests. I think this was revolutnary because I had a really good time playing it. Now normally 
 i hate games like turn based combat (I like Turn Based Stratgy) I dont like Final Fantsay. This 
 was one of the best games of all time. There so many ways you can go while playing this game. I 
 was about ninety percent (90%) evil but i did have a couple of good charters. The game is so long 
 and there are alot of side quests if you look for them. Also I love how the people act in the game 
 because yes they will try to trick you to do there bidding (or buy a sith artafact :0) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosGx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Well I wanted to play this game earlier but unfortunetly was'nt able to so I first PLayed KOTOR 
 II. I liked the second one it wasn't like the same star wars but it was good. And now im playing 
 KOTOR I . It was similiar to the KOTOR II except the menu and the story. I didn't like the menu 
 it was small but the story was pretty good. So i suggest that you play this game becouse it is 
 worth it.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetallicA53
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights Of The Old Republic for PC
  
  Real Score - 9.4
  
  What can i say about this game that hasn't already been said? I just finished it and i may of possibly 
 been engrossed by this more than any other game I've played to date. 
  
  Story: This is where the game is at, this is one of the most involving and evolving stories I've 
 ever played in, the characters that you encounter all play a minor role in the story and especially 
 the main ones. By the end of the game you will feel a connection to them and their individual stories 
 that they all possess. I was hooked from the start until the very end and plan on playing it again.
 
  
  Gameplay: Really easy to get into would be the key statement for this. As soon as you start playing 
 you will know what to do as its got a very small learning curve but it's deep enough to enjoy and 
 get the most out of until you've finished. 
  
  Sound: Great, from the sounds of the blasters to the sounds of lightsabers flying in the air and 
 colliding together in battle.
  
  My performance was excellent throughout playing with only some jumps in motion every now and then. 
 But not enough to hinder your enjoyment of the game.
  
  Overall this game is great, the evolving storyline to the way your actions impact on what is happening 
 makes this title a classic.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthecyber
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Released in 2003..............
  
  A long time ago in a Galaxy far far away.......
  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic. 
  
  This game is awesome, the graphics are great even 
 though it was released in 2003. It is even better than most games released since then. Many Star 
 Wars fans probably love this game... Ok I admit it, I am a star wars fan. But you don't even have 
 to be a star wars fan, the complete choice of your own destiny should suffice to make anyone want 
 to play this game.
  
  The Game offers complete customization and freedom, you can choose the cloths you wish to wear, 
 the shields you wish to adorn and your lightsaber colour and crystals. You can customize your party 
 members too. As you progress through the game and level up you can customize your own skills feats 
 and force powers and attributes.
  
  The game also allows you to choose between the light and dark side paths through the things you 
 say and do. Both sides have different pros and cons.
  Force powers are very diverse and fun, they start off in weaker forms and then ordinary forms and 
 then powerful forms. They cost force points to use.
  
  There are three levels of play, on easy the enemies are a pushover. On normal they are ok until 
 you fight millions together at one time like on the Star Forge level. On hard you will have a hard 
 job of beating the game when it comes to the fights on the Star forge and with Malak.
  
  There are three alternate endings, dark side, light side and dark side female. In the dark side 
 ending you defeat Malak and he admits in his dying breath that you are the dark lord. Light side 
 ending, he realizes that you are more powerful than ever in the light than you ever were in the 
 dark. Dark side female is where you are a female Revan and had the love affair with Carth, when 
 you defeat Malak, Carth will come back and give you a last chance at redemption. If you agree you 
 will both die together as the Star Forge is destroyed..................
  
  End......
  Until.......
  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic: The Sith Lords 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  This is the game to own if you like RPG. A nice character palette, great dialogue and it will never 
 get old with all the options you have for example you could be a scout, soldier, or a scoundrel 
 and later you could be a Jedi Gaurdian, Sentinel or Consular. GO to the Dark Side? Stay with the 
 light. What weapons do you like? so many options. The Graphics while not great by todays standard 
 are still okay not to mention the size of hte places you go and the number of them. A game that 
 lets you pick everything down to the color of you Lightsaber can't be half bad. The only thing 
 I didn't like about KOTOR is that you can only take two companions with you where ever you go and 
 the puzzles can get a little annoying but all in all this is the greatest RPG of the decade except 
 for maybe Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormkk
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  A great game in every aspect, very deep and interesting storyline, character progression and ofcourse 
 the side characters. There are some technical flaws here and there , but they won't bother you 
 when you get in the game. Don't let your nitpicking ruin the experiance this game can offer. It 
 IS the best RPG ever made in my book. And since I can't rate it 9.9 because of the minor technicalities, 
 I give it a 10 because I already mentioned they are outshadowed by the rest of the game, which 
 is friggin awesome by the way. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever. I have played this game many times and it never gets better. 
 Where to start. First the character selection. This is an essential part as you can choose between 
 sexes and classes. You can choose the soldier, scout or scoundrel. Of course the soldier is the 
 hardcore fighter and the Scoundrel is the rogue you know all to well in games like D&D and Neverwinter 
 Nights and the scout is inbetween. Then you have the combat, this is such an incredible idea as 
 it not the ussual aim and fire or the turn based moves like Pokemon Games, This is a mixture, when 
 you enter a battle the game pauses and you can choose which enemie to attack and how, Yoiu can 
 switch between team mates to add a more tactical twist to it. You can attack with your ranged weapons 
 like teh famous blaster rifle or attack with melee weapons like the classic lightsaber. Another 
 thing is using grenades, there are more than just one grenade there are many grenades with many 
 different tasks. One is meant just for causing damage, the other is meant to affect the enemies 
 attributes while others are meant for stopping the enemie. When you have choses your options you 
 unpause the game and it goes into realtime where the characters execute the orders you gave them 
 while the enemy tries to kill you. 
  Then outside battles you can talk with many people and even react to their comments. You can use 
 the force to make them tell you something and your responses have a affect on your character growth. 
 Doing many bad things will lead your character to the darkside and good things to the light side.
 
  THen there are many small minigames like riding a swoopbike, playing a cardgame and manning the 
 turret on a space ship.
  
  Some people say that there are many technical problems but if you get the patch it will all be 
 fixed
  SO in total I think this is a great game and I could rant one for many pages but even then I could 
 not describe the game to it's fullest, you wil just hav eto play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzilla741
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  this gmae dose gettiering at points because you fight the same person over and over at points in 
 the game but the good side is the selection of gear that you get in the gmae lie a dobble bladded 
 lightsaber a vibrobald frag granades. the advunter is a wide experince. its a big experience but 
 the bad part is its the same enemy over and over and........ well over. this game gets anoying 
 some times because you can get killed fast unless you have alot of helth. you can get board fast 
 so i sugest barrowing it frome a friend or renting it to see for your own eyes. if ou like it then 
 buy it. but i suggest to see befor you buy it i kinda made that misstake. a word of advice dont get 
 it just because it lookes good actuly see some reviews then barrow it then buy it if you like it. i 
 actuly liked it for a year but this game is kinda hard so i igot board heres a 
 
  
  () _ ()
  ('_')
  (^) ^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  In a game studio, not so far away (depending on where you live but compared to Dantooine, its close 
 from anywhere) there were many Bioware workers who created a masterpiece and released in Christmas 
 2003. That work of art was Lucasarts' Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Being a hardcore 
 star wars fan and watching the movies about a bazillion times, i appreciate the depth and supreme 
 quality of this game. The developers have taken every measure to ensure a gaming experience that 
 players will never forget, i know I didn't. Even now in 2008 when Next Gen gaming is all the rage, 
 I still appreciate the sublime storyline, memorable characters, and totally immersive game play 
 that filled me with joy in those prepubescent years. The story centers on you, a republican soldier 
 who seems to experiencing visions of the past (not necessarily your past) . You awake right into 
 the middle of a firefight on a spaceship but then immediately flee with the Ship's pilot, Carth 
 Onasi. You find yourself crashing into the planet Telos and attempt to make your way out. I'll 
 leave you to the rest of the story as I don't want to spoil the hours of fun you will have. GO 
 ON! Try it. It won't hurt to play a graphically outdated game. The depth at which the game is made 
 will definitely astound you more than any amount of force bloom will. You'll have fun wielding 
 guns, swords, lightsabers and of course, The Force. Who could turn a blind eye to that kind of 
 fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wow1059
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is my favorite game. Its dynamic storyline is unheard of at that time. Its choices of Light 
 and Dark side suits everyone's needs and gives a thorough storyline arc. The discrete dice roll 
 fighting system is also very easy to understand and easy to use. The characters in the game all 
 have background storylines for you to explore and they are all interesting to get to know them. 
 The variety of NPCs with different backgrounds makes up the perfect team, though in the later stages 
 of the game, it would be not very wise to use non-jedis. The difficulity level can be adjusted 
 during the game, howvever, the combat portion of the game is not very difficult and can be beaten 
 with relative ease. The puzzles in the game are also not very challenging, however, some puzzles 
 involving interrogation do take some time to figure out. Overall, it's the best game I have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterSmacker
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played one of those really addictive games? The ones where you just can not stop playing? Those 
 games that make you feel like your choices involve everything you're playing for? Well I'm proud 
 to say that this is one of those types!
  
  This game took me a good and worth while week to finish it. I was amazed of how the plot worked 
 out! But before I get down to business, let me talk about what this game is.
  
  
  So you begin as (whatever your name is) a Jedi who has had memory loss. Wait a second, sorry I'm not 
 going to give everything away (I'm no spoiler) . Anyway, so you will progress through dozens and dozens 
 of side quests in a spectacular Star Wars Universe that was well thought through in many ways. As 
 you continue forth, you gain new items, such as armors of all sorts, weapons with massive fire power 
 and other stuff. You also will meet with, I think, over 100 different characters that will either 
 give you missions or trade. But that's not all they do.
  
  I will name one character that becomes a part of your party: Carth. Now he was my favorite in the 
 game, even though I was Dark Side. Oh, I forgot to mention; you have a choice on if you would like 
 to be Dark or Light Side! This factor is the greatest part of KOTOR (Knights Of The Old Republic) !
 
  
  So now on to my thoughts on this game. First off, spectacular gameplay! Top-Notch!!! But remember this 
 is an RPG so the attacks are like this; I hit a 13, he hits an 8, I hit a 16, he hits a 6. So if your 
 a gamer who is looking for a fast action game, this game is not meant for you.
  
  Second, the lightsabor fighting is sweet! The moves of you and your opponent really match up! Which 
 makes this game better then Battlefront 2.
  
  
  Third, the final dirty secret at close to the end of the game is breath taking! I could not believe 
 it, they should make a movie out of it, seriously! Anyway the storyline is crazy! It's just so good! It's 
 worth an Oscar award for best story or something like that if it were a movie.
  
  Fourth, the voice acting is just to good to be true. All the characters you meet on the way have 
 all their own little acts. The creators seem to have put in a lot of work in the voices.
  
  Finally, this game is meant for everyone! I think it's just a marvelous game and I therefore give 
 it a hard core 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I never played the version for the xbox. just the pc version. personally, I'm a Star Wars fan. 
 this game was true to it's core. great battle sequences and quality. the abilities you have are 
 astonishing. the force attacks you can use are quite impressive! I think the best part is that 
 you can choose to go to the dark side! anyways, it's really great that you get to explore new numerous 
 planets with different types of creatures! you know you love the wookies! the story line was very 
 impressive as well. it doesn't just have some dumb plot. it's a pretty long game with great quality. 
 great voice actors and dialog as well! honestly, I can't even really recall any flaws in the game. 
 I thought everything had great quality to it. this a great game that I recommend for everyone. 
 Star Wars fan or not, this is a truly great game that has its own originality to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giant_Zealot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game's story line was the best ever. Although best ever is used a lot in our vocabulary, I 
 am absolutely serious. Games now don't have gripping ideas, and twists and shocks. Games now don't 
 make you laugh or cry (which I didn't do) ... 
  All games are now are ones with action and action. The fight system is very good, and it it gets 
 a whole lot better once you get your lightsaber. But, this game isn't about running around and 
 killing as many people as possible. It's about choice, and in this game it really effects it.
 
  The best part about this game is that it starts right away. It doesn't have a long training session 
 or any annoying time where you fight cardboard enemies. You simply get up and go, and you learn 
 more about your character as you design them. What you say effects what your party thinks about 
 you, who you kill changes everything. 
  This is still an excellent game, and far exceeds most other RPG's to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  This time Bioware face on new challenge of reviving Star war atmosphere in a RPG. This topic is 
 drastically different from those of Baldurs Gate or Neverwinter Nights and maybe it brings about 
 other changes of the game. The graphics of Kotor is much better than previous Bioware, and it's 
 really inspiring. I'm really impressed with the light saber fight which looks like a in a real 
 action games. The characters portraits are all ok and fits with their characteristics. Moreover 
 the dungeon and dragon rule is simplified here, which make Kotor more popular to a wider range 
 of players. Combat and interactions between player and environment are still based on dice roll 
 check, but this mechanism is veiled totally to give a feeling of real time. The story is just average, 
 though there are some interesting points like when you figure out who you main character actually 
 is. One more thing to say is that game play allows you to make different choice through out the 
 campaign, which affects the story in many ways results in different ends of the game. Voice plays 
 are all pretty well and interesting to here. Generally speaking, this one may be the most innovative 
 in Bioware RPG series, and no doubt best of its genre in this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brian0031
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  This is my first review of a video game on Gamespot but please take note that I have played 20-30 
 RPG's and have spent hundreds of hours of time on these games.
  
  So we have KOTOR......
  
  As you start the game you are kinda dissapointed but you realize that the combat system is 
 extremely simple. When you attack an enemy you have three options:
  
  Standard attack or Power/Special Attack
  Force Powers
  Grenade
  
  That is basically the 
 combat system in a nutshell (But you also have mines, and buffs) . Still; as you can guess the combat 
 will mostly be hack and slash without a whole lot of depth into the battles. In fact, if you know 
 remotely what you are doing you will be able to win every single battle in the game except two 
 without even trying.
  
  Next we have the storyline......
  
  Well the game is rather slow and kinda boring until you get to the part when XXXXXX happens. After 
 XXXXX happens the story turns into an 11/10.
  
  But the real problem with KOTOR is that for the majority of the game instead of fighting enemies 
 with lightsabers you will be spending your time running around the city or map talking to characters 
 and reading one to two paragraphs of text for every character that has a non default name.
  
  Sure, the voice acting is good and some of the conversations are interesting.... BUT WE ARE 
 PLAYING A VIDEO GAME.
  
  I don't want to be spending all my time running around and talking to people; since I have this 
 lightsaber and all these abilities I want to go around killing things not talking to people for 
 hours.
  
  Well, I think you get the point.
  
  This is easily the worst rpg that Bioware has ever made and the most overhyped game I have ever 
 played ignoring Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind.
  
  Bioware Rpg's such as Jade Empire, Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale (Okay not technically Bioware) , and 
 Planescape Torment (Again) are much much better.
  
  This is probably comparable to Neverwinter Nights 1 which was also a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Star Wars has been everywhere but in an RPG. But with KOTOR, it has reached and claimed new ground 
 with a new way of playing RPGs.
  It sets you in the shoes of a human (who you get to name, choose look, and gender) who, for some 
 reason, was added at the last minute onto a ship to gaurd an important Jedi. From there, your ship 
 gets blown up and you crash land in a large city, with a soldier who survived the crash as well.
 
  This RPG plays in real-time, so you can't just keep pressing the same button and rush through 
 your enemies. The game offers a large array of different equipment, from blasters to lightsabers, 
 and force powers, of course.
  
  GOOD  Graphics are great, with terrain and cities that are nice to look at; gameplay works smoothly; 
 excellent voicework for your large array of characters, with even NPCs having voices; storyline 
 with plenty of twists that keep you thinking; plenty of things to do; lightsabers
  
  BAD  Your characters are limited to leveling up to 20; sometimes a bit too much dialogue; there 
 are a few places where if you get caught and you didn't do something right, you get stuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monanri
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm typing this with the disgust that this game should be 8.0 or higher, but as I said the extreme 
 technical issues that should have been cleaned up before its release make this only a 4. I have 
 an Intel Pentium 4 @ 2.2 Ghz, an Nvidia GeForce FX 5500 (GeForce 5 Series) on a Texas Instruments 
 Mother board manufactured by Compaq, thats more advanced that an Xbox which has an Intel Pentium 
 3, and an Nvidia GeForce 3. The game is a product of poor quality control. There is no excuse for 
 this. This is the best version of the game, minus the technical problems. Please Fix this game 
 now! I feel like Bio Ware needs to be told to finish what they started! How can you tease us gamers 
 like that? On Dantooine my character gets stuck and the game play gets slow, aaaaaaaaah! The game 
 play was fine before,
  and would have had a good classification. This whole experience is just wrong, and needs to be 
 corrected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Well.. i've recently completed all 6 of the Star Wars Movies + the Cartoon Network's Star Wars Clone 
 Wars (that took me more than 12 hours of watching) i remember watching all that in my younger days.. but 
 i seem to forget bout it.. well! i didn't get enough of star wars! so i went for a star wars gaming/action-figures 
 spree!.. you name it, i have.. well not exactly.. before i tried Kotor (believe it or not.. it means 
 dirty in Malaysian Language, But this! IS NOT DIRTY!) and so i bought the FPS's first.
  
  Jedi Knight II- Jedi Outcast
  (it was damn hard! i haven't even finished yet, on pause)
  
 
  Jedi Knight II- Jedi Academy
  (completed, it was good.. but it can be better)
  
  Star Wars, Empires At War
  (was nice to control the Empire's DeathStar wasn't it?)
  
  and 
 those Prequel trilogy games..
  
  somehow, it didn't really show itself. watching the movie was better off. but when i came into 
 Knights of the Old Republic. i knew i hit the jackpot.
  
  i m a massive RPG fan. and somehow. RPG's on the PC ain't showing itself. i m not talking about 
 MMORPG's or those Other Non-linear RPG's.. i m talking about Pure RPG, the likes of which are FInal 
 Fantasy. Well.. this star wars. now. this Star Wars game.. let me concur, THIS RPG GAME really blew 
 off the other competitions.. it's very lengthy and very adaptive. it's like playing a Linear Game 
 in a Non-Linear way. you make your own choices along the way and you'll still reach the final stage 
 and end the game.
  
  i haven't really finished the game.. i m trying (i stared at the computer for 12 hours today!)
 
  
  but i dare say, it's a breath of fresh air for Computer RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zt107
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun game to play. There is a subtle learning curve that is easy to follow and has 
 a good combat system that makes the game fun. Overall this game is pretty good. I always found 
 it a challenge to get the past out of some characters but it was a fun challenge pushing slowly 
 untill you got all the pieces. 
  Though to every game there are downfalls like the occasional glitches and other small things that 
 are annoying like not being able to open a container. Also there are small points in the beginning 
 where you wish you could just hijack a sith ship and run to the other planets from bad wording 
 of directions or other confusing things. There are also points where when using non-Jedi as buddies 
 look like mistakes when they sit around and talk or something while you kill all the countless 
 Sith in your way. 
  Though there are frustrating moments you can do almost everything you want on the first run though. 
 After that it is fun to go and play it though again (i. e. go though the game first as a light sided 
 character then beat it as the dark side.) and try and do anything. The game is manly open ended 
 when not going thought the storyline but the story has choices that you could do which change the 
 ending. So even after the many frustrations it is a fun challenge but not worthy of 10.0 so i'd 
 give it a 9.5 overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Having achieved success with D&D games, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic (KotOR) looked like 
 a change of pace for Bioware. The truth though, is that KotOR's not that different from the canadian 
 developer's previous games... but it is, in my opinion, their best effort so far. Lets see why 
 that is.
  
  First off, lets get the smaller stuff out of the way: the engine that powers KotOR is dated by 
 today's standards so the game's environments will not impress, although some of the exterior levels 
 look pretty good. Also, the engine could have used some tweaking and polishing because it often 
 has frame-rate drops and a few minor bugs.
  
  Now lets get down to the really important stuff. I'll start with the most important aspect of a 
 story-driven role-playing game like this one: the writing quality. KotOR isn't all that great in 
 this department (still better than the new Star Wars trilogy though) ; the quality of the dialogs 
 is a bit inconsistent, although the voice acting is generally good. The implementation of fully 
 voice-acted dialogs works to the game's advantage. Furthermore, it's worth mentioning that the 
 story is decent; there are enough plot twists to keep the player interested, and enough good quests 
 to keep the mind alert. The best thing about it is that it imparts a lot of Star Wars lore, some 
 of which is very interesting. It's a definite plus if you're a fan of the franchise... and even 
 if you aren't, lore is an important element of any fleshed out game world.
  
  Another important thing for a role-playing game to have is choices, and KotOR is a mixed bag in 
 this regard. The thing is, most of your choices don't matter because towards the end there's a 
 moment that can basically erase every choice you made prior to that point. Truth be told, there 
 are only a handful of choices with true impact on the game. Also, the game treats morality in very 
 'black and white' fashion. The dark side feels forced most of the time since you have to act like 
 a high-school bully to walk this path. I know Sith are supposed to be evil, but helping some kids 
 mug an Ithorian is just silly.
  
  Of course, stats are an ever-present element in RPGs and KotOR is no different. What we have here 
 is the Star Wars D20 ruleset, which is somewhat similar to 3rd Edition D&D: you have 6 basic attributes, 
 skills, feats and a magic system, which translates into Force powers in this setting. As you can 
 see, it is similar to D&D, and it plays very much like a D&D game, that's why I said in the intro 
 that KotOR is not that different from Bioware's previous efforts. One of the best aspects of KotOR 
 is that it puts to good use most of your skills, making the experience more varied, since there's 
 always something to hack, repair or bypass. Plus, this means that some levels have multiple ways 
 to get by, which is always a great thing to experience in a game. On the other hand, the combat 
 system is limited on the tactical side, plus you need to rely on companion AI way too often, an 
 AI that might or might not come through for you.
  
  Another positive thing about KotOR is the sound. The game has atmosphere, no doubt about that; 
 levels like Upper City Taris or Manaan have a great background buzz which makes the game feel alive. 
 The music is also very good, although it leans towards high fantasy a bit.
  
  Overall, KotOR is not a heavy, hardcore role-playing game, it strikes a balance between accessibility 
 and depth. It definitely isn't up there with the likes of Planescape: Torment, Fallout or the surprising 
 NWN2: Mask of the Betrayer, but it's definitely a great game. So if you are having doubts about 
 buying this game you should definitely forget them... the Force is strong in this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  As far as I can tell, this game kills all RPG games out there. I would say it is right up close 
 with Morrowind and Oblivion. The game is rather long. I'm not sure how long it takes an average 
 player, but it sure took me a while.
  
  One of the best qualities about this game, is its story line combined with great voice acting and 
 immersion. Half-Life 2 has these qualities, but the way KOTOR (Knights of the Old Republic) presents 
 itself with all of the different personalities within all the characters is truly amazing. You 
 can see if the character is in despair or is worried, upset, mad, etc. This is where I think it 
 beats all the of the RPGs in this way. Immersion is the key in this game. You can believe that 
 you are really in KOTOR fighting to save the universe (the typical phrase to start a climatic sci-fi 
 story) . As far as combat and game play, it's ok, not great.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who hasn't played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  When BioWare seized the reigns to the Star Wars franchise, they handled it well enough to turn 
 it into something brilliant. Knights of the Old Republic follows the adventures of your amnesia-stricken 
 hero on an unusual quest to become a Jedi and defeat the Sith menace terrorizing the galaxy. Along 
 the way, you'll cross paths with the local crime ring's boss, return a native species to their 
 home planet, solve a murder mystery, infiltrate a Sith base or two, escape a planet just before 
 its destruction, and that's just a few of the exciting things you get to do.
  
  As you level up in the game, your stats do not automatically bump up on their own. You select what 
 stats you want to increase. Of course, a few of the stats aren't controllable, such as HP, Force 
 power, etc. The same goes for the various partners you'll meet up with. Jedi, soldiers, droids, 
 and even a Wookiee. It's a bit of a shame that you can have only two partners out at a time, but 
 that would make the game easy, wouldn't it? 
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is unbelievingly immersive. During your travels, you will visit planets 
 such as Tatooine, Taris, Kashyyyk, Dantooine, and more. You will converse with many different species, 
 both native and foreign. You also have the option of dealing with the problems of just about everybody 
  with a twist. Help those around you to make everybody's life better to walk the path of the light 
 side. Selfishly threaten people into your own benefit to head down the twisted path of the dark 
 side. The most interesting interactive factor of this game is the ability to influence your decisions 
 to reveal your true Force alliance. It feels like two different games in this respect: be good 
 or be bad.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic doesn't look too bad for a 2003 game. Your surroundings do have a nice 
 amount of detail to them. A problem I have with it, however, are the characters themselves. When 
 characters speak, it looks like their mouths are simply opening and closing, even during the cutscenes. 
 It's a shame, considering how much effort BioWare put into this game, only to see that the characters 
 lack a bit of polish.
  
  Arguably the most impressive feature, which goes hand-in-hand with the interactivity, is all of 
 the voice acting. Hours of voicework can be heard in this game. Best of all, most of it doesn't 
 sound generic. All English-speaking characters don't sound fake. For the people that don't speak 
 English, it sounds like you hear the same two or three phrases per species. I have no idea how 
 many times I've heard that darned "mucha shaka paka" phrase from female Twi'leks galore. I know 
 you're upset, lady, I get it! Keep it down! At least the dialogue of HK-47, a combat droid partner 
 you'll pick up on Tatooine, is among the best stuff I've heard in a video game.
  
  An unfortunate aspect to the PC version is Dantooine. I have no idea what's wrong with it. Most 
 parts in the field lag like no other, making it unplayable. There have been a few patches released 
 for this game, but none of them fix the problem. I know I'm not the only one with this issue. After 
 a bit of searching, I did find out that there was a solution to help make Dantooine more playable, 
 and although it didn't solve the lag problem completely, it at least made the planet playable. 
 I wish the info could have been found in an easier way. Here's how to fix it: Go to C:/Program 
 Files/LucasArts/SWKotOR, open up swkotor. ini in Notepad, scroll down to the [Graphics Options] 
 section, type in Disable Vertex Buffer Objects=1 in that section, save it, then play it.
  
  Technical problems aside, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is an exciting romp across the 
 galaxy. It features some pretty good graphics, stellar (English) voice acting, and it is very easy 
 to become fully engaged in everything you can do in the game. You don't even need to love Star 
 Wars to enjoy this game. If you do, then you owe it to yourself to try this game. You can't go 
 wrong here.
  
  Presentation  8.5  Engage yourself in an envisioned Old Republic. The lag on Dantooine is unforgivable, 
 however.
  Graphics  7.5  Pretty OK, but if so much effort was put into everything else, it's a wonder why 
 some visuals weren't given the same treatment.
  Audio  9.5  Fantastic English voicework. Horrible repeating foreign voicework.
  Gameplay  
 9.5  Choosing your path couldn't be better. But, Dantooine's lag!
  Reviewer's Tilt  9.0
  Overall  8.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinjedi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  What does every real addicted RPG fan desire from a game? Hack and slash? Nah, too much blood, 
 too little brain, no time to breath. He/she wants ADVENTURE! And
  not just any cliche type. She/he wants thrilling story, captivating scenario and lots of choices, 
 strong choices which affect the very foundation of the world, the development of the universe, 
 be it towards light or dark...
  He/she wants immersion into beautiful landscapes, animated, living cities, huge variety of exploring, 
 solid cinematics and dialogues (maybe even for the main character... a chance for developers to 
 improve in the future...) ,
  variety of costumes etc. And not least, she/he wants replayability (combined with a mysterious 
 love story?) , different surveys, different endings.
  Stars Wars KOTOR offers all these features, I keep playing it again and again. May the Force be 
 with you and/or serve you well!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRider70
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Great game! Good graphics, great lightsaber action, superb facts about the Star Wars universe and 
 great extensions to the Star Wars universe. A must - have! for any Star Wars fan or sci - fi lover!! 
 LucasArts and Bioware did a great job in making this game a must - have for any pc gamer. A great 
 setting too and introducing a completely different story without envolving too much of the old 
 Star Wars stuff that most people who have either watched the Star Wars Saga or played the games. 
 Check it out if you havent already and you have my and many other ppl's garuntees that you will 
 love this game and might even try to play it more than once ( try playing it more then once because 
 every time you play its possible to uncover things you havent done before!) Get the game or borrow 
 it from someone - play, love it, share it with other pc gamers , and trust me Its worth what it 
 costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  I went back and played this through again as both dark and light side.
  This is quiet possibly the funnest game I have ever played.
  Sadly I do not think there will 
 be a KOTOR 3.
  Too much politics and greed.
  Sadly I am just now getting Kotor 2 but I am looking forward to it none the less. 
  I really 
 wish that reviewers everywhere would take into account that 90% of a game review should be simply 
 how much fun is it to play.
  I am so sick of reviews being good or bad because of this technology or that new feature.... Who 
 cares! I just want games that are a blast to play.
  If it is a formula that has been used for years I do not care as long as it continues to be fun. 
 Well, That is my two cents worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogan4310
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Star Wars KOTOR well what can I say. This game has to be one of the best games I have ever played 
 on the PC. It has a great storyline, over 20 hours of gameplay, brilliant graphics and ltes you 
 manipulate the storyline in so many ways. You have total control over your characters abilities, 
 how they are equiped and whether you fight for good or evil. Yes this game was released in 2003, 
 but the game still fights on and is know to many as one of the greatest RPG games known to man. 
 
  
  This game has stunning gameplay that will keep you at your end with excitement for the hours you 
 play it. Choose your own fate whether you take the easy route and follow Darth Malak or take the 
 harder route and foolow the ways of the jedi. This game has so much to offer you in many ways, 
 even the mini games are a load of fun. From the start to finish this game is action-packed and 
 full of ttwists and turns.
  
  I would recommend this game to any Star Wars. RPG player or a newcomer to playing the PC and would 
 give this game a 5 star rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigevil_rashek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Star wars, with its sci-fi space opera setting and rich story, i was surprised it took this long 
 to make a rpg, as it seems the perfect setting to make one. This is'nt only the best star wars 
 game (competing with SW: oucast and dark forces) ever, but one of the best games ever. One of biowares 
 best projects, its an excellent combination of gameplay, story and replayability (which rpgs lack) . 
 In this game you can choose to be a pure hearted light side character or a ruthless dark sided 
 one. The available paths in this game is amazing as you can create a variety of charachters. The 
 story is fantastic as it puts the prequel trilogy to shame, with its numerous plot twists and endings. 
 The gameplay is strong, it uses the AD&D engine with the D20 ruleset. Game play is in realtime 
 but behind the scenes its actually turnbased ala the baldur's gate games. The graphics are a bit 
 dated but still is very good, only with a few minor glithces here and there .All these traits will 
 warrant multiple playthroughs with the game. Be sure that you have one of the best rpgs period, 
 and on that defines the western rpg genre.
  
  So to sumit up:
  Graphics:8.4
  Gameplay:9
  Story:9.5
  Replayability:9.4
  Game:9/10
  This game gives you the feeling of 
 being a jedi (or sith) and backs it up with excellent gameplay and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDogZoo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much experience in rpg but this is the best game I have ever played. KOTOR places 
 you about 1,000 (or 10,000, don't remember) years before the first Star Wars movie. The sith, led 
 by ex-jedi, have massed a enormous force that is slowly crushing the jedi out of existents. You 
 start on a ship that is being attacked by the sith. Eventually, you escape on a sith controlled 
 planet. That is where your adventive begins. 
  
  The story is amazing. It's deep and immersive. There is usually only 2 choices from each quest. 
 Although, it is still very satisfying. I keep playing the quest both ways over and over again and 
 they never got old. Not a single one. I played, replayed, and replayed again so that I could do 
 every quest. I think I have about 200 hours on this game. The combat is simple but very satisfying. 
 Overall this is a game that should not be missed. If you haven't play this yet, head over to gamespot 
 and get your copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  KOTOR is one of those games that you can pick up and have fun with it -- but never stop playing until 
 you realize what the actual time is. It's one of those games that just immerses you in an incredibly 
 addictive experience.
  
  It's combat elements are well-thought of and very strategic but the best part of the game is the 
 amazing story. It is on par with -- Excuse me, better than any of George Lucas's Star Wars movies' 
 stories. That's how great it is. And it's even better that it's you who helps decide how the story 
 unfolds with lots of choices throughout the game. One interesting thing is that you can pick good 
 and "Light Side" choices or be evil and pick "Dark Side" choices. One great feature of this type 
 of cutscene interaction is that many conversations would end differently if you picked a different 
 choice which therefore results in more replay value than typical RPGs.
  
  The combat is fun but that story I just talked about should be the best part of this game. Also 
 know that you can play for dozens of hours without having the fun stop (I've played for 450 hours 
 so far) . If you're ready to have the longest and best Star Wars movies and actually interact with 
 it, this is what you require. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly great. Here is the breakdown.
  
  Gameplay- It is pretty good. The click attack function isn't bad allowing some sort of strategy, 
 thought it could annoy some people since you aren't exactly controlling the character. It is also 
 semi free roam where you can go to any planet at any time, so there is no particular order and 
 when you reach the planet is isn't extremely linear, but you are limited to where you can go. Gameplay 
 can match any RPG. I also like the fact that depending on your actions you head to the light or 
 dark side of the force.
  
  Story- The story here is interesting. You are sent to defeat the Sith Lord Malak, and there is 
 a major interesting twist along the way. Very interesting, very cool.
  
  Graphics- They are dated, but they aren't extremely terrible or anything. Seeing the worlds is 
 awesome, the aliens looks great.
  
  Sound- Everything has voice overs, and different aliens talk in their own language. It is really 
 immersive, making the game one step better.
  
  I highly recommend you check this game out especially if you are a Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcoregamerha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best RPG I've ever played if not the best game I've ever played on any platform. 
 The graphics are good (and I play it on a system with the minimum requirements) the sound is good, 
 the gameplay is good, and the story is wayyyyy better than any of the movies. I would also have 
 to say that the music is better here than in the movies though it's not as good as Halo. I won't 
 ruin the surprise here but there will be one plot twist that will make your jaw drop. BUY THIS 
 GAME NOW!!!!!!!!!!! Also if you just get a mac and run the mac version you won't experience any 
 of the problems listed in the review. So also take this advice, BUY A MAC NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 What's up with this 800 character limit any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafmister2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that comes to mind when Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is mentioned: great 
 story, immersive world, cool combat system, F***ing good game! KOTOR happened to be the first RPG 
 that I ever played. As a mercenary with a murky past, you are hired, by the Republic, to assist 
 in the current war with the Sith. You are assigned to a republic ship, and in the middle of a mission 
 you are attacked in space. Once off the ship, you land on a foreign world, with a Republic Officer 
 Carth Onasi, and must locate a jedi named Bastilla. The minute I started playing I was captivated 
 by the Star Wars world that Bioware had displayed so beautifully. In the scene after you get off 
 the ship, you wake up in an apartment where Carth is and begin a conversation with him. This conversation 
 informs you on a lot of things that are going on in the game, such as the Sith war, the old Mandalorian 
 Wars and so on. I remember speaking to Carth for about 20 minutes due to the fact that I was so 
 interested in the past that he accounts. Throughout the whole game there are many things that will 
 interest players. 1. There is an amazing story backing up KOTOR which captivates and immerses players 
 into a Star Wars world that feels like it lives and breathes. This is helped by some well developed 
 characters and a great voice cast (not to mention the many hours of dialogue that was recorded 
 into the game) . 2. Players can customize their character into 3 different classes (Soldier, Scout, 
 Scoundrel) affecting how each player would act in a situation. For example, a player encouters 
 a violent gang, if they are a soldier (who specializes in combat and force) , then they could just 
 fight their way through, but if they're a scoundrel (who specializes in sneaking an evasion) , then 
 they may want to try to persuade the gang that there is no need for violence, using their charisma 
 skill. 3. Players play as nine characters and can customize each one differently. 4. There are 
 a variety of weapons like swords, lightsabers, blasters, grenades and much more. You will be involved 
 in a lot of discussions in the game, and this opens the game up to criticism, for those who want 
 to leave the dialogue back in their real life, and stick to more action oriented games. However 
 there is a cool feature that let's you choose how to respond to a person. And these action affect 
 your light/dark side meter. If you see a bunch of gang members beating an old man up for money, 
 you can choose to get involved, or to be a bystander. If you get involved and help the old man, 
 you get light side points, but if you don't, you get no points. However, after you kill the gang 
 members you have the option of giving the man a medpac, letting him go, or robbing him yourself. 
 If you let him go, you gain nothing, if you give him a medpac you gain light side points, but if 
 you rob him you gain dark side points. Lighter people get an added bonus and their light force 
 powers (force powers that assist the player, such as speed, cure, or defense) , darker people get 
 a bonus on their dark side powers (powers tha subdue or hurt the player's enemies, sush as, choke, 
 slow, lightning) . KOTOR's fairly open ended gameplay (which develops after you leave the first 
 planet) , makes it fun, and the player gets a lot of oppurnities to make decisions on what to do. 
 With this said, KOTOR is a game with an extremely high replay value, as there is no way you have 
 seen everything in the game on your first file (this is not theoretically possible as different 
 actions have different outcomes) . The visuals for KOTOR, although not the best part of the game, 
 are good and make the game nice to look at. However, there are many other games with better graphics. 
 KOTOR is a fun, immersive RPG with solid graphics, a great story, good gameplay, and an exciting 
 gaming experience that can be played again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonsam2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game for many reasons but ill start with the story in my opinion its one of he best 
 stories in gaming so far i have played hundreds of games and ive only seen a few with stories like 
 these it sets a new bar in story telling the only problem i had was it end to soon 5/5 As far as 
 graphics go its goruges esepesially for the normal xbox system 4.5/5 Gameplay is fun and can be 
 intesive at the times which is good for players looking for a challenge but if its to much for 
 you can turn down the difficulty of the enemies AI and toughness 5/5 The sound is top notch and 
 has a great mussical score true to star wars its self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scurrydog
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Where should I begin? It's an RPG with a decent battle system and well thought of characters that 
 drive a story any Star Wars Freak will die for. Yes I have played KOTOR 2 but I havnt finished 
 it and I do not intend on doing so, because after KOTOR 1, I have had enough of this Star Wars 
 to RPG (goodness) .
  
  CONCEPT - Great
  The concept of the game, a Story taking place 5,000~ years before the Star Wars Trilogy is great 
 and I don't think they could of thought of a better setting and events to take place in this game, 
 it just feels so star wars to me. It being a RPG (or more specifically how little detailed the 
 story and shoddy mechanics) can make it feel not such an attractive game. This would be awesome 
 if the game felt more realistic on the realm of star wars, not just labaling a generic RPG with 
 Star Wars names and titles.
  
  WHAT WE GOT - Good
  The game is GOOD, I'll give it that, its just not what it COULD of been. The way the RPG system 
 works makes you wonder if your truely a Jedi or just some guy in a Final Fantasy Series... seriously 
 (not including Raven who is relearning powers) any other jedi can go from padawan to master that 
 fast is just down right stupid. I know, its an RPG and everything but darn it, this is STILL STARWARAS!
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - AWESOME
  For an RPG, but good for a Star Wars game. I'll title it awesome because of how fresh it feels 
 from other Star Wars games (Bought this in the Star Wars collectors pack bundle with like 4 other 
 star wars games) .
  
  GRAPHICS - ~~~~~~~~
  At the time of release the PC version could look a whole lot better than the Xbox version, I played 
 on the Xbox and it feels just about the same except I like the better resolutions on the PC. Mods 
 can improve the graphics just a bit.
  
  VALUE - Meager
  One play through will be enough for me, even if I played through as a semi-good guy (just clicked 
 on what I felt like) I don't think it would be any fun to play through the whole thing again just 
 to act like a bad guy even though I hate being an a$$ in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great story. Great voice acting and music. Deep customization. Lots of combat. Story 
 choices keep you involved. 
  
  The Bad: Quick ending. Travel and backtracking can be slow. TOO much needless inventory junk. 
 
  
  Review: Well, I'm pretty late playing this 4 year old game, but my PC is pretty old and can't handle 
 the newer games. Anyway, overall, this is a good RPG experience I would recommend to RPG and/or 
 Star Wars fans. This game definitely feels and plays like an authentic Star Wars piece. The story 
 and dialogue are pretty intelligent and sometimes comical. 
  
  The main thing that makes this game different is that you can choose to follow the light or the 
 dark side of the force, depending on the choices you make in the game. With most conversations, 
 you're given choices on how to respond. The dark side choices seem much easier and faster, especially 
 at the beginning of the game to acquire experience and credit. 
  
  The combat unfolds in real-time in the game, but you'll have to pause the action alot to set up 
 your action queue. As a Jedi, you can set up lightsaber attacks, force power actions, or use inventory 
 items to boost your stats during battle temporarily. For most of the easy battles, you can just 
 set up your action queue and watch the battle unfold from there without any input. It's about as 
 interesting as it can get for a RPG on the PC. 
  
  The main plot to the game is the best part of the game, I would say. Though it does come pretty 
 predictable once you figure out what's goin on. And the ending I thought was very quick and not 
 very satsifying. 
  
  There is voice acting from literally hundreds of different characters in this game. All the speech 
 and dialogue in the game is spoken. And it's all very good too. The sound effects are all here, 
 very Star Wars like, and realistic. The music in the game is all original, but definitely has a 
 Star Wars feel to it. 
  
  The graphics look good enough. They don't compare to any new PC games, but I'd reckon they looked 
 pretty good when this game first came out. The environments all look great. The character's faces 
 during the cutscenes don't. :-P 
  
  My other quip about the game is that the action does get really slow-paced at times when you have 
 to bactrack and you have to do it all on foot. 
  
  Oh, and my biggest quip about the game is the endless supply of inventory items will probably never 
 use. Now, if you're a hardcore gamer, really gungho about spending countless hours figuring out 
 the best armor/weapons arrangements for all your characters, you'll love this aspect then. It's 
 just, you have 9 characters you can play as during the game, all with 9 slots of armor/weapons, 
 with dozens of different pieces available for each of those slots. So, there's literally thousands 
 and thousands of combinations to choose from. And not just armor and weapons either. On every planet 
 you go to in the game, there are countless bags/boxes/containers/lockers, etc that you can open 
 up to recieve goodies. And by and large, most of it is just junk that sits in your inventory. (Your 
 inventory doesn't have a limit by the way) . And it really slows the game down. Obviously, looking 
 into the boxes and lockers is purely optional, but unless you know any better (like from reading 
 this review) , you have no idea most of it will be pure junk and a waste of your time for checking 
 it out. So you first run through the game, you'll be tempted to go through it all, hoping for some 
 really good stuff. Well, if you're reading this, I suggest not wasting your time with it. 
  
  Anyhoo, speaking of doing a run through the game. I'm tempted to go beat this game a 2nd time 
 around, but going on the dark side this time, but I probably won't. I have other new games to play 
 now, and the pace of this game was a little too slow to make me want to play it again. But if you 
 have the patience, doing at least 2 runs through the game would be pretty interesting.
  
  Well, that's about it for the review. Overall, it's a solid RPG for the PC and is extra cool just 
 because it's Star Wars, but it's also not without it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickerdoodle13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game does have a few glitches but the game play is really good. The story line is very good 
 as well. You can start as a male or a female and other types of classes.
  The story begins on the ship called the Endar Spire and it goes on from there. I think that KOTOR 
 1 is better than KOTOR 2. Credits are more useable in this game and you can buy a lot of good stuff 
 with it. I recommend using shields when you can because they work very good. In KOTOR 2 you have 
 a lot of these shields available to you so you use them more. But once you begin using a lightsaber 
 you should sell all of your blasters because they have no good use when you are finding the star 
 maps.
  By the way, when you first start out with it you won't want to play it but it is a very fun game.
 
  There could be more features in this game but it is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistriever
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is the best game with a Star Wars name on it to date. As an RPG this breaks little new ground 
 but is seamless in it's implementation. Having replayed through it at least a dozen times it has 
 high replayability with continued value. So many quests and plots based on your in game decsions 
 and a fantastic original storyline make this a must for any fan of RPGs or of Star Wars. Highly 
 memorable characters, superb voice acting... the only weakness this game has is that it inevitably 
 ends... but only after 30+ hours of gameplay. This is the game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazdude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Perhaps the best role playing game of all time, Knights of the Old Republic took the Star Wars 
 saga and pioneered the first half of the expanded universe, all the while introducing the franchise 
 to a new genre of gaming. Long time fans will tell you it belongs in the hall of fame, most others 
 will say it attracted them to the science fiction scene like no other medium before it.
  
  It was so successful that its spin-offs included a sequel and comic book series in quick succession. 
 You will find that practically all serious gamers have either played or know of this famous title. 
 Originally launched in 2003, it was marred by some out-of-the-box technical issues, but since most 
 of these were resolved in patches later on, nobody has anything but praise for this masterpiece.
 
  
  
  The game's mechanics can be divided into two categories - combat and dialog. At any point in the 
 game you are either fighting or talking, and in some situations watching cinematics or playing 
 mini games. To control the game you use your keyboard to move around and your mouse to initiate 
 actions or to interact with people and objects.
  
  When first starting out you must choose your character's status, beginning with full name, then 
 class, gender, appearance, skills and attributes. There are three classes to pick from, Soldier, 
 Scout and Scoundrel. Then later on when you become a Jedi, you can pick another secondary class, 
 which includes; Guardian, Sentinel and Consular. 
  
  Your skills and attributes determine how you play the game and what tasks you can complete by yourself. 
 Also it lets you assign combat styles, ranging from expertise at melee weapons, ranged guns and 
 force usage. As well as that, you can select certain feats which give you varied bonuses, and force 
 powers for special attacks and defenses. Attributes include; dexterity, strength, charisma, wisdom, 
 constitution and intelligence. Skills available are; computer use, repair, demolitions, persuasion, 
 stealth, awareness, security and treat injury. Many of these are self explanatory, but it would 
 take too long to overview each one here.
  
  Progressing throughout the game involves advancing in level, from one to thirty. Every level lets 
 you add more skills, powers and feats, and every so often more attributes too. This happens when 
 you achieve a certain level of experience, which you gather by killing enemies or finishing quests. 
 Your character has an inventory in which items are stored, such as; armor, weapons, accessories, 
 shields, usable components and more.
  
  One of the most important features of character development is the alignment system, which lets 
 you decide if you want to follow the light side or fall to the dark side. This is possible via 
 dialog options and quest outcomes through-out the game. Not only does this impact on how you react 
 with the world around you, it also has different bonuses depending on which force powers you use.
 
  
  The game's plot revolves around visiting several different planets, searching for puzzles to solve 
 a larger mystery, using your personal spaceship to travel to each one. All the while you can complete 
 quests - a few being mandatory and all others being optional. In between the beginning and end 
 of the game, the story is non-linear, which means that you can pick what planet and which quests 
 to complete in whatever order you prefer. 
  
  The environments are free roaming, allowing you to discover new things and also choose your fights. 
 You always have one goal at each destination, the rest of the missions - whether tied into the 
 plot or non-related, can reward you with extra experience points or special items. There are literally 
 hundreds to complete, and they make up the bulk of the game.
  
  You are not alone though, along your journey you will meet several other characters who join you 
 as a party. Eventually your party will consist of nine people, including different classes and 
 background stories. Some are even optional depending on your decisions. At each new checkpoint 
 location you can choose which two people will accompany you. As well as bringing their own abilities 
 to the table, this also allows a chance for personal character building. Every party member has 
 an interesting life story you can explore by dialog options. One of the funnest parts of the game 
 is actually getting to know your friends, and this can lead to romantic pursuits, if you are that 
 way inclined.
  
  When in combat situations, you no-longer need your keyboard, you use your mouse to select targets 
 and then a menu is displayed letting you select what attack to use, or what grenade to throw, or 
 what force power to activate. These of course are determined on what feats, powers and inventory 
 you currently have. You also have a queue so you can plan attacks beforehand, for a bit of variety. 
 This is really what sets the combat apart from other Star Wars games such as Jedi Knight, instead 
 of hack and slash the computer performs the actions for you. Different weapons include single, 
 dual and double edged lightsabers, pistols, blasters, swords, grenades, mines and more.
  
  
  Like all role playing games, graphics aren't nearly as much of an issue as gameplay is, and 
 Knights of the Old Republic is no exception. Compared to a similar game like Jedi Academy, the 
 detail isn't quite on equal terms, but on the other hand the environments are much bigger. If you 
 play both you might notice that a lot of the force powers and attack moves and their animations 
 are related. The 3rd person view is almost identical, and both the in-game cinematics and movies 
 also follow the same pattern.
  
  A lot of other small additions to the graphics make a noticeable difference, such as your appearance 
 morphing as your alignment changes, or unique facial animations when talking to characters. The 
 seven different planets you visit do a great job of simulating varying atmospheres, so you'll never 
 get bored of your progress. Along the way you'll encounter several mini-games and out of the ordinary 
 situations in which the game does a decent job. Examples of this include card games, turret firing, 
 speeder racing and an underwater adventure.
  
  
  Star Wars is famous for its fantastic amount of sound effects, and thankfully the same trend continues 
 in this title. The first thing you'll notice about the musical score is its originality. Evidentially 
 the producers wanted to stay true with the expanded universe setting in the music they composed, 
 a wise decision indeed. Every song is fitting to each scenario, as it automatically adapts from 
 ambiance to conflict where necessary.
  
  Every single person you come across can talk to you, and you can have conversations with your party 
 members whenever you like. Aliens and droids communicate in their own native language, which is 
 another nice touch. Subtitles let you read along in whatever they are speaking, and though you 
 cannot hear yourself talk, your list of dialog responses spell out word for word what you would 
 say. Voice acting of all the main characters is terrific, and is perfectly cast too.
  
  
  In regards to re-playability, role playing games lead the pack because of the many different options 
 they present to you. Knights of the Old Republic gives you the opportunity to complete the game 
 many times, due to 3 main factors; gender, alignment and quests. Being male or female means more 
 than just the superficial appearance, it actually decides on which romantic interests you can pursue. 
 
  
  The alignment system lets you play through the game as either Jedi or Sith, and its interesting 
 to approach the missions in the opposite way. It should also be noted that this allows for an alternate 
 non-canonical ending. There are so many quests in the game you probably won't finish them all the 
 first time around, so its fun to tick them all off your list later on. In fact, there is so much 
 content in the game, you would have to play-through it four times to get 100% out of it.
  
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is a classic Star Wars title that you will still be playing in 
 several years time. Its genius storyline and memorable characters are a tribute to the original 
 saga that even George Lucas would be proud of. Role playing at its best, this epic title has paved 
 the way for many other great expanded universe spin-offs, and is bound to attract a lot of new 
 fans to the franchise.
  
  Whats most amazing about this game is that it captures the essence of Star Wars philosophy and 
 introduces two dimensional morality like no other titles did before it. It leaves you asking yourself 
 just what is right and wrong, and what if things had happened differently. Any game worthy of being 
 motion picture material deserves extra marks, and with a promising future in sight for this new 
 saga, the sooner you play this game the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Now, the best thing you can do when you see a game like Knights of the Old Republic is simple: 
 buy it. This game lives up to the very definition of role-playing games: Great story, you make 
 your own character, the dialogue plays a huge part in the game, and you can play it just for the 
 sheer experience. 
  
  KOTOR doesn't look like much at first, just a normal RPG. But the second you walk out into the 
 second level, only one thought strikes you; There is a genius behind this game. You find little 
 clues that lead you everywhere, there isn't anything leading you anywhere. This adds such an atmosphere 
 of realism that you actually have to use the information you have gathered to figure out where 
 to go. Sometimes, you'll even just stumble on it by accident.
  
  That's not to say the action isn't as great, either. You will have to choose between different 
 party members with different things you have equipped them with as well as their natural abilities. 
 Your own character's combat can be altered with different levels of different weapon attacks. A 
 party member you are not using will go to a default normal attack, so you will be constantly telling 
 your characters to switch to a different attack or retreat, and this is to the game's own benefit. 
 Action is much more tactical, and yet it is in realtime, which makes battles much more exciting (except 
 one on one) .
  
  Altogether, if you love a compelling plot, awesome action and ridiculous puzzles, I highly reccomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergeta
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  A fun, intertaing, and puzzel in one game. The real puzzel is koraban, unknonworld, mannon, & taris. 
 The Endar Spire, kasshak, tantoine, dantoine, & the star forge are easy go through & blast all 
 that moves. That's basicly the game u have a puzzel or blast all that moves or at least how it 
 was to me. Personey I think you could find it all a puzzel (the dum-dums) or find it not at all 
 a puzzel (the smarteys) . That is all i can say the rest is for you to dicover on your own (I no 
 ur sad but I had to find it all out by beat ing the game a couple of times myself) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is an outstanding and polished game. Though I completed it a couple years ago, it still stands 
 out in my memory and is used by myself and others as a barometer against which other RPG's are 
 compared. 
  
  First of all, this game really makes something out of the Star Wars license. Unlike the recent 
 films, which though enjoyable are pretty lousy, this game was produced with the highest production 
 values. Voice acting is the best I've ever heard in a game, and you'll find yourself interacting 
 with characters just to chat and see what they have to say. Also, there are some interesting moral 
 concepts that are dealt with in the game, especially the idea of killing, which turns out to have 
 a huge role in the games plot. Also, there are many references to the cyclic nature of evil. It 
 is obvious that BioWare views its games as artistic property, and Knights of the Old Republic takes 
 a good stab at making itself a work of art. 
  
  The game is weakest in the graphics and level design department. Most of the games levels are very 
 small or restrictive and unrealistic, while the graphical effects are nothing special. However, 
 this turns out to have very little impact on the actual enjoyability of the game.
  
  The soundtrack is excellent and at times sounds good enough to be from the movies, though thankfully 
 it's all original. All the sound effects are very well done and sound just like the should.
  
  One important aspect of this game is the way you feel more powerful as you level up. At the 
 beginning of the game you feel relatively weak, though by the end , you really get the feeling 
 that your character has turned into something special. The conclusion to this game is as epic as 
 they come, though there are some cheap tactics you can use in the final battle.
  
  Overall, this game is the best use of Star Wars license EVER, including the movies. It is one you 
 will remember for a long time, and has already become an RPG classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dendyrketra94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  well, now that i have played this and beaten it, i wish i had played it first. i had gotten KOTOR 
 2 about 2 or 3 years back, but i couldnt play it becuase my computer was not compatable. then i 
 got this laptop, and i beat the game over the summer. after i beat it, i knew i HAD to get the 
 first. this game is THE BOMB. after i beat it i even got jedi knight II: jedi outcast and Jedi 
 knight: jedi academy. i havent beat either, but i LOVE THE MULTIPLAYER. i wish that they had made 
 a multiplayer for the KOTOR games. also i have a question: is there going to be a THIRD KOTOR???? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo2221
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  the game was good but they could have made it easier to know where to go in the levels and make 
 enemies easier to hit !!!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !! !!! !!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!! ! !! !!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !! !!!! !!!!!!! !! !!! !! !!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !! !! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! 
 !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game is very good. It has an interesting, submersive plot, complete with colorful 
 characters and lots of missions. If you take your time exploring, doing all the quests, and testing 
 all the conversation options, you can get about 50 hours out of each fresh game. And how many games 
 let you play as a wookie, R2D2, assassin droid, or 4 different jedi?
  
  And I'm completely nuts for morale systems, where you can raise your character as good or evil. 
 (Or in this case, Jedi or Sith.)
  
  Pros:
  The game takes you to several familiar places from the Star Wars galaxy (like Tatooine, Yavin, 
 Kashyaak) , and a few new places (like Koriban, or that stupid-fish planet) , and features several 
 alien races from the movies. It also has a bit of Philosophy, with the two opposing sects of Jedi 
 (passive-aggressive meditators) and Sith (aggressive-warring conquerers) .
  
  The story is very good. It made me feel bad for some characters, and really hate others. (Carth; 
 that pompous nitwit.) And as the robot chicken guy would say, What a twist! 
  
  From what I've read in some reviews, some people don't like the combat system. It's a turn-based 
 attack system, like in Final Fantasy, only it gives you the freedom to run around in circles if 
 you wanted, instead of attacking. The system's allrite, but I feel kind-of lazy. If they pimped 
 it out like Fable, where you had to attack the enemy instead of push a button to attack, that would 
 be better. But as it is, it's alrite.
  
  Cons:
  Gamewise, this game is excellent. But, there are a LOT of technical problems that bother me. For 
 instance:
  -I HATE the underwater/space suit. Worst invention ever. It takes the character's slow pace and 
 slows it down even more. Horrible.
  -Why are the characters always carrying around weapons? I mean, you'd probably get tired carrying 
 around a huge cannon or a sword all the time, right? Why not put them away outside of combat?
 
  -Movie scenes; that brief clip of a spaceship taking off takes about a minute for my computer 
 to load. Maybe a streaming video would work better?
  -Sometimes, it just won't let you bypass cutscenes/characters talking, which is bad if you have 
 to reload several times because you keep dying after that 5 minute scene.
  -I like games with large levels. More to explore. The problem with KOTOR is they didn't bother 
 to give you a 'run' button, so you have to explore these large levels at a brisk jog.
  -Some areas seem unecessarily large, for no real reason. (The water-planet comes to mind. It's 
 just large, so you have walk around for a few minutes before finding anything worthwhile. It seems 
 pointlessly large and mostly empty.)
  -if you are moving too fast in an area, your teammates lag behind, getting stuck on corners and 
 such, and you won't be able to exit the area until they catch up.
  -There are a number of glitches if you have a secondary character equipped, and you try to talk 
 to someone. Sometimes you end up teleporting back 30 feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  the moment I started playing the game. I had never heard about the game until a friend recommended 
 it for me.
  
  But coming from Bioware, my favorite developer house, I thought I should give it a try. Simply 
 said, I could not let it go. I think I finished it in a couple of days non-stop playing. The only 
 drawback I found in the game, was that it was too short. I wanted more, more...
  
  KOTOR is a role-playing game set in the Star Wars universe thousands of years before Darth Vader 
 walked the galaxy. You play as a Jedi that has lost his memory of the past. During the game you 
 will find out more and more about your past. At the same time you will discover your old Jedi powers 
 and become more powerful. At the end you will come full circle, but I won't spoil it.
  
  If you like a game rich with dialogue, nice scenery, and plenty of places to visit and explore, 
 this is the game for you. I can highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  SWOTOR one of the best star wars games you could find. The catch of this game is that it is an 
 RPG! You get to customize your character as well as the name plus, you can play with three characters. 
 1. Your Main guy 2. Your best fighter 3. The same thing. Having the ability of pausing before fighting 
 is good, the force powers are really good and the lightsabers are the second best thing of the 
 game. The best thing about this game is the storyline. A game with such a good storyline makes 
 it incredible. Customizing your robe, armor, gun, or another gun, a lightsaber or two. Heck even 
 a double sided lightsaber! This is what makes this also a good game. I'd give the gameplay a 10, 
 the sound 8 and the graphics 8. Overall its a great game, best of the series! Until you play KOTOR 
 2. Which is even better than this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbit2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game is a great idea in that it fully immerses the player in the world of Star Wars but allows 
 total plot independence due to its place in the Star Wars time line. There are familiar races and 
 planets but the plot and characters are new.
  
  It is visually interesting, immersive and there is a lot to do. It is very easy to learn and I 
 very much enjoyed the turn based aspect to combat since I am not a hardcore gamer. Speed is not 
 my forte. There is no standing around however since you lose your turn . I think the combat style 
 is a nice balance. I appreciate the world KOTOR has created and hope there are new games on next 
 gen consoles (especially the Wii !!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few years back now and only just decided to play it the other week andi didn't 
 think it was any good. The combat system doesn't make a good first impression and i still hate 
 it to this day but the game does grow on you and you overlook it. Mainly because of how many good 
 quests and mini games the game has also because the story is just really good. It's great for Star 
 Wars fans and people who don't like Star Wars alike because it doesn't rub your face in alot of 
 the movie stuff and is more suttle, so if you want to play the game for your love in RPG's then 
 it's a great purchase even to this day.
  
  The horrible combat system i know puts many people i know off the game, ones who held on abit longer 
 really love the game however because of what i said above. The problem with it is it's not very 
 fun and all you do is click boxes above the enemies head to use skills and stuff, seems very turn 
 based kinda like WOW but even less fun and slower if you get me. After awhile though you wont be 
 playing for the combat and just for how good the game is in every other area. Once you become a 
 Jedi though you'll be having so much more fun with the game...
  
  I was saying the storyline is great and it is, one of the best storylines in a game and much better 
 than KOTOR 2. I loved all the voice acting and the quests and how indepth the game goes and i love 
 the main enemy character (forgot his name) because he looks kool lol. However one thing i don't 
 understand is how you became a Jedi so fast, i thought your meant to train from a little boy and 
 it would take years and years........ In this game it felt more like 20 mins, kinda like Luke Skywalker 
 who some how beat Vader even though he's only been a Jedi for 10 seconds.
  
  KOTOR is quite long and i played it for about 30 hours which is a great length for a storyline 
 and for any game really. I've never been one for playing a game too long or running through the 
 same places twice and all that so other people might even get three times as much outta the game 
 than what i did.
  
  Theres alot in the game for Star Wars fans aswel and one of my fave places was going to see tatooine 
 like from the movies. Loved going into the cantinas and stuff and seeing characters from Star Wars 
 but not obviously the movies ones on a whole, some were there. Theres also a few mini games like 
 pod racing and all that which can be quite fun and fighting to the death for money etc etc. Nice 
 little side quests and that keep you busy too and just it all makes up to be a fun polished RPG. 
 The crafting system is also fantastic like crafting your own light sabers was really in depth and 
 nice.
  
  As you expect the Sound and the graphics are all Star Wars styled and have that feel to it. So 
 to me the graphics still look great because it's how Star Wars should look and so it takes nothing 
 from the game. Also the music i fantastic as you expect from star wars and all the sound effects 
 and voices overs are top notch.
  
  So all in all i can't eally Fault KOTOR apart from the combat system, which is a big part of the 
 game so i'm going to have to score it down. However the rest of the game is soooo good that it 
 just makes KOTOR to be one of the best RPG's of all time and one of the best Star Wars games of 
 all time too...
  
  + I must add that i also didn't like the fact that everything was zoned sooo heavily and really 
 took me out of feeling like i'm in that world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  This game was An outstanding game with the very helpful pause option which helps you with those 
 tough ass battles but that not what made me completely love this game but the story was one if 
 the greatest plots i have ever played through and the cinematic which helped to drive the story 
 along and the really great part was the Dark lord Revan revelation which was that your character 
 was the great sith lord and that you were able to ever rebel the idea Or embrace it and was the 
 best way for the game to end .
  
  Alright now aside from ruining it for those people who haven't played it yet the game has a great 
 cast with a well set up combat system and the Free range ability to go to which ever planet you 
 want and try to piece together more parts of the story as you go along. With the extensive search 
 of planets for quests and so on you are never really bored which is what make this so good .
  
  So if you want an exciting action adventure rpg this is one of the best for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare jewels that you don't quite expect until you experience it. KOTOR blew 
 my mind away the first time i played it. When i first started, i wasn't able to put my controller 
 down for more hours than i would like to count. But, fortunately this is not like some other games 
 that grab you and don't let go (W. O. W.) . It lets you play when you want and doesn't make you feel 
 guilty when you stop. Not only that, but this game has some of the best voice acting I've ever 
 heard in a game. The story is also very immersive, and even if you skip the cut scenes, you still 
 somehow know exactly what is going on in the story just by the quick reactions the people give 
 you. But, in all honesty, this is one of those rare moments when I am ashamed of the score that 
 Gamespot gave this game. When any game gets over fifty, yes fifty as in 50, Game of the Year Awards, 
 you don't give it an 8.8, you make up a new score of 11 out of 10 and give it to that game. And 
 so far this is the only game that i know of with that many GOTY awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicholaslaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this game involving a sith who was brain washed into becoming an soldier and then later a jedi 
 is a good role playing game definitely worth buying in any case. coming out in 2003 this was the 
 first role playing game of this kind coming from star wars. since ten it has sold many copies. 
 it has a solid plot good graphics and good inter character relations. all in all it is a very nice 
 role playing game i would give it a lower score if not for its plot which was rich and lengthy 
 and thats, in my opinion, what makes a good roe playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RPG's i have played and has a great storyline with a lot of surprises along the 
 way. The games levelling up system is all most perfect the customisation is decent there are not 
 many downsides to the game other than the graphics but when this game first came out the graphics 
 were really good at the time for games like this. Get this game if you don't have it or have not 
 played it. There is no online play but the great singleplay makes up for it. The game contains 
 many characters i played this game several times and infact im still not bored of it if your a 
 major star wars fan this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mors_x70
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is going to my all time favorite games. It has all the elements 
 of a great game (pretty graphics, compelling story, dynamic gameplay, superb voice-acting, and 
 don't forget it comes with jedi force powers and lightsabers) ...
  
  At first I was hesitant to give this game a try because of the bad track record of star wars games 
 on the PC but due to high ratings from critics and users I decided to give Star Wars: Knights of 
 the Old Republic a go and I was not disappointed. This game hits the mark from start to ending. 
 Every decision you make here affects not only you but the people and planets around you. The Journey 
 toward the light side/dark side has never been this interesting. It will leave a lasting impression 
 on you whether good or bad (Mostly good) . I recommend this game to all fans of Star Wars and the 
 Role-Playing genre.. You won't be disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterobi90
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt this is the best Star Wars game that I have played and one of the best Role Playing 
 Games I have played too. Knights Of The Old Republic is a very unique Star Wars game which offers 
 an experience no other Star Wars game has. The game is set 4000 years BBY/Before SW 4. The galaxy 
 is facing dark times as after the death of Darth Revan, his apprentice Darth Malak is waging war 
 against the republic and countless Jedi are being slain or are turning over to the Dark Side. The 
 game starts off aboard a ship known as the Endar Spire, which has been ambushed by Sith the, over 
 the outer rim world of Taris . You escape from the ship just in time as the ship blows up and crash 
 land on the surface of Taris. Luckily the Jedi Bastila Shan whom you are supposed to be serving 
 under has also escaped the Endar Spire but has crashed elsewhere. As the game progresses you eventually 
 steal the ship known as the Ebon Hawk from a crime lord and start your journey. You go to Dantooine 
 where you are trained in the ways of the Jedi exceptionally fast and then on the orders of the 
 Jedi masters present there explore an ancient ruin present nearby. You find an ancient incomplete 
 Star Map and than learn of something called the Star Forge . You are then entrusted with finding 
 the other Star Maps to find out the true location of the Star Forge. Your journey spans across 
 the worlds of Korriban, Kashyyyk, Manaan, and Tatooine. The choices you make along the way determine 
 the fate of the galaxy. You can choose to be a Jedi who ultimately saves the galaxy or a Sith who 
 takes over the galaxy. You will meet various people and creatures, make friends along the way, 
 and help people with various problems, and at one point you can even become an arbiter, a sort 
 of lawyer, for a friend of one of your party members, searching for clues to clear him. You can 
 also enter swoop races and take home lots of money. Other than the story, the gameplay is unique 
 with a unique battle system. You can queue up attacks and various force powers to battle enemies 
 which include Sith also. You can find lightsaber crystals to upgrade your lightsaber and you can 
 get various items with which you can upgrade certain armor and weapons. You can control the turrets 
 of the Ebon Hawk sometimes if Sith fighters are on your tail and you can blow them to bits. The 
 sound is superb. The sound is unique for every place. Great attention has been paid to the small 
 details as along with background music you can hear the beeps of astromech droids and other various 
 objects too. Non human voices are incredibly real. Twil'ek voicing has been given, along with that 
 of Duros, wookies, rodians, protocol droids etc. There is also a Jedi of the same race as that of 
 Yoda and his voice sounds exactly like Yoda! Perfect sound has been given for swoop bikes too.
 
  
  The difficulty is also just right, not too hard for first timers. The graphics are great too, not 
 too demanding. All in all this game is a must play game for anybody especially Star Wars fans like 
 myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ietam_Revan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Well. For a start. This game has make a radical change to star wars :) ) . All the system has change 
 it is times 10 better .
  BUY IT. Well at first starts on a ship . Your not jedy , well not yet . well you have level'ups 
 that is you can make your caracter in any way you like (face apparences carraterictics feats and 
 powers) you will gain experience , you'll build your own light saber whatevere colour or power 
 crystals that modifies the power or other caracteristics of your blade you like you can have a 
 double bladed saber or you cand have blades in every hands (by the way in this game you have real 
 swords :D: D) . Ok so the grafics in this game are pretty nice in you have a powerfull pc il will 
 work great . The gameplay is cool you'll learn in about 30min -1 hour the storyline is more than 
 great
  will will have a hell of a surprise .And therse is one particular new thing , parties, I mean you 
 will have 9 caracters to choose to take on a mission: D cool isn't it ? There is a Sith Lord on 
 your tails and you will have the opportunity to fight him twice. So the rest is up to you the game 
 has
  everything ... Good Luck ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Kotor is my favorite rpg of all time because i love star wars and the combat system is great. The 
 combat system lets you plan your attack like who attacks who using what attacks in what order. 
 The character customization is deep. But i love how you can be good or bad. This is determined 
 by the choices you make. The story makes you think about being good or evil and how will it affect 
 the future of the story and the choices you make make the story evolve you could be an evil sith 
 lord by the end. Or a powerful jedi master that saved the galaxy. I think i pc controls even though 
 i havent played the xbox version. Buy whichever one you wan either way its an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Knights of the old republic begins thousands of years before the starwars movies. It talks about 
 a Jedi / Sith was that began shortly after the Republic fended off the Mandalorians. If you didn't 
 understand that, its okay cause the story will explain itself really well in knights of the old 
 republic. The story line is very well crafted and the characters are very realistic. They will 
 randomly interact with each other (not only the character you play) . This game allows you to customize 
 your main characters gender, attributes, play style, etc. and throughout the game you can switch 
 form light to dark side. Which both sides are very fun to play (the more hilarious moments probably 
 come from the dakrside, but some of the things you can do is actually pretty evil [even i cringed 
 sometimes at what i was actually able to do] ) The battle system is also very easy to master and 
 use. However the game itself is not easy, It balances the difficulty just enough that the game 
 can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be. Graphically, KOTOR is pretty impressive. The voice 
 syncing with mouth movements is probably the most impressive in game speech i have ever seen. The 
 force powers, in game CG as well as lightsabers look really cool.
  
  But the main point to emphasise about this game is the storyline. At first it may not seem like 
 much, but when you finish the game, you feel as if you have participated in a movie not unlike 
 the original trilogy. It is such a compelling story and beautifully constructed. I would recommend 
 this game to ANY starwars fan as well anyone looking for a good RPG. The customizations make this 
 games replay value extremely high. in fact the game itself almost forces LEAST 2 play throughs
 
  just to experience Light and Dark sides. Overall it was a very enjoyable game and seems to stand 
 very well on every standard (reflected by the higher rating) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  In the beginning you choose a class (scoundrel, scout or soldier) and you can select custom character 
 or you can let the pc choose your face, skills, feats, name, characteristics and all the other 
 things according to your class. You should take custom. After clicking play you will find yourself 
 on the endar spire, a republic ship attacked by the sith. This part will be like a tutorial. Another 
 soldier, Trask will help you get dressed and equipped. Then using blasters or swords and vibro-blades 
 you'll have to search for Bastilla (an important Jedi) . Trask will die so you and carth onasi (another 
 soldier) will be the last survivors using the lats escpae pod. You'll land on Taris which is in 
 sith quarantine. A very very very very long level. You'll have to search for bastilla and after 
 that find a way off the planet. Because she (bastilla) senses a great power within you she brings 
 you to the jedi council on Dantooine and you'll become a jedi after 3 training trials. Then you'll 
 start a quest to find the star forge (nobody knew what it was) using some star maps which had incomplete 
 data. So you'll have to find the starmaps on dantooine, korriban, manaan, kashyyyk and tatooine 
 to find out the location of the star forge. You and bastilla start sharing visions with Darth Revan, 
 Darth Malak the star maps and bastilla. Bastilla was the jedi that 'defeated' Darth Malak's master, 
 Darth Revan. The game will tell you a lot of nasty things about the sith and darth revan and malak. 
 Everyone also tells you that they've never seen someone like you (you know all the languages in 
 the galaxy, you win all the swoop races, you defeat everyone) and you find out that you are actually 
 ..... Darth Revan. You weren't killed... Bastilla preserved you life using her force powers and the 
 jedi council wiped you memories. So you are the true Dark Lord Of The Sith and you have to choose 
 : light or your dark past. The graphics are great, sound great. And a very entertaining gameplay. 
 When you fisrt play it it's impossible that you complete all those side quests. A lot of sidequests. 
 The game gives you a wide party selection but you can pick only 2. You can also change your party. 
 Example : Juhani, a jedi who fell to the dark side. Kill her or have her on your party. You can 
 control all your party members. Your main character (revan) is the best. You have a meter which 
 shows you your side... I'm usualy at the dark side at maximum. When you're dark your face becomes 
 grey and full of marks and holes and veins and scars. Great game.... Long review . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrt1312
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played and i've played a lot of games. Star Wars: Knights of 
 the Old Republic is a clearly superb game, you can finish this game once and play it again and 
 it could be completely different if you go to (for example) the dark when you were on the light 
 side the first time you finished it. Also you can play as a different sex and the game will be 
 a little different there also. If you don't have Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic you need 
 to get it, you will not be disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Owl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a HUGE Star Wars fan, but slogging through this game took a lot of willpower. I'd uninstalled 
 it after getting about half-way through, then went back and finished it a year later. Glad i did, 
 but i'm still not sure why this game was so critically acclaimed and popular. I guess the story 
 alone carried the game for most players.
  
  I really hate the inventory and other parts of the interface. Combat is a little over-simplified, 
 and you can't even look up and down as there are no Y-axis controls even on the PC. But i did enjoy 
 the story and many of the quests. The light/dark side mechanics were fun.
  
  In the end i found myself liking it enough to try the sequel. Well, onto KotOR 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickphan2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is simply amazing as stated. This game is really worth how much ever it costs. It's 
 highly addicting. I loved it and i just completed it. I'm not big on Star Wars but this game was 
 too awesome. There are a few minor bugs but they don't really matter. The gameplay is really impressive 
 for an RPG. It's really quite easy to get used to. The graphics are decent since this game is a 
 few years old. Cool soundeffects and orchestral soundtracks really add to the scene. I just wish 
 there was more to the game. This is a really good game that you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Quanstars
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Kotor is one of those games that everyone says is great and a must play and this is also one of 
 those games where everyone is right. Kotor has a battle system which when described sounds boring. 
 Select who you attack with which kind of attack and then watch. The system is actually really fun 
 and the fights look great, so watching is a big deal. Another thing that stands out in Kotor is 
 the wonderfull story. It is quiet epic and spans many planets and environments. It becomes pretty 
 transparent after the main twist in the plot which I won't say anything about but that doesn't 
 mean its not good. The characters in the game all have distinct personalities and are not just 
 a movie character who looks different and speeking to each one of them seems natural and real. 
 The music is also fittingly Star Wars and goes nicely with whats happening. One problem with the 
 game is that it is very linear and it is clearly an console RPG. If you expecting something sprawling 
 and open ended think again. Another minus that when you get your lighsaber you might aswell just 
 throw away all your other weapons seeing as they are powerfull and upgradeable. There also isn't 
 much replay value in the game seeing as the first time through you can do pretty much everything. 
 But overall these are minor complaints against one truly amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If I was Forced to describe this game in one word, I would have to use the word astonishing. 
 Its really the only word I can muster up when I reflect on how much I enjoyed playing Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic (KotOR) . The game is truly a masterpiece, in all aspects; it goes above 
 and beyond any expectations for a role-playing game.
  
  I cannot begin to tell you how much I loved the gameplay. All in all, I spent almost 24 hours on 
 my game, although those who choose to delve deeper into the phenomenal plotline might spend even 
 more time sitting in front of the computer. During the course of the game, you gradually acquire 
 various playable characters whose skills might come in handy during a tight spot. Some of those 
 characters include Jedi, droids, a Wookiee, and even a Mandalorian. Each time you decide to go 
 out on an excursion, however, you are only allowed to take two team members with you. You will 
 also do a lot of planet-hopping, visiting exotic locales such as Kashyyyk and Manaan, and the more 
 barren areas such as Korriban and Tatooine. On each of these planets you will find something to 
 do that relates to your main plotline, but also seasoned into the mix is a number of sidequests 
 that you can perform. Along with all of this, there is a lot more that goes into this game that 
 makes it a truly immersive (and addicting) role-playing game, such as the ability to align yourself 
 with the Light Side or the Dark Side of the Force, based solely on your actions and how your interact 
 with other characters throughout the game. Every character also has statistics, gains experience, 
 and can start to perform special feats. Items such as specialized blasters and bowcasters, armor, 
 and even lightsabers, can be upgraded with items that can boost its attack strength or ability 
 to dish out a critical hit.
  
  The games main plotline is probably one of the best Ive seen in any Star Wars game to date. You 
 start off as a Republic soldier involved in a space battle above the planet Taris and you have 
 to find a way to get off the ship. As you progress through the rest of the game, there is a significant 
 amount of character development and eventually, specific details are revealed to you that lead 
 to a humongous plot twist during the last quarter of the game.
  
  I have to say that the graphical aspect of the game is definitely very enriching. Cutscenes in 
 space are rendered with 3D modeling, and cutscenes that involve characters are scripted in a fashion 
 that the characters actions are forced. With subtitles off, the cutscenes take on a very cinematic 
 quality. During gameplay, the graphics are rendered extremely well; I didnt notice any Z-fighting 
 or absence of textures. The game shouldnt be that hard to push to maximum settings with high-powered 
 PCs today. Once the settings are maxed out, it shouldnt take that long to see why this game is 
 graphically superb down to the finest details.
  
  Voice acting was another strong suit of this game. The mouths moved to match the words that were 
 being said. Alien dialects were also represented, such as Rodian, Trandoshian, and Mandalorian. 
 That alone bulked up the realism factor in attempting to create a Star Wars universe within your 
 computer. Game sounds such as lightsabers, blasters, even the opening of a locker door were rendered 
 very nicely. The sound team did great work with providing audio that really added to the gameplay 
 experience.
  
  This game, in my opinion, is absolutely fantastic. I got much more gameplay out of it than I had 
 initially thought; I didnt think that I would be spending close to a day in front of my computer 
 playing out this game. It is an addition to your game collection that is well worth the money. 
 The game is a recommended play for seasoned veterans of role-playing games or even a newcomer to 
 the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  If you intend on buying this game, I feel like I should clear one thing up before I even start 
 talking about it: do not buy this game if you're looking to dominate some dumb droids with your 
 brilliant reflexes in a lightsaber fight. Similarly, don't go buying it if you're looking forward 
 to leveling up your Strength skill and then intending to kick seven shades of blue out of the nearest 
 Sith apprentice with about a million high-octane mouse clicks. Lastly, if you don't like just pressing 
 a few tactical buttons and seeing how things play out, just go away now and interest yourself in 
 another game. Because if you're going into KoTOR with any of those thoughts in mind, then you're 
 obviously searching for the wrong gaming experience.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is best described as Neverwinter Nights in a traditional 
 RPG view, no isometric nonsense; just you, the character, and the horizon, basically. The similarity 
 to NWN is to be expected, I mean it's the same developer working on a virtually identical genre... 
 and BioWare certainly do offer their own spin on the genre. See, KoTOR's combat - arguably a large 
 portion of any RPG - is controlled by dice rolls. Basically your character's statistics are pitted 
 against your enemy's statistics and this will either increase or decrease your chances of a successful 
 attack and the severity of the attack. Basically you have a lot less control of what happens than 
 in other RPG's, so if you're a control freak who loves his action then I'd certainly advise on 
 staying away.
  
  If you're not here for that, then good! Sit down! You obviously enjoy the finer things in roleplaying, 
 and Knights of the Old Republic offers these delicacies in huge amounts.
  
  If you were to ask me what element of this game was the top factor as to why I enjoyed it, then 
 I wouldn't even hesitate slightly in telling you that the storyline and the dialogue involved with 
 that storyline are superb. I'm a suitably large Star Wars fan to begin with and this storyline, 
 while it doesn't involve any of the key characters in the movies or even most of the books, it's 
 still brilliant, and it does feature some of the more well known planets and locations from the 
 franchise. Over the course of the game you'll get the opportunity to journey in the Dune Sea on 
 Tatooine, in a Sith Academy on the volcanic Korriban, visit the Wookiees in the trees on Kashyyyk, 
 and visit a strange white world filled with strict neutral walking fish aliens called Selkath, 
 not to mention a few equally compelling locales that are pretty much exclusive to the game. Why 
 journey to so many planets, you ask? Well the main storyline of the game revolves around your main 
 character, who despite having many dialogue choices in the game is never really voiced, leaving 
 you to fill in the gaps with your imagination. This main character is not all that he or she seems, 
 and your choices down the Jedi path (the light or the dark side, for star wars noobs!) will essentially 
 affect the entire game - what powers you wield, what abilities you possess, and ultimately, where 
 your allegiances lie. This also affects your other party members - there is about 10 other secondary 
 characters in the game that you recruit over the course of the plot, each one of them is customizable 
 and controllable, and dare I say it, they're some of the most charismatic memorable characters 
 I have EVER encountered in a videogame. Ever. Let's see; you've got your standard headstrong Jedi 
 Bastila who eventually sees the error of her ways and becomes an altogether different person... 
 you've got Carth, the well-meaning star pilot of the Republic... you have Mission, a 14 year old 
 Twi'Lek who is clearly not to be underestimated, what with her fiery attitude and huge Wookiee 
 Zaalbar as her best friend... you've got Jolee, very much the wise Jedi of the game... Juhani, 
 the Jedi who comes back from teh Dark side... T3-M4, the R2-D2 figure of the game... Canderous, 
 the Han Solo figure of the game, just with an evil attitude... and possibly most humorous of all 
 is HK-47, an evil protocol droid who has some extremely sarcastic yet emotionless remarks that 
 know just how to make you erupt in uncontrollable laughter. Completely REMARKABLE characters, you 
 won't be forgetting these guys in a hurry I assure you.
  
  The plot is actually fairly simple at its core but it's made more complex through the illusion 
 of dialogue. While basically all you're trying to do is kill a big Dark Lord Jedi man - Darth Malak, 
 who is quite lovingly depicted in the gamespace banner for the game - there are many different 
 branches to this plot and you'll frequently become involved with side quests that ultimately lead 
 up to that goal of defeating Big Evil Dark Guy Malak. There are also two or three major plot twists 
 between the middle and end portions of the game; one of them is amazing, it comes out of left field 
 and it leaves you thinking, what the hell just happened?! and the other one, while slightly predictable, 
 still has quite a shocking effect on you. These milestones can be seen as great incentive to keep 
 playing even through the game's mundane parts (IE any area with a lot of combat involved, since 
 the combat does get a bit stale after a while) What makes the dialogue pretty much the best part 
 of the game is the way that you get a hell of a lot of input in it, too. Almost every line of dialogue 
 spoken by a character results in you having to reply, just like with other RPG's, and BioWare have 
 done a brilliant job of making this key element amusing. Even more interesting is the fact that 
 whatever you say will result in further steps down the path of either the dark or the light side, 
 so basically every single word you retort with means something.
  
  And the dialogue is spoken in such great voices, too - the audio in the game is all around superb 
 but the voice over work is the gemstone in the crown, I swear there are so many lines of dialogue 
 in this game that it is a minor miracle how every single one of them is spoken so brilliantly. 
 The alien voices do get slightly irritating though, especially when you discover that they pretty 
 much use the same loop of syllables for every sentence... leading to a lot of conversations with 
 extraterrestrials being cut extraordinarily short and to the point.
  
  By now I've probably fed you enough of my opinion for you to be reading under the illusion that 
 this game may as well be an interactive movie, not a videogame.
  
  But the gameplay does have its great portions, too, you know. Most of the enjoyment here is from 
 the character customization system. While at first it's a lot to get your head around - at first 
 I completely ignored all menus and flashing warnings of Level Up! just because I couldn't be bothered 
 going through all those hints, texts, and numbers... but if you're a true RPG nut then you'll find 
 a whole wealth of lovely stats to burgeon through for each and every one of your characters... 
 and you can dress them up, too! Isn't that great?!
  
  Often you'll find that most of your fun in the game is deriving from the many choices you're making 
 in the massive portions of dialogue that scatter KoTOR - but when everything gels together to be 
 something this compelling, it doesn't really matter. The fact that the game has such an excellent 
 atmosphere, an immersive storyline, and some seriously great characters is enough to compensate 
 for any shortcomings that you might find in the sometimes simplistic 'sit back and let things play 
 out' gameplay mechanics.
  
  And yes, the game is displayed in quite a wonderful Star Wars vision, too. The graphics in the 
 game aren't perfect, I admit, but they still carry a lot of the magic that make the movies so, 
 ahem, magical. Aside from some major framerate drops when things get crowded, some jagged edges, 
 minor clipping, and some other barely-noticeable problems, the game looks rather nice. Tatooine 
 looks just as dry and, er, sandy as it did in the movies, and the hub in the Tatooine section (Anchorhead) 
 might not have the same buzzing atmosphere as Mos Eisley does, but its cantina is rather faithfully 
 portrayed, at least. Kashyyyk's great ambient sounds work perfectly with the many bridges suspended 
 hundreds of feet in the air clinging to the sides of trees. Manaan's Ahto City is enjoyable to 
 explore and it looks suitably good, all white walls and silver sculptures.... and Korriban is bleak, 
 rocky, and somewhat sinister looking. These landscapes have a great hand in making the game's atmosphere 
 what it is; simply one of the most immersive experiences I've ever undergone in a videogame.
  
  Furthering the game's premise as such an amazingly immersive game is the music, which nine 
 times out of ten fits perfectly with the environment and context it's being played in, and it even 
 holds up well on its own as a technical achievement - I even have it on my Media Player, dammit. 
 Along with the superb whirring of the lightsabers, assorted ambient sound effects and blips, and 
 of course the brilliant dialogue, this is one game you absolutely have to experience in the dark 
 with headphones on. Overall I think I've made my point - I think that Knights of the Old Republic 
 is meant to be enjoyed for its other elements, not its combat. Its atmosphere, story, and its remarkable 
 characters are just enough for it to warrant a buy - I assure you playing the game out to the end 
 is a truly heartwarming experience and it will remind you of how much videogames can immerse you 
 in a completely different world... and the fact that you have the means to shape that world in 
 every dialogue choice, in every side quest, and ultimately in the final encounter with Mr Bad Guy 
 Malak is quite an opportunity that nobody should miss.
  
  All in all, you want to know something? Just on the merits that the game has widened my eyes on 
 multiple occasions, has such a great storyline and overall has captivated my imagination just as 
 much as the movies did and still do... I'd call this the best RPG I've ever played. Granted that's 
 not saying much, as I'm very much the RPG newbie, but I think the game is wholly quite astonishing. 
 You should not miss this game, whether you're a Star Wars fan or not... and just because the combat 
 and general slow pace of the gameplay may throw you off at the beginning, I urge you to stick with 
 it - otherwise you're missing out on one of the most consistent, epic, and compelling adventures 
 that the videogame industry has ever seen.
  
  -- written about 45 minutes after my completion of the game, 11:48PM, July 05, 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  What better alliance than the masters of the computer RPG and one of the richest fictional universes 
 ever created? Bioware and Star Wars go together like fish and chips. Set 4000 years before the 
 events in the movies, KotOR throws the player into a galaxy torn between the upstanding yet weakened 
 Republic and the corrupt, insidious Sith. The player character starts out as a common Republic 
 soldier, before having your destiny ripped out of your hands and set on a suitably rough ride through 
 the galaxy. It isnt long before you are standing before the Jedi counsel, lightsaber in hand, 
 learning mastery of the Force for yourself. And thats where the meat of the game truly begins. 
 Will you be a prot&eacute; g&eacute; of the light, moulding yourself into a Jedi Obi Wan would be 
 proud of? Or will you give in to the dark, becoming a twisted Sith? Its really up to you, as KotOR 
 features a morality slider that not only works for once, but actually creates a perfect balance 
 between good and evil, never nudging the player one way or the other. I longed for a system like 
 this for a long time, and here it is. The gameplay mechanics are based on the D&amp; D3 ruleset 
 (with skills and stuff obviously tweaked to fit the setting) and is more or less Neverwinter Nights 
 in space; with an essentially turn-based, stat-based combat and skill system behind shiny real-time 
 3D exploration. And above all, KotOR is big. The number of weapons, skills and Force powers to 
 master means that character customization options are pretty limitless. There are nine companions 
 to recruit, each with their own issues to deal with. There are a decent number of planets to explore, 
 each with a main plot thread and assorted side quests or mini-games to root out. The story is fairly 
 long, with a kicker of a twist half-way through. KotOR is simply great, and for anyone who likes 
 RPGs and/or Star Wars, its drool-worthy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  If you ramp the graphics options up to maximum (which no modern computer should have a problem 
 with any more) , then KotOR can quite easily stand its ground with most modern games. Okay, its 
 starting to show its age a touch now, but its still a looker. There are some rough edges, mainly 
 with dull textures in some areas and low-detailed or reused character models, but for the most 
 part everything looks great.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Sound is one aspect where there is no excuse for a Star Wars title to get less than top marks. 
 As long as the blaster shots, lightsaber hums, Wookiee growls and that magnificent cinematic score 
 are all present and correct, fans will go into overload. And, fortunately, KotOR ticks all the 
 boxes and more, providing not only outstanding (and accurate) sound effects and music, but some 
 great voice acting too.
  
  Value: 9/10
  The main story is pretty long, and with all the assorted side-quests could easily take a good 30-40 
 hours. Theres also the option of going back and playing the other side  either light or dark 
 depending on your whim. It will keep you entertained for a heck of a long time, but after its 
 all done and every corner is explored  it really is all over.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  Its a fantastic Star Wars RPG made by the kings of the business. Bioware really outshone 
 themselves yet again, making more of a thinking mans Star Wars game than the normal action fare.
 
  
  Cons:
  Well, none. At least none that could actually be classed as cons, rather than not quite as spiffy 
 as the rest.
  
  Conclusion:
  Star Wars fans. RPG fans. Gaming fans. Buy. Play. Oh yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_gamemaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I've played many, many RPG's out there. And I can tell you that NO ONE is as good as good old KotOR. 
 A game that filled my time with hours and hours of playing. A game that I still play, just to wake 
 all the memories of the wonderful time when I first played this awesome game.
  
  First of all, KotOR is a great RPG game - even if you're not a Star Wars fan. This was one of my 
 first games to the Xbox, and I loved it.
  
  So what makes KotOR better then the other RPG's? Well, it has a beautiful atmosphere and it always 
 feels alive. It feels a little lonely though. The gameplay feels great and fresh . I don't think 
 I have to tell you why the sound is so good. STAR WARS .
  
  I'm not going to make a long review on Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. All I want you to 
 know is that it will surely be as fantastic to you, as it was for me.
  
  May The Force Be With You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_one
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  A game that has almost everything it is fun has long lasting and a lot of things you can do. but 
 it has some weak spots. the game has great graphics when it came out (outdated now) . it also sound 
 amazing, gameplay can sometimes be a little boring.
  you have a lot of thinks to keep yourself busy. But the choose to be evil or good is a litlte weak. 
 because it is almost impossible to be good. I tried but failed. And I which you where able to a 
 little more with the good or evil thing. The communicate system is very good that gives you a feeling 
 you are there but is also missing something
  the value is amazing a lot of replay value. a game that I will say is a must play for everybody 
 ho like RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  This Is An Awsome Game. For The Old School Turn-Based RPG Fans, This Might Be A must Buy. The Story 
 Line Takes Place Well Over A 1000 Years Before The Starwars Move PM Episode 1. You Are Placed In 
 The Centre Of The Beginning Of A Civil War Between The Jedi. Freedom Of Choice Allows You To Respond 
 In Each Interactive-Cutsceen On How Your Decision Will Empact You And Your Layout Of Your Ally 
 Characters (Party Members) . For Instance, (Example Is Not A Spoiler) If Someone Needed Help With 
 Rescueing Someone, You Could Say Yes, Earn Experience Points, Earn Points From The Light Side, 
 Earn More Respect From Characters In Your Party That Are Good Or Have Good Intentions. On The Other 
 Hand, If Their Was Someone In Your Party Who Was More On the Dark Side, Or Had Dark Intentions, 
 They Would Loose Respect For You Because You Are Waisting Time Helping Rather Then Just Cut Them 
 Down Where They Stand &amp; Take Their Equipment For Your Self. The Game Slowly Edges You Into 
 How To Do What &amp; Why.
  KOTOR Is A Bit Of An Older Game Now, You Can Find It In Bins For $9.00 Used.
  If You Have Never 
 Played It, &amp; See It Used Or New For Less The $30.00 I Would Definatly Recomend Playing It. 
 For An RPG Game, It Has A Lot Of Re-Play Value Because Of The 2 Ways Of Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okristian
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I love it. It has everything you could demand from a good game.
  
  blha blha blha
  Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 
 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length 
 of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have 
 a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews 
 must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text 
 reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 
 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of 
 at least 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Then i began by the second one, the sith lords , amd loved the knight of the old republic series. 
 They are almost perfect, because the game centers on individual combats and role playing, lacking 
 other interesting elements, such as the possibility of piloting or enjoying war battles. Nevertheless, 
 they - both KOTOR and its sequel, an execelent storyline and other role-playing elements that are 
 nothing less than admirable - possibility of defeating enemies using computer spikes to blow up 
 defenses and machines, of chosing which path your character will follow, as well as the romance, 
 the variety of enemies and the gameplay. If combined with battlefront (due to the vehicles you 
 can pilot and weapons you can hold) and jedi academy (it offers special battles options, such as 
 jumping while in combat, grasping the enemy and throwing it away or even use the force to move 
 away weapons and other things) . With all these recomendations, kotor still the best game of the 
 star wars series. Comparing the first one with the second i consider this one shorter, but with 
 a very solid storyline, even better than the one created for the second. However, the second is 
 funnier than this one as you begin as a jedi. What is better in this one? The characters, the racers 
 and the very short starship battles. And in the second one? The options made available, a longer 
 story and the possibility of beginning as a jedi. One thing that is very interesting is that, if 
 you play KOTOR 2 first you will know that Darth Revan is your character and it becames very funny 
 if you play a dark character in this game (you will know why during the game) and play as a light 
 side jedi in the second one. If you play this way, the story fits perfectly and you will feel like 
 writing the screenplay of a movie. That's all folks. I hope you enjoy this game as much as i have 
 enjoyed both (KOTOR I and II) . Just to mention i created two characters Htrad Htis (Darth Sith) 
 and Hammur&agrave; bi for the first and second games, respectively. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTOR_X_P
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Kotor combines The Star Wars we know with new ships, characters, powers and creatures, some planets 
 are the same some are completely new.
  It may have a few bugs but it is very creative. It's easy to get to know, and it sorta grows on 
 you after a while, i've played it over and over again, give it a shot
  
  Grapics are good, better then alot of games within it's price range,
  The gameplay is fair, i 
 enjoyed it.
  the music of it is not as good as the normal star wars music but good.
  It's well worth the 20 bucks to buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first I have to say that I wasn't expecting much from this RPG. I mean, going into this game 
 I wasn't a huge SW fanatic. I've watched the movies and enjoyed the story, although not impressed 
 with the newer episodes (I didn; t take the time to understand them) . Now, having recieved this 
 game as part of the purchase of my new ATI9800 pro w/ VGA arctic cooling system I have become immensly 
 subverged into the world of KOTOR. First, I would like to say that with all of the graphics settings 
 on high/8x some of the visuals can actually bring a tear to your eye. The beauty and landscapes 
 displayed in this game are beautiful. For that reason alone, that is thanks to the worlds that 
 bioware has created you should buy this game just for that experience. Now, game play; I'm not 
 usually an RPG type but this game has captured me. And believe me it does take MUCH longer to complete 
 than a mere 12 hours if played properly. There should be somewhere around 40 hours of potential 
 game play if you take your time. Not to mention taht you and you alone get to choose your path. 
 Whats worse than having you mom pick out your clothes as a child? Having a game that has a generic 
 plot which remains the same regradless of who plays it! This game has the ability to have you succumb 
 to the dark to light side, and find a whole new interest in the Star Wars saga. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone that has a a clear schedual for about a week. Enjoy it and it's many outcomes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slow_death
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  SW : KOTOR is one of those games that you can play over and over again without getting bored. Since 
 you can choose your path the game changes everytime.
  You have to play the game atleast twice. Testing both the light and dark side. The graphics of 
 the game are relatively good , sound is also ok.
  
  If you dont have a proper gaming PC [ ie. one without proper audio, video, graphics cards ] the 
 performance of the game drops cosiderably. the computer will start hanging if you enable the movies.
 
  
  There are many weapons, armour and items to choose from but no vehicles, something that would have 
 made the game better.
  
  There are 3 mini games that are present throughout the game.
  Avoid playing Pazaak as it is just a waste of time and credits [ fake money ]
  
  The game has 
 a very interesting storyline with many different characters.
  
  I found it easier to be seduced by the more powerfull dark side as its any day easier as your character 
 has more power to kill.
  
  Overall the game is classy and cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Shinzui
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  ... Star Wars: Knights of The Old Republic (shortly KOTOR) is well done RolePlaying game. One can 
 say, how the Jedi fight could be well added to the RPG game type with all what it takes with it 
 (Jedi Special Attacks with lightsaber, force using and so) and I can say, gamemakers did good job, 
 even it still isn't 'real' Jedi fight like in Jedi Academy, but remember this is RPG a for it, 
 it's really good job. The main part of all RPGs is good story, through which you can get through 
 - another big plus for KOTOR, sometimes it can be predicable what will happen, but on the other 
 side some revelations are surely surprising and also sidequests are a lot interesting. Next what 
 I want to mention is chance for a 'bad' gays, because they can choose to play Dark side way, which 
 offers different reactions and of course different ending. As most of RPGs also here you can upgrade 
 your equipment, but easily say it's only a low-level upgrading, because the main factor is developing 
 your character. One of the minuses for me is leveling the main character, which stops on certain 
 level, even if you have opportunity to be leveling more ...
  ... in the summary I can only recommend this game not for only StarWars fans, but also all RPG 
 players, because I'm sure they will enjoy playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a RPG developed by Neverwinter Nights creator BioWare. 
 Set back in the time Pre-Episode I (about 1000 years or so) you awaken on a starship under fire 
 with no memory of who you are or what you are doing there. A guide and a few quick couple of fights 
 allow you to become familiar with the battle mechanics of the game. It's not exactly turn based 
 and it's not realtime. It's a hybrid of the two in which the character's stats ultimately determine 
 how much damage is received and delivered by a character. Soon after you begin to build a party 
 (nine total in your group) , travel the universe in search of the Forge Star, regain your lost memory 
 and most importantly build up your Jedi/Sith powers. Throughout your travels you will encounter 
 situations that if you address them in a Jedi (good) manner will yield LIGHT force points. Likewise 
 if you address these situations in a Sith (evil) manner, they will yield DARK force points. If 
 your Jedi learns a Sith force move (i. e. Force Choke) and uses it on somebody, it will be difficult 
 to perform and will result in draining more of your force power compared to if you used a Jedi 
 force power (Jedi Valor) . The situation is the same for a Sith attempting to use a Jedi force power. 
 This feature of doing things the Jedi or Sith way adds to the repeatability category because you 
 can play all the situations out differently and see what will happen. Sometimes depending on how 
 you're developing your character you can address situations a multitude of ways. You can attempt 
 to bribe somebody for information, persuade them to tell you, demand it from them in a non-threatening 
 manner, threaten them all together or just kill them and get the information in another manner. 
 KOTOR is the template for the upcoming game Mass Effect, which is also being developed by BioWare. 
 That game will be similar to KOTOR, but on a much grander scale and it will be a real time RPG!!! 
 KOTOR allows you to explore a universe made up of about ten multi-level planets on a scale never 
 seen before. The character customization is great and the freedom of choice is nearly perfect. 
 Most situations are allowed to be performed within the game, however, there are the occasional 
 actions one wishes to conduct but cannot. A definite must have for Star Wars and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSprinkles09
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 13, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First I will tell you the bad about this game because there is so little. The only problems with 
 it is some parts if the game tend to be glitchy. No matter how low I have the graphics set some 
 parts of the game will just go slow. By slow I mean your main character freezing, then spinning 
 in circles, and finally shooting off in some random direction. The good thing is this happens very 
 rarely. Other than that I can find no other noticable problems
  
  The graphics of this game are not revolutionary but still look good. I never get tired of seeing 
 any of different worlds. You will see places ranging from the underworld of Taris which is a slummy 
 dark world to the ancient sith temples of Korriban and the beautiful ocean world of Manaan. The 
 force powers are also visually interesting. You will not get bored from using the same force powers 
 throughout the game. There's nothing like electrocuting your enemies with the Force Storm ability.
 
  
  The sound is also great, which is to be expected from any Star Wars game. If you have seen the 
 movies or played any of the other games you know what I mean.
  
  The best part is the actually gameplay. You get to make decision about many of your actions throughout 
 the game. These decisions will often cause your character to fall to the dark side or take a step 
 into the light. Your choices affect the outcome of your game and how your party members react to 
 you. You can choose to save a innocent man from a group of thugs or help them murder him. The game 
 will also let you have choices that are nuetral in case you dont wish to go either way. I would 
 also like to point out that the lightsaber/sword fights are also interesting. The characters dont 
 just randomly slash at each other but actually engage in a fight, not like in the movies where 
 they are jumping all over the place, but still interesting to watch. This game also has a large 
 replay value. There are many different force abilities and feats to choose from so you can always 
 have a very different character thatn in any of your other save files. The last thing Iam goiing 
 to say is that your party members aren't boring people that just follow you around. They have very 
 unigue personalities of thier own. You have the wise old man, Jolee Bindo, the crazy assasin droid 
 ,HK-47, the annoying soldier who always wants to do the right thing and many more who you will 
 meet along on your journey.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best game I have ever played and it was worth the price, I have gone 
 through and beaten the game many times. I would greatly reconmend this game to any Star Wars fan 
 or any one who plays games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel_rocks14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Kudos to Bioware for coming up with the idea with mixing star wars and an rpg, might be one of 
 the best mixs ever. Anyway this game takes place over 3,000 years before the Star Wars movies so 
 don't expect to reconize anyone. However this, is my opinion, was a good move because it improves 
 everyones knowledge on the Star Wars universe and the characters are actually very interesting. 
 But what is really cool about this game is that you can choose if you want to follow the light 
 side or the dark which really improves the replay value overall. You may play the whole game again 
 just to figure out what the dark side was like instead of the light. This game is just incredible. 
 Excellent, eye-appealing graphics, great story and one of the BIGGEST PLOT TWISTS EVER. Excellent 
 AAA voiceovers, Also the characters are very interesting to learn about as well. The RPG system 
 overally was made very good as well. It is very organized and all the things you level up in game 
 are all extremely important. What I really enjoy is that this game is very challenging. You have 
 to think really hard on parts and I guarrentee you will get stumped some time in the game. But 
 you will keep on playing because the game is extremely addicting. There is no question to wheter 
 you should get this game. It is incredibly good and there is really nothing bad about the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZelvarR
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  It was a pretty random thought, but for some reason I thought about this game the other day and 
 decided to reinstall it. I remembered having a blast playing it from the moment I installed it 
 about 3 and a half years ago so I figured I'd play it again. The graphics are a bit dated but still 
 have some nice details, and the gameplay is pretty polished all things considered. What makes this 
 game so great is that is has solid gameplay and a pretty incredible Star Wars universe storyline. 
 Even to people who are just mildly interested in the Star Wars movies or lore would love this game. 
 This has got to be one of my all time favorite Star Wars games (right up there with Shadows of 
 the Empire... the first real 3D game I owned... Jedi Outcast, and Rebel Assault II)
  
  Honestly I was surprised just how much fun the game still is, even being the third time playing 
 through the game. The game is simply magnificent on so many levels. It manages to blend rpg, adventure, 
 and action all into one game. This was the first game I played that ever felt like an MMO, and 
 a damn good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxscammersxx
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't really like Star Wars, but I really though that this would be a good game after seeing 
 all the positive reviews people were giving it. However, once i started playing I didn't really 
 like it. It plays like an average RPG except with less exciting combat. The story wasn't interesting 
 at all, just another save the world plot. Sound got annoying at times and the same sounds are used 
 over and over again in battle. I don't know about value as I was just borrowing this game from 
 a friend. Don't get it unless you really like star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge fan of RPG; whenever I pick one, I make sure that they were found to be excellent 
 ones by other players. RPGs claim a lot of time and experiment in perfecting a character before 
 you can properly play and enjoy the game. I don't have that much of time to design a character 
 and thereby I often close a RPG dissatisfied. Knights of the Old Republic is one of the few selective 
 RPGs I ever played and enjoyed it till a point. But I abandoned it in the midway as I lost interest.
 
  The game gave me a feeling of a FPS initially, with RPG elements. the beginning of the game is 
 well designed to push the player deeper inside the game. No hassle with the controls and since 
 it plays like a FPS -- you simply oblige with the initial game path. Then once you are in a planet 
 and interacting with various character, fighting enemies you get a complete feeling of a RPG.
 
  The sound and graphics are good enough to absorb you in the world of Star Wars like never before, 
 and the characters you encounter are off course diverse yet known (courtesy the original films) . 
 If you are a Star Wars fan -- you would definitely continue and complete the whole game. But I am 
 no huge Star Wars fan and I lost interest to continue the game several times until I abandoned 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game was excellent, and had lovable characters, all with interesting personalities. It was 
 the best Star Wars game up to date, next to Republic Commando and Jedi Knight. This game has all 
 the elements to make a good Star Wars story, e. g. A powerful Sith Lord, lightsabers, humor (HK-47) ,
 
  and a great quest. This game is good, but has a few downs and ups. GOODS:
  This game is addicting, fun, and has great graphics.
  You can discover a person's personality.
 
  Compelling story.
  Huge surprises. *spoiler alert!* You are Darth Revan!
  DOWNS:
  Sometimes, your character seems to move so slowly. When you really need to get somewhere, you just 
 can't wait for your character to get there.
  There are just so many discs to use! 4 discs! (Technical issues) .
  This game sure can cause bugs.
 
  Killer on the hard drive. 3 GB?!
  
  Overall:
  This game is just pure genius. No Star Wars game has beaten it yet, so, as far as can tell, this 
 game is the best in its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkavatar2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Star War games of all times!!! Ime not going to have a giant detailed 
 description of all the little aspects of the game like other reviews might have, but ile just say 
 what needs to be said. Starting out as like a commando type guy (or gal) you edventually navigate 
 your way through the city you crashed on and pretty early on you become a jedi. The fighting concept 
 is decently impressive, especially when lightsabers are flailing around in big jedi fights!! The 
 game allows you to choose your path, whether it be through the light side or the dark. Staying 
 true to the light side is pretty difficult, givin u can hardly ever accept rewards and always have 
 to do the right thing. Which gets pretty annoying but some people may feel good inside by doing 
 the right thing. Not!!! It may be fun to be on the light side, but the dark side is pretty darn 
 awsome!! Ready to kill someone at the first offense is pretty BA, and with the completley different 
 story lines and finishes depending on how you act. The game is very intense!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweet_Hanna
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you're likely to notice about this game is that it doesn't work. A few patches 
 later and you'll be playing an absolutely fantastic game, if you can stomach more than the expected 
 number of bugs. What bugs you ask? Well, that greatly depends on your system, and no one can really 
 tell you what unwanted goodies you'll be getting. Think of it like a fortune cookie that you can 
 open it up to find out your error message. Oh well, at least you still get the cookie, right?
 
  
  Knights of the Old Republic rather obviously takes place in the Star Wars universe, but 1,000 years 
 before any of the events in the movies. You'll create a character and eventually become a jedi, 
 while meeting interesting characters and traveling to about half a dozen planets.
  
  Character creation is interesting and completely unbalanced. It's based on the d20 system popularized 
 by Dungeons &amp; Dragons and adapted for the Star Wars setting. You'll be able to choose from 
 one of three classes: soldier, scout or scoundrel (in a nice reference to The Empire Strikes Back) . 
 You also have a few different attributes, such as strength, dexterity and intelligence that all 
 relate to a handful of different skills, such as computers, demolitions and awareness.
  
  This isn't a strategy guide, but I'll give you a hint: make sure your character can fight. Why? 
 Because during the course of the game, you'll be forced into more than a few one-on-one lightsaber 
 fights, and a character who focused to much on the intelligent path will find themselves dead in 
 seconds. Further inspection will reveal that many skills are better than others and that the droid 
 you'll eventually be traveling with can do just about all of them better than you, so why bother 
 trying?
  
  Imbalances in character creation aside, we now turn to the clunky control system. You will eventually 
 be running around with up to two other characters at a time, but you can only control one. The 
 game lets you pause fights and switch from character to character, giving them orders that they'll 
 perform after you unpause the game. Unfortunately, you have no way of telling someone go here, 
 then shoot without babysitting them every step of the way. It doesn't help that the A. I. is about 
 as smart as a cockroach and acts fairly similarly. Luckily, the game is fairly forgiving and these 
 problems don't apply in the previously mentioned one-on-one fights.
  
  Once you get to Dantooine, you'll start becoming a jedi and the game really opens up. There's some 
 really impressive parts to this game and it's especially great to see a game so focused on conversation 
 as a major part of the game. One planet is focused on having you solve a murder, and the incredible 
 variety of ways that you can approach the situation (like using mind tricks to alter how people 
 testify) is impressive to say the least. This is the first computer-based roleplaying game that 
 actually feels like roleplaying.
  
  Graphically, this game is somewhere between horrendous and beautiful, depending on your PC hardware 
 and what bugs you drew from the metaphorical hat. Assuming you're setup allows the game to run 
 relatively well, the graphics should fall somewhere in the good to very good range, with plenty 
 of fairly detailed characters in a wide variety of species. There are also some really nice special 
 effects and cinematic moments in the game. Also, the sheer range of areas you'll be visiting (everything 
 from deserts to utopia-like cities) is impressive and the art design is generally good.
  
  Full speech: two words that summarize this game's greatest achievement. Sure, other games have 
 full speech, but other games aren't near this long or have lengthy conversations with nearly every 
 character you meet. You could probably spend a good hour or two just talking to one of the characters 
 that joins you, and then you'd still have several characters left! In addition, the game features 
 the same excellent-but-expected Star Wars music and sound effects.
  
  This game is incredibly long. After you've spent about 10-30 hours on the first planet, you'll 
 realize that that was about one eighth of the game. Factor in the fact that you'll eventually be 
 able to visit planets in the order of your choosing and that what you experience there will vary 
 depending on whether you're embracing the light side or dark side and you have some decent replay 
 value. And if you're itching for some extra challenge, you could always play a scoundrel the second 
 time through.
  
  In conclusion, this is an amazing game. It's too bad they didn't spend about a year more to polish 
 it and make it more balanced, but ultimately it's worth playing with any number of bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsept11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  what do you get when you add happy and fun and yay? .... ooooh yeaaah! i mean talk about eating 
 a chocolate bar for hours of incestious fun and never feelin bad for it. i like it better than 
 that one time... it was a thursday... always is, but anyways the point of the story, dont look 
 at water if you are wearing clothes that mismatch and smell like tulips after a nice christmas 
 dinner with the family... so yeah.. play this game.. even if you have to trade parts of your body 
 or others to do so... (2nd one is good, got some nice feats, but overall i like this one better) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Need an RPG that doesn't force you to the same ending? Need one that is unpredictable, one you 
 can choose for yourself? SW: KotOR offers up these, character customization and level-by-level 
 upgrades, and muliple responses you can choose from in a conversation. These items in conversation 
 that you can choose from ultimately affect your path to the light side or the dark side, from which 
 there are two seperate end cutscenes.
  
  There are multiple mini-quests that you can do to earn money, dark side/light side points, or experience 
 points should you need them. Your actions quite literally depict what will happen in the future. 
 For example, giving a crime lord a cure to a vicious disease will score you some extra cash, whereas 
 if you return it to the doctor who will hand it out to others, people will be in your debt.
  
  Things like this won't affect the course of the entire game, but the dark/light side points 
 you acheive from doing these things will affect the ultimate ending.
  
  This game is a very interactive game and uses that to its advantage in the gameplay eperience itself. 
 Hey, it WAS rated Game of the Year, so check it out, both SW fans and not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  When I heard of KOTOR the first time I thought that George Lucas gone mad and allowed some weird 
 game developing company ridicule the whole SW-universe.
  
  I couldn't have been more wrong....
  
  At first, the game felt strange, since the controls 
 were something I wasn't quite use to in a RPG, but after playing 30 minutes I got how it worked.
 
  
  And I was hooked. My newly created (soon to become) Sith Lord,
  Darth Infernus (as I named him) took upon the game with ease.
  
  I had no idea the game was 
 so huge. Running around, doing errands, playing card games to win credits. Fighting some scoundrels, 
 and earning a quick buck. And the places you go to, I didn't have a clue there was so much to do.
 
  
  And having that bar that measures your Light or Dark side is awesome.
  I couldn't help but to do ALL I COULD to draw my new Sith apprentice to the Dark side of the Force 
 lol.
  
  And buying stuff that made his appearance even more Sith-like, it just made things more interesting.
 
  
  Having companions with you as you adventure your way through the vast space onto different planets, 
 gives you the feel that someone is watching your back.
  
  One of my love/hate places in the game is the place where the sand people live. I enjoyed destroying 
 them, and gaining more Dark side power.
  
  With a bit more freedom in it, it would easily become the best console game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dictin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  So lucasArts finally decided to create a good playing gam, for those who do not know the star wars 
 movies. For your information, this story is approximately 50 years before the movies.
  
  So sw kotor I is actually a really good game but the story is a little confusing with all the side 
 quests that why I suggest you to concentrate your efforts on your primary quest.
  
  The story is based on your character story , so you begin like a normal solider, scout or scoundrel 
 and you finish the game as one of the most powerful jedi (or sith depending of your path choice) .
 
  
  The most interesting fact in this game is that (like i sed earlier) you can chose your path (dark 
 or lite side) depending on your decisions all along the game
  
  To finish, this game has a good story. Your character just try to find the star forge an ancient 
 dark side artifact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0wtehnub
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When i first played KOTOR, it was for the Xbox and i loved it. I didnt have a Xbox at the time 
 because... well because. Now that its out for the PC, its one of my favorite games of all time. 
 Its made by BioWare as well, which just so happens to be one of my favorite developers. Star Wars 
 has had many spin-offs, some good and some bad, while this being one of the good.
  If you loved Neverwinter Nights, or DnD and star wars, this is nearly perfect. Its basically DnD, 
 but with lightsabers! what can go wrong with that? nothing, thankfully, BioWare made it that way. 
 The story is pretty well, with some surprises. The characters are pretty easy to love as well, 
 for me atleast. im always a sucker for characters though.
  
  There are 3 classes you get to pick at the beginning, a Scout, Scoundrel, or a Soldier. There are 
 male and female versions of them both. A soldier is kinda obvious, s/he fights with melee weapons. 
 A scout is a ranged character, that plays with guns and such. The scoundrel is the skill based 
 character, which means s/he is good with the skills provided, Computer Use, Repair, Demolitions, 
 etc. You do get to wield a lightsaber later in the game, and you get to choose your Jedi class, 
 which have different colored lightsabers. Theres Jedi Guardians, which have the blue lightsabers (colors 
 can be changed for appearance) , which by the name, you can assume its a fighter-type character, 
 which it is. There is also the Jedi Sentinel, which has a yellow lightsaber, which focuses more 
 on skills like Computer Use and Healing and such. Last, but not least, is the Jedi Consular, which 
 has a green lightsaber, and focuses more on Force Powers than anything else. Depending on your 
 Jedi Class, you will get 10hp/4 force points, or so on. Same with Feat/skill progression.
  There are 9 allies that you get throughout the game, some jedi and some not. There is also a couple 
 romances in the game as well, depending if your male or female. Each ally has its pros and cons, 
 which lets you create a party based on the way you play, whether it be Jedi or Sith. The graphics 
 arent too bad, they are above average. Same with the sound, which for some reason, i love the sound 
 it makes when 2 lightsabers clash. This game is a must get if you love RPG's. It makes you think 
 why this wasnt made before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  It's not perfect and the storyline and how you became Jedi sooo quickly did kinda weird me out, 
 none the less though it was great. The story does make a good job of drawing you in and it is actually 
 fun to listen/read all the chaarcter scripts and be taken in by the Star Wars universe.
  
  I bought the game in 2003 and never gotten around to playing it until now, i wish i played it sooner. 
 I don't really like RPG's and after the horrible time i had with Oblivion i put it off even further. 
 I'm not a great fan of Star Wars because the latest 3 movies while they had action has big plot 
 holes and bad acting/scripts. However this game made Star Wars kool again IMO.
  
  The combat may not be to everyones liking and wasn't mine at first but you get used to it and start 
 to like it after awhile. The start of the game aswel could have been better for me, i wasn't really 
 liking the sewer city feel. Once i got to Dant and i moved onto Tatooine (my fave planet) i was 
 really enjoying it alot more. Once you get them light sabers aswel you start to like your character 
 and become more attached.
  
  I did also wish i could have more of a lvoe interest with my characters but i'm a Jedi and not 
 allowed : ( I was really fancying that blue Twi'lek called Mission, damn she was hot,
  
  Anyways the Gameplay is really your Standard RPG kinda gameplay however it feels more fun and feel 
 more in a living breathing Star Wars world which sets it apart from others. also in other games 
 like Oblivion the world feels boring and bland but on this one you have a MASSIVE variety.
  
  In the end though it's the Planets/Star Wars/Jedi feel and story that set it miles ahead of 
 the competition IMO.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Even after 4 years the game is look fantastic! Sure it could look better today but it just has 
 a Star Wars feel to it that makes it perfect for the universe. I can't complain here apart from 
 they're getting old if you'll compared them to that new star wars game.
  
  Sound:
  
  AMAZING, great sound effects and Music and just captures the star Wars feel. I can't complain they're 
 just perfect and the voice acting is GREAT.
  
  Value:
  
  I got it for full price back in the day but now its &pound;5-10 and so's the 2nd game so it's perfect 
 and it took me just abit over 80 hours to complete the main storyline with no help from hints and 
 cheats or walkthroughs.
  
  All in all if you like RPG games Star Wars or even just want to play something Fantastic then play 
 this game. To me it's the best RPG ever made and i didn't even really like Star Wars or RPG's before 
 hand but i'll be buying the KOTOR2 and waiting for a third :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as the evil dark lord malik but you were knocked out during a fight and is 
 revived on the rebublic ship. Your memory is wiped out and you have to find out though the game 
 who you really are.
  
  Gameplay: In this game just like a said before you play as malick and game gameplay is a roleplaying 
 type and you go around finging people gaing experience. You can even customize your character you 
 play, you can play as a male or a female which is intresting. Though the fighting is not turned 
 based but freeform accept you cannot contol the hack, slash and shooting of your chracter but can 
 issue your fight actions of your characters. You can even pause the game and pre-issue orders to 
 your character (s) . You get a range or weapons from Light sabers, swords, pistals, rifles, and everything 
 you expect in a star wars theme game, though the basters and rifles seem weak while swords and 
 light Sabers seem far more powerfull. You can upgrade your weapons to have higher hit points on 
 your enemies which is cool.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics is amazing, they are so fluent and the effects are great. They are very 
 polished and well detailed and the cut scenes are amazing even though it game out in 2003 the graphics 
 for the cut scences still look so real. Sound: The sound is great, the voice acting is very well 
 done accept I would of liked some voice acting for the character that you control. The sound effects 
 for every thing eles is well done and sounds like everything should sound. Sound: The sound from 
 the lazer blast to the expoltions are amzing. The voice acting is also very well done.
  
  Value: This game has great replay value, you can play this again and again and not get board of 
 it because of the great story and gameplay. All in all this is a amazing game that should not be 
 missed by any one who playes games and who are star wars fans. I give this game 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelthegoblin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, highly addictive and again amazing. I can do with more reality, and some 
 better character making, along with starwars language, not that stupid stuff like Shut up, can't 
 you see I'm a 3000 year old wookie! Other than that, the games pretty good. You can spend hour's 
 on this game and you won't get tired of it. It catches me about the fact you become a fierce fiery 
 dark side victim or a light side saviour, this games fantastic.
  So, last of all, this games only $30, so it's cheap enjoyment.
  if you're fussy about realism, 
 or a strict anti-star-wars fan, don't waste your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDog007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  It was 1994 when I first saw the original Star Wars trilogy; I was amazed.
  Since that year, I am in love with Star Wars, and I don't care when people laugh at me when I tell 
 them I love Star Wars.
  Star Wars is something you can't explain - it's not just a sci-fi-action movie, there is a lot 
 of soul in these movies.
  It was 2004 when I went into a Tower Records store, to buy a Metallica album (Ride the Lightning 
 - just for the record) , but I went out of the store with something completely different; I went 
 out with a fresh copy of the RPG game of Star Wars - Knights of the Old Republic.
  At that time I didn't like RPG games, and I didn't know games like Morrowind, Baldur's Gate and 
 others... But still, I bought the Star Wars RPG game because of one reason - hey... It's Star Wars.
 
  I got into my room, placed the first CD in my drive, and started installing the game.
  I didn't expect too much from the game, because I didn't really know how RPG games are like.
 
  After I finished the game, I was shocked... I didn't think the game would be that good, and I 
 didn't want it to end.
  
  You start playing the game while you design you character (Skills, look, abilities, name) .
  The 
 gameplay is highly addictive, and there are many choices to make through the game, so I'm convinced 
 that you gamers will like to play the game another time, and maybe even more then just twice, because 
 there is much to do - there is this card game, named Pazaak, which is highly addictive (After understanding 
 the rules of the game) , and when you start with the game... you won't be able to stop playing.
 
  The game is pretty long, it took me about 30-40 hours to finish the game, but I wanted more, so 
 I started a whole new game.
  The sound of the game is amazing - the music is very powerful, especially for people whom liked 
 the Star Wars music; Once, when I was in a cantina in Taris, I almost cried because of the powerful 
 music.
  The speeches of the characters in the game are very convincing, very well acted, and not many games 
 in the market can be compared to KotOR by sound.
  When speaking about graphics, the game does a really good job at bringing fresh views to the player 
 - from planet Taris with high skyscrapers, to planet Dantooine with fields of green grass and little 
 rivers.
  The characters look really nice, and the indoors environments look also very convincing.
  While 
 the game is excellent, there are many bugs - most of them are little bugs who don't interrupt the 
 gameplay, but there are one or two bugs who do interrupt the gameplay, but it's not a big deal.
 
  
  Well, I can write a R-E-A-L-L-Y long review about this game, writing about every aspect of it, 
 but I'll leave that mission to someone else... I think I said enough about this amazing game.
 
  Run to the nearest video-games store and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchdogg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Nights of the Old Republic is a stunning addition to the Star Wars franchise, with a 
 captivating new storyline completely separated from the movies it lures you in right from the start. 
 The story is set around 5000 years before the first movie in the outer rim of the Star War's universe. 
 Right from the start you are thrown into the deep end when the ship your character is travelling 
 on is attacked by Dark Malak an evil Sith overlord. From there you are required to solve problems 
 in order to advance to your inevitable battle with Malak.
  
  The Great thing about KOTOR is the ability to customise your characters abilities, each time you 
 level up you have the choice of what skills your character can become strong and which skills you 
 choose effect how you go about solving problems. You also have the ability to customise your characters 
 force abilities such as force lighting or force heal. You also have the ability to customise your 
 party members who you pick up along the way you can also lead them to whichever path you are following.
 
  
  There is limitless fun available to you in KOTOR with many side missions and other mini games. 
 You can become apart of an elite assassination group and go around assonating terrorist, businessmen 
 and others. You can also become a champion swoop race which is a lot like pod racing where you 
 race against the clock to beat other swoop racers times. The games creators also introduced an 
 original card game Pazak which you can play in most cantinas against other Pazak players in an 
 attempt to win credits. These extras will have you spending many more hours in the game if need 
 be. Kotor offers great replay value due to the fact that you dictate your path either being the 
 light side or the dark side, with each path their are different missions and items you can acquire. 
 Your path is chosen from how you behave in your missions for example whether you decide to help 
 the innocent by sparing them credits or if you choose to put them out of their misery while dictate 
 whether you get light side or dark side points.
  
  Whether you a Star Wars fan or not you will fall in love with this instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipe_1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When you look at this game's box, you see that its Star Wars, right? Yes and no. Thats whats awsome 
 about it. This game is in a Star Wars time era, but it feels a little diffrent somehow.... a good 
 difrent. This is posibly the best game ever made. If you dont like Star Wars, it dont matter with 
 this game. The graphics are pretty solid for a game that came out in 2003. The characters are AWSOME 
 in this game. If you are looking for a great game this is for you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! {There is also 
 a sequel to this game, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic the Sith Lords} . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffmuserai
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played. The game first came out on the xbox and then on 
 the PC. The game is good on both. The interface is different on each console but it fits the console 
 perfectly. Which version is better? I would have to say the PC because it has better graphics and 
 more stuff in the game. It has a lot of bugs though but that can be fixed easily. Like in the Undercity 
 if the game is getting all bugged out you just have to turn off the shadow graphics. And on Dantooine 
 all you have to do is turn off the grass options. It really isn't much of a problem and it doesn't 
 ruin the game experience. The game play is pretty unique. It has been used before but its not really 
 mainstream. The game uses a d20 system which i wont explain because well its not that complicated 
 but I'm feeling kind of lazy right now ^_^;. The audio in the game is absolutely revolutionary. 
 The best thing about the game isn't the fighting (which is awesome by the way) but the interacting 
 with different people. Thats the thing that makes the most fun. You have to experience it for yourself. 
 Trust me you wont regret getting this game, especially the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  The beginning is classic, a space battle of Taris, and you awaken to a warship under fire. Your 
 first member is short lived, but he is a good soldier to the end. His sacrifice was not in vain, 
 but soon Carth joins you in your escape. The Endar Spire explodes as the escape pod hurls towards 
 the skies over Taris. The first world is akin to Coruscant as it is fraught with dangers ranging 
 from wannabe Siths to Gangs to Bounty Hunters and more. Soon your party grows from two to seven. 
 The personalities are similar to characters from the movies, but distinct enough to become memorable 
 friends along the way. If you wanted to live the movies then this is as close as you could get 
 in 2003.
  
  The Taris adventure goes from the heights of the Upper City to the depths of the Undercity. Your 
 actions naturally generate responses from those in the field with you, which is a welcome change 
 from the solo nature of previous Jedi styled games. I'll admit enjoying the solo loner aspect of 
 Kyle Katarn though the occasional backup was nice when outnumbered. It also made the game more 
 alive when travelling the locations. You inevitably attract the attention of the Exchange, namely 
 Canderous Ordo, a Mandalorian veteran turned mercenary, and from there you travel to the local 
 Exchange boss' estate. Not long after Malak orders the bombardment of Taris as you fly off in the 
 Ebon Hawk, a Falcon like freighter runner.
  
  The destination after escaping the Sith fighters is Dantooine where your Jedi training is faster 
 than normal for someone such as you. The journey begins not long after spending many weeks on Dantooine. 
 As you search for the Star Maps, you uncover far more about your companions and about yourself, 
 which is as intriguing as it is disturbing, in your case anyway. None recognize you without the 
 mask except the Council and Bastila, but they remain silent about it. Jolee knows too, but keeps 
 silent for different reason then the Council.
  
  You must find out for yourself otherwise it is pointless for you.
  
  Nobody can be told... 
 you must see it for yourself (a la Matrix) .
  
  Dantooine.... Tattooine.... Manaan.... Kashyyyk... and finally Korriban...
  
  Five planets, 
 Five Maps, and the greatest SW adventure for any longtime travelling follower of the SW journey. 
 Your journey is only just beginning... so take the first step into a larger world as you go from 
 the Endar Spire all the way to the Unknown World.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwing89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  For those who know the movies the game starts 4000 years before the original trilogy and you begin 
 the game at the service of the republic with knowing who you are exactly. The gameplay of this 
 game resembles the Neverwinter Nights but it's a little more simple.
  The graphics are just amazing which gives you a better experience when it comes to exploring the 
 scenarios of all the different planets and talking with a multiplicity of alien races, all with 
 different and detailed faces and clothes.
  What the game has the best it's the sound. The music it's suitable to every situation in the game. 
 The sound effects are highly addictive with the light sabers and bips bips of the droids. And the 
 alien voices are all different and weird just like in the movies, giving you a full experience 
 in knowing all kinds of alien races.
  I can even say that the game gives you a more deeper experience in the Star wars universe than 
 the movies. Neither you like it or nor Star Wars or RPGs, ignoring this title is losing one of 
 the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimstev417
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  i love it, the game is about your caracter becoming a jedi of the old republic.
  It turns out you are really a sith lord that has had his memory wiped. And whats ironic is that 
 you can once again become a sith lord and rule the galaxy. You can custamize a total of nine different 
 caracters with force powers and feats and abilitys. at the start of the game you can start as a 
 scoundral or a soljier or a scout each one with it's own abilitys. Then when you realise your destiney 
 and once again ris up to become a jedi you can choose a jedi consular for complete mastery of the 
 force or a jedi guardian for advanced lightsaber and weapon skills, or become o sentinel with a 
 eaquel balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBlackrabbit88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a great game!!!!
  With excellent graphics and sound, this great game is filled stunning twists and turns. Also each 
 character has their own personality and skills. Star Wars is just plain amazing with bonus missions, 
 cool pick-ups and devious enemies to add to the great story line. In this game you can chose to 
 follow the light with acts of kindness and charity or turn to the Dark Side with acts of cruelty 
 and selfishness. One of the best thing about the game is that you can chose what you say. Throughout 
 the game you travel to different planets and along the way you pick up companions ( or reject them) 
 and fight the evil Sith. Weapons include swords, guns, grenades and even lightsabers. There are 
 also traps like mines. Save the galaxy!... or conquer it. By S &amp; M 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Oh yes, how to describe the brilliance of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic . Without a doubt 
 this game is a true masterpiece of work -- one of the best Star Wars games you can find. There's 
 really not much to like about this game. I have yet to find anything I didn't like. Action, interesting 
 characters, beautiful graphics, great gameplay, neat side-quests and even fun mini-games... What's 
 not to like? KotOR is a masterpiece through-and-through. This is one of those games that you really 
 need to play. I haven't talked to anyone who didn't enjoy this game. It's just a great game, you 
 can't deny it. While the game is an RPG it doesn't really feel like an RPG. It has the RPG elements 
 in there, sure, but they're worked in together with other features so that it doesn't feel much 
 like an RPG at all. It has the usual turn-based combat, but the turn-based combat is so much different 
 from anything I've ever seen before... It was done ingeniously.
  
  While this is a great game, the sequel is a bit lacking... But that's for another review.
  In 
 short, pick this game up if you already haven't. To all Star Wars fans out there; you need to play 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuRen6899
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I like RPGs, and I like Star Wars. I don't suppose there was ever any doubt that I was going to 
 love this game, but believe me - it's 100% true that you don't need to be either to get an extremely 
 satisfying experience out of KotOR.
  
  When I say I like RPGs... well, I do. But that said, it's a bit of a love/hate relationship. Take 
 Oblivion - heralded as an incredible game, and though I could see glimpses of why, I gave up on 
 it. It just wasn't accessible enough, playing it felt like a struggle.
  
  I had no such problems with KotOR. That's not to say that it's simplistic or diluted in any way, 
 just that things are explained better and make a lot more sense.
  
  The combat system - unusual to me at first, I'm accustomed to real-time combat - ended up being 
 one of my favourite elements of the game. Strategy and nous are required; there's no getting away 
 with button-bashing and dodging, adding to the challenge.
  
  The strongest aspect of the package is undoubtedly the immersive storyline and unforgettable characters. 
 They could've made one hell of a movie with this plot.
  
  And then, of course, there's the ability to mould said plot around your own wishes - the Light 
 side or the Dark. The game is well worth playing twice regardless, but this only adds to the replay 
 value.
  
  It's 2007 now, so I'd be lying if I said the graphics were magnificent anymore, but they're more 
 than adequate, and if you're like me, you'll care more for the tremendous gameplay anyway.
  
  Sound is another strength, helping to create that authentic Star Wars feel.
  
  This is 
 simply the best game I've ever played. The highest compliment I can pay to this masterpiece is 
 to say that I enjoyed it even more than I did the movies.
  
  I cannot recommend it highly enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  now even though I'm only been to taris I'm just getting off and I love the games challenge, it 
 is so much fun to play and level up for me the game was slightly addicting, but in this case thats 
 a good thing, it lets me play and get more info to write this. if your thinking of playing the game, 
 stop thinking and play, it is one of the best games I have ever played and will continue play even 
 after I'm done the game is revolutionary and is pretty much where I got my start in gaming I would 
 highly recommend it to every gamer out there, even if you don't like to play RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlharaK
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  BEWARE! This game is not even close to a 9 let alone 10.. I must admit I got excited at first after 
 reading so many positive reviews but after playing it I felt hugely dissapointed.
  
  GRAPHICS: they get the job done, but could've been a lot better.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Horrid! I played 
 quite a few RPG's before and this game is simply too linear without much challenge whatsoever.. 
 in a RPG you're supposed to make choices with various consequences (well.. not in every rpg but 
 still..) , in this game most choices you make lead to the same consequence. The combat system is 
 kinda similar to fallout (AFAIR) but unlike fallout, this one feels boring and it's not challenging 
 at all. You must play other RPG's (good one's) first and then play this to feel the difference.
 
  
  STORY: Didn't finish the game but must've been reasonable from what I heard, with a crappy ending 
 as a bonus..
  
  SOUND: AFAIR it was good enough but I was expecting some kind of overwhelming soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me just say that i will review this game according to 2003 standards, not according 
 to 2006-2007 standards. The game doesn't feel very dated, but it is showing signs of age, both 
 in gameplay and graphic, so it is unfair to judge it by today's standards.
  
  Unless you've been living under a rock, you've heard of this game, and if you haven't played it 
 already, you should, because you will not be disappointed (unless you absolutely despise StarWars 
 or RPG games ofcourse) .. It is a must-play for everyone. Not just RPG or StarWars fans. I am an 
 RPG fan, but i didn't care much for StarWars until i played this game. I personally think it's 
 better than all of the movies, but that's just me.
  
  Gameplay: takes some time to get used to if you haven't played any of the Bioware games before, 
 but it doesn't take long to master. The combat is turn-based, but you don't really notice it. I 
 won't go into the detail here, because there are plenty of reviews out there that describe how 
 it goes. The majority of fights are not very challenging, if you're an expert of turn-based games, 
 but at least the fights are enjoyable to watch, thanks to the superb combat animations. It really 
 is a joy to watch two Jedi battling with lightsabers, and casting force powers. .
  
  Graphic: great, for a 2003 game. The environments are beautifully done, character models are good, 
 and so is everything else. The lip-sync is better than in most games released in 2006, which is 
 pretty important in a game like this, where people talk a lot. The performance is fine. You should 
 have no trouble running this game on highest settings with a modern computer (year 2004+) . The 
 loading times are short, and so is saving. .
  
  Sound: amazing, backed-up by a wonderful original soundtrack (no more of those overused John Williams 
 soundtrack... it is great, but what is too much, is too much) . The voice acting is excellent... 
 one of the best actually, in any game. There are very few NPC's in the game that sound only average. 
 .
  
  Value: the game has an amazing value. It took me approx. 50 hours to finish the game the first 
 time (and i missed a few side quests) , and i'm an experienced RPG player. After you're done, you'll 
 want to play through it at least one more time (i played through it 6 times i believe) . There are 
 plenty of quests that offer more than one or two resolves, and you might take on different classes, 
 feats and force powers... so there's plenty of replay value here. .
  
  Tilt: i enjoyed playing this game very much, and i'm sure i'm not the only one. I loved every bit 
 of it, the story, the gameplay, the setting... it was a wonderful experiance for me, and i hope 
 there will be more games like this one in the future. .
  
  Overall: an excellent RPG with characters that have great personalities, an epic StarWars story 
 that will keep you interested all the way through (there are some nice twists and surprises along 
 the way.. the main villain is not very interesting though, so don't expect a Darth Vader or Palpatine 
 beater) and a really fun combat. .
  
  Well, that's pretty much it. I'm guessing that all of the StarWars and RPG fans played this game 
 already. I'm also guessing that there are a few that are being too stubborn to play this game, 
 because they don't like Star Wars, RPG games, turn based combat or whatever. So, i'm giving out 
 a message to those people: you are missing a wonderful game, a game that anyone with a computer 
 should play. So go ahead, buy this game, and award yourself with an experience that you will never 
 forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Highs: Freedom pretty much unseen in an RPG since the days of fallout, with lots of choices after 
 character creation to develop your character and change the course of the story to affect hundreds 
 of characters within the game, a role playing system that allows you to step into the role of a 
 Jedi and fight with the style of Darth Maul or Yoda respectively, a story that rivals any star 
 wars fiction dating back to the original trilogy, and with tons of little tidbits thrown in to 
 reward the fans of all star wars fiction comic books included.
  
  Lows: Some of the fights will slow down the games frame-rate, story takes a long time to pick 
 up, and still drags a little at times, load zones galore, a few real bugs, and some game ending 
 conversation choices that can be picked without enough warning for good measure.
  
  Star Wars Fans: This is as good as it gets; go buy this game now. Dont wait for the rest of the 
 review. Im serious. Stop reading. NOW!
  
  RPG Fans: Okay, so the star wars universe isnt exactly dungeons and dragons, except ironically 
 in this case when thats pretty much exactly what it is. Trust me, this game is worth every penny. 
 This is dungeons and dragons that plays like Fallout, storyline wise. Its the best thing youve 
 seen in years; trust me.
  
  Everyone Else: This is a solid title with exemplary achievements in every category, if you want 
 to try an RPG game, then start with this one, its worth the 50$ and if you find it any cheaper 
 its a steal.
  
  Ive been involved in extensive debates with people about what constitutes a role-playing game. 
 Usually against their will, and with more protesting the entire topic on their part, and yelling 
 on my part, but I consider it to be debate none the less. Knights of the Old Republic is the very 
 heart and definition of what an RPG is. Role-playing games has to give you more than just a well-crafted 
 story, any adventure game can do that. Something needs to be there besides game mechanics that 
 rely on far more than twitch gameplay. There needs to be the element of stepping into a role and 
 guiding and changing a character to see how the story plays out in your hands, and that means more 
 than just levels and character statistics.
  
  I know that definition is debatable, but I stand by that. KotOR lives and breathes this while at 
 the same time embodying every traditional meaning of RPG at the same time. From the very beginning 
 everything you do is a decision that affects the world. Even things that seem to be very basic 
 and where the decision is concerned, a very simple obvious answer you always have the option available 
 to do something stupid just to see how it plays out, to see if the game compensates and does something 
 sill or if your decision somehow ends the game in a bad way. Its not something it has to do, it 
 doesnt even always serve to progress the story line, but sometimes its just nice to know that 
 you can have your characters say the smart-ass remarks youre thinking about the dialogue, which 
 like all other RPGs is pretty thin at times even though it is superior to most. Yet it realizes 
 the star wars universe with beautifully crafted environments that it is hard not to appreciate 
 how good some places look; how purely Star Wars they look.
  
  The graphics are slickly polished even on an average machine running a Radeon 9000 or higher card. 
 You wont get very much better than XBOX quality graphics on that. Happily the graphical increase 
 with a 9800 card was amazing. High-resolution graphics, high resolution textures, all the special 
 effects on, anti-aliasing, etc were possible with a frame-rate that never dropped.
  
  The nicest touches involve details that go a very long way to keep the environments from being 
 static. Everything from birds large and small in the sky of varieties that are alien and unique 
 to fish in the sea. These things go a very long way, but you can never make a static environment 
 truly alive and most of the time youll notice how dead everything seems to be outside of cities 
 etcetera after youve killed all the enemies.
  
  The somewhat dull build of the environments in places is oddly emphasized in some places mostly 
 because of how fluid the game is in others. Should Bioware be praised for making so much of the 
 game so fluid that running around for tedious reasons is largely bypassed, or chastised for the 
 areas where they dont let you? Huge portions of the game allow you to pretty much just teleport 
 to and from your ship at will, instantly healing you and massively reducing travel time in large 
 complex environments. Most games would leave the traveling to industrious players to find for themselves 
 and then make them work for it, but here they make it a real game mechanic and it really helps. 
 It helps so much you feel it noticeably in areas where you simply cant and being really hurt means 
 a five minute run through environments that youve already been through and done that to in order 
 to heal and then a five minute run back to where you were.
  
  Fortunately segments of the game like that are few and far between and even eliminated once you 
 get a character with force heal. A game mechanic that has always infuriated me has been spawning 
 enemies and the very worst part of the game is toward the end when there are a few segments with 
 unlimited re-spawns. They were infuriatingly difficult, dying and reloading can take you out of 
 the game and there were countless reloads here. Reloading takes enough time that this segment actually 
 took me much longer than it should have because of impatience. Frankly I could easily imagine a 
 player quitting the game entirely at this point, a shameful thing to be put on the border of doing 
 so close to the end of the game when everything is at its most interesting story-wise.
  
  The story is particularly interesting because of its dual path mechanics, which is a rare treat 
 in a game. Beyond that the story is good, really good, but not particularly moving. A star wars 
 fan will love it and technically the story is awesome especially for a video game there really 
 is no reason anyone wouldnt enjoy it. Some of the dual path mechanics in it feel weird sometimes 
 though, but both paths are still fun. The best part of it all though is the NPC interaction. Theyll 
 talk without you, or theyll get your attention when theres something worth talking to them about, 
 and almost all of them have their own story going for them. In a way, the game would be extremely 
 dull without the side stories of each individual NPC.
  
  The largest dips in the gameplay come from the pacing of the environments and level design, you 
 will always know where to go and the puzzles are usually complex enough to make you think for a 
 few minutes without being boring and almost always have an extra way around them or two. If I had 
 to pick a single flaw as the largest flaw these occasional slow points would be it. They just make 
 the game feel like work to play at times. If you persevere through them youll be having fun right 
 away again in a few minutes but they are just long enough that you will be most likely to turn 
 the game off and pick it up again later because of them, and only one moment when the game feels 
 worth quitting entirely. And again I downplay this because these moments are barely five percent 
 of the time that youll be playing since most areas are well enough designed as to have the transit 
 system to and from your ship as I mentioned earlier.
  
  This is the only game with this type of depth to be seen in years KotOR shines as easily the best 
 offering of the genre despite any flaws that are there. Its name is already on my list of classics 
 and I hope that Bioware continues to make games of this caliber in the future. For now though Ill 
 settle for thinking of them as an adequate company to fill the void that the loss of Black Isle 
 has left in all RPG fans, but those are still some really big shoes to fill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageBlackthorn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Normally I stick to Star Wars games like Jedi Academy which is a 3rd person chase view like KOTOR 
 but allows me to control my combat moves more directly. I wasn't sure how I'd like just choosing 
 an attack in turn-based play but the story line more than makes up for that in Knights Of The Old 
 Repubic. Alot of what I liked about this game was discovering just what type of character worked 
 best for me. Light or Dark. Single Saber, Dual Sabers, or Double-Bladed Saber. What crystal combination 
 to put in the saber hilt. Soldier, Scoundrel, or Scout. Jedi Guardian, Sentinel, or Consular. Hand-to-hand 
 or ranged combat. Even Male or Female characters change things. The game just begs you to experiement 
 which makes re-playing it just as fun as the first time. I've played it all the way through multiple 
 times trying different things each time. Trying to complete different side quests each time, trying 
 to uncover more of the story from every angle. Every time I find something new and it keeps me 
 interested even if I think I know everything already. Even how I equip and level-up my party members 
 makes a difference. The combinations seem endless but eventually I settled on some things that 
 just work for my style of play.
  
  I think the most fun I have is getting the party characters to give up their stories. Jolee Bindo 
 is my favorite for being the classic cranky old man. Very grandfatherly. The others didn't catch 
 my interest as much, except for HK-47, but I think that's only because I have yet to play a character 
 with enough point in the Repair skill to get HK's full story out of him. Overall the depth of personality 
 with all the characters is excellant. About the only draw back was when talking with NPC's (That's 
 Non-Player Characters for those of you who never played Role-Playing Games before) was the looped 
 dialogue track. Every Rodian jabbers exactly the same audio track in my headphones as ever other. 
 And every Twi'Lek sounds like every other. Well, the male and female characters have they own recordings, 
 but a little more variety would've been nice. I found this game to be completely engrossing. I'd 
 spend entire days off from work working my way through the different areas looking for clues, side-quests 
 that give the main story more depth, new items that made combat easier for the weaker characters. 
 Mostly I'll say that if you love games with a good story, this one is worth the buy. If you're 
 a Star Wars fan, then this is as much a necessity as owning all 6 movies and all the novels. Every 
 couple months I'll take Knights off the shelf, re-install it and play it again. This is a game 
 I think I'll be playing for the rest of my life, just like the Star Wars movies are films I watch 
 over and over again every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calpalg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  To start with i will say this: you don't have to be a Star Wars fan to appreciate this game, but 
 it helps. The sense of immersion in it's world, set thousands of years before the films, with a 
 whole new set of characters, locations, weapons, veichles, is just fantastic. It's fascinating 
 for a Star Wars fanboy such as myself to explore the world 'way back when', and there are some 
 cameos, and appearances that will be spotted by fans of the films.
  
  Gameplay: The most important part of any game, is executed very well here. Combat, using your party 
 of 3 against however many enemies, could be 2, could be nearer a dozen, is well executed, with 
 pausing to give out commands to your party members feeling natural, though it can get a bit chaotic, 
 and you may feel overwhelmed slightly by the amount of micromanagement needed, though once you 
 get used to it, it will be almost second nature. As far as the in-game controls and mechanics, 
 they will be pretty familiar to anyone who has played another game in this style, with you controlling 
 to character, your party members following behind, talking to people in the streets, picking up 
 items, again, it all feels very natural.
  
  Graphics: Slightly disappointing it has to be said, when the rest of the game is of such a high 
 calibre. They are not bad by any means, but there are many small inconsistencies, characters running 
 through walls, geting stuck, minor little bugs like these can detract a lot, if you lack the latest 
 patch. The landscapes are generally pretty detailed on the top levels of detail, and are realistic 
 enough to keep you immersed in the world. The number of character models in use is large enough 
 so that you will not see the same one enough to make it sem un-natural.
  
  Sound: The game's best aspect, arguably is it's sound. There are hundreds of hours of spoken dialogue 
 for each and every character in the game world, most of it of the highest quality. You may hear 
 the occasional forced line in there somewhere, Malak's laughs are especially hammy, but it really 
 does do a fantastic job of making you feel like you are part of the Star Wars universe. The sound 
 effects and musical score are fantastic aswell, with the kind of sweeping orchestral scores we've 
 come to expect for Star Wars, and the familiar sounds of blaster fire, and the iconic thrum of 
 a lightsabre, it's all so familiar, and so effective.
  
  Value: Incredible replay value, and a decent length to the main quest in it's own right, make for 
 a game with amazing replay potential. You could probably blast through the main quest on normal 
 in 25 hours or less, but you would be missing out on the masses of side quest available, most of 
 which are beneficial, netting you new items, or just experience for a more powerful chacacter. 
 On top of that, there are Light Side and Dark Side options to be taken, many of which throw up 
 interesting moral decisions to me taken. There are so many ways to complete this game it's almost 
 scary.
  
  Final Thoughts: Any Star Wars fan should pick this up, as it offers and immersive, addictive and 
 atmospheric experience, and if you get lucky with the unfortunately frequesnt glitches and bugs, 
 it will keep you hooked for along time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firevai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  this is really a wonderful game, one of the few RPG that can satisfy mankind, wat i didnt like 
 is that upon finishing a mission, you have to walk all the way back to the starting points, other 
 games such as neverwinter nights 2, take u straight to the next mission after having a dialog witha 
 character involved in the story events. other than that, the story itself is very much strong, 
 mysterious, and energetic, you wont have any moments feeling like u dont want to play it anymore 
 or to give up on it, and also, the script can change depending on your character, so it s very 
 interactive, the idea of shifting the character from good to evil or vice versa is very compelling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best star wars game that has ever been released and of as this righting (2007) 
 no other star wars game have been able to match kotor. the graphics are good for a game of its 
 time the gameplay grows on you (RPG based) and the most amazing thing about this game is the story. 
 i have never seen such a well written story in a game like this one
  
  turn to the dark side stay on the lightside whatever you do you really owe it to yourself to play 
 this game. if your not a star wars fan and you play this believe me you will become one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  About 3000 years before the Battle of Yavin (BBY) , the galaxy finds itself harassed by the Sith 
 Empire, lead by the cruel tyrant Dark Lord Malak. It all began years ago, during the Mandalorian 
 Wars, when the Jedi council refused to aid the Republic against the Mandalorian attacks, once the 
 role of the Jedi is to protect, and not attack. But it all chyange on the faithful day that two 
 of their best apprendices fled to help the Republic, and took with them a considerable ammount 
 of padawans... Thos two knights were Revan and Malak. Soon they would both fall to the dark side, 
 Revan beccoming Malak's master, and also betraying the Republic, it wasn't late untill Malak himself 
 betrayed Revan, and took and the galaxy for his own... Malak took the chance of Revan being weakened 
 ina fight against a jedi knight called Bastila to the deed... But the question remains, is Revan 
 really dead?
  Now here you stand, inside a ship under attack by Sith fleet. An attack from where only you, a 
 man named Carth Onasi, and a Jedi Knight by the name of Bastila survive. Now, which side will you 
 take? As the plot develop's will you be consumed by hate, will you take the easier path to ultimate 
 power, and seek the destruction of Darth Malak for the sheer opportunity to take the galaxy into 
 your grasp? Or will you resist temptation, focus on your goals at long range, and stand for the 
 light?
  Such is the way of Knights of the Old Republic. This RPG let's you choose between dark side or 
 not, but in a far more complex manner than any other Star Wars game so far, it's not a single decision 
 that will take you to either side, but rather a lot, and I mean a lot of decisions that range from 
 doing things merely out of the chance for a reward to realising that sometimes a person is not 
 in conditions to give you indeed a promised reward, thus you'd better let her keep the reward... 
 If you want to follow the light side. Side-quests I'd say is where you'll be making your most important 
 decisions concerning which side you're on. And also there're many kinds of sidequests that range 
 from helping citzens to running on swoop tracks or even getting to know your companions better.
 
  The control is pretty strange at the beggining but as soon as you realise that this game is NOT 
 similar in gameplay to any other Star Wars you'll see how easy it is to control, and how handy 
 the commands really are. Battles here take an interesting turn-based action where you can pause 
 the game and set an strategy and then unpause and let the fight rage on, or fight the enemies real-time 
 as it comes; you're also allowed to pause in the middle of the battle to change strategies if you 
 think is necessary.
  There's no lack of armors, weapons and itens in this game. But I must say that any SW fan will 
 be mostly interested in building your own lightsaber (you only BUILD it once, but you get to upgrade 
 any lightsabre as many times as you want, and yes, that includes changing crystals, even the one 
 that will define the color of your lightsaber) , almost every armor and weapon is upgradable, from 
 lightsabers to vibroblades and vibroswords.
  Most of the time you'll be scorted by two more characters, jedis or not, but your party is pretty 
 big, allowing you to choose which two members you'll take with you.
  Graphics are gorgeous even in mid-quality, but in low it does get a bit weird. Sound is great and 
 so is the environment. I do think the chracter selection was quite poor though. I was rather disapointed 
 that you can only choose the human race (although there is a pretty good reason to that, but I 
 won't spoil) .
  The replay value is BIG, since after finishing it one first time you'll surely want to finish it 
 again with a brand new character and play for the other side (by that I don't mean play for the 
 Sith cause that can't be done, I mean turning to the dark or light side) .
  The game is longer than expected, the story is great for fans and non-fans, but it's not as huge 
 as to point the length of the game, which makes this game superbly good, after all it means that 
 there are many sidequests to be done oif you really want to enjoy it to the fullest.
  For fans of SW, here's a hint: pay attention on a talk with Canderous (one of your companions, 
 a mandalorian) , during one of your opcional conversations abouit his battles, he will mention a 
 rock-like starship that spew fiery rockets and the flew extremely well , he says he found it on 
 the Outter-Rim... Who invades the Outter-Rim? Yep the Yuuzhan Vong ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamorhage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  To get a complete picture of the game you should leave out the Star Wars .
  Everybody is all familiar with the Star Wars universe and this could work either way,
  some love 
 it and some hate it. I'm one of the people who grew up with the Star Wars universe,
  and like many I thought the last trilogy was plain rubbish on all aspects.
  The point is that 
 KOTOR is a game that stands out, and wouldn't need the Star Wars brand to sell.
  
  You start of by creating your character out of a choice of 3 types of fighters,
  depending on 
 the way you want to play, action, stealth or skill.
  You have no idea who you are or where you, so together with the character you'll disover what's 
 happening and has happened to you in the past. Fans of Star Wars might be a bit dissapointed that 
 you won't be able to get your hands on a lightsaber untill later in the game.
  
  This game plays like your typical action RPG but puts a big focus on story.
  You'll be able to 
 travel in groups of 3 at a time. The characters who join you actually seem to have complex relationships, 
 and it's up to you to find out what's on their mind.
  You can storm through the game not bothering to talk to them, but it's really worth exploring their 
 past as this opens up some side missions and gives that little extra depth to the game.
  All the dialogues (except your own) are full speech, with some ludicrous alien jibberish.
  
 
  The interesting part of the game is that you always have to make choices in the dialogues, sepending 
 on your choices you'll fall to the dark or light side of the Force (oohh...) .
  I played through teh game on the light side, and I found it very hard not fall to the dark side. 
 Come on, do we really want to spare those pathetic sith... no, we want to rip their heads of!
  
  The action flows smooth, and the battles looks quite impressive. Even though you're only pressing 
 one button on your mouse the characters seem to duel for their lives.
  I'm by heart a console player and prefer a controller to mouse tapping.
  For example to run around 
 you need to click both the right and left mouse button,
  you do get used to it but it feels a bit awkward in the beginning.
  
  The graphics in the game 
 are more then exeptable,
  the facial animation works well with the speech and like I said before the battles seems believable. 
 There are some bugs in the agme on PC which make you think at one point that you're PC can't handle 
 the games' graphics but don't worry it's only a bug!
  
  Overall it's was a very enjoyable game which i can both recommend to Star Wars fans and haters. 
 Especially if you like RPGs with a deep story and the choice of life and death. Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!! I definitely recommend Star Wars: knights of the old republic!! From the 
 great story-line, to the awesome game-play, this game is well worth your time. I've played this 
 game many times, with different characteristics, and I still enjoy playing! In Kotor, you can alter 
 your appearance and personality by choosing dialog when speaking with other characters throughout 
 the game. By being light-sided, you choose the path of a jedi, by acts of charity and mercy, or 
 you can choose the path of the dark, following the sith with acts of cruelty and injustice. There 
 are a number of missions, light or dark, some are optional, others necessary to complete the game.
 
  
  There are numerous characters who join you in your quest, and many may be your allies, if you choose 
 the path of the light. However, if you follow the dark, they may be your enemies. The lightsaber 
 is the most fascinating weapon, with unique upgrades, such as rare crystals and focusing lenses. 
 There are countless other weapons throughout the game you can find, such as guns, grenades and 
 poisonous swords! There are also countless other dangerous traps, such as mines.
  
  All in all, this game is a bundle of fun, and really, really worth that hard earned money to pay 
 for it! Enjoy Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fischgrape
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is that you can actually feel the 'force' power grow in your character. 
 As you work towards either dark or light side orientation, the moral decisions you make can affect 
 your abilities as a warrior, counselor or guardian. It's fun to play all three, from both sides. 
 So that means you should play the game at least six times! Whether I was a nacent Jedi newling, 
 or the supposed Jedi master of the universe, the reality of the situation helped to provide balance -- there 
 was never a 'god of the universe' moment, yet I always felt that power was available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. It looks great and sounds great. It has a great engine. It's fun to 
 play. The plot is engrossing. There is good reason to play it again, and both naughty and nice 
 ways are fun. The characters are well fleshed out. Each personality is unique and adds something. 
 Every place feels real. It's not a sandbox game. It's not exactly a living world . But at times 
 it fools you because everything is so beautiful and feels so real.
  
  The game seemed a little too easy at time. Even moderate force powers are just GODLY against most 
 enemies. But my favorite moment in the game is when I raided the final area thinking, like one 
 usually does in these games, yeah, this is gonna be easy, let's finish 'er off.... 
  
  I ate my words. Just as you start to feel ungodly powerful, it really hits you hard at the end 
 and makes use use everything you've learned and put everything together. Brilliant pacing. Simply 
 one of the best RPG's of all time, and maybe the greatest Star Wars game ever made.
  
  It is certainly better entertainment per dollar than the newer Star Wars trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piecesof8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Much has been said about this brilliant game. I can only say what others have already spoken time 
 and time again: This game is a must buy for any RPG fan, or Star Wars fan. The story is deep, and 
 wonderfully told. You really grow to care about the characters. The worlds have a large number 
 of quests to do, and the artistic design of the worlds is fantastic and immersive. And of course, 
 there's the gameplay. The Light side/Dark side aspect of Sta Wars is used to full effect in this 
 game, and you'll want to play this game twice just to see how the story plays out, as well as the 
 powers you can use depending on your path. The combat is a lot of fun, and the quest system works 
 very well. This is a wonderful game, one of the best I've ever played. It deserves all the accolades 
 it has received and is one I keep returning too after three years now. If for some reason you haven't 
 played it yet, you have been denying yourself a real treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic will stun you in an instant, fan of Lucas' well enjoyed 
 Star Wars epics or not. If you do adore Star Wars however, you will love it at an impossible extent 
 to reach. First, lets revert back past Star Wars Episode One: The Phantom Menace, and thousands 
 of years into the wonderful galaxy of Star Wars. The sinister Darth Malak is desperate to take 
 over the galaxy at any extent, and this is where you come in. You start of creating you character 
 at the main menu. You can customize the face, male or female, hair, etc., and also a limited amount 
 of stat points are provided to be distributed to you characters abilities through you own will. 
 Eventually you gain points and upgrades though out the game, enabling you to upgrade you abilities, 
 as well as wield special armor or weapons. Once you create you character, (a character you will 
 be with for an extremely long time, knowing the game is almost endlessly long with non-stop entertainment) 
 the opening cinema will begin. After the exciting work of art, you will learn you are aboard a 
 space ship in the galaxy and are under act by the one and only Darth Malak. So, the opening has 
 a small tutorial and you meet a fellow crew-mate who guides you for a bit until you get the hang 
 of everything. You finally escape the ship with a pilot named Carth, and together you crash on 
 Taris. So, here you will complete some quests (this is basically the tutorial planet) until you 
 meet many fellow people who will join you party, whom you can all control. Once you finally leave 
 Taris, (in a very exciting way) you fly to Dantooine, where you learn the ways of the force and 
 become a Jedi. Can you and you party members save the galaxy from Darth Malak? The fate lies in 
 you hands. Choose wisely, for the decisions you make effect everything. Will you follow the ways 
 of the Jedi, or take the easy path of the Dark Side. The Choice is yours
  
  The story really entertains and makes the game interesting. Through out the game, your choices 
 will affect almost everything. It is your choice if you want to be a Dark Jedi or not. Anyway, 
 the gameplay is something like never before ever put into a game. The RPG style enables you to 
 travel on you ship to seven planets, each holding a key to defeat Darth Malak, and of course hours 
 of gameplay, exploration, side-quests, and mini-games. Earn you money and respect the way you want 
 it, whether its making friends or making yourself known as a powerful menace among the peoples 
 and creatures. Spend you money on supplies, weapons, what ever you want, and compete in contests 
 aside from you main quests. Travel with your nine party members all over the galaxy making yourself 
 known with a reputation. Talk to anyone you want, and use you skills and abilities to help them 
 or, if you want, get what you want out of them. You will adventure through the vast planets that 
 contain stunning graphics and animations, along with varied settings and environments. Weather 
 animations can also be noticed, such as the swaying of grass and other sorts. You can interrogate 
 or steal items by lock picking, or earn them the right way. Now, its time to talk about the combat 
 part of the game. Knights of the Old Republic is somewhat a turn based RPG, but not really. For 
 example, you chose when to attack, and you watch you characters do so, however, you can still move 
 and run around where every you like while fighting, is just that your not bashing buttons to attack. 
 When fighting, use you force powers on demand to attack simply by clicking the power you choose. 
 However, you do have a limited amount of force power at one time, and it will eventually drain. 
 You can use you awesome, customized lightsabers and weapons that you can upgrade on you own as 
 well as each of you characters different and specific abilities unique to themselves and their 
 species. What is very awesome about the combat is the ability to pause when or before fighting. 
 Doing this allows you to set up each of you characters opening attack, so that your not in a whirlwind 
 of chaos with enemies rushing at you and attacking with you party scrambling around at their will. 
 You can set the pause setting to go of every time a fight is about to take place. However, the 
 disadvantage of this setting is that every time you walk into a room or even near a person the 
 game will pause allowing you to set up, or confuse you and think the game is frozen. You may also 
 not like this because you may want the game to feel more exciting, and be attacked when less expected 
 in one free flowing motion. The pause setting, when automatic, however, does not pause the game 
 if you choose to attack first. But, you still can pause whenever you want. Nevertheless, the pause 
 system is easy to use, and very unique, which makes the games gameplay even more creditable. Even 
 if you are not a Star Wars fan, Knights of the Old Republic has the most unique and awesome gameplay 
 and other features of any RPG ever. Now, for the sound, you will be amazed, literally. The voices 
 are very well done, and the combat action noises and grunts, along with comments couldnt be more 
 life-like. The music in the game is also quiet enjoyable. The music features some classic Star 
 Wars music, as well as some new soothing and action tunes that are very good. Although Star Wars 
 Knights of the Old Republic is an amazing game, with many features that are unmentioned here because 
 they would take up too much room, it does have its flaws. The PC version of the game freezes up 
 and lags tremendously in some places, either its in a certain area on a planet, or at random. 
 You could be walking, and then you freeze and start skipping around, and then end up almost five 
 miles from where you just were! (Most people state that these problems occur on Dantooine, so watch 
 out for them, but there are easy solutions!) But, not all computers have these problems with the 
 game. But, usually most have some errors and glitches. There are, however, solutions to these to 
 these problems whether through patches or directions, so dont freak out, there is usually a way 
 to fix it. Overall, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is an outstanding game with tremendously 
 unique and awesome gameplay, with practically perfect sound and graphics. It should not be missed 
 out by any means, by any RPG person, Star Wars fan or not. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Not since X-Wing and Tie-Fighter have I enjoyed playing a Star Wars game as much. It also ranks 
 as one of the best RPG games I've ever played as well. KOTOR hits on all cylinders delivering excellent 
 graphics, sound and action. The story and puzzles are outstanding as well. The ability to become 
 light or dark side means there is also great replayability as well. The only complaints I have 
 with KOTOR is that sometimes your party members seem to get lost and the camera doesn't always 
 give the best view during combat. Fortunately, you can pause the combat and readjust the camera 
 for a better view. These are very minor quirks though and didn't diminish the enjoyment of playing 
 this nearly flawless game. I'm looking forward to playing the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiter208
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  star wars knights of the old republic is an RPG star wars game set 4000 years before star wars 
 episode 1
  
  fun to play through first and again to play light side and dark side but after that it gets pretty 
 boring. manaan and the unknown world are sooooooooooooo boring you clould fall asleep playing, 
 you go back and forth so many times
  
  kashyyyk is nothing like the star wars episode 3 kashyyyk that was more beaches and trees.
  
 
  the sith are lame
  
  over all i wouldn't recomend it and tell you to buy star wars episode 3 the game or star wars empire 
 at war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb1234
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I've played many Star Wars games, but I wasn't exactly sure what this one was going to be like. 
 A Star Wars action RPG?? Souns kind of weird, but surprisingly it works out rather well. It was 
 a nice journey to go onto, with one of the best plot twists near the end of the game (yes, even 
 up there with the Final Fantasy ones) .
  
  The graphics for this game were very nice, and can't find it hard to complain about in this one. 
 Some special efects could've been better and more eye-catching, but it was pretty good once your 
 power level up. It feels kind of tedious to have powers to upgrade your shooting, because EVERYONE 
 wants to be a jedi or sith. However, becoming a sith or jedi is in my opinion the best part of 
 the game by far. Every little interaction you make could lead to the light or dark side, so you 
 have to pay attention if your trying to become good or bad, doing the right or wrong things to 
 get there. What was really interesting is that your party can REALLY change based on what side 
 you choose. Sound was really good in this game, created a nice atmosphere to listen to, and there's 
 nothing like hearing the lightsaber flailing around!
  
  I enjoyed the gameplay in this game, however, I didn't find it to be any better then a turn based 
 Final Fantasy game. After playing Jedi Knight 2 where you run around flailing your lightsaber, using 
 all these cool moves you really feel like a bad ass jedi. This game, however, you get into a fight 
 where you hit them and they hit you back, and so and so on and so on. Sure, this can maybe work 
 for other games like Diablo 2, but after witnessing the potential of what a Jedi can do in an action 
 game, it's hard for you not to want to wack the crap out of your enemy instead of taking turns 
 hitting eachother. I mean come on, at times it's like watching a sword fight in slow motion!
  
  The story is a huge strength for this game, as well as length. This is what kept me going throughout 
 the game, as well as the already mentioned light or dark side decisions. Spanning mulitple worlds, 
 most of them familiar and fun, others new and intriguing concepts, leave you with a whole bunch 
 of different worlds to explore. At one point, you get to even choose which order you go in, leaving 
 it up to you to decide which world to explore next. All in all, a great action RPG with a few flaws, 
 but definetly a worthy purchase for a Star Wars fan and anyone looking for an action RPG that stands 
 out above the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 24Titan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is without doubt the best Star Wars game ever and I believe that it is the best video 
 game ever. There's massive amounts of great voice work, tons of action, many different locales, 
 and nine different characters to level up and to personalize how you want to.
  
  I'll start with the voice acting. I don't even want to know how much time it took to record all 
 of the dialogue in this game. There is a massive amount of it, and all of it is spoken. When playing 
 without subtitles, it added about six or seven hours to my gameplay. The voice actors and actresses 
 are extremely talented. It's very interesting to listen to your party characters reveal their past, 
 particularly Carth (if you are a female player) and Bastila (if you are a male player) .
  
  There's a lot of different action styles to use with your different players. There are some characters, 
 like HK-47, that provide ranged support with blaster rifles. Other characters, such as Bastila 
 and yourself after you become a Jedi, are much more focused and lightsaber combat, providing a 
 unique mix of combat features. There are several different feats to use, both for swordplay and 
 for gunfire. All of these feats upgrade from Basic to Improved to Master. Not only are there different 
 styles of combat, but there are also many different Force powers. Most of the light side powers 
 are supportive in nature, such as Heal or Cure. Almost all of the dark side powers are malicious, 
 with the most deadly being Force Storm, a storm of Force Lightning that hits every enemy in range.
 
  
  There are seven different distinct worlds to which you travel. All of them are very unique. Manaan 
 is very peaceful on the surface until you go under the water. Tatooine, on the other hand, is a 
 dry and barren wasteland. The artwork for all of these planets is very unique. There is a different 
 style for every planet that you visit. Taris is a planetwide city, Dantooine is peaceful grassland 
 environment, Tatooine is dry and sandy. You get the idea.
  
  The quests in the game are very engrossing and unique. There are some sidequests that are very 
 quick and only require one of two actions. However, there are others, such as Sunry's Trial on 
 Manaan and the multi-world Genoharadan Assassin Guild which require many different actions and 
 can take up a lot of time. The main quest of the game is very engrossing and it plays out just 
 like a Star Wars movie. When you near the end of the game, there will be a massive revelation that 
 I won't spoil, but it turns the game on its head and makes the whole thing worthwhile.
  
  There are nine characters (ten including yourself) that you will control throughout the game. Each 
 character is very unique and has their own strengths and weaknesses. Mission Vao is excellent in 
 stealth and should be used as such. HK-47 is the perfect ranged support character, as I said previously. 
 Jolee is excellent to give dark side powers to if you are light side, since he is neutral. Every 
 character is extremely unique and each one is different. However, there are some that you will 
 most likely never use again in the game. I myself almost never use T3-M4 or Mission Vao, but that 
 will happen with all who play this game.
  
  All in all, Knights of the Old Republic is an utterly amazing gaming experience. I have played 
 the game all the way through three times and every time I play, something new happens. You also 
 have the feature of choosing your own destiny, which allows for two different game endings. Of 
 course, I won't tell you what those game endings are, but both are very satisfactory for your gaming 
 style.
  
  All in all, about 1000/10. Best video game. EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  So unlike most other Star Wars games, this takes place thousands of years before the events of 
 the Star Wars movie saga when the Old Republic was still standing and when there were many good 
 and bad Jedi around. The start of the game plays like this, you play as a soldier of the Republic 
 whose ship is attacked by the Sith who want to capture a powerful Jedi named Bastila Shan so it 
 is up to you and your sidekick, Carth Onasi, to rescue her. it is not until after you rescue her 
 that she detects the force in you, which is where the game truly begins, with your Jedi training.
 
  
  As you progress through the game your actions determine which path of the force you take being 
 that of the good Jedi side or the dark Sith side. The characters in your party also react to the 
 decisions you make so the good guys will expect you to make the right decision and the bad guys 
 want you to do the evil thing.
  
  The graphics are still pretty good by today's standards, there are plenty of attractive special 
 effects such as the lightsaber battles. The environments of the planets you come across are absolutely 
 beautiful to look at and the character models are all done very well.
  
  The music and voice acting are phenomenal, it easily brings you into the Star Wars universe. The 
 voice actors do an impressive job and actually make you feel emotionally for the characters. The 
 lightsaber and blaster effects all sound like their Star Wars movie counterparts, which brings 
 a lot of authenticity to the game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun as well, it's pretty much your typical Baldur's Gate, Dungeon and Dragons 
 RPG style gameplay. As you level up you get more powerful and get unique abilities available only 
 to certain classes. The gamelength is pretty long about 15-25 hours depending if you go through 
 all the sidequests and stuff. However though the story is so immersive and there is always a good 
 or bad solution to just about every situation, so there is no doubt you will play the game again 
 a second or third time to get all the stuff you missed the first time and to get both the good 
 and evil endings. Overall, this game is a work of art and definitely one of the best (if not the 
 best) Star Wars game I've ever played. There is no doubt about it, if you consider yourself a Star 
 Wars fan it would be a crime not to play this game. As for nonfans I believe this game will make 
 you into one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic sets you in a time period long before we are introduced to Luke Skywalker 
 and company. KOTOR is an RPG with action built into it, but the main thing to look for is you get 
 to decide if you want to take the dark side or good side of the force. Its a really cool feature 
 and its all up to you.
  
  Bioware delievers on this great RPG. The game starts you off in a star cruiser and you have to 
 find your way out. You face mostly action encounters at the beginning of the game just to get you 
 used to the style of turn base action. But, dont let it deter you for the game is not all action, 
 it's role-playing makes it so good.
  
  Basically, when you get off the ship and go down to the city you start interacting with lots of 
 people and starting to do a little role-playing. You have an option for everything a character 
 says. For example you may try to go steal something from someone and they say hey, dont take that 
 you can either say oh im sorry, I didnt realize it belonged to you. or take the middle road saying 
 yah, ill let it go, but consider yourself lucky or you can be the bad guy and be like what are 
 you gonna do? Shoot me? Its mine, back off . I love it because your partner will totally pick up 
 on your back-sliding into the dark side if you choose to go so. I have already beatin the game 
 after becoming completely evil, im probably going to go through it again while being a good guy. 
 Overall, Bioware's action RPG really is amazing with its choices, dialague, and fun theme. IF you 
 are a fan of star wars and RPGs, or just a fan of either of them this game should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcloss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  You are running through the streets of Teris, With a dual blaster weilding pilot, Carth and a jedi 
 master, Bastila, by your side. You are caught by 2 guards holding pistols, who tell you to move 
 along. you have to choices; kill the guards, and stray to the dark side, losing the trust of your 
 comerades, or leave them alive, and look for another way in. its all up to you. KotOR offers many 
 situations like this, and all of them will move you closer to becoming a great jedi, or an evil 
 sith. The game offerers lots of jaw dropping plot twists and plenty of great voice acting, and 
 of course, great light saber battles. you begin as a soldeir on a ship, with no knowlege of the 
 force. as you progress through the game, your various choices will effect the branching story line 
 to the finale. You would be smart to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imayellowfellow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is absolutely one of the best RPG's ever and in my opinion the best Star Wars themed game
 
  
  PROS
  
  -Gameplay
  Absolutely great. The force powers give a fantastic jedi feel to the game. The feats make your 
 atttacks much more interesting and varied. The ability for you to choose your decisions and interactive 
 conversations make the game very original and full of depth
  -Sound
  The sound in this game is top notch. all the voiceovers are done extremely well. All the conversations 
 in this game are great. Every character in this game has their own persona thanks to the dialouge.
 
  -Story This games story is fan-freakin-tastic. From start to finsih i have to say the story kept 
 me hooked. Even tho the twist is well expected it was still well done. Knights of the old republic's 
 story feels like a fantastic star wars movie. All the planets have great stories behind them making 
 each level a gripping experience
  -Graphics
  The graphics and textures in this game are only average and not exactly as fantastic as id like. 
 However the animations for lightsaber and blasters are very good. Cutscenes are well thot out and 
 make for a cinematic star wars experience
  
  All these elements combine to make a great RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_DIABL0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  With the ability to live out the life of a jedi, KOTOR is possibly the greatest star wars game 
 to date. Through your adventures between several planets, you can gain light and dark side points. 
 Simply, if you want your character to be a jedi, do good deeds. If you want to be a sith, be as 
 ruthless as you wish. Interactive conversations allow you to choose what your character says in 
 a given situation, much like the Fable series. This type of control, along with choosing your force 
 powers as you level up, allows for greatest control of the players ultimate destiny. The addiction 
 comes with using your force powers. As a sith, you will realize it's fun to choke people and shock 
 them. As a jedi, you must control your anger and use your powers for good, but that doesn't mean 
 you can't take out your anger on stubborn dark jedi. Will you choose to rule the galaxy through 
 your power, or will you watch over the peaceful running of a republic. The choices are yours. There's 
 no rule against playing through twice though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohankou22
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  i really dont like how u have to target them and how the game stops.. why cant u just run up to 
 them and slice them up??? u have to stop the game and target them, then choose what u want to do, 
 i would say this is a Rent it first game, even if i rented it i would still be dissapointed, comon 
 man Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy was so much more fun than this $50 game, and i couldnt return or 
 get another game, i was very dippressed about this, this was sopposed to be a bigger and better 
 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, i dont think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Stay pure of heart, and ensure that the galaxy will stay in peace...
  
  Ironically I can never find myself to be the bad guy in these games. No matter what I do I always 
 find myself doing good out of pity, or need. Luckily, if you were more inclined to be mean this 
 game gives you that option.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is an excellent title for the Star Wars series, taking a system that 
 was not saturated (such as the World War II genres) giving interesting if not sadistically humerous 
 characters with a splash of choices to influence how things go.
  
  Visually KOTR will wow you after you get out of the confining vessel at the start. The beuty in 
 land and the like will have you panning the camera to take in it's look as you try to push yourself 
 further. The animation are relatively great in terms of issues like clipping and reactions though 
 there are a few that catch the eye.
  
  The story is one that makes you think, trying to understand what a link between you and another 
 Jedi will have what impact on your plans. The stress between the you and the other Jedi will cause 
 some interesting talks as well as concerns as the game goes on.
  
  A rather short review, yes but this game can stand on it's own. It is one of the best titles I 
 have for my PC, and I'm glad to play thru it's story once in awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Star Wars : Knights of the Old Republic takes place after the Mandalorian Wars . Way before the 
 events of the movies, Two jedi went against the councils orders and went to war to stop the destruction 
 caused by the Mandalorians... they return as part of the dark side. You begin as a Male/Female depending 
 on choice and your ship is attacked. You don't remember a thing
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  KotOR is the first computer role-playing game (RPG) set in the Star Wars universe. The game's system 
 is based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game from Wizards of the Coast, which is based on the d20 
 System, a role-playing game system derived from the Third Edition Dungeons &amp; Dragons rules. 
 Combat system is round-based. Time is divided into discrete rounds and combatants simultaneously 
 perform actions. The number of actions a combatant may perform in each round is limited. While 
 the duration of each round is a fixed short interval of real time, the player can configure the 
 combat system to pause at specific events or at the end of each round. The game also allows the 
 player to either be good (light) or evil (dark) using an alignment system that tracks actions, 
 from simple word choice to major plot decisions, based on whether they are aligned to the light 
 side of the Force or the dark side. This enables you to spend time deciding what move you will 
 make next, but still keeping the action at a high level. You gain experience and can increase your 
 skills in the force. This can lead to your character being very very powerful and decreases the 
 difficulty greatly. You can eventually walk into a room, select a strong force power and wipe most 
 of the enemies out. You can select normal weapons but you will feel yourself being drawn back to 
 using a Saber. It is highly addictive and you can complete the game more than once as you can be 
 Light side or Dark side based on your decisions throughout the game. It is also too easy to know 
 when you will gain light or dark side points, you can attack an innocent or help an innocent. It 
 becomes too easy. It is still highly addictive and is a brilliant RPG which puts you into an amazing 
 Star Wars setting. GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  I believe people are lying if they say these graphics are anything above average. For the year 
 released they aren't that great. You can sometimes have the game freezing in the middle of a large 
 battle, even with a high spec computer. Overall the graphics could have been much better, but they 
 definetly don't make this game anything less than brilliant. You will eventually ignore the graphics 
 as you will be totally involved with the game.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  Like most Star Wars games, the music is a high point. Some original music and music taken from 
 the films. It adds to the atmosphere and throws you straight into the Star Wars universe. Sound 
 effects are fantastic and most of the voice acting is decent. Some alien languages just loop over 
 and over even when they are saying different words.
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  This was definetly worth the money when released and is definetly worth the cheap price you can 
 buy it now. I recommend it for any Star Wars fan. If you weren't really interested in Star Wars 
 i believe this really could change your mind.
  ------
  Overall I give this game a 9.0. It is by no means perfect. Some sounds could have been better and 
 the graphics are a let down. It will eventually become easier when it should get harder as the 
 game progresses. It is still one of the best games I have played and definetly one of the best 
 in the Star Wars series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Star wars KOTOR is simply a very good game that takes you in just when you begin. First when I 
 saw it I thought that star wars couldn't be a good roleplaying game but I was wrong. I really liked 
 the story which turns and goes very interesting. I also liked the characters very much, and the 
 feature that they even start talking with each other sometimes. The feat system is also good, because 
 you learn it fast and you can choose if you make a melee fighter or a ranged shooter. The only 
 bad thing about the shooting is that when you get a lightsaber it's kinda useless. The problem 
 comes when you fight the Final enemy Malak, if you try to shoot him he blocks the shooting easily. 
 This is not very bad feature, but this makes ranged character not very useful in the end. I liked 
 the force too and the feature of changing the abilities of lightsaber etc. Basicilly if you like 
 a good roleplaying game Kotor will not disapoint you. Even if you hate star wars try Kotor if you 
 like roleplaying games. Good Work Bioware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterve
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game just flat out rocks. Has a great story great gameplay and replayability of a long campaign. 
 There was almost nothing i disliked about this game. Definitely read the gamespot guide to playing 
 this game as I found leveling up a minimum amount of times early on to really make the middle and 
 late game awesome when you used these levels ups as a Jedi. Even if you havent played this and 
 think it is too old now to be worth it.... just buy it and play it. For real.
  
  Perhaps the only thing that mildly bugged me was the fact that I played it on a projector and the 
 cutscenes change resolution causing the projector to blank out for a bit. No biggie but I needed 
 some extra words in my review. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games have never been great, until Bioware came along and used their famous style of 
 RPG making to make this one of the greatest Star Wars games ever.
  The game plays similarly to Never winter Nights (also by Bioware) and uses a heavy modified version 
 of D+D rules. It all adds up to a highly immersive RPG, with extensive character customization. 
 Your created character eventually becomes a Jedi and you are allowed to create and customize your 
 very own lightsaber, which is really cool.
  The story is deep, and the dialogue trees actually a pleasure to go through. Your responses actually 
 have an over effect on the way you play and you can become more evil or more in tune with the force. 
 This adds a whole nother layer the customiztion. The graphics are okay, and run smoothly on a base 
 gaming rig. Overall, the game is good for almost 20 hours of solid, enjoyable gaming in the way-cool 
 Star-Wars universe. Worth getting even tho the second one is already out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  If you like RPG games go and buy it NOW!!!!
  If you LOVE RPG and you still don't have that game RUN AND BUY IT!!!
  If you like RPGs as much 
 as i do and you still don't have that on, then YOU SHALL FEEL THE WRATH OF THE DARK SIDE!!!!
  
  Ehmm... well not quite, but you WILL be sorry. The sound rocks, the grphics?
  Well now in 
 2006 they may not be astonishing but when i bought it I was like: WOW this game has AWSOME graphics! 
 Anyways you get the picture.
  I also liked the gameplay, it's very original and easy to use AND YOU CAN PLAY IT AGAIN AND AGAIN! 
 (wich is a rair trait in vidoeo games)
  But the best part is the story. I think it's even better that the STAR WARS movies!!! (and i'm 
 a big fan) .
  The bottom line is that this is one of the GREATEST RPGs EVER!!!
  
  MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  After creating your male or female character you appear on space ship witch has been attacked by 
 sith jedi. With help of a tutorial character you are trying to make your way to escape pods, that's 
 when you find out that you are on same ship as Bastila, a powerful jedi known for her unique power 
 of Battle Meditation. As you finally get to escape pods, you meet Carth long serving trooper of 
 Republic, with his help you launch at planet Taris, where you have to find and help survivors of 
 sith attack and where your adventure begins.
  
  The game itself has a feeling of Neverwinter Nights : similar music, sound effects and animations. 
 But that is no way a complaint, everything looks really nice, especially choreography of fights 
 as with leveling you learn more stuff you can do with your weaponry . Music is really beautiful 
 too and gets you into battle or adventure mood pretty fast.
  
  Gameplay is rather addictive even with a kinda standard story in the beginning. You can be as light 
 sided or dark sided as you want and your decisions can bring few surprises as plot get's very interesting 
 and intense about halfway into game and beats anything that is on a market today. Too bad that 
 it has some minor glitches and bugs that keeps game from being perfect.
  
  After hearing loads of hyped opinions about this game being superior in many things that RPGs are 
 made of i simply couldn't not to play it. And even if you are not a Star Wars fan at all i suggest 
 you do play it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game got very good gameplay but it has so much graphical failures that i do not really like 
 it.
  
  Like on Dantooine in me computer who should be more then perfect to run this game, it begins to 
 act like it is the biggest game i have ever plaid on it.
  
  The game has no outstanding greatness like the sound is just normal but the gameplay is maby the 
 only thing that is really good in this game.
  
  The thing that is good in the gameplay is that you can make the game pause so you can plan your 
 next move. And then upgrading your carachter is really cool but there is only 20 levels so that 
 is about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  I decided to get the PC version over the XBOX version, but graphically they both look really good. 
 Most of the graphics look clean in this game. I thought the backgrounds and cities were too small 
 and not so good.
  
  The skill gain was confusing for me so I just let it pick my stat increases automatically cause 
 I didn't want to bother with it. The levels were pretty linear too, you were forced to go the way 
 they wanted, and you never could backtrail to an old world.
  
  Dialog in this game is long and plenty. Voice acting was higher quality than most games.
  
 
  Storyline I liked, but didn't really care which way things turned out in the end. Mostly I was 
 tired of it by than and wanted to finally finish things up.
  
  There isnt a chance Id ever want to play this game again, its far too linear and level up had 
 no effect on anything on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartguy73
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I would like to say that I played KOTOR2 first, so it actually took me 0 minutes for my 
 learning to curve. And that I dont know what tilt is, but the number rating is still roughly how 
 I feel about it. I loved this game! A while before I bought it, my dad bought KOTOR2 for himself 
 and gave it to me when he was finished with it. I had loved that too, and did not expect KOTOR 
 to live up to KOTOR2. I was pleasantly suprised. I thought this game was just a bit better due 
 the advantages, (such as the Jedi training) against the advantages of KOTOR2 (such as more interesting 
 party members) . And I'm sure many people like KOTOR more than KOTOR2. As I previously mentioned, 
 I enjoyed the Jedi and Sith training the player undergoes. With the Jedi training, you get to build 
 your lightsaber on the second planet! Which in itself is not much of a big deal, but I was expecting 
 much later due to my KOTOR2 experience. I also enjoyed this storyline greatly. I mean I was not 
 expecting that whole Darth Revan thing. Especially since I was at maximum light side. All in all 
 I thought this was a revolutionary RPG experience. And I personally commend everyone who worked 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Lightsabers. Check Wookiees. Check. Millennium Falcon-like spaceship. Check. Compelling story. 
 Check. In covering those four bases, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is not only providing 
 one of the very best interactive Star Wars experiences, but it's tapped into the very soul of the 
 Star Wars universe that drew hundreds of millions of fans to the franchise in the first place. 
 Developed by Bioware, Knights of the Old Republic is stronger with The Force than any George Lucas-powered 
 movie that's come out in the last 20 years and lands on the PC as one of the very best titles the 
 system has to offer after a sterling launch on the Xbox. And the best part about this is, while 
 the game may have the approach of a port, they actually fixed the interface to be fully functional 
 and better for the PC as well as improving the graphics immensely, planting more items, and adding 
 a new area that the Xbox version didn't have. There's tons of character development, a combat probability 
 system and a giant inventory to manage, so I guess KOTOR gets clearance as a role-playing game. 
 But as both an RPG and a Star Wars title, it strikes a marvelous balance of hardcore authenticity 
 and accessibility for the uninitiated. Pen and paper players can check the log of dice rolls used 
 to calculate the success rate of every trigger pull or lightsaber swing. Freddy Fanboy can geek 
 out for hours at how well the Jawa language has been adapted for a videogame. And even the coolest 
 of the cool hip kids will be able to see the appeal of swinging double lightsabers and choking 
 fools from across the room. It all begins with a rock solid story that really does begin a long 
 long time ago.... This is Star Wars Normally setting a Star Wars game 4000 years before the events 
 of the movies we all know would be a recipe for mediocrity. How many times have we seen a LucasArts 
 game where the adventure is set somewhere just next door to what we know from the films, so we're 
 getting to see what Lando or Obi Wan does when he's not hanging out with the superstars of the 
 galaxy like Vader, Leia or that Hoth medical droid. But you've got to hand it to Bioware for mimicking 
 the entire feel of the first Star Wars movie but with original characters and an original storyline. 
 All of the standards and paradigms of the Star Wars universe --Jedi vs. Sith, bureaucracy and politics -- 
 are present in this game and both the gameplay and storyline work within those guidelines. You 
 begin the game as a soldier who simply happens to be strong with The Force and throughout the game 
 you're developing your skills as a Jedi, making decisions that not only affect your leanings to 
 the Dark Side or the Light Side of the force but will also determine how your game's story unfolds. 
 We could tell you exactly how the story for our created characters went and still not ruin the 
 majority of your experience because stories branch and spread all over the place before coming 
 back to a handful of very specific and critical crossroads, but it all fits within the Star Wars 
 universe that we all know and love. We figured we'd just give you a few highlights. Before you're 
 done with KOTOR, you will: train at the Jedi Academy which includes learning the Jedi Code and 
 the meaning behind a lightsaber's color. walk into a cantina on Tattoine where the bartender won't 
 like you... and the bounty hunters won't like you either! find somebody's lack of faith disturbing. 
 explore the forest world of Kashyyk and see what Return of the Jedi was supposed to look like if 
 we'd had Wookiees instead of Ewoks in treetop villages face your former master again after all 
 these years. space-walk on the surface of a battleship There are multiple side missions that will 
 help expand your understanding of the story as well. So in Knights you may: collect a few bounties 
 that you've hunted down. reunite a woman and her droid so they can resume their extremely unhealthy 
 relationship. fight alongside Wookiees in a struggle for freedom. try a murder case or two as a 
 Jedi attorney. get thrown in and escape from prison once or twice. smuggle for the Star Wars mafia. 
 get executed for insulting a native species. The original characters and story are interesting 
 enough, but being in a Star Wars setting just makes them like family. You've got your beautiful 
 and mysterious female Jedi who shares a special bond with you. There are the two soldiers, one 
 Mandalorian and one Republic, who don't see eye to eye on much but are always down for a scrap. 
 You'll also pick up an old Jedi master who's spent most of his life as a hermit but is still powerful 
 with The Force as well as a young and angry Jedi from the academy. Star Wars fans will know there's 
 only one way to get Wookiee to follow a human around and you get one in KOTOR along with his Twi'lek 
 companion. There are even a couple of droids to be found in your crew. Your astromech is a beeping 
 mechanical wiz while HK-47 (my personal favorite) is your psychopathic assassin droid who just 
 happens to provide most of the game's comic relief. Dialogue with HK-47 was funny enough to cause 
 many of us to laugh out loud on several occasions and, like all characters, his lines evolve the 
 deeper you get into the game. If C3PO ever grew a sack --of nuts and bolts, heh -- he'd be HK-47. 
 Likewise with all of your crew members in the game; they each borrow recognizable elements from 
 characters in the original Star Wars trilogy. Throw in a major plot twist or two, there's no way 
 you'll see the first one coming, and it's clear KOTOR is built to entertain both as a game and 
 as another volume in the Star Wars library. Gameplay Knights of the Old Republic asks you to do 
 two things really: a) guide the story through your conversations and decision making and b) utilize 
 the hybrid turn-based combat system to whoop ass on whoever needs it. Both elements are extremely 
 rich and very rewarding once you get into the game and understand what's going on. There are thousands 
 of lines of dialogue just waiting to be unleashed by the crafty conversationalist, but the truth 
 is you're simply not meant to hear everything the first time through. Even before you become a 
 Jedi you can be leaning towards the Dark or Light side of The Force through the things you say 
 to people and decisions you make. Every NPC you interact with is unique so you're never 100% sure 
 how someone will react. A heroic, upstanding figure might be easily intimidated if you threaten 
 them with violence just like a ruthless underworld figure might respond to your kind and encouraging 
 words in unexpected ways. The hook in the game's dialogue is that you're presented with several 
 opportunities to branch one way or another during a conversation. After initiating dialogue you 
 may have five responses that may include rude, kind or neutral responses along with probes for 
 more info. The NPC's response to your response may open up a handful of entirely new responses 
 that you can then drop on him. So even in one conversation you can branch off and double back in 
 terms of good and evil. At times your conversations with NPCs actually lead you to make decisions 
 to act one way or another. On Tattoine you have to solve a problem with Sand People. Standing before 
 the chief, if you say the wrong thing a fight will breakout instantly, ending the conversation. 
 The same can be said for the Twi'lek survivor of an underwater disaster. If you insult him before 
 he finishes his story --you're given the option encourage or discourage his tale at several points 
 during his speech -- he'll draw a weapon and it's on. Assuming you'll win the fight, you've just 
 done an evil act. You earn single Dark Side or Light Side points once you've done enough evil or 
 good things to earn one. These points are separate from experience points which are earned in the 
 conventional RPG manner: accomplishing missions. Of course, conversations can also lead you down 
 one path just because you're sick of hearing a character whine about you at this or that. Draw 
 your own conclusions there. KOTOR reaches a level deeper however by sometimes offering more or 
 less experience points depending on how you accomplished a particular task. In the Sand People 
 example above, keeping a cool head and more or less brown-nosing the chief will solve three of 
 the challenges on your list of things to do in one shot and you'll get a ton of XPs. If you get 
 hotheaded, you can still solve all three of your problems but you'll have to fight tooth and nail 
 to do it and you won't be awarded a lump sum of XPs the same way. In this case, you actually end 
 up getting roughly the same number of XPs doing it the evil way as the good way because you'll 
 get XPs for all the enemies you'll be killing. You'll find this balance throughout the game. You'll 
 get lump sum XPs for hacking into a facility's security system and activating a security to droid 
 to walk around and exterminate enemies for you. If you don't hack the system, you'll still end 
 up killing those same enemies yourself if you want to get through the level, so you're covered 
 either way. Doing good or evil things and gaining experience are only half the payoff. The other 
 half is spending those points to whoop ass. The combat system in KOTOR doesn't seem intuitive, 
 but that's because it's fairly unique in its design and application. It's a turn-based system, 
 but you're in control of when those turns are initiated to a certain extent. A typical sequence 
 will work like this: you come around a corner with your two party members trailing behind and the 
 game suddenly pauses and goes into combat mode. While paused you can rotate the camera around to 
 survey the situation, swap out armor, weapons and accessories, select the target (s) you want to 
 attack and input a sequence of five commands for each character. So you have 15 potential moves 
 you can have loaded up before you unpause the game to unleash them. And moves doesn't just mean 
 taking a shot with your blaster or swing with your sword or lightsaber. Throwing grenades, turning 
 on your personal forcefield, Jedi powers, using medpacs, adrenaline boosters are all considered 
 combat moves in this case. Now here's where it gets tricky. You don't have to input any moves at 
 all when the game pauses automatically (in fact you can turn this auto pause off) and you can continue 
 to enter new moves for your party members on the fly as their move queue empties. In fact, stacking 
 up new moves in the middle of a fight is an extremely valuable skill about a third of the way through 
 the game. But at the same time, if your characters aren't all stacked with moves, they do a pretty 
 good job picking some good ones out for themselves based on their skills and powers. Knights of 
 the Old Republic streamlines things as much as possible so you don't have to get too tied down 
 in tedious activities if you don't want to. For example, you can control any member of your party 
 at anytime and the other two do an excellent job of following behind and automatically engaging 
 enemies and watching each other's backs during combat. When you interact with NPCs the conversation 
 will always be between your created character and the NPC since you have to make all the decisions 
 in the game. If you need to control only one character, say for a stealth mission where you turn 
 invisible, you can engage solo mode and get your creep on. During most non-combat situations you 
 can instantly swap in new party members and transit back and forth between your current location 
 and your ship, the Ebon Hawk. Should you leave the Ebon Hawk's location on foot, the transit points 
 are reset between the Hawk and wherever you are when you decide to instantly transport. The Ebon 
 Hawk is one of the most brilliant aspects of the game as well and not just because it's the design 
 ancestor of the Millenium Falcon. The ship is your means of transport from planet to planet in 
 the game and each travel sequence comes with a spiffy movie of your ship taking off, flying into 
 hyperspace and landing. Upon docking, the Hawk is mini-level within itself where you can walk around 
 and talk to your crew members to get information about them --and they all have problems that need 
 to be solved -- and ask some of them to make stuff for you. Grenades, computer hacking spikes, medpacs, 
 adrenal boosts and security spikes can all be had for free on board your ship to do with as you 
 please, even sell. The only gripe we can come up with for the whole game really, is the fact that 
 you can't manage your global inventory while your onboard the Ebon Hawk. You're in control of every 
 single item of clothing gear and accessories your crew members have, but once your party has an 
 item equipped it's out of the global inventory until you get it back. If you want to transfer a 
 particular pistol or implant from one character not currently in your party to another, the tedious 
 procedure of leaving the ship, selecting a character who has the item in question, taking the item 
 away from them and giving it to the new character is a bit of a pain. A game that's otherwise brilliant 
 should have a more sensible system than this. The minigames in KOTOR are a nice diversion if you 
 ever get sick of roaming the galaxy as a badass Jedi and you're given an introduction to most of 
 them early on. The card game Pazaak, swoop racing and turret battles are all integrated into the 
 story, so you WILL have to learn them and be good, but I see them more as a way of fleshing out 
 the Star Wars credibility that Knights of the Old Republic has in excess. For those that are familiar 
 with the Xbox version of the game, it's definitely worth noting the changes to the interface. Instead 
 of being a direct port from the console as many games are, which usually forget to take advantage 
 of the mouse almost entirely, the interface has been redesigned with those controls in mind and 
 work very well. The great thing is you can play the entire game using the keyboard by itself or 
 just the mouse as the left mouse button can be used to move forward and holding down the right 
 button puts the player in mouse-look mode. A smart talking head icon will show when the cursor 
 moves over a player that can be spoken to. And when in battle, players can use the mouse button 
 to pick through the various attacks and actions or use hotkeys. Objects can also be cycled through 
 using the keyboard just as the triggers would work on the Xbox controller, but the mouse will work 
 for you also, although sometimes cycling through them will actually be easier. Overall, they've 
 done a really fantastic job converting the interface for optimum performance on the PC and the 
 effort is well appreciated. Graphics Knights of the Old Republic has the look of an action title, 
 not your run of the mill 3/4 view PC RPG. In fact, it'll end up having more in common, in terms 
 of visuals, with this fall's Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy than you might expect. Detailed character 
 models, the lip-synching and combat animations, and extremely impressive environmental effects 
 are the game's strengths and overwhelm any problems it has with framerate. Granted, we were running 
 the game with a high-end PC (Dan was going to test it on his crapper at home, but it, well... crapped 
 out) , but we were also running the game in 1280x960 with 4x AA on and it ran well. At 1600x1200 
 things slowed down a bit with AA on, but once turned off, ran smooth as butter again. Anyway, the 
 locations in KOTOR are so beautifully rendered, you've got to think that George Lucas himself would 
 want to pay a visit to Bioware to find out how they created such impressive digital mountains and 
 buildings. You'll go from the murky Shadowlands on the surface of the forest-planet Kashyyk, to 
 the bowels of a Sith battleship to the dusty dunes of good old Tatooine in this game and never 
 does one environment look or feel like another. The grasses on Dantooine and Kashyyk bend and sway 
 as you disturb them walking by, an effect that at one time was extraordinary, but still looks good. 
 On Tatooine you'll be able to see little swirls of dust spin up into little whirlwinds and dissipate. 
 Even when you reach the limits of areas you can explore and are looking out at the backdrop painting 
 on, say, the ocean world of Manaan or rocky planet Korriban, that painting is so detailed that 
 it looks like you could venture out across the rest of the planet if only this was an action game 
 with a jump button. We end up getting the same effect in a Star Wars videogame that we get in the 
 movies. The real-time lighting in the game is a little sketchy, however, because you can get what 
 appear to be real-time shadows when you're trudging across the Tatooine desert or space-walking 
 like Buzz Aldrin, but when you spark up a lightsaber in a dark cave, you won't get any reflections 
 of the cave's inner surfaces, even if the characters themselves do light up appropriately. Nonetheless 
 the bloom lighting when you look up at the blazing suns on Tattooine is blindingly spectacular, 
 and you'll really appreciate it when you move your character so that the suns are suddenly blocked 
 out by a gigantic Sandcrawler. Along with that, the PC offers the chance to up the graphics from 
 the capabilities of the Xbox for soft shadows (but only for Nvidia users) and anti-aliasing as 
 well as those much higher resolution textures that make the worlds sing. The characters in Knights 
 sare all drawn and animated with plenty of believable detail and the game's story certainly wouldn't 
 be as compelling if they weren't. Considering you can change the clothing, equipment and weapons 
 of the nine characters that will eventually be in your squad and that these changes are instant, 
 Bioware could've been inviting disaster if they hadn't known what they were doing. You can look 
 at your television and appreciate the difference between Carth's personal blaster and a Heavy Mandalorian 
 blaster that somebody might be carrying. We're still trying to figure out the subtle differences 
 between a Jedi Robe, a Jedi Knight Robe and Jedi Master Robe, but we know they're there because 
 the multiple kinds of armor and battlesuits all have differences that you can recognize. It's when 
 the characters in this role-playing game start moving and speaking, that all your Star Wars fantasies 
 come true. All of the conversations are letterboxed cutscenes so you can see the text of the dialogue 
 and your responses in the black bars above and below the picture. The fact that you can read, listen 
 and see the character's mouth (if it has one) moving draws you into the experience of this Star 
 Wars story because you see the wrinkles on a treacherous Twi'lek's face or the giant Wookiee looming 
 over your character. If we had one nit to pick it's that using the game engine in the conversation 
 scenes (the camera basically zooms in close) reveals a few shortcomings in the facial expression 
 system but then again it certainly keeps things quick and seamless with loading times between action 
 and dialogue. One thing that should be noted about using higher resolutions on this PC version 
 is that the text will be considerably smaller on your screen. At 1600x1200 it can really put a 
 strain on your eyes having to read what that Rodian is saying since it's subtitled thanks to the 
 actual Rodian language being used. You won't get much of a thrill from the combat early on because 
 using ranged weapons is your best bet in the beginning. But getting your hands on a lightsaber 
 or two upon becoming a Jedi really opens things up. There are unique dueling animations that take 
 into account the number of sabers involved in the fight and the proficiency of the combatants. 
 A lightsaber fight against a Dark Jedi early in the game may look nothing like a fight against 
 a Dark Jedi Master later on because both you and your enemy will be stronger by then. At first 
 you're simply happy to see your Jedi whirling and slashing a saber by throwing multiple flurry 
 attacks against an enemy. By the time you level up to a 15 or 16 Jedi, you'll be mixing in force 
 powers in between lightsaber swings and enemies (even soldiers wielding conventional blades) will 
 have better defense. This is how you'll get spectacular lightsaber clashes with all of that glowing 
 energy and that crackling sound. But you'll actually see your character and enemy lunge and parry 
 and end up with their blades crossed, each pushing into the other trying to get the advantage. 
 It's all very quick and subtle but also very satisfying if you pay attention. Sound The performers 
 in Knights of the Old Republic, as a group, might have delivered the best voice-acting we've ever 
 heard in a videogame. They're all outstanding from top to bottom and consistently deliver heavy 
 doses of personality and emotion that help make this such a compelling Star Wars story. And this 
 isn't limited to the melodramatics either; there are some lines in KOTOR that are genuinely funny. 
 Afterthoughts, comments made under the breath and all kinds of little details like that are used 
 liberally throughout the game to convey meaning and wouldn't have been possible with low-budget 
 voice talent. The sound effects themselves are a no-brainer as Bioware dipped into the same library 
 of Star Wars sound effects that every developer from Raven to Factor 5 has used to bring their 
 games to life. The surround sound is well applied in a game of this type and really punctuates 
 the importance of a battle after you've been walking around talking for extended periods of time. 
 Everybody's got plenty to say in Knights. The only person who doesn't speak is your character. 
 The voice acting talent on board for this game is impressive but once you get into the story, you 
 will stop trying to remember who is being played by Ed Asner because all the dialogue, from all 
 the characters, major and minor, is top notch. Whether it's a Sith soldier trying to goad you into 
 a fight, a drunken mercenary trying to swoop on a couple of space chicks or a Jedi's disapproving 
 mother, there's nothing canned or fake about the responses you get from these people. This goes 
 for non-English (or Basic for the Star Nerds out there) speakers too. A Wookiee's voice goes from 
 a whining whimper to a roar when he starts talking about something emotional, just like Chewbacca 
 showed us back in the day. Droids beep and bloop but will make that robo-flatulation sound R2D2 
 used to make when they disagree with something. All the Rodians sound like Greedo, the Twi'lek's 
 like Bib Fortuna and the Duros sound like those two guys talking at the same time and arguing with 
 each other in the cantina in the original Episode IV. Exactly what you expect from a Star Wars 
 game no? The only sound more satisfying than the crackle and hum of a lightsaber starting up is 
 the sound of two sabers lighting up. The sound effects in KOTOR are perfect. Beginning with the 
 lightsabers and blasters, on to the roar of a ship's engines to the clanging of metal on metal 
 when a blast door shuts, this game has the sounds of the franchise nailed. And that's all we have 
 to say about that. The music in the game is subtle but it's always there and is equally outstanding. 
 Bioware's clever move to simply replicate the Episode IV-VI feel with new characters is reinforced 
 with the themes we know from those movies. You'll hear the Imperial Death March even though it'll 
 take Darth Vader 4000 more years to write it. Many of John William's themes are present as background 
 music when you're shuffling around Tattoine or Dantooine. The original music in the game is brought 
 to the forefront whenever you're travelling in the Ebon Hawk during a cutscene but it all fits 
 in the larger program Bioware has given us: This is Star Wars, but our version. Technical Issues 
 As many people know, there were some bugs in the Xbox version of the game. Considering how many 
 more configurations are possible with the varied PCs found in the homes across the world, it's 
 not really surprising that we should find some in this version as well. At this point, there haven't 
 been any game ending problems, such as corrupted save files or the like, but after about 15 hours 
 of play, the game did crash to the desktop three times, none of which we could get to repeat in 
 the same spot. There were also some sound issues where an audio track would repeat over and over 
 while the game kept playing. Saving and restarting the game solved that problem, but it was still 
 annoying. Other than that, there's plenty of collision problems (even in the middle of a seemingly 
 empty hallway connection) and NPC pathfinding issues. None of these really made a dent in the fun 
 of the game, but we figured they should be noted. Closing Comments
  Knights of the Old Republic is an outstanding game because it covers every single angle in terms 
 of audience expectations. It's got enough Star Wars to satisfy the fans and enough pure fun to 
 draw in people who normally wouldn't get into role-playing games. You'll see this on several Game 
 of the Year nomination lists if not at the very top soon enough. It grabs you early on by giving 
 your character some cool toys to play with and some familiar Star Wars critters to welcome you 
 back and next thing you know you've got a space ship, a light saber, a wookie and a droid. With 
 Knights of the Old Republic, the galaxy is yours, get out there and get some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topcop501
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is an alright game. It takes a bit to get used to but if you like RPG's it great. Ok lets 
 begin the story takes place a while before Star Wars Phantom Menace. You are a new recruit on Republic 
 ship and your ship falls under attack from the Sith, so you and a surviving crew mate work your 
 way to the escape pods. Your poor ship mate saves you by holding off the sith so you can escape. 
 Wich you do with another survivor. The gameplay is great it's nice that it pauses every time an 
 enemy comes in range and then you make your action que. The graphics are alright but not great. 
 The sounds are really superb. Over all it's a great game, but the final boss is a son of a b**** 
 so leel up to 60 or higher. I recomend this game to star wars fans and RPG fans alike. Thank you 
 for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertnon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is truly a Star Wars fan's most enjoyable gaming experience. 
 It is like you have been zapped right into a Star Wars movie, and you must choose your path. The 
 graphics are awesome, the sound is awesome (especially with a Creative THX certified sound card) , 
 and the story is awesome. This would make an awesome trilogy, since the story is so big it could 
 not be taken up in one movie. The thing I like is that combat is not the chief focus of the game. 
 Talking to people and doing good for others is one of the largest parts of this game. The only 
 thing that is a minus is the turn based combat system. Other than that, Star Wars: Knights of the 
 Old Republic is truly an epic that every Star Wars fan should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I first heard of KOTOR on the Xbox and was quite disappointed there was no PC version. And, lo, 
 there was!!! This is quite simply one of the best Star Wars game ever made and played. The story 
 rivals that of Episode 1 and 2 and there are some great character development here. It takes place 
 some 3000 years before the events of Episode 4 where the Old Republic are at war with the Sith, 
 led by Darth Malek. You play as a simple Republic soldier doing your duty but soon you'll discover 
 your hidden Jedi powers, your own dark past and forced to make some hard choices that will decide 
 the fate of the galaxy. The story features many twists and turns and it wouldn't be a Bioware game 
 without a little romance! =P Simply put, you must buy this game cause the story is incredibly well-written 
 and really meshes well with the Star Wars Universe. The graphics aren't top notch featuring some 
 bland environments but they're still good, with amazing lightsaber effects that'll satisfy your 
 inner geek. The sound is simply amazing, with the voice acting and music topnotch. There are hours 
 upon hours of dialogue here, expertly delivered by the voice actors to give you the best and most 
 authentic Star Wars experience. The first hour or so is a little boring but after you get your 
 lightsaber, thats when it gets interesting. You'll get an incredible amount of side quests and 
 every character has a story to tell you, adding greatly to the replay value. The end battle with 
 Darth Malek is one of the best I've experienced and you'll really feel the weight of the entire 
 galaxy upon your shoulders. The game also features different character classes so each playthrough 
 will never be the same as you'll have access to different conversations and skills options. If 
 you have never played this game, then shame on you as you've never experienced the best of what 
 Star Wars has to offer without playing this game.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anbucaptain
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  For a game like KOTOR, its hard to see its flaws next to the overwhelming great expiernce. This 
 game satisfyies many people: those who played Star Wars and are attrocious fan boys, or those seeking 
 a good RPG. KOTOR satisfyies both sets of people, the combat is deep, and the learning curve of 
 it is really short. For those of you who wish for the chance to be a jedi or a sith, this is the 
 game for you. While graphically the game is amazing, some annoying sequences do exist, like locating 
 a specific itiem through the plethora of iteims you already posess, or shooting down sith fighters. 
 Although the game is far from perfect, it is an expiernce that shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Starwars KOTOR really is a good RPG. For those who likes everything about StarWars, can't lost 
 this great game. Although the history doesn't talk about the tow trilogy that we all know, the 
 same mystique about jedis vs, lord siths remains intact, and also, here we didn't know the end 
 of the history, cause we made it. And is like a new movie.
  
  The graphics in the game are amassing, just a few RPG has this quality in graphics. And you don't 
 need a super computer to play it. There are so many characters along the history, and also many 
 different scenarios, as all good rpg must to. There are a infinity of items (weapons, armors, medic 
 kit pack, etc) . The history in the game is a little complicated in the beginning, cause we don't 
 know this characters, and results hard to understand the events in the rol. But once you know the 
 characters and its roll in the history all become exciting.
  
  The play mode is very good, some thing like Bladurs Gate, where you can made pauses along any battle 
 to change your strategy or weapons. It is not like Final fantasy where you must to wait your turn 
 to made an attack. The sound in the game are just good, not great or excellent. The music results 
 bored, and its the best part in the game.
  
  Some thing that Lucas arts forgets its to include more minigames, there are a few, like the racers, 
 and some things like that, but they results bored. We just can grow up our level in the speed that 
 the game dictate. Not like in FF series where you should became a super hero just fighting and 
 fighting. Also I felt that most of time the history is very lineal and it doesn't have a real roll.
 
  
  Still, KOTOR is the best RPG based on Starwars, all the fans of the trilogy must to probe it, and 
 for those super addicts to RPG games I just suggest you to tray it, but don't buy it before that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaggyManBeast
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addicting games ever made. I played this game for hours at a time. It has 
 a very interesting storyline where anything you say effects the whole game. You can be good or 
 evil depending on your actions. I've played it over many times and it's different every time. Bioware 
 is one of my video game companies out there. You can also collect many new items, armor, weapons, 
 etc. Your party grows stronger and more powerful as the game goes on. It even has all of the characters 
 talk so you don't have to read it unless they're talking in another language. You need to buy this 
 game if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST Star Wars game to date because it finally lets you make you own choices in the 
 Star Wars universe. I always dreamed of saying certain things in a Star Wars universe situation 
 and now I can thanks to this game, I can be on the light or dark sides or neutral. This game has 
 good graphics, good sounds, and the gameplay is good expcept sometimes a few techinical problems 
 came up and stopped the game from running properly. I would reccomend you to buy this game and 
 the sequel for it: Star Wars KOTOR II, please also see my review for that game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, I must say that KOTOR ROCKS! From beginning to end, this game never lets up! From the 
 moment you wake up on the Endar Spire to the last battle with Darth Malak, this game has nothing 
 but excitement, adventure, and a GREAT STORYLINE. The controls are great, the graphics are nice, 
 and the gameplay is superb. This is the best Star Wars game ever. The sequel's great and all, but 
 nothing can compare to the original Knights of the Old Republic. I take my hat off to Bioware for 
 creating such a great game that is similar to Neverwinter Nights yet original in its own way. I 
 will never get sick of this game. For all of you that haven't played it yet, get on it! because 
 once you start playin' you just can't stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Star wars : Knights of the old Republic or Kotor for short. Set you the player as a recruit on 
 board of a republic ship called Endor Spire. From there your quest begins to find out your destiny 
 and your Identity. Kotor, was I believe the first game that made their evil character, evil and 
 not a little bit evil also intelligent. You can spend countless hours playing this game, and re-play 
 it and although the year now is 2006. I've installed the game yet again and the game was yet still 
 different from how I played it before and I've literally played it a hundred times or more. Playing 
 the Sith which, I like best you get rewarded the most I feel the game responds to you more than 
 if you stayed on the Path of the boring Jedi. The game is perhaps a little too easy however the 
 Story and the gameplay is good. As you play the game you begin to form attachments to your crew, 
 if even minor concern. This game provokes strong emotional feelings which is what you want from 
 the game. To my mind and my opinion Kotor is the better choice out of Kotor and Kotor II. Although 
 much is the same in KOTOR II as it is in Kotor, Kotor II just lacks that in-depth relationship 
 with people you travel with and you at times wonder what you are doing. Where as here in KOTOR 
 you don't have that, theres plenty of Side quests and funny lines to keep it interesting. Voices 
 from the Person who played Nelix in Star trek Voyager is an added bonus.
  
  This game is just a pleasure to play and keep playing. It is a classic and it isn't hard to see 
 why it went platnium. If you don't give this game a try you will regret it later. Because this 
 game is those once and a life time thing.
  
  If you would like to see more than please view my user video : Code Of The Sith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Story [Warning, major Spoilers!]
  
  This game takes place almost 4000 years before A New Hope The Sith Lord Darth Revan was just killed 
 and his Apprentice Darth Malak takes over, and is currently at war with the Republic using a Vast 
 Army. You are a soldier put on the Endar Spire by the Jedi Bastila Shan. While you are sleeping 
 your ship is attacked by Sith Fighters and Boarding Parties, you need to fight through the Soldiers 
 and escape, you meet up with a veteran from the Mandalorian Wars Carth Onasi and you escape right 
 before the ship blows up. You then wind up on Taris in an Appartment trying to Rescue Bastila from 
 the plannet where she is being held by the Black Vulkars, you need to enlist in one of the Swoop 
 Gangs [the Honnorable Hidden Becks, or the Evil Black Vulkars] , after you win you fight the leader 
 of the Black Vulkars for Bastila and return to your appartment. You then have to meet up with a 
 Mandalorian known as Canderous Ordo who asks you to steal the Launch Codes so you can Escape Taris 
 [because it is in a blockade and you need the Codes to escape] . After you get them you go into 
 Davik Kang's estate [the employer of Canderous] and he helps you steal his ship the Endar Spire. 
 and then the Sith after realizing Bastila wasnt caught have the plannet bombarded and you escape 
 just as the plannet is Glassed [in Halo termonology] by the Sith Ship. You go to Dantooine where 
 Bastila's Jedi Enclave is [where she was trained] and you are trained to be a jedi after having 
 a Vision of Darth Revan and Malak find a aincent object. After your training you find the Aincent 
 Ruins Malak and Revan went too and find the Star Map. Then the Jedi Masters send you to other Planets 
 where Starmaps are [listed by the one on Dantoine] . After you find 3 Starmaps you are captured 
 by Malaks Ship and have to fight your was out. But when you get to the bridge and kill Saul Karath 
 [Carth's old Mentor] and kill him he tells Carth Something and you have to wait and see what happens, 
 but on your way to the ship you run into Darth Malak who reveals to you that you are Darth Revan 
 and you see a cutscene revealing Key Clues about your True Identity. You then Fight him and Bastila 
 sacrifices herself to let you and Carth escape. After you get the last Star Map you go to the Unknown 
 Planet after being taken out by a Electro Magnetic Pulse and are aided by the Rakkatan and get 
 into a Temple and turn it off, you then wind up against Bastila who was taken by Malak and made 
 into his Apprentice. You can Join her and fall to the Dark Side or stay on the Light Side. After 
 that you will either Kill most of your party for Betraying the Jedi or Bastila will Escape and 
 you have to chase her to the Star Forge. On there Malak sends an entire Armada of Sith after you 
 and you have to kill them to reach Malak and kill him in an epic battle. Then you either become 
 the Savior of the Republic or the Dark Lord of the Sith.
  
  Gameplay
  
  There are a lot of side quests in here as well as a very openended Story. You can be a man or a 
 woman with 3 classes, Soldier, Smuggler or Scout [I reccomend Soldier] and 3 Jedi Classes , Guardian, 
 Sentinel or Counslar [Guardian] . And your Dialouge choices or Actions can make you Light Side or 
 Dark side. and you can have Romance Side Quests according to your gender [Carth if your Female, 
 Bastila if your Male] . Also there is a Dungens and Dragons style Combat System which is interesting, 
 but all you do is click on buttons and watch your team fight, I would of prefered to have more 
 control over my movements anyway. The Classes you chose also have an effect, each one has advantages 
 or Disadvantages like Guardians are powerfull and great at Lightsaber Comabt but don't learn many 
 Force Powers, but Consluars are bad with Sabers and Great with Force Powers [I can get a Guardian 
 with great Saber moves, and some powerfull offensive powers so that dosen't matter to me] . But 
 the weak point is all of the glitches [Mannan is a BIG ONE for that] , it seems like the game wasnt 
 tested much. But you shoud get this game just for the optional NPC HK-47 the Homicidal Droid who 
 always calls Organics Meat Bags and wants to kill everything that was created by Darth Revan.
 
  
  Controls
  
  You can edit them which makes it easier to move. Basicly all you do is move with W A S and D and 
 click on stuff with the Mouse so it is quite easy to learn.
  
  Graphics
  
  Heres a weak point for Low Quality PC's. Unless you have a Great PC you cant have much of the High 
 Quality Graphics in the X Box one. You need to turn a lot down once you get to Dantooine if your 
 PC isn't good because it will drop to 5 FPS and you will Jump all over the place. And Mannan is 
 brutal if you have a weak PC. But if you can get everythign working, the particle effects are great 
 and the testures look great, the Bump Maping looks great. But the Face Animation looks weird like 
 a Nut Cracker Doll at times, wish more time would of been put into those. Otherwise the game looks 
 incredible.
  
  Sound
  
  Bioware did a great job making Starwars esqe sounds and Music. The Sabers sound perfect, a blaster 
 sounds like a blaster. The Music is as good as the John Williams Music. And there is some of the 
 best Voice Over work I have ever seen in here. All of the VA's prove why this game needed 4 Discs 
 to Install everything!
  
  Replayability
  
  Considering all of the huge Side Quests and ways you can play the game, trying Light or Dark side 
 or using a different Class make the game so fun.
  
  Overall
  
  Some BIG glitches were all it took to keep this game from being perfect, otherwise it would of 
 been a 10.
  
  Rent or Buy
  
  its 19 bucks now how can you not buy it! Pros
  
  Great sound, Vast VA work, Openended Plot, Very Long, Lot of side quests, HK-47, 19.99 dollars!
 
  
  Cons
  
  Glitches, Predictible Plot Twist, Need a good PC, Bad Face Animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  If theres any game where you can tell that the designers spent hours and hours to make it near 
 perfection here it is. In this game you reprise the role of a republic soldier whose name you decide. 
 You fight with other people including, a cathar, assasin droid, mercenary, and three other jedi 
 knights on your to either save the republic from impossible odds or to put the galaxy under your 
 utter control. And this game had the biggest shock of all time. In this game you will go to Kashyyyk, 
 Tattooine, Dantooine, Korriban, Mannan, and Taris. You have a wide selction of weaponry lowly blasters 
 to awesome double bladers. also theres a fun gambling game on KOTOR where you have to get to 20 
 or somewhere below it thats close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMuffinMan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is set in the time 4000 years before the birth of the Empire, 
 and the Galactic Civil War. The story starts with your character, aboard a Republic ship and rudely 
 awakened by a barrage of Sith lasers.
  
  This character can be male or female, and one of three classes: Scout, Scoundrel and Soldier. The 
 scout is a median between the Scoundrel and the Soldier, equally adept at combat and stealth. The 
 Scoundrel specialises in persuasion, lock-cracking and sneaking around, rather than brute force, 
 although they can hold their own in a fight. The Soldier is (rather obviously) the strongest, most 
 combat ready of the three.
  
  The game's combat system is done on a turn-based 'dice roll' system, which allows battles to be 
 paused, and moves to be decided before they happen. This can take a bit of getting used to if you 
 haven't played an RPG before (which I hadn't when I got KotOR) , but the in-game hints cover the 
 basics. The character movement, however, is real-time with a 3D third-person perspective, and can 
 be controlled using either the keyboard, the mouse or a combination of the two.
  
  The music is excellent throughout, the score composed specifically for the game, although some 
 of John Williams' original music is used, when a more familiar Star Wars moment is needed. The 
 dialogue is generally good, but some lines sound slightly forced. The main character doesn't actually 
 speak, rather their speech is selected on a text list, and then comes up as a subtitle. I imagine 
 this is to prevent the large amounts of voice acting that would be necessary to cover all character 
 eventualities.
  
  This leads me on to the game's storyline. This is quite probably the best I have ever played through. 
 The character progression possibilites are very wide, can can generally be controlled through the 
 dialogue. There is a Dark/Light meter, which shows your orientation within the Force. This is again 
 controlled by your actions ingame, and can't be changed any other way. The story itself I won't 
 go into, but I can say that the plot twist is amazing, when I first played it my jaw literally 
 dropped. That might make me a bit dense not to have seen it coming, but hey, I thought it was good.
 
  
  There is a huge amount of gear and weapons that you can collect, and the inventory is unlimited, 
 so there are no decisions to make as to which items to keep. The weapons are quite varied, although 
 you'll most likely have a preferred weapon and armour set and stick with it.
  
  The range of planets is quite good, although with the exception of Dantooine and Tatooine there 
 isn't much freedom to explore. That having been said, the maps are big, which gives plenty to do. 
 There are side-quests on every planet, giving great replay value. These are often related to the 
 storylines of your party members, who can be affected by the result of these side-quests.
  
  If it weren't for LEGO Star Wars, this would be the best Star Wars game in existence. It's 
 a close-run thing, but the humour in LEGO SW just makes it a tiny bit better.
  
  I think after 5 replays I've covered all the game's side-quests and storylines, but at 30+ hours 
 for each play, that's a lot of gaming for your money. Definitely a must-buy, and at under 15 from 
 some places, amazing value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Knight Of The Old Republic is a fantastic star wars game with a story that makes you wanna play 
 it until you finished the game! 
  
  Graphics:
  Knights Of The Old Republic has good graphics, this is very noticable when you use your force powers.
 
  
  Gameplay & Story:
  You can chose between 3 classes in the begining of the game, these are soldier, scout and scoundrel. 
 Soldier is the best fysical type, the scout is the one that has the best skills and the scoundrel 
 is average in both. You start on a ship that is being attacked by the dark lord malek and you need 
 to go to the escape pods, you meet some people along the way that help you. The combat is just 
 click an action and the character does that action, After a while you can become a jedi with 3 
 similar classes (strengt or more force powers) . The story is very very good you really get carried 
 away with the things that happen and the graphics are great. Knights Of The Old Republic (or kotor 
 in short) is played in a thirth person view so you can't see your character in top view like NWN 
 (neverwinter nights) . Your story has 2 endings, 1 as you being the light side guy and the other 
 as the dark side guy. Your character will become good or bad by making choices in the game, for 
 example: you come acrosse a guy that is attacked by 2 other guys, you can chose to help him or 
 walk away! The game takes about 40 hrs to play, meaning doing every quest and exploring every place 
 that you can! The game has a huge replayable story!
  
  Conclusion:
  Its a must buy for every RPG fan out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendocrazd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  On the whole, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a great game. It keeps Star Wars fans happy, 
 and it keeps even the casual gamer happy. Sure, out of the box it has some technical issues, but 
 the updates for the game help to fix some of these. But let's get right down to the review, shall 
 we?
  
  The main storyline is a bit cliched, involving you, the main protagonist, who just happens to be 
 good at many things. You start on a ship that is being assaulted by the Sith, which also serves 
 as the tutorial level, so to speak. Keep in mind, however, that this takes place 4,000 years before 
 the start of the Galactic Empire, back when the Sith were a much larger force of people. You escape 
 with a soldier, and crash-land on a planet under new rule by the Sith. You rescue a jedi known 
 as Bastilla who has a unique force ability known as Battle Meditation. This rallies large groups 
 in wars to help them have a fighting edge. This is also why she is a large target for the Sith; 
 they want her power for themselves to help take over the galaxy. And so starts the journey to save 
 the galaxy from the evil Sith. There is a major plot-twist near the end, but it is far-fetched 
 to say the least.
  
  You start out as one of three classes; soldier, scout, or scoundrel. The soldier relies on strength, 
 the scout on dexterity, and the scoundrel on wits to get himself out of situations. Later on you 
 become a jedi and choose from another set of three classes. One class focuses on strength, another 
 force, and the third a balance of the two. Leveling up occurs like most other rpgs in the sense 
 that you gain points in different categories to use as you please to gain new advantages/attacks 
 in battle. One thing that may turn off some hard-core rpg-fanatics at first glance is that the 
 game only allows you to lvl. to a maximum of lvl. 20. This includes both classes, which means that 
 if you start off as a scoundrel and reach lvl. 7 before becoming a jedi, you will only be able 
 to advance 13 lvls. within the jedi class. However, you will see that you really don't have to 
 get any higher than 20 to be effective. And for those players who don't feel comfortable with leveling 
 up their own statistics, the game has an automated leveling system should you choose to use it.
 
  
  The game also doesn't squander at all in the items department. Everything that is worn by the character 
 shows, so don't expect to be looking at the same skins all the time. And a lot of the armor/weapons 
 can be upgraded with special equipment, adding a small amount of customization. The lightsaber 
 has the most that can be done with it, allowing for three crystals to be placed. One crystal designates 
 the color and the other two add certain stat-buffers.
  
  The gameplay is where this game really shines. It is a cross between real-time and turn-based fighting. 
 Enemy encounters happen by seeing an enemy in the world and then starting to attack them, meaning 
 there are no random encounters and no special fight-screens to cut to. When an enemy is spotted 
 the game pauses, giving you a chance to set up a queue of commands for your character to carry 
 out. Your party consists of 2 other members to fight with you; you can either let them automatically 
 choose attacks or pick for them. Now, the game looks great in combat, especially once you're a 
 jedi. Blaster fire will shoot everywhere, and anyone with a lightsaber will deflect the shots. 
 Fighting another jedi involves the two characters clashing sabers in a realistic fasion that looks 
 awesome. But don't worry about being able to duel effectively; all the combat actually involves 
 hidden die-rolls, etc. that are hidden from view. So while it looks like your charcter is duking 
 it out with another jedi and landing/deflecting blows, it is all actually taking place by taking 
 into account your stats and the enemy's stats to determine hit percentages, strike damage, etc. 
 This is not to say that the only thing stopping you from getting hit is your dexterity stat combined 
 with a 1 to 20 die roll, however. If someone is shooting you with a blaster and you break combat 
 and run, you will probably physically dodge the shot. This makes for a dynamic fighting system 
 that is both realistic, engaging, and simplistic.
  
  The visuals/audio/technical performance is where the game misses a few of its marks. Visually speaking 
 the game looks great. Aliens look great and all have realistic sounding alien dialogues, and nothing 
 looks too underdone. And the sounds, while used in many Star Wars games, still sound great and 
 don't get too repetitive. But expect the game to get a little glitchy at times. One planet, Dantooine, 
 gets very bad for most gamers in certain parts, which can really detract from the gameplay. And 
 save often; you never know when the game might crash. But generally speaking, it is fine and doesn't 
 harass you with too many technical problems.
  
  Overall, this is a great game to buy if you're looking for a great rpg. But even the casual gamer 
 can get into it with its simplicity in some areas. So if you have an extra $20 that you don't know 
 what to do with, go out and buy this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_efc
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  I have mixed reactions about this game i never really got into it even thought i have compleated 
 the game i thought that it was a bit stupidthe gameplay is abysmal it is just awful the graphics 
 are good so is the sound the story mode is quite good just the gameplay is awfull it is rediculious 
 it stops everytime a boss comes on the screen the duels are quite good without the stopping i didnt 
 like this game just didnt grab me as much as the rouge squaddron series they are great and battlefront 
 2 and we cant forget the best star wars series the jedi knights games they were the greatest of 
 all time.
  But on the whole it is an okay game if your a big star wars fan like me then buy it otherwise look 
 eleswhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runemaster190
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Kotor is a superb game for any gamer or non-gamer. You dont even have to be a star wars fan to 
 love this great role playing experiance.
  
  Kotor takes place thousands of years before the movies. People still use swords, etc. So it doesnt 
 really feel like a star wars game but still feels like a star wars game. You really have to know 
 the star wars series and play this game to understand what I'm saying. So anyway your a republic 
 solider, scout, etc. Depending on your class. As your republic ship comes under attack from sith 
 invaders you have to make it to the escape pods and so on.
  
  Malak a sith lord has been destorying worlds, and has nearly destoryed the jedi order and the republic. 
 Its up to you to save the galaxie, either it leads you down the dark or light path the choices 
 you make may change the faces of millions. 
  
  The gameplay is a simple roll and hit system. Its all real-time... You walk around in a 3rd person 
 view and there isnt in camera problems at all so you dont have to worrie about wacky controls or 
 camera problems.
  
  The graphics could be way better then what they all. Even with a high powerd graphics card it really 
 doesnt change anything at all.
  
  Besides the graphics this game is a superb game that anybody and I mean anybody should pick up 
 and give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nadved
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  The story is amazing just amazing!!
  
  U are drawn in to it like no other game had done before!
  
  I just love it! i know this sounds 
 a bit odd but i got emotions for the characters! :P 
  
  That must meen that u like the game ?! ;D
  
  Expecially Bastilla is one of the most intresting 
 game character i ever seen and knowed!
  
  This game has it all!!!!!
  
  Exeitment, action, love, and more more!!
  
  I was a bit sad when KOTOR II came out and i realize 
 that Bastilla and the others were not in it!!
  
  But the game is awesome anyway! but if BIOWARE will make a third KOTOR i really really hope it 
 will start were the 2nd ended!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezco
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Kotor, is one of the best games I have ever played. It is quite easy to pick up and play, there 
 are many items to obtain, and many things to do. What makes it even better is there are a few mini-games, 
 such as swoop racing, pazaak playing and Ebon Hawk gun turret. Its gameplay is superb, the graphics 
 sensational. The sound is also very realistic and music very good, they gathered all the music 
 from the star wars films. The Storyline is probably better than the films! It was a very interesting 
 story and it kept me absorbed in the game and want me to complete is faster and see what happens. 
 There is a decision of what to do towards the end, join evil or to join good. I thought that was 
 very clever of BioWare to choose your path. I advise you to get this game if you have a good PC, 
 because the game is mindblowing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regalbyrant
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I dont have a lot more to say just that its the best game ever ! Well I love how there are so many 
 side quests that you can do and how you can be on either the light side or dark side . The dark 
 side you seem to get more items which is always fun , I've also played some of the seqeul to this 
 game which i didnt like queit as much as this one but i do hope there will be a third game . I 
 love to use the force storm when there are a bunch of enemys around . I wish you could go higher 
 than level 20 though . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderSaper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic was Bioware's first shot at a Star Wars RPG, and boy did 
 they nail it. The game has it all, spectacular locations, memorable characters, a brilliant plot 
 and storyline, and great, simple controls that I have seen interest even the most die-hard Role 
 Playing Games advocates. If its your first RPG it might take up to an hour to learn the controls, 
 but to anyone framilliar with the game type then it will take less than 15 minutes.
  
  KotoR's story in a nutshell is this, youre a republic soldier that is found by a Jedi to have strong 
 ties to the force. You are trained on Dantooine, and after passing the apprenticeship in a few 
 short weeks, you are sent across the galaxy to uncover pieces of a map, leading to a large, Death 
 Star size factory in space, that feeds off of stars for fuel, hence, the Star Forge. Your goal 
 is to find the Star Forge, destroy it, and kill Darth Malak, the bionic jawed Sith that has started 
 a war against the republic.
  
  The game also has a twist, the size of 'I am your father' or when you realize that Bruce Willis 
 is in fact a ghost. You are Darth Revan, the Sith lord thought to be killed by Malak when he seized 
 control of the Sith empire. Showing off KotoR's widely known, Light or Dark destiny choice, You 
 can either reclaim the Sith empire as your own, or Destory Malak and the Forge, becoming the savior 
 of the Republic.
  
  The characters in the game are made perfectly so that you love and hate them at the same time. 
 Bastilla, the most powerful jedi that accomanies you, is snobby, pushy, and very strict to the 
 jedi code. Though she is also beatiful, intoxicating, and has a sexy Brittish accent. Carth is 
 a paranoid soldier for the Republic that will go insane on you at any given moment. This is one 
 character they forgot to make you love. No, no matter how much you hate Carth, hes still a very 
 cool character. Malak is the essence of Sith. He is a giant, has a robotic voice due to his taking 
 a lightsaber wound to the jaw, and he stalks you in his capital class ship, sending lackeys of 
 every kind to finish off his former master. Darth Revan, yourself, is the best character though. 
 Besdies one of the coolest suits since Vader, being the most powerful guy in the galaxy pretty 
 much automatically makes you cool. Not to mention the influence Mandalorians have on the game, 
 but find out more about them yourself.
  
  The locations are breathtaking at times, even despite is slightly lower than par graphics. You 
 can go anywhere from the top of skyskrapers in the sprawling city/ planet of Taris, to the serene 
 plains and Jedi enclave on Dantooine. You go 20,000 leauges under the sea, to the forest floor 
 on Kashyyyk, where you never know what youll find. The industrial star forge, and the ancient stone 
 temple on Rakata are just a few of the other places you visit, all special and amazing in their 
 own way.
  
  All in all, KotoR was a huge sucess in trying to make a Star Wars RPG. It took the movies, and 
 showed us what the the star wars universe would have been like 4000 years before the events we 
 all know and love. Its a truly amazing game that never gets old. I've played it through 27 times. 
 Now THAT is replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  StarWars Kotor is an RPG that takes place in the Lucas`s StarWars universe. For a StarWars game 
 going to the RPG genre, it ultimalty makes sense because the universe in Starwars has many differnt 
 enviromental worlds on which aot of people roam like you see in the movies. Sure, games weren`t 
 that famous back then, but the world of StarWars was large and it would feel amazing to walk in 
 these large plantetary worlds to just to just talk to alien species, talking in their own native 
 language, and talking to humans that are mad, sad, wise (jedi masters usually) , and just plain 
 evil and unfair (dark jedi usually) . And now, you will finnaly get the chance to be like Luke Skywalker, 
 roaming around Tatooine and going to a bar and joining new characters to help them fight off the 
 Sith troops once and for all.
  
  But, you don`t play as Luke Skywalker or any other character that were in the movies, since KOTOR 
 takes place millions of years before them. That`s right, you get to expierience the Old Republic 
 and see how the never ending Sith war began in the first place. Since it takes place mayne years 
 before the movies, who do you play as? You play as a character you make up. You create him, choose 
 his best attributes, sex, and face look. And through the whole game, you will choose the light 
 side or the dark side and which ever one you choose will result the differnces on how people will 
 treat you and react to you.
  
  Since it is an RPG, you would expect alot of fighting and getting items. True, there are fights 
 but you to choose your path of side (dark or light) or to get to the place on where you need to 
 get to by talking to many people in the galaxy of StarWars. The talking is very cohesive and interesting 
 since it draws you into the game alot and it makes you stay drawn until you beat the game. The 
 whole conversasion gameplay works by you choosing on what to say. For example: if you stole a key 
 to a door that you need to open in someones house, the person that owns the house says,"hey, what 
 are you doing with my key?" You have 4 or more choices on what to say to the person. If you want 
 to give it back, you just did something useless since you need that key. If you want to take it 
 by killing the man, you made it easy but you just got closer to the dark side. If you want to give 
 him money for it or you want to do a good deed to have the key, then you might get light side points 
 for it, but it won`t be easy since you just made the whole mission on getting that key more longer! 
 You can even talk to your own buddies in your party. Your party members have many past problems 
 with their childhood or problems with trusting you. If you want to know more about these characters, 
 you must talk to or tell them about their past, problems, and opinons about you. Then, in the future 
 of the game, many of your party`s past problems will come in action, now you must fix them and 
 make your party members more trustful about you.
  
  Despite the conversasion to other characters, the fighting system is preaty basic. All three of 
 your party members have 3 actions to choose from. They can either choose close range abilities, 
 long range abilites, and item using abilites (like grenades) . If you`re fighting one enmy with 
 all of your three party members, it will be an easy battle. But, if you fight three or more enemies, 
 you have to use some strategy to get rid of them insead of just rushing in close range with all 
 of your buddies against one person while three of them fire at you from behind. You have to use 
 grenades and force powers as your advantage to take out the enemy. Some characters use rifels, 
 so you can use them to fire at an enemy far away for back up while two people use their swords 
 and light sabers in close range.
  
  The graphics look good. The textures aren`t all that fresh looking, but some of the lighting, specualrity, 
 and particle effects look preaty nice. The facial expression doesn`t really use voice syncing that 
 well. It does voice sync speech, but after a while you will notice that that voice syncing is fake 
 looking since the developers use the same voice syne animation over and over again. But that`s 
 okay of a thing since there is so much speech in the game that it would take years and years of 
 hard work just to sync it all in one place. The sound, however, is done amazingly well. The voice 
 acters sound amazing. You will notice some memoralbe voices that you might of heard of in other 
 games like MGS2`s Liquid Snake and Solidus Snake, Tomb Raider`s Lara Croft, and many many others. 
 The alien voices sound very cool, but after a while, you will notice that the voices will repeat 
 over and over. But again, it would take years and years of hard work to do the differnt voices 
 for those aliens. I mean, we don`t have Twi`lek voice acters. Same as the alien voices, the music 
 is also repetish. Even though, the famous StarWars orchestrated score still sounds joyful to us 
 till this day.
  
  The game is fun and addicting in many ways, since you have many decisions to choose from. You can 
 choose a differnt sex to make the game differnt then ever. You can also choose differnt things 
 to say and join a differnt side instead of the side you chose last time. The game is long too. 
 The game will last you about 30-40 hours of play time and it will keep you on your seat the whole 
 day until you beat it.
  
  If your a StarWars fan, definatly get the game. If you`re also an RPG fan that hates or is not 
 interested in StarWars, still get the game because this is one of those RPGs that should belong 
 in your hands since this is simply put one of the best Starwars games on any console and is also 
 one of the most creative and most asencial RPGs you might see.
  
  --Mark -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: portujoel5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  As you begin you must choose your characters class and sex. You can be Scoundrel, great thieves 
 an manipulators, Scouts, a multi-skilled class, and a Soldier, speaks for itself. 
  
  The system is based on the D20 role play series. If you happen to own the book for Star Wars role 
 playing game, you'll see that it has the same info as the one you receive on the manual when you 
 install KOTOR. This adds an instant 10 on game play, as this system is surely the best way to role 
 play, but some people, new to the D20 system mostly, will find themselves a bit lost. The gaming 
 possibilities are endless as it has an open-ending system where all your actions, dialogs, and 
 decision get you closer to either the dark or light side. 
  
  Being said all the goods, there's always a dark side. The game has major glitches in its graphics 
 regarding your video card. The ATI cards are badly supported as the game is based on the OpenGL 
 system, and ATI is based mostly on Direct X. BioWare says that it isn't their fault: you choose 
 to believe or not. In my case i chose to look for a solution and found some fixes and now the game 
 wont crash as much.
  
  This bug is really annoying, but the game play, storyline, system, characters and all the game 
 itself is so immersive, you can't stop playing it. It sure has a great replaying value. All RPG 
 lovers must try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipTheJacker420
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Hmm, Well i don't know what Kinda Bugs this game - But WOW - Did i have problems with this game 
 ) o; - I found it Froze often and was a very unstable game - It actually ran Better on my Laptop 
 for a while until half way through the game it corrupts and freezes,,, After Updating it to the 
 MAX -----I started RE-playing it over and over untill i just gave up - LOL I took back the copy 
 and got a new one and the same thing on Both my Computers ---It was either SLOW - OR would Freeze 
 at the same spot in the game....... But for as much of it that i played it was A Good Game......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagetora007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  If this review didn't have to be at least a hundred words, this would about sum it up:
  
  THIS. GAME. RULES.
  
  However, since this review does have to be at least a hundred words, 
 I will explain KOTOR's awesomeness.
  The gameplay is definitely fun. The whole RPG style game in an action packed package is very satisfying. 
 There is little to no lag (if that is the word to use here) and the characters are fun and interesting.
 
  The storyline is good, too. Each character has his/her own storyline, which leads to some akward 
 situations. The main storyline is immersive, too, as it has many plot twisters, the best of which 
 is the amazing and astonishing discovery that you are-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellbamp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game gives you a sence of freedom and independance like no other star wars game i know, you 
 start off as a blossoming jedi and you choose which path you will take, good or evil.
  One of my favourite things about this game is the way you can travel from planet to planet at free 
 will and take on a number of quests and picking up new and more powerful weapons along the way 
 and upgrading your force skills and powers .There is also a rich story behind the game involving 
 the jedi's stuggle against the dark side and the atmosphere is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanurk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game is so great that it is hard to describe why it is great !
  
  pro's:
  The great fighting system ! It is all with unseen dice.
  The character making/skill building.
 
  The whole partying thing, it feels weird
  The price ! I bought it for only  7,50
  
  con's:
  The length! It's far to short ! only 25-35 hours :' ( :D
  The one bug
  
  I'll try 
 to explaine this bug:
  When you're walking on dantooine your game switches to slow motion !
  not funny ! But this was 
 only on certain places so it wasn't that bad
  
  I havn't seen any of the other bugs and my game didn't froze at all
  maybe it's just your computer.
 
  
  -0.2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedikenobi1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Star wars kotor was indeed one of 03's greatest games to offer. Not only had Kotor won numerous 
 awards, which included Game of The Year, but it brought about a new genre of Star Wars gameplay. 
 The game demonstrates an excellent source of well "fun-ness." It'll keep you hooked throughout 
 its rich storyline.
  As for the Combat, it's quite different from many of the previous known Star Wars games in some 
 ways. First off the normal "jumping up to your enemies and performing some killer action combo 
 like moves with some force powers here and there" have just been nullyfied out of the picture. 
 However the new style of combat seems to be just as fun as its predescessor. You'll be given the 
 option of manually pausing the game in the middle of the combat sequence to strategically plan 
 out your assult. The attacks range from mele swords and lightsabers to long rage blaster rifles 
 and pistols. In addition, there is a certain option within the game menu to disable this system 
 and go back to the classic combat sequence.
  Secondly, the story is quiet lengthy, and seems like a real cool Star Wars movie! So, the story 
 is set about 2,000 years prior to episode 1! Long long ago! The games opens with you sleeping on 
 a ship. However you are jolted awake by the series of explosions that are rocking your space vessel. 
 From there on theres a classic "escape from the exploding space ship" scene, and you basically 
 get on some escape pods with a fellow republic officer, crashland on a planet, try and rescue the 
 main jedi character (Bastila) , escape from the planet, bulid up your party traveling from planet 
 to planet, and try and kill the devious sith lord behind the evil scemes. So anyways, the story 
 proves to show many key aspects of a Star Wars like story, and is overall just great.
  To conclude, I belive that this game really lives up to its standards as Game of The Year til today. 
 And anyone who enjoys Star Wars should check this game out. This game is really that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladplugin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is by far the best Star Wars game ever made an could be called 
 the one and only game better then the movies. The story line is amazing, very deep and keeps you 
 entertained for hours and hours. This game has great replay value as you can beat it with many 
 different classes and Jedi type to have a very different gameplay each time you play it again. 
 This game is easy to learn and long enough to keep you playing it without becoming bored with it. 
 The end does not disappoint and can blow you away. The character personalities are a nice feature 
 to the game as oyu can affect them with the Dark or Light side of the force. I recommend this game 
 to any RPG or Star Wars Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewizzardofed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars KOTOR is a good game but there are a few things i have a problem with, a lot of times 
 there are random events that you must solve and or fix. Some of witch like the "trial" on dantoine 
 are diffucult to do. So is the random event on mannan where you must kill a huge american obese 
 firaxan shark. 
  
  There are two ways of doing so, first you can poison it. ( Possible bad side effect: contaminating 
 the kholto) 
  
  Or you can explode the fuel used to power the thingamabob that mines the kholto. ( Definate bad 
 side effect: Destroying most of the stuff the republic has built to mine kholto) 
  
  The selkath know that if the sith win the war that their planet will be taken over. I went with 
 the first one, which resulted in contaminating the kholoto and then i was banned from manan. I 
 am SERIOUSLY TICKED OFF AT THIS GAME! I thought that that would be better because i didnt want 
 to destroy all of the stuff the republic has built. But I am addicted to this game because it is 
 good but because of these random events that are incredibly easy to mess up on if you arent a star 
 wars fanatic or if you pay attentions insanley well and listen over and over The main problem for 
 me on the game is the random events.
  
  This is more of a complaint than a review sorry.
  
  Its a good game and youll be hooked just remember pay attention and you have to have an above 
 average I. Q. to understand some of the random events.
  
  Now i have to go play Star Wars KOTOR, see i hate it but i love it :- [ 
  
  I recomend this 
 game to people that like a challenge and dont mind messing up. Save a ton! 
  
  P. S. If anybody knows how to get into the files and "mod it" so i can get back on mannan that would 
 be good. Send me a message if you know how but beware i dont check them often because i have dial 
 up and it takes to long to load.
  
  Im considering starting over but that would take forever.
  
  I say thanks to lucas arts for 
 making such and addicting yet sometimes annoying game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Epic storyline, lots of cool lot, cool Jedi powers, high replayiblity, you have a Choice 
 between Good or Evil, better Voice over than the actors in Attack of the Clones (but that's not 
 hard to do) , memorable characters, really great plot twist
  
  Lows: Pretty slow until you get Jedi stuff, a little on the easy side
  
  Knights of the Old 
 Republic is the best thing labled Star Wars ever. Even more entertaining and well done than the 
 origenal triology.
  
  ====================Plot 
  The best part is its epic plot which you need to go into literature for a paralel in greatness, 
 you play as a republic solider Four Thousand years before the movies, your ship is attacked by 
 Sith soliders above the planet Taris. You escape with a captain named Carth and on Taris you find 
 out that a powerful Jedi called Bastala is being held hostage by a Tarisian street gang. when you 
 save her she takes you to a Jedi Academy where after some very strange conversations with the Jedi 
 thier you are trained as a Jedi in an oddly short time. On one of your missions for the Jedi you 
 have a vision of two Sith lords (one is the games boss the other is presumed dead) who find a map. 
 When you get the map it reveals incomplete data of a strange thing called StarForge, the map also 
 makes references to the planets Tatooine (you know this one) , Korriban (location of Sith academy) , 
 Mannaan (a neutral, oceanic world) , and Kasshyyyk (Wookie's planet) . You set out to fing the maps 
 but the forementioned Sith lord Malak sends out dark jedi and bounty hunters for you, he appears 
 in cut scences where your character is a subject that he does not want to talk about around the 
 generic soliders. Eventually his ship captures yours and you kill everyone abourd and when you 
 find him... NO WAY IN HELL WILL I GIVE THAT AWAY, IT IS THE COOLEST TWIST IN VIDEOGAME HISORY
 
  ======================End of 
  
  Gameplay is a fast paced, round based fight. When you fight something both of you attack at the 
 same time, which is really really cool if you have a lightsabre and force powers but not that great 
 if you only have blades and heaters.
  You get a plethera of sidemission, which your behavior in will dicate your force alignment. Your 
 alignment will tell if you are good or bad, some powers cost either more or less force points one 
 way and it says which end you get (a generic "save or conquer the galaxy") . If you do all side 
 missions the game will take about thirty to forty hours. And with exessivly high replay value this 
 is one of the more efficient ways to spend forty dollars
  
  Bottom Line: KotOR is the greatest epic not writen in Greek or Latin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Overall 7/10 or very good
  
  - Gameplay 21/30
  - Story 9/10
  - Graphics 4/5
  - Sound 3/5
  - Effort/Innovation 2/5
  - Presentation 3/5
 
  - Replay Value Low
  - Monetary Value $40
  
  Star Wars makes a foray into modern RPG genre and passes with flying colors. An excellent game 
 highlighted by one of the better RPG stories I have had the pleasure of playing through.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (7/10)
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic (hereby will be referred to as KOTOR) , features a 3D gameplay 
 similar to current final fantasy games and a solid story that will keep you interested through 
 the majority of the game.
  
  Combat : 7/10
  
  KOTOR is a quasi real-time combat RPG where you can control up to 3 characters at a time. Characters 
 can specialize in ranged (guns) , melee (swords &amp; lightsabers) , or force casting (Jedi who can 
 also double as melee or ranged as well) .
  
  Combat takes place in real time although you have the option to pause it whenever you please. When 
 combat begins the game will pause (by default) and you will be able to select up to 5 actions per 
 character before the fight actually starts. This allows you to somewhat control what everyone will 
 do in your party. Alternatively, you can select an AI setting for your characters and just allow 
 the AI to control 2 of the party members while you attack with one of them yourself. For the most 
 part, combat is very easy save for 1 section towards the end of the game that has unlimited enemies 
 that just overwhelm you by sheer numbers if you are not careful. Aside from that one spot, everything 
 else in the game is extremely easy even at the highest difficulty setting. Once your character 
 becomes a Jedi you will slice your way through enemies like they werent even there regardless 
 of what class of Jedi you select. The game is insanely easy if you decide to become a Guardian 
 or Councilor. A Guardian is your run of the mill fighter class with insane bonuses in combat. Most 
 enemies will not be able to hit you at all if you equip your character correctly and your damage 
 output is very high. A councilor is your caster Jedi class and with them you can cast and cast 
 and cast and cast till the cows come home. You regenerate force power so fast that you can simply 
 chain cast enemies to oblivion and back before they even get close enough to hit you and you have 
 a huge arsenal of force powers (spells) to work with. If one is resisted, simply switch to another. 
 The 3rd Jedi class is the Sentinel, which is an unbalanced mix between fighter and caster. Unbalanced 
 in that they have all the power of a caster with almost no drawbacks, most of the fighters abilities 
 although not as strong, and immunity to most force powers. If you thought the other 2 classes were 
 overpowered this one if the grand daddy of them all and probably the most fun to play since it 
 allows the player to do a little bit of everything should they start getting bored.
  
  The combat system is good, and fun but the enemy AI is bad (no strategies needed) and the game 
 is just too easy. Even when set to difficult you will never find yourself breaking a sweat on any 
 enemy in this game therefore combat needs some refinement. 6 points.
  
  Options : 7/10
  
  There are a fair number of things to customize in your characters and your gear in this game. 
 The options are not on par with some PC games but for a console based RPG they are satisfactory. 
 You can customize weapons and armor by adding two to four upgrade items to them, as well as dictate 
 each characters statistics and abilities on level up. Lightsabers can have different colors and 
 can be attached to two upgrade stones and there are many to find and chose from resulting in many 
 different types of lightsabers for your characters. Other weapons and armor don't have as much 
 customization options unfortunately. At level up there will be several screens for you to customize 
 on each character. For normal characters you can upgrade statistics, skills, and feats or special 
 abilities. For Jedi characters there is also a force power screen where you will be able to select 
 and upgrade your powers (spells) .
  
  Although less of a customizable option and more a consequence of your gameplay, there is also a 
 light/dark side slider that changes depending on your actions throughout the game. The effect of 
 this is a change in your characters force abilities and some changes to the story in the game. 
 The game has multiple endings and your alignment can play a role in what ending you receive. There 
 are other factors as well but this one you can semi-control by choosing to be good or evil throughout 
 the game but don't put too much weight into this feature as I found it more a hindrance than anything 
 else since opposite side force powers become harder to cast. In effect some spells will never be 
 used if you select one side or another and I didnt like how that reduced my options.
  
  Overall there is enough here to keep the game interesting but you cannot compare the options here 
 to games like the Elder Scrolls, MMOs, Baldurs Gate or any games of those caliber.
  
  Fluidity : 7/10
  
  The game flows fairly well. Quests are outlined in your journal. Cut screens 
 and story telling happen in an orderly, understandable manner. There were a few quests in the log 
 that remained in the incomplete log even though I know they had been completed but I am not aware 
 of any broken quests. I never felt lost at any point in the game, which is good considering how 
 many simultaneous quests you can have at any point in the game. The only real problem I had with 
 flow is with the games menus. They are cumbersome but that may be because I am a PC gamer and 
 these had been obviously designed with consoles in mind. I found that I had to switch between menus 
 too often to accomplish the simplest things, and there was too much scrolling and poor usage of 
 space in the menus for a PC game at least. They also didnt take advantage of PC features such 
 as movable windows and resizing.
  
  My other complaint was covered earlier. The game is just too easy. I would like to have had a bigger 
 challenge especially with bosses and such.
  
  Combat (7/10) + Options (7/10) + Fluidity (7/10) = Gameplay (21/30)
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY (9/10)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  KOTOR had 
 a pretty good story attached to it. You awaken on a ship that is under attack and a tutorial ensues. 
 Once you escape you team up with another soldier on a hostile planet that has been invaded by the 
 same organization that attacked you on the ship. You need to find a way to escape and the game 
 moves from there. Along the way you recruit several characters. Some good, some evil and you work 
 together to further your goals whatever path you decide to take. There is a lot of linearity in 
 the story but despite its linearity it remains very good. There are some interesting twists in 
 the plot here and there, and you can create romances between several characters during play. You 
 will be able to investigate most of the characters backgrounds and some will even have side quests 
 that you can help them with. Unlike other games I found most of the characters interesting and 
 some were even funny in their own way. Without giving away any of the plot, I will just say that 
 this is a typical Star Wars type battle between the light and dark side. You can take whichever 
 side you wish but it will boil down to some dramatic battles in the end. A very good story that 
 is well above average for game RPGs.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS (4/5)
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Above average for their time. Character models look good and the environments were decent enough 
 albeit there werent very many to explore. The game is fully 3rd however you cannot control the 
 camera vertically but that really didnt hinder this game as it does with some games like Devil 
 May Cry. The design of the game took into account the camera deficiencies and made sure not cause 
 any undue annoyances for the gamer. There were several cut scenes that were rendered well as well.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (3/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  There really isnt much to say about sound and music in this game. It includes some classic Star 
 Wars tracks but other than that, music was bland. Voice acting was actually good and consistent 
 for all characters, which is nice to see given the inexcusable blunders in other games like Xenosaga 
 II, Oblivion and even KOTOR II. Average at best I would say.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (2/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Not the 
 most innovative of games but it was a nice start for the Star Wars universe that is finally entering 
 into mainstream RPG. Most of the features in the game have been done before in other Rpgs and 
 whatever uniqueness you found was not impressive at all. The sore points in the game include the 
 stupidest mini games I have ever seen namely, Pazaak and swoop racing. Pazaak is just a slightly 
 more complex blackjack while swoop racing is well comparable to old 1st generation Atari type 
 racing games. Neither can compare to mini games offered by other Rpgs and I have to wonder what 
 they were thinking when they decided on the embarrassing Pazaak mini game that seems to be the 
 most popular game in the Star Wars universe. Other minor mini games include some silly dancing 
 game that cannot really be deciphered without trial and error and a silly turret game where you 
 shoot down an entire squadron of fighters with a single turret with little to no effort. The mini 
 games in KOTOR are horrendous. Some more thought and effort should have been placed into the development 
 of this game. Other than that, the rest of the game is just copied from other games so not many 
 points here. The only plus is the excellent story telling and overall feel. +2 points.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (3/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The PC version comes with just the game, &amp; manual. The manual explains most of the game fairly 
 well and gives you a nice look at the different classes so that you can plan your character before 
 hand.
  
  There are very few FMVs (full motion video) in this game but the quality was nothing like those 
 seen in games like Xenosaga. Nonetheless some were interesting and they made a nice addition to 
 the game. Voice acting was good and the music did not annoy me.
  
  The main plotline was excellent and it was told in a very good manner. I was never confused over 
 quests and dialog.
  
  From a PC RPG point of view, this game is very rudimentary. It offers only the basics in terms 
 of actual gameplay and complexity. Many people will like its simplicity, but others, especially 
 PC gamers, might say it was dumbed down for the console.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (7/10) 
  Very Good
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The first 
 thing I should note is that a 7 coming from me is very very good. I am a very tough critic and 
 I tend to be over-objective at times. Let me point out that of all the RPGs I have enjoyed since 
 my days on the 286, this one had one of the most compelling storylines I have ever had the pleasure 
 of playing through. This game is worth it just for that single fact. It is not the best but it 
 is definitely up there on my list. Aside from that, the rest of the game is, at best, average gameplay 
 wise with a black mark next to the mini games which are meant to give you a nice break away from 
 the game when you are bored but instead do the opposite. Nonetheless, a 7 from me is a very high 
 mark and this game will go down as one of my 20 favorite RPGs of all time.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Replay Value is low for this game simply because of the games linearity. I actually tried to replay 
 it a 2nd time (twice actually) only to get bored very fast and to stop about 10 hours into the 
 game. For those of you who are somewhat masochistic, you could replay the game and try to see what 
 happens if you play as a different alignment and/or with a different Jedi class but in the end, 
 the game will pretty much be the same save for a few cut scenes and some dialog here and there. 
 Since you already know the story you will find that most of the game becomes nothing more than 
 a drag that is preventing you from seeing the different cut scenes and ending of the game. For 
 me, I cannot fathom playing another 30 hours just for those reasons but some people might like 
 to do so.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I had a lot of fun playing this game and I feel that a solid $40 price tag would be reasonable 
 for it given the hours invested and the entertainment value of those hours. $40 is nearly full 
 price for a game but given the shortcoming of some gameplay elements I cannot say that it worthy 
 of a full price tag like other games in the genre that have better features and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingoffoxes
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Right, so Im at our local EB having a look when I spot the familiar design of a PC Game EA Classics 
 in the bargain bin  for only $20 AU. So I look at the cover  wow, its Star Wars Knights of the 
 Old Republic  Im thinking wow didnt this get a thumbs up, so I pick it up and by it  and did 
 regret it!
  
  I get home and as Im installing it, I think I hope this is just Jedi Academy in a Old Republic 
 package. I create a character and start the game just to be board by the tutorial they thought 
 they could mesh with the story line, then there it is - my first enemy to kill  Im pressing W 
 but nothings happening then it say its paused so I can make a choice of how to attack  Im thinking 
 I just to go up to the dam Sith a lop his head off with a ligtsaber  but instead Ive got some 
 crappy sword and a automated attack plan which I cant even control.
  I thought, I can get used to this  after all its star wars but whats star wars when you cant 
 even decide when to hack with a Viproblade just some cheap imitation of a samurai sword 
 that mystically block lightsabers.
  
  If the game had Jedi Academy fights and KOTORs story line with out multiple choice it would have 
 been a grate game. The graphics are ok but can slow down a good computer when populated with people, 
 the fact you cant really attack people make it a bit painful. To bad the good points like the inventory 
 and storyline couldnt balance out the flaws. 
  Not bad for a $20 EA thing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash_streak
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Kotor is most definitely one of the best if the best Star Wars RPG for PC. The graphics are good 
 while the story and MAJOR character development shows this rpg's distinction. I loved the plot 
 twisters and the "big" secret that surrounds your character, they enhanced the story. I also found 
 it interesting how you can influence other characters besides yourself. 
  
  The other characters were very interesting. They added flavor, especially if you are a sith and 
 they are jedi O_o. It's fun to casts different jedi powers and run around as a jedi with a gun.
 
  
  The battle system is pretty good. It can be a bit slow and it would be even better if you could 
 directly and continuously control a character's actions. I do, however, like the pausing ability 
 to control your actions without the battle being too fast. 
  
  All in all, Kotor has MAJOR character development and a good paced battle system which I like. 
 Besides the fact it's a Star Wars game, it'll automatically have a good story and good villiam 
 (Malak is cool but somewhat creepy) . The small technical glitches barley touch the gameplay and 
 the music is good. I give it a good grade, wouldn't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty interesting to play. I seen some interesting elements in the game and been 
 hearing some sweet stories of my friend of how he played the game.
  
  The gameplay is actually not too hard to grasp. The thing is I only had to use the mouse about 
 most of the time and hardly the keyboard. This makes it pretty easy for me to play a PC game since 
 I hate trying to place my hands on the keyboard a certain way. You choose to either be a jedi on 
 the light side or a sith jedi on the dark side. Here is descriptions of which side to play:
  
  If you play this good side you get light points. This is done by helping people and such good 
 deeds. The problem is that you give away a lot of money to help people and get very few good awards, 
 which makes it harder to buy supples and weapons.
  
  The dark side, you guessed it, you do bad things to people or say nasty stuff. This is also a way 
 to get more money to buy stuff (For a price of turning toward to darkside) . 
  
  the graphics are pretty decent in the game depending on what graphics card you have. The animations 
 run pretty well unless if you try to beef up the quality of graphics slowdowns or frame skip may 
 occur unless you have Alienware or best graphics card and lots of memory.
  
  The sounds are good in this game. Pretty much as good as in any good Star Wars movie. Not much 
 to say about it.
  
  The value, I think it is worth it to get a copy for just $20. Heck I may get me a new copy to play 
 the Dark side that my friend says it is fun to play and sucks being on the lightside. But you can 
 play both sides of the games for replay value.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amcnair65
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you could ever want in a rpg. there are many different ways to play the 
 story line and many different ways to customize ur character. it has a awesome plot and is just 
 hard enough. it is the perfect game and believe me you will be very sad when it ends. this game 
 protrates everything great about star wars and is perfect any fan. you can spend hours on this 
 or speed right through it. you can pick it up whenever you have free time because it is not to 
 hard to follow... it is over all is an awesome game for any age! you should most definatly get 
 it for your collection today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  If you read my reviews on Star Wars Battlefront 1 and 2, you probably know that I am a huge Star 
 Wars fan. When I went to my friend's house and discovered this beauty of a game, I am here to tell 
 the result. Knights of the Old Republic isn't based at the same time as countless Star Wars games. 
 It takes place before the Civil War, even Anakin's mom wasn't born yet! It takes placed shortly 
 after the blood-drenched Mandalorian Wars. The galaxy is trying to put itself together, but a fearsome 
 Sith lord is holding it back. Your mission is simple: Choose which side to take. The gameplay is 
 completely RPG-like, which I enjoyed, since you just had to click on an enemy to attack it. Yet, 
 this can give out a little slow pace to it. Your character starts out knowing nothing of his or 
 her past and you set off on a mission to remember again. First, you make your character's own appearance 
 and after that, you must go around and kill enemies and gain XP in order to upgrade your abilities, 
 for example, there isn't any holding back in this game, all the Force Powers, like Force Lightning 
 and Force Push, are all available to you in the beginning of the game. The graphics are well done 
 and the sound effects are very good. All the animations and character movements are nice and smooth, 
 and also, the voice acting isn't that bad either. Unlike some Jedi games, this game doesn't level 
 you down to just a lightsaber. You can hold a lightsaber and blaster in your hand, depending on 
 how high your skills are. Speaking of which, you don't get a lightsaber until later in the game, 
 so it may become a little annoying to have to go through all these missions in order to get a lightsaber. 
 Like I said about choosing sides, your decisions affect both you (of course) and the people around 
 you. Set off to kill an innocent man with a bounty on his head and your partner might not like 
 it very much. The side you take is so strong that you can become a Sith lord just by talking bad 
 to someone. If someone begs you to help them for any known reason and you let out a rude insult, 
 along with a "Get lost" comment, then you will gain Dark Side points. But if you agree to help 
 them and succeed in doing so, your Light Side points will increase. Basically, the game is an excellent 
 addition to Star War's famous Jedi game collection, maybe even the best. Don't fall for that pathetic 
 insult to the Jedi called Star Wars Episode 3 The Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekrmme
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow. It seems like just yesterday I was playing KOTOR for the first time. This truly was the Game 
 of the Year in 2003, and is still one of the best RPGs around to this day. If you're a fan of Star 
 Wars or RPGs in general, you need to play this game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in KOTOR is a blend of combination of roll-based combat, engaging quests, 
 and developing your character, as well as those of your party. While I never was a fan of a turn-based 
 combat, it is done well in KOTOR, even though there are a few flaws. For instance, don't even waste 
 your time trying to use ranged weapons; ANY type of melee combat is incredibly overpowered. However, 
 there are so many quests, missions and random errands to run that you lose focus on how you defeat 
 your enemies, just that you do. Finally, one of the best parts of KOTOR's gameplay is its character 
 interaction. Your choices affect the alignment of your party, as well as several key plot twists, 
 and you can actually develop many of your companions backstories, giving the game added depth.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are fairly average by today's standard, with occasional issues with frame 
 rate and clipping (at least, on my ATI x1800) . There's nothing here that will impress anyone who's 
 played a video game since the 90's, but everything is done well enough that it's easy on the eyes.
 
  
  Sound: KOTOR's music and weapon effects are good, but what sets KOTOR above the bar is the massive 
 dialog. The voice acting is well above average, and, with minimal repetition the alien voices are 
 relatively convincing. There's just so much of it, and, if you take the time to listen, it adds 
 a lot to the game experience.
  
  Value: $19.99? Who wouldn't shell out twenty bucks to get 2003's Game of the Year, possibly THE 
 greatest Star Wars game of all time? You've got to be kidding me.
  
  I've said it before, and I'll say it again: if you haven't played this yet, you should, and if 
 you have played it already, odds are its worth another spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenkliff
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest star wars game i have ever played, not to mention one of the greatest RPGs 
 ever created. On the PC it is a little laggy if you don't have really good software, but that is 
 the ONLY down fall. It has a spectacular original story, unforgetable characters, and it has great 
 combat and skills systems like every RPG must. The devolopement of the characters and the way you 
 interact with them is so grand it makes you almost feel like you know these people. For instance, 
 in a chararcter in your party's description page it dosen't tell you about there past, there family 
 and there problems, you have to talk to them in conversations with multiple resposes to what they 
 say, and sometimes a choice of what you tell someone could determine if they trust you with their 
 lives or despise you. Also, the choises you make will determine if you become light or dark side, 
 and your path of light/dark bars are shown on each character's page of attributes. The story twists 
 had me screaming "Oh my God" at my computer at points, and when you learn more and more about a 
 party member through different conversations feels like becoming freinds with them. This is an 
 instant Star Wars classic- every great fan of the series ( especially those that love seeing beyond 
 the movies) should own this game.
  
  
  
  Written By Ravenkliff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  StarWars Kotor is an RPG that takes place in the Lucas`s StarWars universe. For a StarWars game 
 going to the RPG genre, it ultimalty makes sense because the universe in Starwars has many differnt 
 enviromental worlds on which aot of people roam like you see in the movies. Sure, games weren`t 
 that famous back then, but the world of StarWars was large and it would feel amazing to walk in 
 these large plantetary worlds to just to just talk to alien species, talking in their own native 
 language, and talking to humans that are mad, sad, wise (jedi masters usually) , and just plain 
 evil and unfair (dark jedi usually) . And now, you will finnaly get the chance to be like Luke Skywalker, 
 roaming around Tatooine and going to a bar and joining new characters to help them fight off the 
 Sith troops once and for all.
  
  But, you don`t play as Luke Skywalker or any other character that were in the movies, since KOTOR 
 takes place millions of years before them. That`s right, you get to expierience the Old Republic 
 and see how the never ending Sith war began in the first place. Since it takes place mayne years 
 before the movies, who do you play as? You play as a character you make up. You create him, choose 
 his best attributes, sex, and face look. And through the whole game, you will choose the light 
 side or the dark side and which ever one you choose will result the differnces on how people will 
 treat you and react to you.
  
  Since it is an RPG, you would expect alot of fighting and getting items. True, there are fights 
 but you to choose your path of side (dark or light) or to get to the place on where you need to 
 get to by talking to many people in the galaxy of StarWars. The talking is very cohesive and interesting 
 since it draws you into the game alot and it makes you stay drawn until you beat the game. The 
 whole conversasion gameplay works by you choosing on what to say. For example: if you stole a key 
 to a door that you need to open in someones house, the person that owns the house says,"hey, what 
 are you doing with my key?" You have 4 or more choices on what to say to the person. If you want 
 to give it back, you just did something useless since you need that key. If you want to take it 
 by killing the man, you made it easy but you just got closer to the dark side. If you want to give 
 him money for it or you want to do a good deed to have the key, then you might get light side points 
 for it, but it won`t be easy since you just made the whole mission on getting that key more longer! 
 You can even talk to your own buddies in your party. Your party members have many past problems 
 with their childhood or problems with trusting you. If you want to know more about these characters, 
 you must talk to or tell them about their past, problems, and opinons about you. Then, in the future 
 of the game, many of your party`s past problems will come in action, now you must fix them and 
 make your party members more trustful about you.
  
  Despite the conversasion to other characters, the fighting system is preaty basic. All three of 
 your party members have 3 actions to choose from. They can either choose close range abilities, 
 long range abilites, and item using abilites (like grenades) . If you`re fighting one enmy with 
 all of your three party members, it will be an easy battle. But, if you fight three or more enemies, 
 you have to use some strategy to get rid of them insead of just rushing in close range with all 
 of your buddies against one person while three of them fire at you from behind. You have to use 
 grenades and force powers as your advantage to take out the enemy. Some characters use rifels, 
 so you can use them to fire at an enemy far away for back up while two people use their swords 
 and light sabers in close range. 
  
  The graphics look good. The textures aren`t all that fresh looking, but some of the lighting, specualrity, 
 and particle effects look preaty nice. The facial expression doesn`t really use voice syncing that 
 well. It does voice sync speech, but after a while you will notice that that voice syncing is fake 
 looking since the developers use the same voice syne animation over and over again. But that`s 
 okay of a thing since there is so much speech in the game that it would take years and years of 
 hard work just to sync it all in one place. The sound, however, is done amazingly well. The voice 
 acters sound amazing. You will notice some memoralbe voices that you might of heard of in other 
 games like MGS2`s Liquid Snake and Solidus Snake, Tomb Raider`s Lara Croft, and many many others. 
 The alien voices sound very cool, but after a while, you will notice that the voices will repeat 
 over and over. But again, it would take years and years of hard work to do the differnt voices 
 for those aliens. I mean, we don`t have Twi`lek voice acters. Same as the alien voices, the music 
 is also repetish. Even though, the famous StarWars orchestrated score still sounds joyful to us 
 till this day.
  
  The game is fun and addicting in many ways, since you have many decisions to choose from. You can 
 choose a differnt sex to make the game differnt then ever. You can also choose differnt things 
 to say and join a differnt side instead of the side you chose last time. The game is long too. 
 The game will last you about 30-40 hours of play time and it will keep you on your seat the whole 
 day until you beat it. 
  
  If your a StarWars fan, definatly get the game. If you`re also an RPG fan that hates or is not 
 interested in StarWars, still get the game because this is one of those RPGs that should belong 
 in your hands since this is simply put one of the best Starwars games on any console and is also 
 one of the most creative and most asencial RPGs you might see.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silva_Ragun
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is the best Star Wars game I have played yet. This game is also on the x-box. This game lets 
 you create your character although yout pick the skin tone, gender and hair style. You get to use 
 weapons like blasters and vibroblades, and then of course you recieve your lightsaber. You get 
 to fly to different planets like Tatooine, Mannan, Kasyhk, and Korriban. You get to meet new Star 
 Wars Characters, and even fight a Rancor!!!!! You get Team mates throughout the game and they vary 
 from Humans to Wookies to Twi'liks, and Droids! This game is pretty easy , and that comming from 
 me means that it's easy because I suck at playing games. So if you love Star Wars or not Pick up 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was a senior in high school and i was not a big RPG fan. I preferred 
 sports games and old fashioned shooters. This game really turned me on to RPGs. I played through 
 the entire game twice, spending over 60 hours each time exploring the massive worlds. I owned it 
 on Xbox, then sold it after about a year, and turned around and bought the computer version! GREAT 
 game.
  This game really shows why Star Wars is as popular as it is - it takes elements from everything, 
 from the movies to the comics to the novels to other Star Wars ganes, and it mixes them all together 
 to make an all new adventure. You can choose anything and everything in customizing your character, 
 and you have a huge number of characters to accompany you on your quests. Very highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OleYeller2113
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 5, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR came at a time when I was starting to believe that Star Wars games were going downhill fast. 
 While we are delighted to have an occasional gem, a lot of the Star Wars stuff that was coming 
 out was mostly bad. The game offers a rich plot, convincing character voicing and pretty good graphics 
 for the time.
  
  My focus on any game of this nature, however, is the plot. For me, a game can be as visually and 
 audibly appealing as it could possibly be, but if it lacks a good plot then it is all for naught. 
 KOTOR introduced an entirely new plot that included some elements from Star Wars fiction and works 
 outside of the movies. As I played through the game I definately felt that a condensed version 
 of the plot would function very well as a movie, with a few tweaks here and there. The key to being 
 able to fully enjoy the plot of this game, however, is patience and being willing to manuever through 
 the dialogue and side-quests. Sure, if you just want to play the game straight through and skip 
 as much of the dialogue and side-quests as possible, it's still fairly enjoyable, but I would definately 
 recommend exploring and doing as much as possible. 
  
  If you're a strict action gamer and don't enjoy dialogue or solving some fairly simple puzzels, 
 this game probably isn't one you enjoy and you should probably look at something from the Dark 
 Forces/Jedi Knight series. But, if you like a good RPG with a rich plot and really good action 
 and drama sequences, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakepunk
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game in every way. Although it doesn't have as many features as BioWare's previous 
 game (NWN) , it is far more advanced in graphics and gameplay. 
  All the characters in the game are voiced and done pretty well. 
  The Star Wars universe is really 
 well done and you will find yourselves in some very familiar places, if you've seen the movies. 
 
  The game will take you at least 20 hours to play through the first time, and this is if you skip 
 all the interesting extra quests and miss out on alot of great things in the game. This is one 
 of the most interesting and most surprising storylines ever in the world of games. Other than the 
 main plot, the many stories of the characters that you will find around are also very interesting.
 
  
  Overall, this is a totally awesome game that every RPG fan should have and every Star Wars fan 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lowie_Bacca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  The chance to be a Jedi in the Star Wars universe and travel between planets, killing hordes of 
 enemies is a chance few RPG's give to a gamer. Knights of the Old Republic did this perfectly, 
 allowing the player to choose lightsaber color, Force powers, clothing class, and even allowing 
 him to travel to any planet he likes, killing everything in his way. Wonderful game.
  
  About the specifics. Graphics aren't the best, for an RPG, but are pretty well done. The fights 
 and carachters are all very detailed, and have interesting fight tactics. The sound is superb, 
 and captures the laser sounds of blasters and lightsabers clashing perfectly. Gameplay, in my opinion, 
 is very good, being easy to learn and fun. 
  
  Awesome game, for Star Wars fans and gamers eveywhere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I love it. It's the best star wars game ever made.
  You start out as a soldier on a battle ship, and then get dropped on a planet. Needless to say 
 you find out you are a jedi. Perhaps a little more needful to say is that it turns out that you 
 are the main bad guy of the game with memory loss.
  The story line in this game is incredible, and the combat system is lots of fun. You can customize 
 your own lightsaber and interact however you like with your teammates. They give you a chance to 
 get fond of the A. I., and then when you turn evil it gives you a chance to kill them. Ha ha! I'm 
 sorry, I enjoy that kind of thing. I especially enjoy killing Mission. She's so annoying! Aarrrgghhhh.......
 
  All in all, this is one of the best role playing games ever made and THE best star wars game ever 
 made. Buy it or I'll rip your legs off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJGraniel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  My expectations for this game were pretty low after seeing most of the other Star Wars games do 
 badly. However, when this game was given to me I was surprised to find this game extremely good. 
 The part of this game that stood out the most was its intriguing story. It kept me wanting more 
 at the end, even after the most shocking twist I had ever seen in a game. The gameplay in the game 
 was great, incorporating a new form of role playing and making it easy to play. The graphics were 
 near perfect, the only disappointment I felt was not being able to jump and it's many glitches. 
 The sound, as usual for a Star Wars game, was exceptional, featuring both Star Wars music and new 
 songs made for the game. It also comes with excellent value as it can take up to 40 hours to complete, 
 thanks to an enormous number of subplots. Overall, this is not a game to be missed, as it it surely 
 one of the greatest games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  The action starts right away. u start the game on a vessel under attack by the sith. and u have 
 no idea who you are. as i first started playing it i wasnt so sure i liked it, and it actually 
 took awhile for it to grow on me. but this is a fantastic game for any star wars fan. just a little 
 heads up though. you will spend half the game talking to everyone. and i actually didnt like it 
 until i became a jedi. then everything started feeling like star wars. you'll get to travel to 
 different planets in the galaxy on a ship that resembles the mellenium falcon, called the ebon 
 hawk. get it. falcon - hawk. anyway, along the way u pick up all sorts of friends to help you on 
 yer quest to save the galazy. Droids, a mercenary (similar to han solo) , a wookie named zaalbar. 
 and it all adds up to give u a feeling u havent felt since...... you watched the old movies. even 
 the planets ull b traveling to are connected to the movies. planets such as tatooine and dantooine. 
 
  overall a fantastic experience that star wars fans everywhere should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micromickMM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game for RPG lovers.
  Everything you do in this game comes back to haunt you later on.
  It has multiple choice conversations 
 which allow you to get diffrent things and diffrent points.
  It has just got the RPG element about it, from making your first lightsaber to killing people for 
 money. Its all there. It has an wonderful world with lots of things to do, you can leave somthing 
 your doing and come back to it later. 
  Thers hidden puzzles which reward you with many weird but cool objects.
  But thers only one downside 
 and thats the game is too short. Example, you want to get somthing from somewhere but you doing 
 the story line and then all of a sudden when the game is getting good your at the near very end.
 
  As I said before this is a must have for RPG lovers and also even Star wars lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnyboy1219
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been called a Star Wars freak, mostly because I memorized IV, V and VI when I was in first 
 or second grade. I have played most of the Star Wars games out there, but nothing really compared 
 to Tie Fighter and X Wing. But then one day a friend told me to try this game out, so I did. This 
 was my first RPG so I really didn't know what to expect. The opening drew me right in, and the 
 rest of the story line rivaled the classic triology itself. Taking place 2000 some odd years before 
 we first enter the Star Wars galaxy, Lucas Arts has the ability to play with events that loyal 
 fans never even heard of before, and start events that shape the universe to come. 
  The additions of a different NPCs really adds to the game play, however once you become a Jedi 
 you never really need the other members of your crew. Also the soldier class has a huge advantage 
 over the other classes because of the different abilities that they are able to use. And there 
 comes a point where you can't add any more to your lightsaber to make it any better. 
  Taking those things into consideration, over all the game is amazing and one of my favorites. Also 
 amazing plot twists 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  This title is the gamer's dream, Star Wars fan or not, role-player or not, everyone loves this 
 game. I am personally a hardcore FPS gamer and this game appeals to me so much it turned me to 
 the role-playing side, and since then i haven't found a better role-playing game that is as inspiring 
 as this. I have a friend who hates star wars, thinking it's childish, then once he tried the game, 
 he just couldn't stop.
  
  This game not only sets a new standard for role-playing games, it is revolutionary, it creates 
 a new type of role playing game, new system. For gamer's who didnt know this is actually a turn-based 
 game, but it's system make it look real-time and run as smooth as silk, this is inspiring. The 
 ability to choose good or bad is very appealing. It's top of the line system where what you do 
 affects others around you, basically kicks out games which don't and making them seem stupid.
 
  
  This game is quite easy because your ability to customise your character is nearly endless, although 
 it's not difficult, this game packs many hours of gameplay and a very fascinating story. It's graphics 
 are the best of it's year and still meets the standards of today.
  
  Only flaws are the lack of appearance customisation, you dont choose hair, face etc. And there 
 is a small variety of designs for weapons and armours. What you see may seem alot but it is only 
 the same few things with different stats and paint job.
  
  This game is near perfect, this game nearly makes me bow down do the developers as the true lord 
 of the rpg genre. I recommend this game to nearly everyone and there aren't much violence, just 
 flashes therefore kids can surely play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmafan3030
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for even people who don't like Star Wars (partly because its not a "Go 
 do what i say", in this game you can work for the enemy become a Sith or Jedi, become a bounty 
 hunter, kill off your allies, and much much more, If this game is in your bargain bin be sure to 
 buy it. It may take time to get used to the fact its an RPG, i personally hated RPGs but this game 
 changed that.... If you give this game time you wont regret buying it. And where you see how long 
 i spent playing it down below, i really did play this game over 100+ hours playing it, I DID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzms
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  There are many things that can be said about this game but I'll keep it simple, this game brings 
 a renewed faith in the 
  Star Wars world. When I first played it on the Xbox I was really impressed with it, but I waited 
 for it to come out on
  PC so that I could play (don't own a xbox and I never will. Well lets get down with the real aspect 
 of this game.
  The PC version is much better than the Xbox version. The graphics are extremly detailed which I 
 suppose is what most
  gamers want this day. There were lots of things I found that the PC version had that the Xbox version 
 didn't have.
  The controls for one were very familar to most people cause its the way a FPS would be played. 
 The sound and voice acting
  was very well done, they had a very good selection for this, minus the fact that Hilary Duff voice 
 acted Mission, when I 
  found that out I was very disturbed. The story in KOTOR is a nice one, it ties a lot of other Star 
 Wars games together, such
  as Jedi Academy (mentioned a sith lord) . The only real problem presented with this game was the 
 story was way to short, I
  finished it in about 6 hours (over a span of 6 days) , the story lost its phazaz with all the insanly 
 hard bosses that were
  added to the game. 
  
  Overall I think all Star Wars fans and people who don't care for Star Wars should pick it up, it 
 will offer a decent RPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metriodman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Perfect application of the RPG model to the Star Wars Universe! 
  I had a copy of this lying around the house for sometime before I'd found the time to pick it up 
 and actually play it. Initially I was a little sceptical of the choose-your-own-destiny idea that 
 was being emphasised as a the more unique aspect of the game. After all having played Jedi Academy 
 I was disappointed as the black and white nature of the 'choice' that is given to the player. Thankfully 
 KOTOR goes in a different direction.
  
  The new system of Light/Darkside points that only marginally affect the main player helps to emphasise 
 and ultimately decide how evil or good the player wishes to be. Furthermore the effect your alignment 
 has on your force powers aids in the commitment that one would have to Light/Dark Side powers and 
 thus not allowing for you to be the good guy yet at the same time not being able to use the kickass 
 powers like lightning and drain. 
  
  The RPG style is also more enjoyable than the typical slasher system of previous games. Party members 
 with proficiencies in blasters are at times more useful and more fun to use than the force users 
 which can allow for greater longevity and the possibility of completing the game with various party 
 combinations. Storyline interaction with other party members and plot twists are generally entertaining 
 and add to the eventual choice of whether or not to adopt the Light/Dark side.
  
  The Only main gripe that I have with KOTOR was the lack of customisation with the initial character 
 set up and mostly with equipment. Customised Jedi robes would have added a more personalised touch 
 to your character but do not make KOTOR any less fun to play although some may feel that the stop-start 
 nature of the gameplay may annoy action fans. 
  However, these minor things aside KOTOR is well worth the time and energy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepiroth911
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Goods
  1. Amazing storyline. Best epic ever. Cant beat it for story.
  2. Star Wars fans will love it.
  3. Non-Star wars fans will love it too.
  4. Damn Good graphics.
 
  5. Great Cast of characters
  6. Humorous dialog and great speech acting.
  7. Good range of weapons and upgrades.
  8. Good quests.
  9. LIGHTSABERS
  
  Bad
  1. techincal 
 issue
  2. racing is a pain
  3. dont ge the card game
  Good good game.
  
  EPIC MASTER PIECE. NO good argue ment against it.
  
  alsdkf
  asldjf
  ajsldfjk
  asdf
 
  adsf
  adf
  asdf
  adfs
  afsd
  afds
  asdf
  safd
  sdaf
  fasd
  fdas
  f
  adsf
  das
  dfas
  fdas
  fdsa
  sdfa
  sdaf
  dsaf
  dsfasadfasfddsafsadfsdfa
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avi1992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest Star Wars role-playing games ever made, in my opinion. I like the whole idea 
 of the Jedi powers and persuasion in the multiple dialogue answers availible. The good-evil spectrum 
 is an amazing idea. This is my very first time playing a Star Wars PC game, so I can't really compare 
 it to past games. The game takes a while to get used to, especially some of the awkward controls. 
 The only things that I don't like are the slightly bland graphics and backgrounds, and the fact 
 that you can't grow to a higher total level than level 20. I would also have liked to see a larger 
 variety of customisable weapons and the amount of customisation availible, in other words not just 
 add a pre-defined item onto the weapon, but experiment with different items. The sound also gets 
 a bit boring after a while, being so repetitive. However, with the two different endings, it has 
 a long gaming life and is excellent value for money, being slightly out-dated now.
  Overall, this is an immensely enjoyable masterpiece which should keep the player fascinated for 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmomemoryXIII
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  SW: KOTOR is a truly outstanding game. I am a big rpg gamer and this has got to be on my list of 
 the all time greatest. This game has so many pros I can barely think of cons. Lets look at the 
 pros shall we. Gameplay- Incredible! But a kinda short game. Graphics- Incredible! But a little 
 edgy in some spots. Sound- Perfect!!! Makes you feel you are actually swinging that lightsaber 
 around, or shooting that blaster. Also, the other characters voices sound great. Value- A definite 
 keeper! Save this one for your kids and grandkids. WOW!! Look at all the Pros. Now lets see if 
 I can think of some cons. Well the game is a little too short to me, but not like Super Mario Bros. 
 short. Some of the graphics look a little edgy but nothing that some mods and patches cant fix. 
 Thats about all I can think of, but thats good! My Overall Rating- 9.6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatiumomega
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Face it: we all want to be Jedi. Everyone that is reading this review, at least, knows how amazing 
 it would be to simply run around and use the force, for either good or evil (your choice) , and 
 fighting in those amazing lightsaber duels that the movies made famous. Well, your dreaming is 
 over, because BioWare and LucasArts have released the best Star Wars game to ever come out. Star 
 Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is amazing. 
  
  The game begins when you create a character, which starts with three different classes. Scouts 
 are good at infiltration, scoundrels can manipulate others and sneak around to get what they want, 
 and soldiers simply fire away at everything. You also allocate skill points and stat points, very 
 similar to a Dungeons & Dragons character creation. After the initial setup, you are presented 
 with the standard Star Wars fanfare, and then you are introduced to the story. You start aboard 
 the Endar Spire, a capital starship under attack from the Sith. Your character is on the ship to 
 protect Bastilla, a Jedi with a very special power. However, things go astray, as you and a Republic 
 Soldier named Carth Onassi crash land via escape pod into the planet of Taris, which prompts your 
 search for Bastilla. Along the way, you'll meet some unique characters, and even have an option 
 of killing off a few for good measure. However, the game is always evolving on you, changing you 
 into what you want, or maybe something you were never supposed to be. It's all a part of the story, 
 which is engrossing and breathtaking as you fight on six total planets, while trying to prevent 
 Bastilla from being caught by Darth Malak, who has taken control of the Sith fleet.
  
  It takes a while, but you also have the ability to become a Jedi, and train in the ways of the 
 force. You choose your powers from a list of available ones, and these powers use Force Points, 
 similar to MP in other RPGs. At the same time, as you develop in level, you gain regular feats, 
 which do a variety of things from boost skills by one or two, to enhance the damage you do with 
 certain weapons. Also, at regular intervals, you will gain an ability score enhancement, allowing 
 an extra point to go in the ability score you choose. These ability points can lead to more skill 
 points, attack bonuses with weapons, and more Vitality Points (HP) . 
  
  The combat is simply flawless. Enemies will react accordinly to being fired upon, and two opposing 
 forces have melee weapons, they will do an interchange of swordplay. Throw in lightsabers and it 
 looks like a classic duel. Characters can throw greandes, set land mines, and use any items. All 
 of the combat is queue-based, which allows you to pause the game at any time and add or remove 
 actions from your order. 
  
  The graphics are great for a Star Wars game. Characters look accurate to real life images, starships 
 and locations are simply impressive. The Sith trooper armor glistens with a prestine shine, but 
 there tends to be a bit of slowdown in heavy combat involving multiple people. 
  
  Like most Star Wars films and games, the sound is simply impressive. Blasters sound like they should, 
 and lightsabers hum and whir in the background, and make all the noises you expect from combat. 
 However, that is not where the sounds shine. It is through the excellent voice acting by each character, 
 person, and thing you encounter. They respond accordingly, showing changes in emotions, as well 
 as surprises to some of your responses. 
  
  This brings on one of the best points of the game itself. Your actions, words, and attitudes determine 
 whether you are a light side or dark side character. Being kind to others, giving away credits 
 without concern for reward, and helping or healing others allows you to use light side powers at 
 a lower Force Point cost. Being cruel to others, engaging in constant fights, and trying to worm 
 some money out of every scenario will net you dark side powers at a lower cost. 
  
  Add in the end that there are two different endings based on the decisions that you have made, 
 and you will find that Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is simply one of the best RPGs to 
 come out in the longest time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  The Star Wars universe has always seemed like the perfect setting for an rpg, with its plethora 
 of planets, aliens, events, and 'cultures'. However for the most part we've been treated to hopping 
 over Jawas or piloting space ships. Excellent games, usually, but anyone who wants a little depth 
 to their Force Push should start with KOTOR.
  Kotor takes place, as the title suggests, A Long Time Ago, years before Vader's first wheeze. As 
 usual, some Sith are up to no good and it's up to the player to either vanquish them or usurp power 
 from them, depending on your alignment. The usual RPG conventions come into play, such as weapon 
 damage, character classes and spells (force powers) . This being a Star Wars game, there's also 
 an extra 'alignment' slider which will switch positions depending on your actions in-game. Blackmail 
 people, you'll move towards dark, refuse compensation after helping people, you'll move into the 
 light. Simple enough to understand.
  You'll also have a party of characters following you around and that's where KOTOR both shines 
 and stinks. You can only have two friends with you at a time and the rest will wait at your HQ. 
 The whole party gains experience, even those characters not with you. In practice this means the 
 wookie lounging around in an appartment gains experience from the bad guy you blasted. Not very 
 realistic but it works in gameplay terms, since you don't have to worry about taking weak combat 
 characters along just to get their electronics skills up. The characters are also very well written 
 - almost. Most of them are genuinely funny and interesting to listen to (especially a violence-obsessed 
 robot) but some come off as caricatures in their attempts at characterization. You may find yourself 
 more than slightly annoyed by Carth who seems to have too many conversations that feel like "I 
 want to talk to you about something." "What?" "I don't want to talk about it." Just get on with 
 it! Your characters each have a side-story mission that can be unlocked if you talk to them enough 
 (and are far enough with them in the game) , but getting to it is sometimes a chore worthy of XP 
 itself. 
  Also, a lot more could have been done with the light/dark side. As it stands, it is basically useful 
 for choosing which powers to learn, as light siders need less 'mana' to use light powers, and vice 
 versa, but characters don't react to you differently, at least I didn't really notice it. Why is 
 Bastila harassing me with crap about the Dark Side when I am a shining example of the Light, even 
 more so than she herself?
  The rest of the banter is much better, and your pals will join in when you are in certain NPC conversations 
 with their own observations. These are usually great fun.
  Gameplay is nice mix between slicing some down and conversing with others. It is not necessary 
 to fight your way through all the quests, until the endgame, where it's all you'll be doing. Indeed, 
 after a nicely planned middle section the finale seems a little too battle-oriented, but to the 
 designers' credit it does feel suitably epic. The final choice between light and dark will change 
 the way the end plays out but is little more than a decision - you can go from full light to (half) 
 dark during one conversation. Considering the rest of the game teaches you that it is a long journey 
 with many choices that gets you to the light / dark it is strange to be able to decide with an 
 answer or two. 'face it, you are evil, join me.' 'ok'. It does, however, give you a chance to experience 
 both outcomes to the game without having to replay it all, if you save at the right time.
  Combat is handled as a mix of realtime and turn-based. You can pause and issue orders at any time 
 and then continue the battle. Some of your teammates tend not to choose the best attacks when left 
 to their own devices, so you may find you need to micromanage the tougher battles. Speaking of 
 tougher battles, I found many of the 'bosses' to be too resistant to force powers, although this 
 might have had something to do with my character creation.
  The game itself is linear until you leave the first planet, and then will allow you to choose which 
 planets to visit. Each planet is well-crafted and has a different feel. You won't mistake which 
 one you're on at any time. And while Hoth may be missing, you do get Tattoine and Kashyyk, among 
 others. Certain battles will occur at different places depending on the order in which you visit 
 the planets, so you don't have to worry about missing anything or the 'correct' way to travel. 
 It will be awhile before you become a Jedi, but this will just give you a chance to experience 
 the universe through the eyes of a 'citizen'. Let's face it, anyone who can strangle people long-distance 
 probably won't be in awe of much. 
  
  KOTOR is a suitably epic Star Wars game, enjoyable by novices and veterans, although the latter 
 may find it a little console-y at times. When you consider what this game could have been (lisping 
 bumbling sidekicks, e. g.) you'll appreciate the opus it is. For an RPG, it's quite good, for a 
 Star Wars game, it is excellent, and for a Star Wars RPG, it is a masterpiece. So grab your cantina 
 drink and get adventuring. But beware the Dark Side. As usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeBiscuit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I had a copy of this lying around the house for sometime before I'd found the time to pick it up 
 and actually play it. Initially I was a little sceptical of the choose-your-own-destiny idea that 
 was being emphasised as a the more unique aspect of the game. After all having played Jedi Academy 
 I was disappointed as the black and white nature of the 'choice' that is given to the player. Thankfully 
 KOTOR goes in a different direction.
  
  The new system of Light/Darkside points that only marginally affect the main player helps to emphasise 
 and ultimately decide how evil or good the player wishes to be. Furthermore the effect your alignment 
 has on your force powers aids in the commitment that one would have to Light/Dark Side powers and 
 thus not allowing for you to be the good guy yet at the same time not being able to use the kickass 
 powers like lightning and drain. 
  
  The RPG style is also more enjoyable than the typical slasher system of previous games. Party members 
 with proficiencies in blasters are at times more useful and more fun to use than the force users 
 which can allow for greater longevity and the possibility of completing the game with various party 
 combinations. Storyline interaction with other party members and plot twists are generally entertaining 
 and add to the eventual choice of whether or not to adopt the Light/Dark side.
  
  The Only main gripe that I have with KOTOR was the lack of customisation with the initial character 
 set up and mostly with equipment. Customised Jedi robes would have added a more personalised touch 
 to your character but do not make KOTOR any less fun to play although some may feel that the stop-start 
 nature of the gameplay may annoy action fans. 
  However, these minor things aside KOTOR is well worth the time and energy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartalozy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Hooked from the word "go". this game has everything. The plot-line and twists make it even better. 
 Choosing to stay in the light or move to the dark is putting fate in your own hands. The array 
 of character you interact with and take into your party , all have their own stories and problems.
 
  
  After the reviews I read on this website, i decided to go and buy it and it was totally worthwhile. 
 The game play, graphics and voice acting are brilliant. The only problem is the slight technical 
 glitches which make the characters spin in circles but other than that , best star wars game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasovdaelve
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has got it all, from lightsabers, to dark siders, to Wookies, to Tatooine, and best of 
 all, an evil-half-brother of C-3P0's. Knights of the Old Republic deserves its title as Game of 
 the Year. Having a storyline that rivals the very 'Darth Vader' story and twist, this game rocks 
 the house. You may not start with the lightsaber, but the wait is worthwhile. You become instantly 
 immersed into a plot that revolves around you. Your companions are secondary, and only a few are 
 really needed for the game. The 'Evil' Droid is a great comic relief, much better than Jar Jar 
 Binks. This game is for anyone who thinks they can manage a little slyness and a quick mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: momo43088
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying..... wow! Wow! Wow! Can you say amazing? Cause that's what this 
 game is. Anyways, here's how it all happened everyone. I don't own an Xbox so I put off playing 
 this game for quite some time, but I've always wanted to try it. So finally I decided to get it 
 for the PC instead. After hours and hours of wonderful gaming the game has come to an end for me 
 so here's my review for Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic for the PC.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It's always a shame when an almost near perfect game comes across some nasty technical bugs 
 and glitches and let me tell ya there are a ton of those to be found in this version of the game, 
 but thankfully there were a few patches release to fix most of these problems. However even with 
 the patches and even an high end PC there's still a major chance you might run into several other 
 issues. But overall I found a solution to most of my problems. Just check the tech forums on the 
 Bioware website. Now lets put aside all the bugs and problems and talk about the actual graphics 
 in the game. This version of the game looks much better than the Xbox version (depending on your 
 PC specs) . Overall I was impressed by the visuals. A few frame rate issues every now and then but 
 nothing to stress about. The battle animations are great and the character models are pretty decent. 
 The planets are looking amazing and I had loads of fun exploring the beautifully designed worlds. 
 Overall I thought the graphics were great.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is where it's at. It's near perfect. The battle system is pretty easy to understand 
 and very well-balanced. The fact that you have control over the way the game actually plays out 
 through lightside and darkside decision making is just awesome. You can go about playing the game 
 in many different ways and won't get everything the game has to offer on your first play through.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is mostly good, but what I was most impressed by was the outstanding voice acting throughout 
 the game. All the dialogue in the game is spoken which means there's got to be hours upon hours 
 of voice acting. Very impressive.
  
  Why I think you should buy this game:
  
  It really has everything you'd want from a Star Wars RPG. It gives you everything you want and 
 more and then it gives you more and it won't stop. The storyline really sucks you in and you actually 
 feel like you're in the game.
  And let me tell you that this game has made my top freakin 10. And that's pretty tough. So do yourself 
 a favor and pick this game up. Xbox or PC doesn't matter. Great game either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has done what was previously thought impossible, develop a good Stars Wars game. This game 
 has everything that one expects from a Star Wars title. Jedi, clashing lightsabers, light/dark 
 side conflicts and a story that spans intergalatic worlds. The graphics are crips and claer and 
 the story is highly immersive and makes u grow attached to your in game character. An believe me, 
 nothing beats the 'wow' factor when u get your first lightsaber and engage in combat with it. The 
 replay value is high, as u will definetely want to replay the game to the the light/dark side ending. 
 A masterpiece of a game. Kudos to Bioware for giving us this excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Presumably if you were mildly interested enough to begin reading this review, you're considering 
 purchasing it, pirating it, or praising it. My advice, if you haven't already played it, go out 
 and buy it. It's a steal since they dropped the price on it and you'll feel guilty you didn't pay 
 more.
  
  All around, masterpiece of a game. Didn't give it a perfect ten because the bar on in-game graphics 
 has been raised recently. If it wasn't for that tiny superficial fact, KOTOR would get a perfect 
 rating from me. Definately in my top three games of all time.
  
  I had real low expectations for this game when I bought it. It made up for it before my character 
 touched a lightsaber. Love the new trend in Star Wars games of playing lightside/darkside. Opens 
 up the floor to some real immersive experiences. Well worth going out and getting now... RIGHT 
 NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  When I first started this I thought to myself this game sucks tremendously!! Yet I stuck with it 
 learning this new type of game play. Selecting your next move, and executing it. I soon changed 
 my mind playing it further. It ended up being one of the greatest I've played! The plot was perfect 
 with fitting in a new kind of SW world. The graphics are good, with the choose your own story gimmick 
 was a nice additive. Very addictive I might add. This is another game that seems to be way to short 
 with a less desired ending. The game rocks with excitement as you unfold the story about malak. 
 You are the chosen one! lol. Id recommend this game to any SW freak out there, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diope_agresija
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  This review won't be classic review. 
  I played a lot of PC games in my life. I have seen many titles and experienced many gameplays. 
 But this game is so deep that you think you are really one of the caracters inside the game.
  I am a Star Wars fan, but my review won't be subjective. 
  Star Wars : Knights of The Old Republic 
 has everything that one game should have : gameplay, story, visual and audio cookies.
  You see, KOTOR has only one bad point and that is unoptimised graphic. I had many tehnical troubles 
 with this game (on PC) but that is the only bad thing. Gamespot gave 9.1 to this game. Nice, but 
 listen to me :
  THIS GAME DESERVES 9.8 AND IT IS THE BEST GAME EVER CREATED.
  WHY?
  JUST TRY IT. 
  I can't describe all beauties of this game with my bad english but I had the most 
 beautiful moments of my entire life with this beautiful game.
  After playing KOTOR, any other game seems to be so boring.
  That's why I played KOTOR 2 after 
 KOTOR.
  In these two games, you choose your own role in the huge story, with many characters and detailed 
 locations. Pure gold! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic. It takes longer to say the name than to play the game. (OK 
 SLIGHT exaggeration, but seriously, cant LucasArts make their game names a little shorter) Star 
 Wars Knights of the Old Republic, otherwise known as KOTOR is the best Star Wars game, best RPG, 
 and the best game of 2003, which is proven by its 40 some game of the year awards. You get to create 
 your own Jedi and save, or conquer the galaxy. Literally, your actions can either result in a Light 
 or Dark side shift, so if for some strange reason you dont want to conquer the galaxy you can 
 be a good little Jedi and save it, or be a bad boy and kill people, steal money and of course have 
 anger and hate, you can turn to the dark side and conquer the galaxy. This is now under $20, so 
 you have absolutely no excuse not to go to Wal*Mart and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  A fasinating game, the graphics, mouth-watering, the gameplay, high addictive and the sound is 
 tremendous absolutely top notch! But you need a big system to run this beauty, if not, then you 
 won't get the best out of an instant cult PC game.
  
  Gameplay: A few minor jinks but this is a great game and worthy of buying just on the gameplay 
 alone. A long storyline, which doesn't drag on, and you control what your character does and say 
 and decide whether his a Sith Lord and a Republic Saviour. Either way this is one hell of an adventure. 
 Addictive and suprisingly long, it will take a while to complete this beauty.
  
  Graphics: If you have a good PC then this has the best graphics in a game until the next-gen consoles 
 come out. It's almost real life, one problem is the lagging and common freezing if using a low 
 quality PC or one with not so much memory as a high standard PC. Buy a decent PC then get this, 
 otherwise try to avoid it, else your gonna have major problems.
  
  Sound: The music is either high tempo or peaceful depending on where and how you are playing the 
 game. The people's speech is funny but very much good quality.
  
  Value: Worth every penny if you have the right system to run it on.
  
  Strengths: The gameplay 
 and graphics will be hard to exceed from most games and is definitely one for your gaming collection.
 
  
  Weaknesses: Slow bit rate and freezing on low standard PCs (and even high standard) mean that the 
 game could be ahead of it's time!
  
  Note: My markings will be based on my PC, where the freezing was infrequent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTOR_1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  By far the best game I have ever played. It is more of a piece of art rather than a game. I would 
 even recommend this game to people who don't care for Star Wars or RPGs. It is great. It has a 
 great plot that surprises you often. No game is even on the same level as this superb game. Not 
 only is visiting many popular Star Wars planets a highlight of the game but, the fighting is amazing! 
 Anyone who does not love this game can hardly consider themselves a gamer. KOTOR can never be beaten, 
 not by the sequel, not by anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightower8655
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game. Star Wars: KOTOR is a ground-breaking game that has raised the bar 
 for every game in its genre. The story is phenomenal (better than the first two movies of the new 
 trilogy, in my opinion.) , the option to choose the light and dark side, the consequences that come 
 with your choices, the twists that the story take, and the turn-based  
 system is intriguing and makes the battles more cinematic and exciting. Overall, a must check out 
 for XBox and PC gamers.
  
  HIGH POINTS: Great battle system. Force powers are (basically) determined by your Force affinity, 
 so if you are more Light sided, you get healing powers, enhancing buffs, and less destructive powers, 
 where as if you choose the dark side, you get more destrictive powers, but no healing abilities 
 and no buffing powers. Overall, you choose. Sure, the dark side powers are bad ass, but you will 
 want the healing and buffing powers in tough fights. You get to choose your powers, depending on 
 level and class type, but their are major advantages to chossing Light powers if you are a Light 
 character, and vice versa. Also, the fact that you can choose the Light or Dark side gives the 
 game mileage in the sense that you will want ot play the game through twice to see what will happen. 
 Also, the dialoge is great. You will actually feel kinda bad for screwing somebody over, especially 
 if it costs them their life, and they arent even real! Really well done. Even though some of the 
 Light/Dark scenarios are a bit obvious, it is still fun to be able to choose your dialoge choices 
 and your affinity with the Force. The games different characters are good, and they written well 
 enough to get you involved with them. I guess most of my high points revolve around story type 
 elements, but really, that is the high point of any truly great RPG. IF the story isnt engaging, 
 the combat is only enough to keep you interested for a short while. That is not the case with this 
 game, as the story is unmatched. 
  
  LOW POINTS: Very Few. The graphics are above average, but not great. The FMV are nice, but everything 
 else is just above standard. However, this could also be a strength, since people with lower-end 
 PC could still play this amazing game. The combat can get repetitive, and once you create your 
 ultimate Jedi, it becomes a bit too easy as well. Also, the replay value is kinda small, since 
 once you know the story from both viewpoints, you probably wont pop this one in for awhile. However, 
 you will probably want to give this one another shot a couple years later, jsut to experience the 
 thrills once more. Every weakness is a minor one.
  
  THE SCOOP: Amazing game. If you haven't played this game yet, do you self a favor and pick it up! 
 You can probably find it for $19.99 or less, so you no longer have an excuse! Discover one of the 
 best things that has happend to the "Galaxy Far, Far Away" in years. Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalapwned
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Ive never been a big rpg guy, i prfer the hack and slash or fps. But when i got this game i was 
 amazed it was so addicting. I hated rpg's for having to load each battle and taking so long for 
 your turn. This game speeds it up and its just plane fun. Sure the sith lords isnt as good but 
 its still fun. I love this game. Choosing my own adveture has so much replay ability. If you love 
 sstar wars and rpg's this is the best game you can find in that style of game. This has to be one 
 of the best star wars games ever next to the battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7_armageddon_7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say... They did it. Finally, a Star Wars RPG. They didn't just make it an RPG 
 though. They made it the best RPG I have ever played. There are so many things I enjoyed about 
 this game it's hard to decide where to start...
  
  The thing I like best about Knights of the Old Republic is the way you "feel" for your characters. 
 You take pride in your actions. When I stick up for the poor and oppressed, I feel proud about 
 it. When I confront evil, I feel a surge of excitement. It's hard to explain... The best way I 
 can describe it is I feel I have an impact on the world around me, on life in the Star Wars universe.
 
  
  The game makes you feel as if you are in the locations. When I look at the skies of Taris, I see 
 the air traffic. I hear the sound of speeders in the distance. I see people walking around. Not 
 like some of the barely populated worlds I've seen in other RPGs. The fact that the voice acting 
 is so great helps a lot too. When I look at a character and hear his/her voice, something clicks 
 inside my head. And there's a lot of it... Over 1000 bits of dialogue, or so I've heard.
  
  The era itself is an interesting one if you are a knowledgable person in Star Wars expanded universe 
 content. The Old Republic was when the most powerful Jedi lived... well, before NJO that is. The 
 amount of content integrated from the various comics is astounding and for someone like me who's 
 heard many of the terms before, it's quite interesting.
  
  The story itself is pretty good. I certainly did not expect some of the twists and turns of it, 
 although I was trying to predict what would happen next for much of the game. Indeed, the game 
 is more like one good book: tearing through it to see what happens next, the next chapter better 
 than the last.
  
  The only downfall is that it only lasts 25-30 hours, which feels short. Tales of Symphonia on the 
 GC took 80 hours to complete. But what it lacks in length, it makes up for replayibility. You see, 
 every single decision you make has an impact on how you will play out the game. The biggest deciosn 
 involve light side and dark side. But the smaller decisions involve helping people or getting money. 
 These too affect the overall game. I have currently replayed the game 4 times, each time discovering 
 new things that I had not noticed before... Trust me, you'll replay it more than twice...
  
  The graphics of KOTOR are pretty nice. The animations certainly are good. The lightsaber combat 
 looks great and natural. It would be nice if they had more moves, but at least it looks fluid. 
 Textures looks sharp enough and environments, expecially outdoor ones, convey their proper aura. 
 By the way, I love the lighting effects on most of the worlds. It's better when it's sunny out 
 instead of dark and rainy and metallic gray, etc, etc.
  
  The musical score is one the best I've listened to. It conveys hints of the original Star Wars 
 score, yet alters it an intelligent way in order to fit the Old Republic Era. The lightsaber clashes 
 and Force power sound effects all are worthy of the Star Wars name. So, is the voice acting.
  
  In the end, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is a great game that immerses you in its 
 world, emotionally connects itself to you, and is great fun! You need not be a Star Wars fan to 
 appreciate this well-made game. My long (and I will say looooooooong) wait was not in vain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Soaked is Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 made right. The original title was so buggy that I had to put 
 it aside cause I was getting too nervous that it would crash everytime I was moving something around 
 that I was saving every 3 minutes. 
  
  If just for solving the bugs of RCT3 this expansion is worth it but since it's supposed to be like 
 that originally they had to put something more for me to buy it. 
  
  And they did. The new themes adds a lot of fun and diversity. The water effects, waterfalls and 
 everything related to water are very nicely done. The possibility of going underground is a blessing 
 since now it's very easy to actually make a coaster on mountains where it was a lot of work previously. 
 I also saw a bit of performances improvements. 
  
  All in all, this expansion is one of the best expansion done in all games this years.... but it 
 comes at a price. Only 10$ less than the original games. I find that a bit overpriced for an expansion. 
 With all the bugs the original game had, I would have been more kind to the fans if I would be 
 Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  Like i said, 80% of this game is completely ripped off and you're liking it.
  
  First of all, let's start with this:
  Neverwinter Nights: Made by the same company with the same 
 engine with the same tools but that's okay, of course.
  
  ~~~~~~Spoilers!!!!!~~~~~~~
  
  Let me just blatanly lie down the plot of NWN.
  You are the only one who has proven himself able 
 to save Neverwinter, so you are ordered to collect 4 (Starmaps, hint) beasts which can cure the 
 plague that is ravaging the city, you're superior is the Paladin Aribeth, an elf with great power 
 who is second in command of Neverwinter, however, as epic stories go, it's not just confined to 
 finding 4 beasties on the loose, you'll uncover a great plot to overthrow Neverwinter, blabla, 
 this is the part where KOTOR start's rippin': After Aribeth's lover dies she betrays Neverwinter 
 and joins the otha side (in a much more believeable way then Bastilla, i might add) , what follows 
 is a complete rip of of NWN: 
  The same quests: Example: Dantooine, when the 2 guys shoot each other and they blame each other 
 for starting it and you have to solve it? From NWN, along with the solution. other example: Manaan 
 Trial, ripped off, exactly, including the correct outcome,
  
  the same puzzles:
  The thing where you have to align the rings on a machine correctly in Korriban? NWN!
  
  the 
 same dialogs........
  
  And don't dare to say it isn't true, IT IS, i've played NWN tons of times and i've played KOTOR 
 multiple times too.
  
  The only things that are different, new and refreshing in KOTOR are the few sparse lines with Bastilla, 
 your Jedi training (which i thought was VERY good, the best part of the game, maybe) and the last 
 30 minutes of the game.
  
  The only reason why this game is reasonably good is most likely because the combat is much better 
 then NWN and because the graphics look better too.
  
  In the NWN vs. KOTOR battle Kotor certaintly wins, but don't forget that NWN was here before KOTOR 
 and that it barely added much to it, most part of the game has been done before, and EXACTLY that 
 way. Kotor is decent fun to play for a while, but it's still a complete and total rip-off.
  
  You know what the worst thing about it is? 
  The game gets tons of rewards, i see people 
 calling it "The new standard for RPGs".........................
  Guys, this game is nothing, nobody ever did anything except make some areas and plant some beasties 
 here and there.
  And you know what? YOU LIKE IT!
  Al these rewards are talking to the devs right now, saying "Dude, these morons get some uninspired 
 stuff under their noses and they call it game of the year, let's make more games that are completely 
 ripped off!"
  
  Anyone remember Baldur's Gate 2? It took an average of 450 hours to complete, and it's expansion 
 about 80 hours. 
  As for KOTOR and all games in general today: Kotor takes about 60-80 hours, and you know what? 
 People think that's A LOT!
  
  Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment and perhaps Icewind Dale are the true standards of any REAL rpg, 
 one which has been thought about, worked out and original and those terms do absolutely not apply 
 to KOTOR.
  
  People say this game is great, i say those people are responsible for making gaming into a Hollywood 
 type business, thanks guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Four thousand years before Anakin Skywalker was even born the galaxy had its fair share of dark 
 times. Bioware's Knights of the Old Republic chronicles one of these eras, an era known as the 
 Sith Wars. For a long time Star Wars fans have wanted to experience their own adventure in the 
 Star Wars universe, and KotOR lets those fans leave their own mark on Star Wars history brilliantly 
 during the Golden Age of the Republic long before the Clone Wars were even conceived.
  
  In KotOR you assume the role of a customizable officer (Soldier, Scout, or Scoundrel) in the service 
 of the Republic. Your mission was to help the young and talented Jedi Bastila on a mission when 
 the cruiser you were stationed aboard is attacked by Sith forces above the Urban world of Taris. 
 The plot unfolds as you end up being dragged in a galactic conflict between not only the Republic, 
 and the Soldiers and machines of the Sith, but the Jedi and dark followers of the Sith legacy led 
 by the ruthless Darth Malak as well.
  
  KotOR is filled with memorable characters most of them being individuals who join your party on 
 your quest to save the galaxy before it falls to the Sith. Among them are a tormented pilot, an 
 arrogant Jedi, a psychotic protocol and assassination droid, and a ruthless Mandalorian mercenary 
 plus more. What more could you want?
  
  Over the course of the game you will be forced to make decisions regarding both the main plot and 
 minor plots that you encounter along the way. KotOR uses a dialogue tree system similar to most 
 PC RPGs that have come out since 1997. Unfortunately the choices you make bear little consequence 
 except for your alignment; for example some choices will move you further to the light side, some 
 further to the dark side, and some will not affect your alignment at all. Most choices also do 
 not effect the progression of the storyline; which is a shame.
  
  The gameplay in KotOR is reminiscient of Bioware's past RPGs Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights. 
 KotOR uses a combination of real time and turn based attack and defense mechanics during combat, 
 and like Bioware's past RPGs you are able to pause the game at any time by using the space key. 
 Along with the usual attack and defense mechanics KotOR uses its own "Star Wars" version of a magic 
 system which is widely known as "The Force". Unlike most RPGs, however; your PC and NPC force points 
 replenish over time, so you won't have to sleep out in the wilderness or at an inn every ten minutes.
 
  
  The graphics are satisfactory. The Environments are nicely detailed, but often the character models 
 look fairly unrealistic when compared to character models in games like Vampire: The Masquerade 
 - Bloodlines which features more realistic looking characters, and animations. Most of the player 
 portraits\heads are abysmal, and the same NPC heads are used over and over again making you often 
 feel like you met the same person you're talking to on another of the planets you previously visited.
 
  
  The sound is excellent. The sound is your typical Star Wars sound effect library despite the fact 
 that the game is set four thousand years before the era most of us are familiar with. The music 
 is composed by Jeremy Soule, but despite the music being fairly solid it sounds like it belongs 
 in a fantasy RPG rather than a Star Wars RPG. The voice acting on the other hand is amazing; it's 
 not quite as good as VTM: Bloodlines, but it's not too behind, and is definitely better than the 
 acting in the Star Wars prequels.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a must play for every fan of the Star Wars saga who wanted 
 to live their own adventure in the Star Wars universe. Don't let the fact that it is set four thousand 
 years before the era you're familiar with alienate you; KotOR's Sith War era manages to remain 
 very similar to the Clone Wars\Galactic Civil War eras while having its own distinct look and feel. 
 This is a must play whether you are a fan of the Star Wars film saga or not; KotOR lets you leave 
 your own mark on the Star Wars galaxy like Anakin Skywalker and Luke Skywalker will do four millennia 
 later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  One of the finest games I've played in many years.
  
  Bioware have done an amazing job with this games, graphically excellent, great sound and atmosphere. 
 The story is excellent and keeps going, with a cast of interesting characted, with good voice acting, 
 this makes for a great narrative.
  
  Bioware also took the time to release some patches fixing bugs and adding one or two minor features 
 - many games studios / publishers don't do this, not game is bug free and many have bad problems 
 on release, it's good to see a games studio that cares. 
  
  Alround, highly recommended to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hornet1771
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the Star Wars franchise. It holds up to the legendary movies. 
 
  KOTOR has a great plot, fun combat, and the best replay value out of any game i have ever owned. 
 After i played it the first time (which i did for a week straight) I realized how in depth the 
 plot really is and how many differant ways you can take the story. You can bet, kill things, or 
 trade for money and supplies. I had to play it 3 times just to see how i could twist it.
  Buy this game and you will not be disappointed if you are a star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I bought K2 first. This is better. Better characters, better story, better enemies, better ending. 
 I love it. One of the games I've most played ever/ It is a super game. The planets are wicked, 
 the quests are very fun, the party characters actually have a back story, and you don't need influence.
 
  
  It even has a good first bit, by miles. K2 had the Ebon Hawk and Peragus II. Both fine, helps you 
 get to grips first time, but tragically mind-numbingly boring afterwards. K1 has the Endar Spire 
 and Taris. Taris is nice and the Endar Spire is much more action-packed than the Ebon Hawk puzzle. 
 The planets are all nice and happy (except Kashyyyk) rather than dead and dark, and on this Korriban 
 is my favourite planet; on K2 it's my least favourite.
  
  All in all, amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousincheeto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Everyone should play this game it has a great balance of Gameplay, Story, Action, and Character. 
 I cant wait to play the Second installment and see what happens next, I can only get bigger and 
 better like Star Wars always delivers. I have played lots of PC games in my time (22 years) , but 
 this one is probably the best. Villain is Good, Awesome and complex story, and great Battle formats. 
 And who can go wrong if you can build your own lightsaber. I love visiting all the places in the 
 Star Wars universe like Tatoeen, Dantoeen, and Kasyykk ( Sorry about spelling) . And new places 
 like Manaan, and Taris, Its just a good game. The one thing I love is how the Universe feels familiar 
 but not a huge rip-off of the Movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  1) Role play: Finally, a role playing game where you in fact role play! KoTOR brought to the genre 
 something that has been seriously lacking and that's choice. in KoTOR you are presented with many 
 different dialog responses to the situations you are faced with. They are presented in a way that 
 it's usually quite obvious which ones will bring you closer to the dark side of the force and which 
 will bring you closer to the light side. Playing the game as an evil jedi is a different experience 
 than as a good one. There are moments in this game that are so good you will be talking about them 
 for decades, especially when you play the evil jedi.
  
  2) Combat: The combat in KoTOR is in no way all that difficult and presents a minor to decent challenge 
 to the experienced action rpg gamer. The system is fairly easy to pick up and master. Combat in 
 KoTOR is very much in line with traditional Star Wars games with lots of laser blasts, explosions, 
 and of course light sabers.
  
  3) Story: The story in KoTOR is excellent. You experience many aspects of the Star Wars universe 
 from dealing with thugs, merchants, citizens who want your help, to the more serious main plot 
 encounters with the Jedi Masters and the Sith Lords. You will love the story and want to play the 
 game at least twice to see it from both the light and dark sides.
  
  4) Replay value: The replay value for this RPG/Action RPG is unmatched. No other game up to the 
 release of KoTOR offers such a desire for gamers to play it again. The game significantly changes 
 when you make different choices. It has set a new standard for RPG's to live up to.
  
  5) Visuals: The graphics are not he strongest sell point to KoTOR but where the game lacks in detailed 
 graphics it more than makes up in overall look and feel. You will believe you are in the Star Wars 
 universe while playing this game. Characters have the style of Star Wars and everything feels right. 
 The art direction was also well done.
  
  6) Character selections: You get a wide variety of characters to play with in this game from the 
 traditional favorites like Wookies and R2 units to the other races and character classes that will 
 help you on more specialized assignments.
  
  7) Fun factor: The game is straight up addicting and fun. You will get a good 15+ hours out of 
 this game the first time through and you will wonder where the time went.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Lack of exploration: KoTOR pretty much has tight environments where you really have your 
 path laid out for you. The backgrounds make the game seem big but you are confined to a relatively 
 small gaming world. I'd like to have seen a much larger world to explore instead of the seemingly 
 small one they give you.
  
  2) No real side quests: What can I say? As a fan of RPGs I've been spoiled by Elder Scrolls III 
 and its vast gaming world. I want to be able to explore and find side quests all over the place 
 that bring me closer to the everyday life and adventures in the Star Wars world. KoTOR does not 
 offer that.
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) BUGS: KoTOR was released with many bugs ranging from game lock ups, crashes, black screens, 
 you name it. Like most RPG's I suggest waiting two weeks after the release date to see if there's 
 a patch or if there's already one in the works. If so then you wait. Otherwise the you will be 
 allowing for the developer's mistakes to ruin your gaming experience.
  
  Overall: KoTOR is one of those games that doesn't deliver the greatest visuals or sound and it's 
 the story and role play that makes it great so the overall score can never reflect how truly great 
 this game is. For RPG / Action RPG fans KoTOR is quite possibly the best game of all time. What 
 more can be said? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  In Knights of the old republic, you start out on a shuttle which is taking heavy damage under an 
 attack by the sith fleet. You escape the shuttle in the escape pods, along with Carth Onasi, the 
 captain aboard the ship. Your mission on Taris, the planet upon which you land is to find Bastilla, a 
 young jedi, as she is essential to victory for the jedi, as her battle meditation can be used to 
 turn the tide against the enemy. This proved useful when she defeated Darth Revan one year earlier.
 
  
  Already in the early portions of the game there is alot of story, and some great plot twists. The 
 main story is really that you travel from planet to planet in search of the Starforge. You don't 
 have any idea what it is, but the jedi agree that it probably should be destroyed... And so begins 
 your quest to save the galaxy.
  
  The game play is like a real-time RPG, only you can press pause to look around and issue some commands 
 if you need too. The combat isn't very difficult, and it can be a bit unbalanced, but you'll have 
 fun anyway as you fight your way through mostly anything that is beatable. One of the great things 
 about Knights of the Old Republic is that you can customize your character to many different battle, and 
 use types. You may specialize on demolition skills to put out mines etc. You can train yourself 
 in computer skills, making it easier to hack into computers. Or maybe you'll prefer a persuade skill, to 
 use your words to make people do what you want them to, or persuade them by using the force. The 
 options are near limitless.
  
  The game is not perfect though, there's some major stability issues getting in the way now and then, everything 
 from lagging on even the lowest graphic settings to just plain shutting down. And sometimes you 
 have to restart your computer just to get it started. (Maybe reason enough to rather buy it for 
 Xbox)
  
  As for the graphics it's really not that great compared to many other games out there, but they 
 definitely aren't an issue either. The game also has some in-game movies, but these are rather laggy, and 
 they rarely have much to do with the story itself, reguarly just hints towards where the star maps 
 are.
  
  The soundtrack is one of the places where the game scores 100% it's just great, and really adds 
 to the game, where as other games usually have the same repeating battle theme all through the game, this 
 game has several.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is a game really worth buying, if you can look away from the stability 
 issues, great story, great soundtrack, and very innovative way of communicating and getting through 
 the story makes this one of the best games I've played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea either. It was one thing to produce an RPG that was head and shoulders above the 
 rest 20 years ago, but to do it in today's saturated market is a challenge to say the least. It's 
 like Wade Boggs' 7 consecutive 200 hit seasons, or his leading the AL in batting average 4 consecutive 
 years. It's absolutely amazing.
  
  Once again Bioware delivers a near flawless game, proving that their legacy would have been pretty 
 safe had they all decided to retire after the game's release.
  
  A compelling story, with graphics that wow'd me more than a little left me itching for more once 
 the game was over. Like a really good ice cream cake; you may be full, but you know you could squeeze 
 just a little more into your belly.
  
  The mini-games were an interesting break from the normal game, and, in my opinion, Paazak should 
 be played in Vegas.
  
  In depth and well written dialogue blend seemlessly into the mystique of the Star Wars universe, 
 with the voice talent bringing it to life perfectly. I bought this game on a whim, as I was a bit 
 single player rpg starved. What I received was an incredibly rewarding experience, and all for 
 $29.99. Heh, I figured I played about 75 hours. That equates to about 38 cents an hour. Heck of 
 a value if you ask me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duff_ManX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I don't like RPGs that much.
  There, I've said it. Now I'm sorry if your life revolves around them but I just find them to be 
 too slow and often too long. I would rather have a fairly fast paced action game that could be 
 clocked within or around 20 hours.
  Then comes Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic.
  The first real RPG I played on my PC which I did not actually finish until almost a year later. 
 After upwards of 60 hours gameplay I can safely say that it has changed my view of the role-playing 
 game for life.
  
  The gameplay is really simple after you've discovered all there is to it. I found the most enjoyable 
 part of this to be the lightsaber battles. Choosing the attacks and then letting my character pull 
 them off still gives me a uzz. Other than that, there is the HUGE amount of character interaction 
 and conversations which are great, although can drag on sometimes. Nevertheless, they are well 
 written as is the story and everything else.
  
  Graphics are admittedly the low point of the game but are still very good, especially the special 
 effects used in battles. There is a wide range of characters, each unique in their own way. You 
 can find aliens, humans, Wookies, etc.. A down side is that there are only a few models of people 
 used in the game which are duplicated for the less important NPCs.
  
  Voiceover for characters is excellent which must've taken God knows how long to record. Some alien 
 races have their own language as well, adding to the authenticity of the game's universe. All the 
 classic Ben Burtt sound effects can be heard such as gun fire and lightsaber swooshes. Although 
 John Williams' score is in the game, most of the music is original and quite good.
  
  Value can be determined by how long you would spend on an RPG doing all of the optional side quests 
 and collecting every piece of equipment. As I did this, my finished game was about 60 hours - a 
 long time playing a game in my books. I did enjoy it though, so there was a great sense of accomplishment 
 once the credits began to roll.
  
  Overall, a very immersive and highly rewarding experience. Not a lot of people outside Star Wars' 
 most devoted audience would give this the chance it deserves, but those who do will be utterly 
 satisfied if they are willing to put in the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knight of the old Republic is game from well known star wars series. It is a must have 
 game for RPG lover. Like good RPG game it has a strong background story  war between Jedi and 
 Sith  war for power and dominance over world. From start to end you have the full power to do 
 anything you wish whether its good or bad. You have to travel through various worlds in order 
 to reach the main culprit. In this way you will meet with many interesting character each has different 
 ability, power and you can and should use to overcome many difficult situations. There are thousands 
 of different lines of conversation that you can use during the whole game. There are both inner 
 and outer environment present in the game. There are some side games like pazzak card, snoop race 
 present in there. You can use at most three characters at a time and its very easy to use different 
 action on enemy. Overall a great game that has no match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcarpent
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, when I first heard about Star Wars: KOTOR, I had my doubts. How many crappy Star Wars 
 games are out there, anyway? It seems like, these days, every license has its fair share of games 
 that everyone wishes had never happened. I, for one, am glad that KOTOR did happen, though. After 
 I actually played it, there was no way I could say that it wasn't a good game. 
  
  Although I am not a huge fan of Star Wars (I like it, I'm just not one of those "let's camp out 
 in front of the movie theater" kind of guys, I found the fact that KOTOR was set in the Star Wars 
 universe to help the story quite a bit. After all, how cool is it to be able to play a character 
 in a full, immersive RPG where you can become the strongest person in the galaxy through the use 
 of force powers? I have to admit, it makes for a dang cool setting. 
  
  As far as game mechanics go, the interface is set up in a very intuitive, easy to use manner. Although 
 at times it is obvious that the game was ported to the PC from the XBOX (through various funky 
 menu controls, etc.) , it doesn't really detract from the experience. The game plays much like a 
 third person shooter while moving around the world (s) , but once combat begins, a "pause whenever 
 you want and give orders" system takes over. In this way, the combat is somewhat similar to the 
 system in place in single player Neverwinter Nights modules. When the action is resumed, the combat 
 plays out in a semi-realtime system, where nice effects such as parrying, dodging, etc. is shown 
 in pretty good detail. Force powers can be used at will, though they are limited through a "force 
 bar" that keeps powers from being used incessantly. Combat, for the most part, is well done and 
 fairly intuitive.
  
  Character development is one of the areas where KOTOR shines. The system is based on the d20 system, 
 which has both its pros and cons. For the most part, though, the developers did an excellent job 
 of keeping the good things and eliminating the bad things. Classes are actually chosen twice in 
 the game, once for your starting class and once for your jedi class (this is because you gain jedi 
 powers sometime during the game) . These classes help individualize your character, and make your 
 character closer to who you want him or her to be. The result is a deep character progression system 
 that includes classes, levels, feats, and skill points. Every level a certain number of skill points 
 are gained, which depends on both your class and your intelligence score. The points can be used 
 to raise skills, some of which are class skills (easy to raise) and some of which are cross-class 
 skills (harder to raise [2 skill points for one point gain] ) . Feats can be chosen with a fair degree 
 of freedom, though some may have prerequisite feats, skills, or abilities. When combined, though, 
 these aspects join into a very well done advancement system that any RPGer will love.
  
  The place KOTOR shines the most, though, is definitely in its non-linear storyline and its abundance 
 of choices given to the player. At nearly every turn the hero/villain will have to make choices 
 between the light and dark sides of the force. Usually, the dark side choices are both easier AND 
 more advantageous for the player, so playing the light side can be hard at times. This is good, 
 however, because it helps give the feeling of the dark side "enticing" the hero with its power. 
 Many of the choices the character must make help determine the future of the worlds you visit, 
 and the galaxy as a whole. Depending on your choices, the character can be either the most beloved 
 jedi master, or the most hated sith lord around. It's nice to have that kind of freedom in a game. 
 It also adds to the game's replay value. Because of the different classes and the different alignments 
 (good/evil) , playing this game through more than once is a very compelling option. After going 
 through the game sparing every sniveling thief, for example, one might just want to play through 
 as a dark sider and force choke or force shock them to death.
  
  The party in the game can never contain more than 3 characters. There are many characters in the 
 game to choose from, though, who may join the group at any time. Generally, though, there will 
 always be some characters that "fit" your hero the best, whether you are light side, dark side, 
 or somewhere in-between. Generally, it's best to travel with those who compliment your main character 
 well and share somewhat the same moral views as him (otherwise be prepared to be lectured and complained 
 at) . Mixing alignments can also have interesting effects on dialog between party NPC's. Interesting 
 discussions can occur between some, others will practically be at each others' throats.
  
  The equipment to be found in the game is quite varied, though perhaps not overwhelming. Weapons 
 vary from swords to heavy rocket launchers, and armor can vary from cloth jedi robes to heavy metal 
 armor. Different types abound, and I never felt like there wasn't enough variety. The drops are 
 mostly static, though some randomness in the less important items does occur.
  
  The story is really quite compelling, and the hero's actions really will have an impact on the 
 people you meet. The general story, though, involves the finding out about your past (you have 
 lost your memory) and becoming a major player in the sith/jedi confrontation. I don't want to reveal 
 much about the story if you haven't played it, so I will just say that it is very well written 
 and definitely a great addition to the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are great, you will catch no complaints from me here. Compared to the XBOX 
 version, the graphics are much better. The PC version is capable of running at much higher resolutions 
 than the XBOX does, as well as turning on options like anti aliasing and anisotropic filtering. 
 If you have a fairly modern video card, you should be able to turn at least some of these options 
 on and enjoy the show. With a good video card, all options can be enabled, and the game looks absolutely 
 great. The sounds are good as well. The alien races speak in their own tongues, the voice acting 
 is well done, and the sound effects in general are very well done. If I had one complaint here, 
 it would be that after awhile you can tell that the alien "speech" is actually the same few sound 
 clips playing regardless of what is actually being said. This, however, is quite small and easily 
 overlooked.
  
  The save game feature and loading times are negligible. After seeing it on the XBOX, I was glad 
 for this. Saves on either are pretty fast, but loading takes a very long time on the box, where 
 the PC really hauls. The PC version should be fully patched before playing. Don't forget this. 
 Overall, though, the game is solid on either system, and it definitely stands tall among the RPG's 
 that have been released lately in terms of both content, depth, story, and fun factor. If you haven't 
 played this game yet and you're a fan of RPG's, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Great experience ! Especially the fighting system make your combat options a thinking process instead 
 to a react and click one. For the first time I find a rpg with a stabile platform - no more corrupted 
 saves or
  freezing - and the moving problems on Tatooine could be overcome if you download the latest drivers 
 for the video card. The main attraction is the storyline, with twists and options - good vs evil 
 - that keep the interest up making KOTOR much more fun than Star Wars movies. Also the interface 
 is simple , well balanced and you have the chance to save avoiding ESC who create a lot of problems 
 in Morrowind or Aquanox , for example, crashing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chokedoke
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  First off i have to say that i loved this game i played it through twice one straight after the 
 other for quite some time i couldnt put it down. The first time through reminded me of another 
 classic planscape torment.
  
  So this game is great for both star wars and rpg fans even if your not a star wars fan then the 
 story is far enough detached from the films for it not to matter. The story is in itself excellent 
 except for a little dilution at the end.
  
  There is so much to do in this game its great i went through the first time as a sith lord and 
 loved all the power i had and the fight scenes when you got your lightsabers where brilliant to 
 watch. And then i fancied a change so went through as a jedi sentinal which was such a different 
 playing experience, i think with each jedi and sith having three options of playstyle each i could 
 quite happily go through this game at least four times without it becoming to stale.
  
  But with all the good points there have to be a few bad ones. First of the AI of your party members 
 leaves much to be desired they always seem to get themselves into a place which blocks you in quite 
 a annoying. Also the story is amazing but at the end they through some stuff in which is like trying 
 to swallow a whole pizza at once when youve only being getting a nice slice throughout the rest 
 of the game. The pizza is still good but it takes a while to swallow when you dont have much time 
 left.
  
  Also near the end of the game a warrior charcter can get so strong in melee abilities that you 
 just send them forward let them kill everything with a heal or two in the bigger battles never 
 really needing to use any special abilities.
  
  Anyway im putting this game in my top list along side Planscape: Torment and a little below Final 
 Fantasy VII as an amazing RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of my favorite Star Wars games. It is very different from most shooters. 
 You start out as a soldier aboard a ship and because of your exceptional skills you eventually 
 become a jedi with a lightsaber and "all the works." The graphics are pretty good, above average 
 but not excellent. The storyline is awesome. Of course, I won't tell you the ending but the game 
 storyline is really cool. The music and sound gets you all into the Star Warzy mood. This game 
 is almost essential to any gaming library. I would really hope that everyone would play this game. 
 But mind you, it is not perfect, but it is almost close. Have fun!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This first game of the KotOR series has it all. Being able to fully customize your character, whether 
 it be the item he/she uses or their personal attributes, you have complete control. You will venture 
 to a few key planets in the Star Wars universe and encounter the inhabitants and even a few Sith, Bounty 
 Hunters, or merchants.
  
  Every choice you make in the game will have a certain effect on your progression. Players will be 
 forced to make decisions that will lead them down a path of light or darkness.
  
  The party system is a great way to tweak your fighting styles and the way you handle each situation.
 
  
  While moving between planets mini- games may arise where you have to destroy Sith scouts that are 
 trailing your star ship.
  
  In general, the graphics are smooth, the sound is true to the Star Wars name, and the storyline 
 is great. Buy this game, it is great even if you aren't a fan of Star Wars. This game will make 
 you one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinian
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  It is the first RPG in Star Wars universe and I must say that Lucas Arts had good hunch to give 
 this assigment to Bioware- The Masters of RPG.
  
  First of all, the story plot is very good. It takes a while to get into it (the first few hours 
 have almost no action- you can start as an scoundrel, soldier or scout. But further it's getting 
 better and better- you will restore your connection to The Force and become one of The Jedi Classes. 
 Then the story takes you right to the dramatic plot turn which is awesome. I won't tell you what 
 about is that turning point , you must see it. I don't want to spoil the fun.)
  
  Going next is the game play. Learning Curve is very short. Ordinary player will have to learn about 
 it for aproximetaly 10 minutes. All of the menus are very handy and easy to learn. The Mechanic 
 of the game is slightly different from what Bioware used to do. We don't have any window which 
 the info about dice rolling. Everything about the damage given to your enemy is showed us a red 
 number flowing away above your opponent. As for weapons, all of the most important are here ofcourse 
 including Light Saber (which you can modify with apropriate crystals)
  
  Next stop- The Sound. Like as in all of games marked with Lucas Arts logo the quality of the Sound 
 and Music is great. While playing the game I was feeling like watching the trilogy. Cool feature 
 is that all of the dialogues have recorded voice. I love to listen to speaking Twil'eks 
  
  Graphics are just sweet. At the beginning I was worried that RPG will be in 3d. But now I can see 
 that I couldn't mistaken more. Character Models, enviroment look great.
  
  Unfortunately Knights of The Old Republic have one big disadvantage. The game is very short. Accomplishing 
 it by first time will take you about 25 hours. Then you can again begin the game to complete it 
 with opposite Force Side. Then ending the game will take you max, 16 Hours. This is definitely 
 to short as for an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  such is the pull of this game that once i picked it up, i just couldnt stop.
  
  KOTOR brings to the table not just a mere game, but a lengthy tale-twisting adventure, filled with 
 choices (consequences of your choices) , side-quests, and a huge variety of weapons and equipment 
 for you to explore and enjoy.
  each of the many hours you invest in this game will not be in vain and will keep you involved and 
 happy throughout.
  
  the good points of the game - lets you choose your path and your destiny, fight for the light or 
 succumb to the darkness. challenging at times, overall a very well balanced game. stands out on 
 its own without having to rely on the name of Star Wars. interesting storyline with a great twist. 
 in short, its FUN
  
  the bad points of the game - perhaps it could do with a little graphical update. and the loading 
 could have been faster by a tad bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I have never really enjoyed the real time strategy games, and I recieved this one as a gift, wonderful 
 thought by my loving fiancee, but I tried it anyway. To my suprise, it was a really good game. 
 I have to admit I did not expect it to be near as good as it was. I enjoyed the non-linear way 
 of working through each of the planets, making it so that you didn't have to follow the exact story 
 line. For the most part the story was a bit unpredictable, unlilke most games. I enjoy that you 
 do have control over what powers and things you take on, although it seems sometimes like there 
 is just too much. I do enjoy the use of the three characters at a time, and I definitely used some 
 more than others, which makes for a better team of fighters. Really good game with a good final 
 battle. I enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivaldi7575
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a superb game, one of a kind, watching the movies was cool but role playing in the Star 
 Wars galaxy, writing its history, is 10/10.
  Imagine being in the Star Wars galaxy, you have your self a ship, nine friends
  (That are custom 
 to your beliefs and personality.) and you change them and your self any way you wish (ship not 
 included) , you choose you path down the light side of the force or if preferred the dark side of 
 the force. either way whatever is choosen by yourself will entail the galaxy's to historical mystrey's 
 four thousand years before the galactic empire (i. e before the time of starwars episode III.) You 
 join the Jedi academy, customize you, your light saber (colour ect.) and with the help of your 
 friends jedi or not you quest the galexy. you can travel to heaps of known planets Tatoine, Korriban, 
 (planet to the corrupt force of the Sith) Kashyyyk (planet to the Wookie's.) Be apart of the history 
 of this galaxy its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  I have to repeat myyself on this, I love this game. It hasan awesome plot and storyline that throws 
 a wicked twist at you. I pride myself in figuring things out but this hit me from left foeld. I 
 actually said out loud, "Wow, that is freakin awesome". The graphics are top of the line with some 
 cool cut away movies and dialog. I loved the sounds and music in the game. I can't get over the 
 Whoosh of a lightsaber going through the air and striking its target. Another great thing about 
 this game is the level of choices you have. You can play good, evil, and anywhere inbetween. I 
 loved that you could pay this game several times and get unique content and situations each time. 
 I guess this appeals to my cheap nature but getting more bang for your buck is rare in new video 
 games. If you are a Star Wars fan or dig Jedi, you must pick up this game. I highly suggest checking 
 out the sequel, as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AROWRAJA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Iam a gamer since i was eight but this game was the most interesting game i have ever played of 
 this kind of games you really control the character you create as you choose between the path of 
 dark side or the light side an you will notice the changes in characters behavior and the way people 
 deal with you.
  creating a hero is to easy you start with the face then feats and charcteristics of personality 
 of the hero you create then you choose the name and you start your journey
  as to weapons you will find alot of weapons and armors that may give you bounces if they are suitable 
 for your feats
  kinds of wepons (blaster, melee weaponsand of course the light saberswith all colors red blue green 
 etc.. 
  and if you are allowed to use the light saber you will have jedi powers
  and you are free to choose what power to gain when you are at the level requested
  the story 
 of this game is wanderful
  well enjoy this super ultra cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  In all honesty most Star Wars games have a reputation to be somewhat horrible. However the Knights 
 of the Old Republic, and Battlefront series' are slowly changing that. Knights of the Old Republic 
 is set nearly 4000 years before the events of the movies. The Jedi war heros return to the galaxy 
 as Sith bent on domination. However the Jedi set a trap and capture Revan, leaving Malak as the 
 Dark Lord with full control of the Sith fleet. Your character awakens aboard a Republic ship and 
 you must find a way off the ship while its being attacked by the Sith. What the game does as far 
 as character generation is let you select your characters profile, skills, feats and your class, 
 while your not a Jedi you will eventually be trained as a Jedi. Combat is rather simple, you issue 
 commands to your character (s) and they perform them in the order that they are given, you can even 
 pause the game and issue commands with your characters. Being an RPG the game uses saving throws 
 to determine how well you perform. As you progress throughout the game you can level up your character 
 and other party members as you see fit, or let the game do it automatically. In terms of graphics 
 most of the game is presented very well, environments are as diverse as you'd expect in the Star 
 Wars universe. Most character models are done well, although you may find one or two that could 
 use some extra work. Sound is absolutley amazing, every blaster shot, humming of the lightsaber 
 sounds as if it was taken directly from the movie. The dialogue is one of the game's best features, 
 the game offers hours of dialogue and progresses the story without leaving you bored. The best 
 aspect of the game is it's story, the game will have you coming back again and again after you 
 beat it. Rather than being a straighforward game you can travel to any planet in any order you 
 see fit. Overall Knights of the Old Republic is one of the best Star Wars games, and is certainly 
 one of the better RPGs to come in a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  I have just edited and deleted my old negative review of this game, written three years ago. At 
 the time, I rated KOTOR as low as 5.8. Mainly because of its consolish feeling, the rigid inventory 
 system, and the story I found quite childish (ain't Star Wars a tale for children, anyway ?) . And 
 I was probably disappointed because I was expecting something else, like a Star Wars version of 
 Baldur's Gate.
  
  Today I have come to appreciate this game very, very much. Like a good vintage wine, time has been 
 good for this delicately crafted game. Knights of the Old Republic, as you certainly already know, 
 is one of the best RPG ever made for a computer. Period.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 932
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  LucasAtrs hav lost the true spirit of the game play and fun in Star Wars : (
  sad but true : {
  
  The Gameplay is okay but there something missing in KOTOR that make it 100% 
 injoy full!
  Like the graphic & Sound. They are okay but could be better, and the graphic... Come on LucasArts! 
 what is wrong with you! after Jedi Knight end you get that change to make a new and more awesome 
 games! I was full of hope when I hear about KOTOR. So I say let go for this time!
  
  But plzzz giv the peopel some better in the futur after this okay!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis159
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the best star wars rpg there is. the gameplay is incredible, the graphics are specatucular, 
 it is cheap (price wise) the sound is great.
  i have spend over 1000 hours on this game. for 20 bucks, you can get a game that is well worth 
 your time if you like rpgs. can be hard at times but still fun. no spoilers in here, even though 
 i could explain its awesomeness better. the game is based 4000 before ep1, so you may find it a 
 little disorienting. the controls are easier than runescapes (it only has two buttons) anyway, 
 if you want a good game, buy KOTOR 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  If you have not played Star Wars KotOR before or are just reading this review please note that 
 there are spoilers below.
  
  Wow this game is awesome! Before i played this game i played the sequel: Star Wars KotOR 2 The 
 Sith Lords, because it was new at the time. I also wanted to find out what happened to the sith 
 lords Revan and Malak. As usual i finished it yada yada yada. Then i asked for this game for christmas 
 and got it. I thought this game had a good twist, it turns out that you are Darth Revan him/herself, 
 depending on which gender you played as.
  
  The story line goes as... Malak your apprentace, blows up your ship. The jedi scavange the remains 
 of your ship. You are found. The jedi brainwash you, and raise you as a republic soilder. Then 
 the game starts... You start out on a republic ship and you are under attack, you escape just before 
 the ship blows up you escape with Carth Onasi, a republic pilot. You crash on a sith conqured world 
 named Taris. You and Carth look for a jedi named Bastila. You buy a droid. Meet a Twi'lek and a 
 wookie. Then end up swoop racing for gangs to free Bastila. You escape the planet with a crime 
 lords ship named the Ebon Hawk. Darth Malak blows up the planet because he knows Bastila is down 
 there.
  
  Bastila takes you to Dantooine where her jedi enclave is. The jedi masters train you to be a Jedi 
 and you meet a dark jedi named Juhani a cathar, like a cat human. You go to a mysterious cave and 
 find some thing called a star map. The masters send your party on a mission to find all of the 
 star maps to find out where Revan and Malak went.
  
  After traveling to a series of planets and down loading stuff from the star maps. You travel to 
 an unknown world where Malak has traveled with Bastila as a prisoner. You get in side a temple 
 and find Bastila on top turned to the dark side. I defeated her and she escaped. I turned off the 
 disrupter shields and went to The Star Forge. Malak sends all of his dark jedi after you. You find 
 Bastilla defeat her convince her to help the republic in destroying the star forge.
  
  In the end, as Star Wars games and movies go, you have to defeat the ultimate sith. In this case, 
 Darth Malak, your old apperentice who has stolen the title of Sith Lord from you. You kill him. 
 The republic ships destroy the star forge, and you go down the the unknown planet below. You get 
 awards and the game is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I love star wars, but this game put the iceing on the cake, it flat out rules. The game is fun 
 to play and even though it is an RPG it is still fun to play. The sweet gameplay and nice in game 
 combat rules. If you like star wars and rpgs, well is the game for you. Yes yes yes i am telling 
 you to pick this one up for your own good. I am telling you you will love it. The combat in the 
 game could have been a little bit better, being a fan of real time and everything, but i think 
 that anyone willing to give this game a try will like it, very much. So if you need a great rpg 
 to kill time, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentonwcarr
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I am sorely disappointed with this game. It showed so much potential. Gameplay when the screen 
 was not frozen was great, the storyline was excellent, character development was splendid, and 
 there were plenty of sidequest to offer good replay value if you could only get through the game 
 once without the screen freezing or the game quitting on you. It doesn't look much better for the 
 sequl either. I should have spend the $49 on motorcycle magazines and beer! I started the game 
 thinking," Wow, this is one of the better games I have played!", but the fact that bugs make it 
 almost entirely unplayable make star wars: knights of the old republic worthless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Mol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Absolutely awesome. If you're a SW-fan, you really should play this game.
  
  I think it took the best out of RPG-gameplay and gave it a really cool storyline which has nothing 
 to do with the films and that it gave you a cool way to choose how to play the game in EVERY aspect.
 
  
  A really nice intro which makes you want to play the game even more
  
  And a -not in words discribable- end that's a wothy end to a game in which you get to choose it 
 all. Even in the ending you can either destroy the star forge by helping out the Republic or use 
 it as an ultimate dark-side toy against the Republic. (lol)
  
  Anyway... this game is by far worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first installed this game and played it on my PC I hated it. I really did. I wanted to take 
 it out and use it as a coster for the beer i would drown my hatered with. But after the first half 
 an hour the game picked up. I was no longer on such a narrow liniar path. I could explore, I could 
 interact. I could terrorize. I was enjoying a (gasp) Star Wars game.
  
  The good:
  Ok graphics (well they don't suck) , Nice somewhat non-liner story. memoriable characters (HK-47) , 
 comedy nicely injected at the right moments, ability to choose to be good or evil, somewhat large 
 universe with many characters, NPCs speak. Voice acting is generally well done.
  
  The Bad:
  Story still sets you on a general path, Good or evil you still fight the same people, 
 to do the same thing, takes too long to learn the ways of the force, your sub characters will be 
 underpowered unless you take the time to manually upgrade them one at a time each level ( believe 
 me you won't) , some non-english speaking characters repeat the same speech over and over again, 
 weird turn based gameplay might be a turn off.
  
  Good game. More deserving of the Star Wars name then any of the recent movies. Give it a try it 
 think it costs about $20 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arron_don
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  This game is sooo good, you should buy this game if you are interested in rpg, action, adventure 
 or anything which makes a game good. The storyline is brilliant, the characters are even better, 
 and the stuff you can do is top notch!
  
  The amount of planets you can go on is good, coz it includes many planets which any1 would know 
 about if u have played any other star wars games, or watched the movies.
  
  This game is really faithful to the star wars universe, it has force powerz, lightsaberz, jedi, 
 sith, the republic, wicked planetz, blasters, creatures, alienz, and much much more!
  
  So go and get this GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harlando
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  This is the most spectacular game in the world bar none. lightsaber fights force powers the best 
 story since ffvii you cant beat this the graphics are spectacular, the gameplay is awome there 
 isnt enough games of this standard. it must be played by all.
  
  the characters are also amaising too
  buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy
  
  you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Kinghts of the Old republic, is the awnser to the star wars fans that still had he "hunger" 
 to learn more about the Star Wars history, and here it is, in a Video Game. The game tells what happend 
 in the "past" of Star Wars, this game is going to have a sequel, there will be probably 3 *Knights 
 of the old republic* games, when the 3 games are released, you will discover the entire past of the 
 cinemas most famous saga.
  
  
  The game has not only a movie quality storyline, as it is so extremely fun to play it, you not just 
 play i because it is fun, you will play it to know more about the game storyline. The idea of making 
 a a "past" star wars game, is very, very, interesting, even my mother liked the game, thats amazing, she 
 never liked a videogame. Now, the is 4,000 years before the events of episode I (the phanton menace) . Even 
 being 4,000 before episode I, they alredy have laser guns, the famous light saber, the space ships... Maybe 
 some day, the *Knights of the old republic* series, will become Star Wars movies, because the storyline 
 is so well elaborated, that i matches the storyline of episode l. If you saw the first Star Wars 
 movie, you will notice that the jedi master Obi-Wan-Kenobi says:"For over 4,000 years ago, the jedi 
 knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the old republic..."
  Now, do you see why it matches??
  
  KOTOR (knights of the old republic) , not only brings the exelent 
 storyline, as it brings an medal deserved graphics, they just fitt perfectly the game. Another thing 
 that makes the so fun, is that you can travel to many  
 an unkown planet) , I mean, what could be more fun then dive in the ocean world of Manaan, explore 
 the tombs of the darkest sith lords, that are burried in the sith world of Korriban, Enter the dangerous 
 Shadow Lands of Kashyyyk, I mean, this is just inovative.
  
  The RPG style of this game is so fun and simple to use. You can learn feats, like power atack, critical 
 strike, toughnes and others, as you can also learn force powers, for example: Force push, Drain life 
 and Light Saber throw.
  Some of the powers are deadly, and some of then are benefitial to you and your party. Not forgeting 
 that your enemies (the sith) also can use force powers.
  
  The bosses of this game are... hum... hard to describe, there are some that are dificult, and some 
 that are easy. One example of dificult boss is Darth Malak (the ast boss, when you kill him, you beat 
 the game) . An easy boss is Darth Bandon, he just sucks.
  
  In the game, you can either choose to be seduced by the dark side, and become a sith lord, or you 
 can choose the path o light, the path oft he jedi, and save the galaxie. Ahhh, there is something I 
 forgot to mention, in the game, you discover you are the big villain, that every one tought that was 
 dead, exept for the members of he jedi council. You do not know fron the begining of the game that 
 you are Darth Revan (the villain) , bacause the jedi council ereased your mind, so you cant remember, only 
 further in the game that Darth Malak will reaveal to you, that you once were Darth Revan, the great 
 sith lord, if you choose the path of light you will finish the game as a jedi and savor of the galaxie, if 
 choose the path o darkness... you will become the dark lord again...
  
  My final conclusion of the game: This is one superb game, that you should purchase, and say:"Oh my 
 god, this one the best game ever!"
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevanVercetti
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is seriously one of the greatest games I have ever played. I still remember it ever since 
 i beat it many months ago. Never have I experienced something like this from a game.
  
  Its not like a Final Fantasy RPG. The battle sequences are in real time (much better!!) . Also the 
 characters are great. Being able to interact and talk to people just walking around is fun. 
  
  This game is incredibly addicting. It is so much fun to just move around and get to know the 
 atmosphere. The entire Atmosphere is one of the greatest aspects of the game.
  
  The story line is Amazing. It includes one of the greatest climatic moments in gaming history!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Usualspot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is an AMAZING game!!! Its graphics are superb, and it will probably be one of the best games 
 you will ever play. I have completed this game 3 times, but now I'm playing it for the fourth time. 
 So far, I have played KOTOR for 450 hours. Every detail that can be in KOTOR is there. For example, 
 when fighting an enemy, you can actually see sparks flying! Every possible item in the game has 
 a fair amount of infromation about it, like how much damage it can do, how much it can defend you, 
 how much it costs, and there is also a little write up about the item. Any possible thing you want 
 in a game is there. You can solve problems, pick fights, betray people, and choose if you want 
 to be good or evil. This is one of the best games in the gaming market and Star Wars fan or not, 
 you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  When people first see this game, they say oh man not Another one.... Well
  This isnt just another Star wars game.. Its actually a awesome game..
  You start the game Creating 
 your own Character and starting your own
  Struggle between the The Light and Dark Side. Ofcourse Most people 
  go with the sinister Dark 
 Side.. lol All this Occurs before Any of the movies.
  Wich makes it more interesting.. Instead of Darth Vader and Darth Sidous
  the baddies are Darth 
 Malak and Revan..... The Boss Fights are pretty
  challenging since the bosses are Jedis they can do everything you can
  do which means trouble. Even 
 though this happens before the movies
  But everything thats in the movies is in here. You even meet Yoda's
  Grandfather!! hehe. Overall 
 this game is just plain awesome its worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest starwars based games ever created!
  The first point I should mention if the long and challending storyline This makes the fun interesting 
 and fun and it never gets boring! The story line was unique and very creative. The graphics are 
 Excellent and make the game more exciting,
  You are allowed 3 teammated which will follow you wherever you go. You will earn more and more 
 people as you go along throughout the game. There are many quests upon quests to do all leading 
 up to the main quest to defeat the evil dark malak and his impenitrable fleet! 
  The battlemode is very different than in most games. This is not a 1st person shooter but it puts 
 you in control of how your man is to fight. This is very inovative and hands on.
  In the Game you can also choose between good or evil it put you in control to make all the decisions. 
 You can become a reched sith base on galactic conquest or a peacefull jedi swarn to bring peace 
 to the galaxy. Watch what you say anything can change the tide of the force!
  Will you join the ruthless Sith and conquer all or try and bring peace to the galaxy asa jedi. 
 You decide!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  I actually spent 78 hours playing this game.... man whats wrong with me.... the replay value is 
 excellent, you can play through the game light or dark and eachtime it has a different ending. 
 there are fun side quests to do, and if ur feeling barbaric, you can kill innocent people as they 
 plead for mercy.... its sickly rewarding.... anyway, the sound is realllllly good, graphics, shme, 
 not the best, but are still good, and the VALUE!!!!!! OOOOOOOOOOH.... star wars really needed this... 
 it is probably the best rpg i have played in a LONG time. LISTEN TO ME!!! this is truly worth your 
 $20!! so get off ur lazy ass and buy this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game without any prior knowledge of what an rpg game was, so hence i was was 
 fairly dissapointed when i first started playing. This game sat on my desk for about 3 months before 
 i started to play it again, and after i got over the fact that you had limited control during fights, 
 it has turned out to be quite a surprise package.
  
  From the start of the game, your thrown right into the action. And it doesnt really stop all that 
 much. The story line is great, accompanied by some good voice acting and dialogue. I have been 
 yet to experience any of these "faults" in the game and hope i never do.
  
  I have been lured into the dark side, and love the choice you have in the game. The only thing 
 that has been a problem is the progression rate of weapons and armor. Although you dont want to 
 be slaughtering everyone without a challenge, you want to have fun. I would have liked to see the 
 light saber earlier along with a better selection of clothes etc, but its still great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Lets get things straight. Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is the best Star Wars game period. 
 That having been said it is also one of the best RPG's to come along in a very very long time. 
 The Game of the Year award is well deserved. On the outside the game looks sounds and plays great. 
 Great graphics, a moving sountrack that will make those die-hard Star Wars fans shed a tear from 
 nostalgia, and a solid and tight control scheme that seems odd at first but soon reveals its true 
 brilliance. There are a few stability issues but nothing a quick patch download can't fix. When 
 you first start playing after a couple of minutes you can tell the game is good, but when you become 
 fully immersed in the sweeping, emotional storyline, that is when you realize it is amazing. One 
 thing this games sequel lacked strongly was character development and storyline. These are two 
 aspects that KOTOR is greatly abundant in. You will feel true connections to the characters you 
 meet on your quest and the story's many chosing point will have you fanaticly immersed in the Star 
 Wars universe. Don't get me wrong, this game is not only for those who like Star Wars but for anyone 
 looking for an incredible RPG experience. The fact that it's Star Wars, is the icing on top of 
 the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Science fiction and fantasy are ultimately exercises in imagination. When we are to bored with 
 our own real world, they give us a way to imagine how things could be different. Since not all 
 of us can be skilled in imagination, it is an artist's job (be he author, actor, or game developers) 
 to guide us along the wonders of their minds. The Star Wars universe has succeeded in capturing 
 a lot of people's imaginations, to the point new material with out any thought put into it will 
 still be consumed by the devout fan base (see Episode II for example) . Bioware largely continues 
 this tradition in Knights of the Old Republic, using a noticeably formulamatic approach to create 
 an otherwise competent RPG.
  
  First off, this game uses an adapted pen and paper rule set. If you are familiar with the 3rd edition 
 Dungeon and Dragons rules, you will be right at home. Only there will be fewer classes to choose 
 from and you'll be able to acquire "jedi powers" instead of spells. To begin you can be either 
 a Soldier (fighter) , Scout, or Scoundrel (rogue) . Later, you'll choose one of 3 Jedi classes that 
 correspond roughly to the three starting classes. Ah, to be a Jedi, that is something every Star 
 Wars fan dreams about. Surely an RPG, which is described as playing pretend with rules, could allow 
 this dream of wielding the Force better than any other genre! Unfortunately, Jedi in this game 
 tend to be just another character class. Take light sabers, in the movies you see these things 
 cutting down enemies like grass. In the KotOR, light sabers are nothing more than slightly more 
 powerful meelee weapons with class restrictions. It is somewhat disconcerting fighting a sandman 
 wielding a stick and watching him parry your light saber attacks. Then, I just can't think of Jedi 
 as ordinary people. As soon as Luke Skywalker learned the force, he started wearing robes and being 
 profound. The dialog options just don't reflect this transformation from common to Jedi.
  
  The actual game play takes place in a fixed, 3rd person, behind the back perspective. Graphics 
 are acceptable, though the Xbox roots show itself with somewhat small areas. People's faces look 
 especially good, and are lip synced fairly well. Combat is especially well animated. It is a little 
 annoying in that you can't see your companions while moving forward, but they do a good job of 
 keeping up so you can assume they're right behind you if you need them.
  
  The story, for its part, is a typical adventure narrative -- overcoming a series of obstacles to 
 defeat a great evil (or enemy) . It does contain one notable plot twist, but most experienced gamers 
 will see it coming a mile away and it doesn't do anything to change the game or the rest of the 
 story. The twist could be removed and the story not changed beyond a few pronouns. It should be 
 noted, however, the game takes place thousands of years before the events of the movies, so the 
 tale was uniquely written by Bioware. In addition, you can play as an evil character and solve 
 problems the "evil" way, such as killing somebody instead of offering mercy. The game keeps track 
 of how good or evil you've been with a point system. Other games have done this before and arguably 
 better (Planescape: Torment) , but KotOR is the first to incorporate the good and evil axis so deeply 
 in the game play. As you earn "dark points" the cost of good Jedi force powers such as Heal go 
 up. Meanwhile, evil Sith force powers such as Force Lightning cost less to use, and vice-versa. 
 There are in fact two endings, one for evil characters and one for good. Considering the black 
 and white morality of the Star Wars universe, this is a fairly appropriate system, though more 
 pensive gamers may wish there was a little room for gray.
  
  Your several companions come with their own back stories. To hear somebody's story, you can just 
 talk with them about their past until they suddenly declare they don't want to talk about it anymore, 
 but might continue later. Later is, conveniently, when you next level up, a rather mechanical approach. 
 Just in case you loose track of whose due to blab, the game will force you into dialog if you have 
 them in your party. Like I said, a rather mechanical approach. Eventually, most characters will 
 give you a quest to help them solve a problem in their past, and that will end conversation until 
 you solve their problem, usually with an estranged family member. These quests are implemented 
 fairly well, though they all follow the same pattern -- level up with them until they admit something 
 from their past. Somebody loosely involved with that past will show up (sometimes in the darnest 
 places) and tell you where the conflict can be resolved. You go, do a quest, and thats it. Everyone 
 agrees to meet at Coruscent when its all over, but that never happens.
  
  Then there is combat. I'd estimate 60-70% of your game time will be spent in combat. So, the game 
 better have interesting fights. For some strange reason, Bioware employed the real time with pause 
 combat system, the same as in NWN and Baldur's Gate. But those games were multiplayer, where pure 
 turn based was out of the question. I have always found this sort of system very unsatisfying as 
 a gamer. It works by animating combat in real time, but using a behind the scenes queue to determine 
 who attacks and when, with accuracy and damage determined by stats and dice rolls. However, unless 
 you give another command, your character will just attack. Hence, its possible to win fights with 
 out any input from the player. The whole affair feels like your watching the battle then actually 
 participating. Fortunately, this game does allow you direct control of all party members. 
  
  Though not as bad as being unfun, combat has serious balance issues. Guns are just way underpowered 
 when compared to meele weapons. They don't do as much damage as swords, and distances can be closed 
 way to quickly. This is further heightened by the fact increasing your strength increases the damage 
 meele weapons can do, as well as their accuracy. There is no counterpart to this extra damage with 
 ranged weapons. Then you can dual wield, which with enough feats is an extra attack with a small 
 accuracy penalty. Throw in a Master Flurry trait that gives you another extra attack per weapon 
 without any penalty, and you have one powerful fighter. Finally, there is force power which increases 
 speed and give bonus attacks, but you can't use it with armor. Anyways, a dual wielding Jedi with 
 Master Flurry will have a very easy time with combat. I built a character to do just this, and 
 was able to beat the final boss in less then a minute.
  
  Beyond combat, there are skills like security, repair, stealth, and computer. With repair, you 
 can fix broken droids to fight on your side. So conveniently, lots of dungeons... I mean facilities... 
 have broken droids right at the entrance. Likewise, you can use computers to overload remote terminals 
 causing them to explode and kill everyone near by. So not surprisingly, nearly every level tends 
 to have a computer terminal you can overload. See what I mean by development by formula? Meanwhile, 
 I found Stealth a rather worthless skill. Using stealth forces you away from the rest of the party, 
 so if your stealth if broken you are up a hot creek. Plus, attacking breaks your stealth which 
 makes you vulnerable to the enemies which always come in groups. These skills are an added dimension 
 to game play, but don't go very far in reducing the primacy of combat. This game is basically a 
 dungeon crawler with a cohesive story and a good chunk of dialog.
  
  One facet of this game that cannot be ignored is its multiplatform development. This was released 
 first for the X-box, and it shows. Inventory is particularly frustrating. You can basically carry 
 unlimited amounts, but there is no way to organize or view it coherently. Furthermore, you are 
 limited to 3 players in your party at any one time, and can only control one at a time. The game 
 never even attempts to explain that limitation, its simply a matter of consoles not needing to 
 be overburdened. The whole interface itself screams console, from the lack of hot keys to having 
 to scroll to select things. There is no easy way to switch weapons, making using guns even more 
 pointless. The game promises customizable weapons, but only light sabers give you some guns or 
 butter choices and real say in how to improve your equipment.
  
  In conclusion, this is an RPG, and one that does a much better job at integrating the various elements 
 of RPG game play together -- story, characters, rule set, etc. -- then Bioware's last effort, NWN. 
 Unfortunately, poor combat and a poorly realized Jedi class drag the game down. The game is also 
 plagued by one-trick-pony design. For example, you'll find numerous arms severed from their bodies 
 holding a data pad that just so happens to tell you how to beat the upcoming obstacle. There is 
 also the presence of non-sequitors. For example, the Sith GOVERNOR of the occupied PLANET of Telos 
 is a Jedi who hopes to please his master to get a light saber. Later, you'll visit the Sith training 
 academy to discover that students not even officially accepted yet have light sabers. Ultimately, 
 this is an RPG that just doesn't show much imagination in its design. If you need a Star Wars or 
 RPG fix, this will help pass the time. Just don't expect the next great thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villageidiot405
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  this game is a fantastic star wars RPG with everything you could want in customizing your character... 
 what choices you make on your day to day adventure effect your path... light side or dark side... i 
 found it particularly satisfying by choosing a pure light path and then starting over and then 
 choosing the dark side... the alternate endings are supurb and the fact that you get to rule the 
 galaxy.... well i won't say much more than that. I STRONGLY SUGGEST that you play this game before 
 you play the second one because even though this is a great game it isn't as good as it's sequel.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipie2004gmail
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Well this is probably my 2nd most favorite game next to Star Wars: Battlefront. This game may be 
 very long but definitely worth playing considering it will probably take you at least 2 days time 
 wise (but most people dont play it all day so it would take about a week to finish if you took 
 breaks from playing) to complete the first time around with no cheats or walkthroughs. Closer to 
 the end of the game you will get a surprise you werent expecting. Also this was the first RPG/Strategy 
 game I played that I actually played the whole way through. This is the game that got me started 
 on the other RPG games that I play. I also memorized the Rodian language by playing this game and 
 I now know how to speak Rodian fluently. Another great feature about this game is that there are 
 so many different outcomes to your actions and decisions that make it worth playing over and over 
 again without doing the same thing. Its kind of like you chose your own path which is written on 
 the back of the box I just noticed. But overall this is a great game and has persuaded me to buy 
 the second Knights of the Old Republic, which I am playing currently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game, I had never played an RPG. This game got me hooked, and now I keep wanting 
 more and more. The story is strong and original, taking place before all the movies. The option 
 to become either a dark or light jedi puts the story in your hands as you decide the events that 
 happen. The characters and voice acting is phenominal. The fighting is rock solid too. The graphics 
 are ok, but they're not great. The sounds and music are pretty good and reflect the sounds and 
 noise heard in the movies. The music is pretty good and sets an atmoshpere but it is not very original. 
 Most of the time it just sounds like it is copied right out of the movies. This can be good or 
 bad depending on how you see it. Overall, this game is awesome. RPG lovers will love it, and so 
 will Star Wars fans. I haven't had a chance to play the sequal yet, but I know it has a lot to 
 live up to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  Just great game it isnt tat vhat vas the oldest gam version in every veer you playd this lained 
 games you plaid in 1person shuter or strategy what els it is the bestest gaim what has com out 
 of the Lucas art about Star Wars. Of cours that isnt the saim wat is the strategy or First - Pershon 
 shuter bat it is greiter becous ther is al what you want ther is first - person shute and strategy 
 thugethe and of cour quest too. This gaim is may feivorit becaus ther you cant gou laik a crazy 
 and shoot every one you hav to play smartly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javis1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I am a SW fan, so I was surprised... so great game, so great RPG... and Its Star Wars too!
  I can say followed:
  Story: great, like directly from Georges pen! Jedis and Siths, war in galaxy..... 
 you can make your choice.... and there are many ways to complete the game... I have very enjoyed 
 playing this game as Revan... this mysterious "jedi" ;)
  Gameplay: as I said, great story... and a great controlling..... for RPG.... the best.... 
  Sound: 
 Music is like.... like..... like from Movies...... fantastic
  Graphics: good, exotic world..... many good textures, colors, enviromental effects
  My last word: 
 Amazing RPG from SW universe.... I am going to play Sith Lords... so I will review that too.....
 
  I end with this....
  
  A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_And
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  No mistakes to be made - do not fail your Master. Knights of the Old Republic made me clap my hands 
 together even if I find that to be some sort of irrational act. 
  As you start off in this game with nothing than bare hands, to slowly gain more power and better 
 items, you will get drawn into a story which completes the circle of the Force itself. The plot 
 will surely thicken as you venture on deeper into this epic story. The choices you make affects 
 your standing to the light or the dark side, as you get more clues to reveal your true identity. 
 
  The dialogues are excellent, and the voice acting is no exception. The plots of the story to be 
 discovered are the best I have ever seen in a game, leaving you to go on as you have to know where 
 it ends, or may I say - where *you* end it. So great is the story that you may wish a movie was 
 made of it, just to share this great experience. 
  
  A true epic game which anyone with a slightest interest to long dialogues of power and domination, 
 RPG or Star Wars fans - must not miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indraroop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic starts out with an enormous amount of potential - great 
 voice acting, an excellent score, good graphics and decent gameplay. The story is flawless and 
 addictive. The battle mechanics could use some optimization for group battles but that is the only 
 complaint I have against it.
  
  I love how my character is invited and in cases forced to make tough decisions that affect the 
 game in the future. Weapons and team mechanics are handled well, although it would be nice if the 
 non light saber weapon damage was upped a bit, so that people would be encouraged to have non-Jedi 
 in their parties.
  
  There are some issues with the game stablility and some frame rate issues but I believe the 1.2 
 patch cures most of those issues. All in all, KOTOR is an immersive and addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  My god even though i hate rpg's this was brilliant stuff
  
  Though it maybe was because i love star wars games
  
  First off the gameplay is excellent. 
 Making your own character could of been better though. The plot is clever. Also getting to know the 
 characters is fun especially when you piss them off.
  
  graphics are good but not anything special
  
  sound is nice with a good soundtrack and voices
 
  
  this game is well worth the money and replayability is high because ive played it through 3 times 
 now and the game also lasts 30-40 hours 
  
  if you like star wars get this game and the sequel
  
  if you like rpg get this game and the 
 sequel
  
  if you hate both of those then go play call of duty 2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YortEmperor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Kotor. One of the best Star Wars games ever. All Star Wars games are great. Anyway, I have spent 
 many, many, many, many hours playing this great RPG and I have loved every minute of it. The only 
 thing is the technical problems which make it hard, but not impossible to enjoy. It also brings 
 the game down 1 number giving it a 9 instead of the 10 it deserves. 
  Aside from that, the game is cool because you can choose your character and make it anyway you 
 want it.. I also love the really deep story line which is still true to its roots of the almighty 
 Star Wars saga, but also immerses you into a whole new world not seen before. 
  I'm glad you can become a Jedi pretty early on. Actually its later for me, but still early in the 
 game. (I try to do ALL the sideplots too.) I'm also glad that whatever you do really affects other 
 stuff. Kotor is really an RPG thats really life like, except for of course all the lightsabers 
 and stuff, but you know what I mean. 
  I'm glad that Kotor was an experience that everyone should enjoy. Jedi and Sith alike. MTFBWY! 
 
  
  PS --- Bastila's a lot prettier in the game than she is on the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0zart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Star Wars games are extremely hit and miss. More often than not, I am extremely disappointed at 
 any given Star Wars themed game, whether it be due to awkward gameplay ( Bounty Hunter ) , horrible 
 graphics and voice work ( Obi-Wan ) , or empty and difficult to grasp storylines. I was extremely 
 concerned that this game would take a similar approach, but pre-ordered the XBOX version anyway, 
 almost a year in advance, because this game was being made by Bioware, a company that had a history 
 of solid RPG gaming experiences. I loved the game so much that I had to get my hands on the PC 
 version as well.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, this game takes the cake by having an extremely solid RPG-based system 
 of fighting and gameplay that takes care of every detail of gaming. Its not exactly live-action 
 gameplay, and though its definitely more like a turn-based system, its not exactly that either. 
 Its unique in that it allows a combination of the two, primarily to allow for the player character 
 to control both his main player character and his party. To give the user more time in between 
 shots, you can pause the action and rotate through your party to change tactics, or you can sit 
 and concentrate on a single player and queue the actions of the other characters as back-up. The 
 options are almost endless as far as how a single player can approach any battle. The quest-based 
 structure, the presentation of force powers, the sheer number of unique items, are all hard to 
 fathom.
  
  Graphics are not exceptional in this game, but there is some minor improvement in clarity in this 
 PC version over the XBOX release. They aren't anywhere near as bad as they were in Obi-Wan , are 
 better than in games like Jedi Academy , but are not quite as good as they were in Bounty Hunter 
 , Rogue Leader , or Rebel Strike . Its not the graphical prowess that impresses me in terms of 
 the visuals of this game, but the sheer depth of the environments. The locations easily bring up 
 emotional experiences for those familiar with any Star Wars movie... most are familiar, and comforting, 
 while others we have always heard about but never had the opportunity to see, and still others 
 are brand spanking new yet fully compatible with the Star Wars universe we have all come to know 
 and love. The sheer variety of visual effects more than makes up for the lower quality of graphics. 
 Sound in the game is exceptional, made by artists who clearly know how to make unique Star Wars 
 themed music, with many elements of the original William's scores, yet are new in their own right. 
 The voice-work in this game, and the spoken dialog it goes along with, is simply the BEST spoken 
 dialog in any game at any time that I have ever experienced. These characters are believable, more 
 believable perhaps than any previous Star Wars characters, including those in the original trilogy. 
 The dialog is uniquely American/Canadian/English, and doesn't suffer from the translation foibles 
 that so many non-English games present us with. Its as if someone took the appropriate and very 
 witty dialog of any Broken Sword game and fused it with a Star Wars storyline. Its that good.
 
  
  The storyline is where this game really shines. Like most other aspects of this game, the developers 
 created a totally new and inspiring storyline, and did it anchored in many plot elements that made 
 the original trilogy great. Its not a copy of the trilogy, but it clearly was instructed by it. 
 Elements of the original trilogy, such as love relationships, the Death Star , metallic-voiced 
 super villains, redemption, the Millenium Falcon home ship, discovery of Jedi training and power, 
 and even a surprising plot twist built around an identity crisis ( Luke, I am your father ) all 
 have corresponding plot elements in the storyline of this game. The story writers/scripters REALLY 
 know their Star Wars , and more than that, they know how to make a story that doesn't copy Lucas' 
 masterwork, yet is able to capture its essence and still be completely original.
  
  This game has incredible replay value. There simply is no other way to put it. It is full of options, 
 both that influence your light-side or dark-side tendencies, and that affect other branches of 
 the storyline. The story can go in two major directions, one light-side and one dark-side, and 
 the story truly does branch at the end based on which one you choose, with two respective endings. 
 But two plays through this game, one light-side and one dark-side, are simply not enough to experience 
 every option in this game. I played the game six times through, and still didn't hit every possibilty. 
 Hundreds of hours of gameplay await any gamer who gets caught with this bug. No, the game is not 
 as wide or deep as most PC RPGs., but having said that, it strikes a balance by being open-ended 
 enough to keep gamers interested, but not so open ended that it puts the gamer off in a sea of 
 annoying complexity.
  
  I have to levy one major criticism. It is a real shame that the developers chose to release the 
 game with so many performance problems and outright bugs. The XBOX version of the game had some 
 rare non-critical bugs and a few more frequent but inconsequential performance issues, but the 
 PC version of the game seems to be a living example of programmer error. My PC and components definitely 
 surpassed the requirements specified for good performance, but even after installing all of the 
 released patches, there were major glitches, and poor performance overall. This unfortunately subtracted 
 greatly from the enjoyment of the game. Still, once you get past these issues, the game isn't a 
 complete let-down, as the gameplay and rich storyline make wading through these bugs more than 
 worth it in the end.
  
  Having played both incarnations, I can firmly say that you will enjoy this game thoroughly regardless 
 of whether you play it on the XBOX or the PC. To put it bluntly, Knights of the Old Republic is 
 one of my favorite games, in any category, in my 30+ year history of playing video games. It is 
 certainly my favorite game on the XBOX, one of my favorites on the PC, and the best console game 
 on any platform of 2003. Though many reviewers have said it before, repetition is the best form 
 of emphasis: this game is the BEST thing to happen to the Star Wars universe since the original 
 trilogy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jen-the-Samurai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing KOTOR. I am an RPG fan already, plus a Star Wars fan, so this game really sucked 
 me in. Storyline is very important to me -- I am a huge fan of reading Sci-Fi/Fantasy, and KOTOR 
 has a story that pulls you in a keeps you eager to learn more.
  
  The fighting was very fun. The game pauses to allow you to chose whom you wish to fight and in 
 what way. The graphics aren't comparable to thrillers like Half-Life 2, but it's better than Max 
 Payne.
  
  Choosing your own path is the best part of the game. We all loved those "Choose Your Own Adventure" 
 books as kids, and now we get to try it again. Although most of the choices seem obvious as to 
 which is the "Light Side" and the "Dark Side" answers, but some aren't as obvious. Either way, 
 the choices are enjoyable, if not simply entertaining to see all of the different responses and 
 to learn more about the storyline.
  
  One bug known as the "Carth Bug" frustrated the heck out of me, but I'm not sure if it was fixed 
 in a patch... you'll have to check that out for yourself.
  
  There are small negatives about the game, but overall, it is a GREAT experience, and I definitely 
 recommend it to everyone, especially RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ICON-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  The first time i played this i was suprised about how close it is to D&D. If you like D&D or action 
 adventure type games your gonna love this one. KOTOR is a very well made game, the graphics are 
 amazing, the game play is amazing, and the story is amazing. I loved playing this game.
  
  The game also brings you to make decisions, chosing powers, light/dark side, making friends, abandoning 
 friends. It also always give you the control of your character. Alowing you to upgrade and level 
 up is also an excellent gameplay characteristic, it keeps you in the game and throughout the action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is sitting with pride on the shelf..
  
  It is a sweet game.. graphics are cool and the characters well rounded. The different ways in which 
 the story can go is also. Whats even better is now adays you can download a patch which makes you 
 a jedi from the very start, which originally you couldn't.
  
  For Star Wars old and young it's just right... all the firmilar characters are there apart from 
 vadar and gaining all those force powers to make your character unstoppable keeps you going...
 
  
  Upgrading armour and weapons is great... and even getting upgrades for your lightsabre is cool.
 
  
  The game also allows you to be good and bad..... hurrah... being bad and turning to the dark side 
 is always alluring. Whats nice is when this happens the character protraite shows this change. 
 Oh the power of the dark side..
  
  The downside is this game may not stand up totally to the test of time, cause after you have completed 
 it several times good and bad, the novelity will wear off. 
  
  This said you will enjoy it (waves a jedi finger) no really you will... and the game is probably 
 in a bargain bucket near you, if you can find one that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_ferret
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to go crazy and use the conventional marking system for my review.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (or KotOR) is a great game. Like lots of RPGs, you create 
 and control a character, defeating enemies to level up and gain new feats for your character. They 
 soon link up with a Jedi named Bastilla, and you become Jedi yourself.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There is a simple, conventional EXP system. Killing enemies will gain you XP, the tougher the enemy, 
 the more XP you earn. You can also earn XP, and other goodies (such as credits, the currency in 
 Star Wars, or other items) by completing side quests, and some side quests will advance side plots. 
 You have to travel from planet to planet, following the main quest, but you can do the side quests 
 at your leisure.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pretty good. Guild Wars-ish graphics, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Sound:
  
  It uses the 
 Star Wars soundtrack a fair bit, and some other music composed by Jeremy Soule. The sound effects 
 are ok, but very repetitive. Lots of different species have the same language sound used, which 
 is annoying, and the alien talking goes on for far too long.
  
  Value:
  
  Now, its a fairly old game so for the money it's an excellent buy.
  
  Overall:
  
  I loved 
 this game, and I think you will too. This is great for RPG players and Star Wars fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Star Wars games. One of the best RPG's. One of the best games in history. Knights 
 Of The Old Republic is one of the best games I've played. It has great graphics, great gameplay, 
 great music, and a great story.
  
  KOTOR is is set 4000 years before the events of the movies, which allows for much freedom in the 
 world. Travel to exotic planets like Kashyyyk and Tatooine, and choose your alliegance to either 
 the dark side or the light side. The graphics are beautiful, and create life-like representations 
 of the characters, bringing them to life. The lightsabers all sound and move like they would in 
 the movies, making them all the more realistic.
  
  The gameplay is fun, through travelling around towns and wastelands and collecting what you can 
 find, slowly transforming into either a Sith or a Jedi. Your party members are all interesting 
 characters with intruiging back-stories that slowly fall into place as they begin to trust you 
 more, and this pulls the player in, and it creates an inspiring piece of gaming history.
  
  The story is amazing, and this is quite a surprise since RPG's usually fall short on their story 
 to allow the player more freedom in the world, and more non-linearity. KOTOR gets the best of both. 
 You have a very open world at your fingertips, but the storyline never faulters, and this is where 
 KOTOR truly shines. Although the game doesn't have the same level of freedom as games such as Morrowind 
 or World Of Warcraft do, there is still an open world for you to explore, and this all works out 
 for the best anyway, as the game wouldn't be half as good without the inviting twists and turns 
 of the adventure you're thrown into.
  
  This game is one of the most inviting games I've played in a long time, and is arguably better 
 than it's sequel, "The Sith Lords." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerEcho
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  One of the things that jumped out at me when I first installed the game was its size. At nearly 
 4 gigs, it required over twice the space of anything I've previously owned. But upon finishing 
 the game (for the 3rd time now) , it's a wonder how they managed to fit everything in the space 
 they did. 
  The best way to describe Knights of the Old Republic is "epic", for it truly is, in all senses 
 of the word. Everything, from the musical score to the breadth of the plot to the details of characterization, 
 was set on a vast, epic scale. Playing the game was akin to living the legend that is Star Wars 
 -- an experience countless others in the gaming industry have tried unsuccessfully to create in 
 the name of the franchise.
  
  What sets this one apart is the gameplay, plain and simple. If you're even remotely a fan of RPG's, 
 then KOTOR will not disappoint. Propelled by a solid, inspired storyline that is both reminiscent 
 and original, the game encompasses over half a dozen planets and features a full cross-section 
 of the Star Wars universe and more. Countless lines of spoken dialogue (and lip synched) , help 
 flesh out the plot casting the player as a Republic soldier destined for great things. Not only 
 is the dialogue articulated line-by-line, but the quality of the voiceover is, as a whole, extremely 
 convincing and professional. Couple that with great writing and one suddenly realizes that this 
 surpasses anything that the last trilogy had to offer (parts of Ep. VI notwithstanding) . 
  
  By the end of the game, which can be anywhere from 25-40 hours after dispatching that first 
 sith henchman, you the player will have collected bounties, screwed over galactic crime syndicates, 
 competed in swoop racing, hunted monsters, raided sith tombs, fought dark jedi, outmaneuvered sharks 
 underwater, and dodged a whole lot of point blank blaster shots. Along the way, you'll meet quite 
 a few allies running the gamut from psycho droids to ex-mercs who will join your cause, for good 
 or ill. 
  
  Speaking of which, one of the key points of intrigue in the game is the moral alignment of the 
 player. You can play the character as sickeningly passive (think artificial sweeteners) or as nasty 
 as you'd like or anything in between. Acts of selfless kindness and dialogue that make you sound 
 like a bannerboy for the Jedi order will net light side points. Conversely, unnecessarily violence 
 and provocative speech will have the opposite effect. The interest in all this is that it's more 
 than just a good guy-bad guy routine. The shades of gray that lie in between affects how the story 
 will play out and how teammates will respond to you, as well as whether you can use certain equipment. 
 The inner conflict between dark and light has always been a central theme in Star Wars and that 
 tradition is kept alive and well in this game.
  
  Unlike many before it, Knights is seen from a third-person, three dimensional perspective. Nevertheless, 
 the interface is intuitive and easy to master. Tabs for the essentials like equipment, character 
 info, map and load/save options are readily available on the top right corner of the screen. The 
 action can be paused at any time with a key, and most of the mechanics in the game are explained 
 through the opening tutorial and are easy enough to grasp even without any help. The seemingly 
 real-time combat system is actually turn-based, and just like the character creation system, employs 
 a basic version of the D&D rules format.
  
  The audiovisuals of the game are good, if unremarkable compared with the rest of the package. Things 
 look and sound as they should; the various lightsaber and melee combat mechanics are particularly 
 convincing. Higher graphical settings have a tendency to bog down even high-end systems (by 2003 
 standards) . 
  
  The only gripes about the game is that it isn't known to be the most stable of offerings. Depending 
 on the system, it can crash occasionally or fairly often for no apparent reason. Even with the 
 1.03 patch, there are a number of bugs and glitches that exist at various points in the game. Given 
 the scale of this undertaking, that much is to be expected. Thankfully, none of them represent 
 a profound detraction from the overall experience. (If the game crashes frequently, older -- that's 
 right older, graphics drivers may help) . Faces and certain bits of dialogue can get tedious and 
 repetitive; the same could be said of combat scenarios, due to the limited number of fighting animations. 
 What can I say, the graphics isn't the reason you should play this game. One last rant -- what's 
 with the unusually large percentage of fruity-colored armor in the game? Some of the best armor 
 offerings come in ghastly purple pink, while rounding out the other end of the spectrum is a drab 
 ochre/brown. C'mon, folks, what's the point of vanquishing armies of Sith if one can't look good 
 doing it?
  
  All in all, these are minor flaws in an otherwise outstanding gaming experience. The number of 
 quests and possibilities in building character ensures plenty of replayability (played the game 
 3 times through myself on a light side character alone thus far) . The combination of a clean, intuitive 
 interface, solid game mechanics and the best of the Star Wars universe, plus a dash of that extra 
 je ne sais quois, makes this, dare I say, the best game to carry that logo to date.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorrick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic is a great game with an intriguing story line. Fans of Star Wars will 
 definitely love the game and the story. They will also find the most replay value with the game. 
 Non Star Wars fans, that like RPGs, will also enjoy this game because the plot will pull them 
 in and keep them coming back. 
  
  The strengths of the game are sound which is superb, its easy to learn controls, and off course 
 the plot. Character types are also diverse enough to give it replay value, which will allow you 
 to play the game through with several different strategies. It also lets you choose between light 
 and dark (good and evil) , which adds even more to its replay value. The game graphics are above 
 average, but not great. They are probably the weakest part of the game, but everything else covers 
 up for this weakness. All in all I recommend this game for any RPG fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthStephan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  When people tell me that Star Wars sucks, I lend them Knights of the Old Republic and they completely 
 change their views on Star Wars. The things that I love about Knights of the Old Republic are:
 
  
  1. Every time you go through the game its a little different.
  2. There are so many different quests that you can do.
  3. Its is so mush like real life you 
 get to choose your own fate.
  4. You can use force powers which is awesome.
  5. There are a lot of new planets you haven't herd of before and some of the classic planets like 
 Dantooine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybob7897
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't read some long review, the bottom line is: if you are an RPG and/or Starwars fan, then GET 
 THIS GAME.
  
  The gameplay is addictive, intense and exciting.
  
  The graphics are outdated by now, but I still recommend playing the first one first.
  Sound is 
 great, you get all your classic starwars songs, along with new music and the sound effects give 
 you the impression that you are really firing a blaster from the movie or that you are really turning 
 on a lightsavor.
  
  Value is fantastic, if you strickly do the story the game will probably take you 40 hours. If you 
 do side quest you get another 10-15. And, you will play through this game a second time, whether 
 it is a day or a year later, you'll come back to it.
  
  Finally, my tilt. This is my favorite game becuase I am both a starwars and rpg fan. for the people 
 out there that like the movies, imagine 40+ more hours of starwars story and information. And rpg 
 fans imagine the Dungeons-and-Dragons-like fighting system and the conpletely freeformed story. 
 
  
  Now we're reached the bottom line: BUY THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harvester_0009
Rating: 3.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrible role-playing game for people who want to fight and It dosen't have a very good 
 star wars feel to it. When I got it I had hoped for a good role-playing game. When you first get 
 in to it you have to kill the sith troopers on a republic ship. For weapons you get a blaster rifle 
 and... a short sword. A sword! I mean I thought this was a star wars game! And then you crash land 
 in a escape pod on tairis. And you fust have to walk around and talk for a while trying to firgure 
 out what to do. There is too much talking. And the words you say if you look at dark side they 
 aren't just trying to be cruel they're doing what they think is right is this game if your dark 
 side you are just cruel. This is a terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koolsen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. I enjoyed the story (better than the SW prequels stories.) with the 
 twists and great pacing. The gameplay is suberb I never got bored of watching battles. Everything 
 about it is top-notch.
  
  he evil-good descions work well and give this game a ton of replay value. But now to my one complaint... 
 technical issues in this aspect the game sucks. In between enjoyable play sessions the game will 
 fail to load or the backgrounds will disappear. The worse thing was when my character would no 
 longer work. He wouldnt cause any damage and couldnt open doors. I was forced to restart the whole 
 game.
  
  If you can overlook these flaws take 20 bucks and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game is the game that got me into rpg's. KOTOR is the best one I've played so far.
  
  First off, this game has one of the greatest stories of all time. The characters and npcs all are 
 incredibly realisticly done.
  
  The combat was really awesome. You had tons of freakin awesome upgrades and feats and whatnot. Using 
 the other characters was awesome because they all were sweet in there own way. HK-47 was definetley 
 the coolest if not the most annoying. Because he was programmed to kick some butt. Upgrading your 
 weapons and your lightsaber was really satisfying and easy to do. All of the biilions of items you 
 could buy or pick up or steal made it so much sweeter.
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome for 2003, but there are several frustrating tecnical problems that 
 I do'nt have the time naming.
  
  The sound is great. The voiceovers for prettymuch everyone you meet in the KOTOR universe sound 
 like they really took there time on it. And the game has awesome music.
  
  I loved KOTOR so much, buy it for 20.00 and love every bit of it. [except the technical crap] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Kotor is without a dout the best star wars game ever. I'd say that reinvents the turn based game. 
 You don't run up, attack, and run back like fainal fantasy. It does a great job emmersing you in 
 the star wars universe. The graphics are very sharp and the everoments are butiful. The music is 
 great. They have all of the star wars sound tracks as well as some original music. The voice acting 
 is top notch. The only disadvantage is that the game takes up 4 gigs. It also crashes rarly. You 
 get alot stuff for what now is only 20$. This is the best star wars game ever! You must buy now. 
 
  9.6 superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalslugx3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  ________
  
  There are two ways you can play this game. You can either choose to have your attack sequence interrupted 
 as you fight (real-time fighting) or you could decide on a freeze-time to choose your next action. 
 Either way it isn't a turn-based style RPG but still a very good one. There were a good amount 
 of skills and items you obtained / earned throughout your travels. As with all RPG's they always 
 have that one thing that stands out from the rest and for K. O. T. O. R. it is the ability to choose 
 your destiny. As you embark on your adventure you get to choose certain scenario's that will determine 
 what will happen next. There were many characters to choose from with different abilities but the 
 game is so unique that you can even end up killing off prospective allies that you could have used 
 later in battle. Almost everything you do will affect the others around you.
  
  Graphics
  _______
  
  The graphics were spectacular. Turn up all your settings (AA/AF/Quality) and you 
 will see some great graphics. Only if your computer can handle it
  
  Sound
  _____
  
  One of the best voice-acting in any game I have ever heard. This is what makes this game extra 
 good.
  
  Value
  ____
  
  This game is worth playing through a couple more times so you can do all the things you missed 
 from your previous run-through. And also you can become either more evil or good depending on what 
 you were last time to makes things interesting.
  
  I haven't tried K. O. T. O. R. 2: Sith Lords yet but I am looking forward to it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) is the first in a two game (maybe three? any news?) series. 
 Gameplay- The gameplay is amazing. It is truly unique and is very well done. The fighting system 
 is a bit odd, but it works quite well. The fights are fantastic, you clash lightsabers all the 
 time and do flips and kicks. It is great, just watching it is like a movie itself.
  
  Graphics- Can be a bit glitchy sometimes, but over all are great. The grass in the wind and the 
 lasers going back and forth wizz through the air perfectly, creating the sense that you are in 
 the game. Sound- Now, sound is not a very big deal to me, but in this game you actually notice 
 how good it is. You hear every lightsaber clash, every blaster fire, every grenade. It is amazing, 
 you feel like you are in Star Wars.
  
  Value- Anyone with an Xbox or Computer should get this.
  
  The game is a masterpiece, it triumphs 
 on all categories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This review shall assume the reader has heard of and is somewhat familiar with Star Wars. Dont 
 like Star Wars? Go away! You wont like this game and it wont like you. Shoo! Shoo!! 
  
  Still with me? Excellent. Now, if youre a gamer that enjoys PC role-playing games, youre probably 
 familiar with BioWares work, including Dungeons & Dragons gems like Baldurs Gate. Interestingly, 
 a few years ago, BioWare somehow produced not only  reportedly  the best RPG for the X-Box, but 
 also the best Star Wars product in years, period, in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. That 
 made people understandably excited for the PC port which came out a few months afterwards. Somehow, 
 I missed out on this game when it came out, but better late than never. 
  
  While, by most accounts, it was still the same allegedly great game as the X-Box version, it also 
 suffered from some serious game-breaking bugs, both in the gameplay and the graphics. Now, Im 
 reviewing the PC version of KOTOR a few years after its release. How is it nowadays, after a few 
 patches and a couple years? Is it worth buying today? Read on. 
  
  Knights takes place thousands of years before the films. The Old Republic and Jedi reign supreme, 
 while the evil Sith wage open war on the Republic, unlike in the films, which saw the Empire gain 
 its initial strength chiefly through covert, insidious means. At the games start, the main character 
 (which can be of either sex and have a customized appearance) is woken up by a massive space battle 
 in and around a Republic ship where the character is stationed as a grunt. Quickly, the ship is 
 boarded by Sith forces, including some Dark Jedi. You will quickly escape the ship in an escape 
 pod to land on Taris, a bustling city-planet. It appears that Bastila, a young Jedi with meditation 
 skills central to the Republics efforts against the Sith, was on the ship and has also escaped 
 to Taris. With Carth, a heroic Republic soldier, your first task will be to find Bastila and help 
 her get back to the Jedi Council. This is no easy task, given the size and complexity of Taris, 
 but its only the beginning.
  
  The games story starts off a bit slowly, but, right about the time you get in contact with Bastila, 
 it launches into a sprawling narrative spread over multiple worlds and featuring nine playable 
 party members and scores of other characters. While the games ultimate goal is pretty standard 
  kick the butt of chief Sith baddie, Darth Malak  the plot does feature several twists, one of 
 which is particularly stunning. Suffice it to say that the basic premises simplicity (youre a 
 nobody that is strong in the Force and is able to rise to destroy the Sith through sheer force 
 of will) is quite deceptive.
  
  The game also does an excellent job by keeping things non-linear. The games half-dozen or so big 
 chunks can be done in any order (its a typical collect n components of artifact X thing) , and 
 Knights did its best to throw in major story events at points when I least expected them, having 
 just settled into an apparent pattern. All told, the story in Knights is a classy Star Wars tale, 
 but the main strength is the structure in which its told. I only wish the main villain, Darth 
 Malak, held more menace than just his weird mask and his clichd Dark Side spoutings spoken in 
 a gravelly voice. Darth Vader he aint.
  
  GAMEPLAY: NOW, THIS IS WHAT I CALL A STAR WARS GAME
  
  Now, kids, dont let the words Star 
 Wars in the title confuse you. This ones an RPG all the way. No, Bobby, not a Rocket-Propelled 
 Grenade. A Role-Playing Game! That is, if you dont like thinking about how a max armor Dexterity 
 bonus really affects your Defense rating, or if you neither know nor care to know what a Saving 
 Throw is, or if you think being a Jedi only involves shooting guns and deflecting blaster fire 
 with your lightsaber  you might want to stay away from this game. Go for Jedi Knight or Jedi Academy, 
 instead.
  
  Otherwise, welcome to the RPG system of your dreams. Its foundations lie in a fully 3D world, combined 
 with a D&D-like turn-based combat system and a powerful keyboard/mouse user interface. Most of 
 your time playing it will be spent exploring medium-sized 3D environments, very frequently interrupted 
 by combat, which takes place seamlessly in those same environments. Almost as much as youll be 
 fighting, however, youll be speaking with a positively gigantic cast of characters from a multitude 
 of Star Wars fascinating worlds. The dialogue is extensive and interactive, to put it mildly, 
 and usually has huge repercussions on both the flow of quests in the game, as well as the games 
 subplots and main plot. Add to that a bit of Deus Ex-like hacking/stealth/repair abilities, some 
 puzzles, a couple action-oriented minigames, and a card game  most somehow involving the games 
 well hidden D&D combat core  and youve got easily one of the deepest gameplay systems of any 
 RPG, ever.
  
  The most mundane and least remarkable  though by no means unpleasant  part of the game is exploration. 
 The world is divided into typically RPG-sized zones. Youve got a minimap, which youll gradually 
 uncover as you walk through each zone. Zones are usually littered with various containers, full 
 of stuff you want, so most players will want to explore every corner of every zone, and probably 
 will be able to do so. In indoor environments, the game places the usual barriers like locked doors, 
 etc. Most can be broken into or lock-picked using the Security skill. Some are controlled by computers 
 or simple puzzles. Regardless, depending on your combat prowess, youll be able to more or less 
 lay waste to and strip clean any place you enter, whether it be an ancient Sith temple, an underwater 
 Republic base, or even a Tattooine Sand People hideout. In fact, this got easier and easier (oddly 
 enough) as my run through the game progressed. No big deal. 
  
  The combat system, on the other hand, is a big deal. It is simultaneously heaven for the RPG geek 
 and the Star Wars geek. To an observer, a battle will look much like an action sequence from a 
 SW film: The flash of the lightsaber, the squeak of the blaster shot, sparks flying, a Jedi performing 
 acrobatic tricks, a Sith performing the Force Lightning attack, and so on. There arent any pauses 
 in the action that make Final Fantasy battles, for example, appear so obviously turn-based. But 
 behind that surface, the computer is basically playing simplified D&D: throwing dice, adding in 
 various stat modifiers, comparing against the targets defense, performing saving throws for special 
 attacks, etc. 
  
  Now, Ive never played Dungeons & Dragons itself, so its all the same to me, but the combat system 
 does appear quite flexible. Each character in your party of three has a class. The main character 
 is created when starting a new game, and can be of either sex and be of one of the three basic 
 classes: Soldier, Scout, Scoundrel. Later in the game, this character  who is at the center of 
 the story  will also get to pick a Jedi class (Guardian, Consular, or Sentinel) . The other playable 
 characters that follow the main character around all have preset classes, spanning the aforementioned 
 classes  plus there is an Expert Droid (a-la R2D2) and a Combat Droid (an extremely homicidal 
 version of C3PO) . Regardless of the class for each character, during level-up youll get to pick 
 exactly which of his/her/its characteristics you want to improve. However, the points that can 
 be spent on each characteristic are distributed in such a way as to underline the strengths and 
 weaknesses of the underlying class. 
  
  These characteristics are many and varied. The basic attributes  Strength, Dexterity, Wisdom, 
 and so on  affect pretty much all of the gameplay, including, but not limited to, the combat. 
 Skills such as Computer, Security, Treat Injury, Repair affect exploration and certain battle actions. 
 Feats provide passive bonuses to various stats (e. g., Gear Head gives bonus to Computer/Security/Repair 
 skills) , and also introduce direct abilities (such as the Sniper Shot attack for blaster users, 
 or Flurry for sword and lightsaber aficionados) . Finally, Force Powers are straight from Star Wars 
  Jedi Jump, Force Choke, Force Lightning, Force Push, and many more. Force Powers are almost the 
 coolest part of the battle system  I especially enjoy how a characters Light or Dark Side alignment 
 affects the point cost of a Force Power depending on whether its a Light or Dark power  but I 
 did say almost. 
  
  Thats because lightsabers have always been the coolest thing about Star Wars, and this game is 
 no exception. Despite a VERY wide variety of weapons  blasters, rifles, heavy weapons, swords 
 and doube-bladed swords  lightsabers are both cool-looking and overpoweringly effective, both 
 in single- and double-bladed varieties. This is made even more so by the ability to upgrade the 
 abilities (and appearance, of course) of a lightsaber by embedding various crystals into it. In 
 fact, once I got a Jedi or three traveling with me, it was very hard to convince myself to put 
 some lousy non-Jedi blaster-wielding soldier into my parties. I almost did it out of pity, since 
 the Jedi were so much more powerful than everyone else at combat, and combat is what drives this 
 game. This did feel rather imbalanced  a Star Wars film always separates the Jedi from the others 
 so that they, also, can be useful in their own ways. This game only features once instance of this, 
 albeit a very cool one where one member of the overall company gets to save the three main characters, 
 working alone. 
  
  In battle, you will directly control the actions only of the current party leader, which can be 
 switched at any time. The other two characters will play themselves  fighting, using grenades, 
 Force Powers, healing as necessary  in the meantime. This works surprisingly well, although the 
 AI-controlled fighters do often focus on opponents inefficiently, such as each character attacking 
 a different enemy. However, its a breeze to switch between the characters to set them on the right 
 track, when necessary. 
  
  However, its not often necessary. Most of the art of combat, especially later in the game, is 
 in properly equipping everyone for battle. In fact, the only two criticisms I levy against the 
 combat system in Knights are the relative ease of the battles, and the seemingly imbalanced classes. 
 Basically, Soldiers and Jedi Guardians (which are the Jedi version of Soldiers) are extremely powerful, 
 able to overwhelm 95% of their opponents easily. The first two sections of the game can actually 
 be pretty difficult from time to time, but after that things become rather easy. Since a large 
 portion of the game is spent on planets that you can choose to visit in any order, the first planet 
 youll visit might seem tough, but the others  featuring enemies of about the same skill level 
  will be very easy because of how much youve leveled up. Generally speaking, unless youre familiar 
 with D&D rules, youll possibly be confused about the inner workings of the system  since its 
 so well hidden away behind the games graphics  but thats unlikely to seriously hamper your progress. 
 If you dont like this, there are difficulty levels that can be changed anytime to give a stiffer 
 challenge (but not fix the class imbalances) . 
  
  Dialogue is as important as the battles in KOTOR. Not only does it allow you to play Jedi by saying 
 things like [Force Persuade] You do not want to fight me. You want to go home and rethink your 
 life., but it also has a direct effect on quests and plot. The amount of branching in this game 
 is absolutely ridiculous, easily putting to shame the same elements of, say, Deus Ex or other plot-based 
 role-playing games. Even more importantly, the game just features some awesome characters. Of particular 
 note is HK-47, a protocol/assassination droid (yep) youll buy on Tattooine, most conversations 
 with whom are just pure comedic gold. Hes some sort of warped, squinty, evil version of C3PO, 
 who just cannot resist calling the main character an organic meatbag. In all, every character 
 in your company has an interesting back story, some figuring prominently in the main plot. And 
 your own possible responses to these people will give you the chance to be as bad (or good) as 
 you want to be. Non-playable characters also show a lot of awareness, frequently referring to something 
 you did on another planet (such as solve a murder or win a swoop bike tournament)  this is all 
 the more impressive since much of the game can be completed in any order. And if you start getting 
 confused about what all youre trying to accomplish in a particular place, theres an extensive 
 quest journal to help you out. Unfortunately, it did glitch a couple of times for me, though thats 
 hardly surprising with the amount of interrelated quest possibilities this game offers. 
  
  KOTOR, despite being another D&D RPG  something BioWare specializes in with Baldurs Gate  seems 
 fully aware of its responsibility to the Star Wars license. To further this end, there are a couple 
 of good-looking but extremely simplistic mini-games heavy on Star Wars mythos: a spaceship turret 
 sequence, plus some swoop bike racing. These are nothing to write home about, but they do give 
 the game some action-oriented texture. 
  
  But, really, Star Wars absolutely permeates this game in every fashion. In many ways, this game 
 expands on the details of the universe to a much greater extent than the films themselves, whether 
 through the mini-games, dialogue, battles, or even the available weapons and armor. Even if you 
 find fault in some aspects of the game, such as the mundane exploration and certain battle system 
 imbalances, theyre likely to be wiped away by the facts that: Youve got a starship, a Wookiee, 
 two droids, and a bunch of Jedi, not to mention Kashyyk, Tattooine, and a huge evil space station 
 to explore. Youll truly feel like youre in the Star Wars universe, something no Star Wars game 
 had delivered before this game. Gameplay: 9. 
  
  IS IT PURTY?
  
  This one was released a couple of years ago, and Ive heard rumblings about it being buggy, glitchy, 
 and graphically slow. It has been patched many times since then, and I encountered no such issues 
 playing it recently, with settings turned all the way up. Therefore, its probably a safe (and 
 cheap) purchase, nowadays. However, I do sympathize with those that have bought this earlier and 
 have had to suffer through these issues; theres no excuse for this. However, the review was written 
 recently, not two years ago, and will score the game accordingly. 
  
  That said, graphics have improved much in the last two years. Does KOTOR still look good? In short, 
 yes, but with some reservations. While not featuring anything fancy like real-time lighting, the 
 environments do feature nice textures that look just like something out of a Star Wars film. Water 
 and the grassy areas of Dantooine look good, even by todays RPG standards. The character models 
 all look nice and high-poly, and they feature some pretty lifelike (though not very varied) facial 
 animations, as well. The game also features plenty of classic Star Wars-inspired views of space 
 and space battles, of which Im particularly fond.
  
  In general, the characters and environments look suitably high-fidelity, and never offend the eye 
  with one exception: Facial models repeat constantly. Each alien race/sex gets one portrait, and 
 there are, maybe, ten facial models for the humans, altogether. Given that the game features a 
 cast of scores and scores of characters, this gets very tiresome, especially when one of the main 
 evil characters looks just like fifteen old guys on the streets of the same town, and like a leading 
 member of the Jedi Council. Or how about Darth Bandon, supposedly second in evilness only Darth 
 Malak himself, looking just like a bunch of other Sith guys? Blah.
  
  To offset this quite a bit, the battles look absolutely outstanding. Lightsaber and blaster combat 
 looks just like it should look, grenade explosions look so hot one can almost feel them, and Jedi 
 and Sith combatants consistently and smoothly perform acrobatic feats and Force tricks. It all 
 looks so convincing that its easy to forget that in the background its just a bunch of die rolls 
 being compared to each other.
  
  In addition to the many in-engine cutscenes, the game also features a few CG movie sequences, especially 
 involving your starship the Ebon Hawk. These are kept brief, and, while they are faithful to the 
 Star Wars license, the production values on them are nowhere near the top tier, such as the games 
 in Square Enixs Final Fantasy series, or the recent Star Wars films themselves. Theyre okay, 
 but a few of them really dont pay off on a sufficiently grand scale. Specifically, I thought this 
 of the space battles toward the end of the game, and the Light Side ending sequence. In addition, 
 theyre rather low-resolution.
  
  All in all, this is still the best-looking PC RPG Ive played to date, which is enough to net it 
 an 8, but do realize that (a) the PC market isnt exactly bursting with quality RPGs, and (b) upcoming 
 games will probably eclipse this easily.
  
  DOES IT SOUND LIKE STAR WARS?
  
  Take a guess. Its not exactly rocket science: This game has a Star Wars license, and Star Wars 
 films feature some of the most recognizable sound work in sci-fi, whether it be blaster fire, starship 
 engines, droid speak, or weird alien languages. 
  
  But while the sound effects are all completely spot on, its the voice acting that truly shines. 
 Since the quality and sheer amount of dialogue are truly mind-boggling, it makes sense KOTOR also 
 has the biggest video game voice cast Ive ever witnessed at work. Theres no Hollywood talent 
 here, but Im pretty certain most of the video game voiceover talent pool, period, was exhausted 
 by this game  I kept recognizing voices from all manner of voiceover-heavy games Id played in 
 the past. Everyone does a fantastic job  it would be impossible for their performances to be any 
 better  though special mention again goes to HK-47, the killer robot. The only complaints I have 
 here are that most non-human races still get only one voice per sex (which makes sense, I guess, 
 since the same is true about their faces) , and that the alien language gibberish, while generally 
 convincing, repeats too quickly to be entirely believable.
  
  The music, which I expected to very bombastic in the John Williams vein, was actually rather subdued. 
 Williams staples are used very sparingly, while the rest of the music is original. It never gets 
 in the way, but never grabs ones attention, either. This is definitely nowhere near the top tier 
 as far as RPG music goes. Perhaps it could have come out better if BioWare didnt restrict themselves 
 to Williams orchestral style, or if theyd hired the man himself. However, the voiceover script 
 and acting, as well as the classic sound effects, still make Sound an easy 9.
  
  PLAYING THIS GAME SEVERAL TIMES: NOT INCONCEIVABLE
  
  Look. I know Im supposed to explain 
 why I give a game a 10 in Replay Value, but Ill just keep it short this time.
  
  - First play-through: 60 hours. Subsequent passes: 30+ hours.
  - Number of quest-affecting choices 
 made per conversation: 1-5. 
  - Number of conversations: Uh 100? Maybe more?
  - Number of Light/Dark Side opportunities: Uh 50? Maybe more?
  - Number of possible endings: 
 Several.
  - Number of ways to finish any one quest: 1-5.
  
  And, keep it mind, these things arent just you going through the motions The Star Warsiness 
 of the thing will make certain youll want to do all of them, and like it. 
  
  ITS PRETTY GOOD
  
  OK, its better than pretty good. 9 on Gameplay, 10 on Replay Value, good 
 graphics and sound scores, a more vibrant Star Wars universe than in at least two of the actual 
 films, a heavy dose of gameplay originality The Force is strong with this one. 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a great game. Those that have complained about this game, 
 such as in a couple of other reviews on this site, should think about why they really hate about 
 this game a lot more clearer. It is easy to have a bias with a Star Wars game, and few that have 
 come out represent good entertainment. This is one of the exceptions, and could be called as close 
 to perfection as a game is going to get. Only a few minor setbacks keep it from achieving the perfect 
 10. 
  
  Graphics: If one has the system capabilities for the game, one will find that the graphics in this 
 game are some of the best that have surfaced in the past few years. Character models, while a little 
 bit blocky, are realistic and alright to look at. The characters also do not have the idiotic mouths 
 that Star Wars: Jedi Outcast does. Environments are clean and beautiful. Some of these will take 
 your breath away. Cut-scenes are filmed with a superior style, making them easy to listen to. This 
 is one game that has the right to say that it has superior graphics, unlike some other games out 
 there, Zelda: Wind Waker for example. 9-10 
  
  Sound: The music in this game is also great. The Star Wars theme can always be heard ominously 
 in the background, but there are also some distinct other tunes that sound great as well. Almost 
 every character has a voice, which helps in a world populated by different races. Discussions are 
 easy to listen to, because one doesn't always have to read the subtitles. It is very well done. 
 10-10 
  
  Gameplay: The meat and bones of the package, the gameplay represents the best interpretation of 
 the Star Wars universe ever on a video game. This game plays out like an RPG, with one's character 
 gaining levels, collecting items, and learning new skills. One also befriends several other party 
 members, each with their own distinct past, which is uncovered during the story. The story is the 
 best Star Wars story told since The Emperor Strikes Back. It contains plot twists, romance, drama, 
 adventure, and mystery. Over the course of the game, one will gain levels by uncovering the story 
 and traveling to several different worlds. The battle system is very unique, using a different 
 style altogether. I am not sure how to explain it, but it is very intuitive and ingenious. Over 
 the course of the game, one can earn light or dark side points, which provide multiple endings 
 to the game. I only have two complaints with this game. First, it takes a while for party members 
 to follow you, creating some glitches. Second, items are not used as much as they should. Still, 
 this does little to hinder the greatness of the game. As close to gaming perfection as they come. 
 9-10 
  
  Multiplayer: None, but who needs it. The game itself is so enjoyable that no one will feel the 
 need for any sort of multiplayer. 
  
  Replay Value: There are two endings, one for each side of the force. This is a good reason to play 
 through the game again, mainly because it is so enjoyable. 7-10 
  
  Pros: 
  + Excellent Gameplay 
  + Excellent Graphics 
  + Excellent music/voices 
  + Long game: 20+ 
 hours 
  + Good replay value 
  - Some minor issue, including glitches 
  Overall: 9-10 
  
  This is one of the best games of last year. This is recommended to anyone out there who enjoys 
 a goof game. This is not just for Star Wars fans. This is for everyone. For those who don't have 
 it, go out and get it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  SW: KOTOR is a great RPG that will last you a great time. You start off in a Spaceship wondering 
 what just happened to find out your ship is under attack you make your way off the ship with the 
 help of two friends (Although one dies on the ship to a Dark Jeki) and crash land onto a planet 
 called Taris. On Taris you meet new people and begin your adventure. You get paired up with a hero 
 from the Mandolorian Wars and start the serach of a jedi called Bastila, she was kidnapped on the 
 ship you were on and will fall into the hands of the sith if you don't help. You start off with 
 that guy, but soon lead on teaming up with Jedis, Twi'lieks, Wookies and even Robots. It takes 
 you on a great expirance and you'll love the story every second. 
  
  The fighting gameplay is done well, a little "menu" (I don't know what to call it) appears over 
 an enemies head and you select to attack or speical attack or some jedi power (When you get them) . 
 You can have 2 other party members with you at anytime but in certain areas you can switch them 
 for other characters. The gameplay is good but it could be better, it's not that balanced, range 
 weapons almost have no affect and melee seems to dominate battle. 
  
  The voice acting is fantastic, any speech or dilouge is all spoken, every person you meet will 
 speak audio, and aliens will speak their native tounge but you were recruited in the republic for 
 knowing a lot of alien languages (Yay Subtitles!) and all voice acting sounds real and not like 
 it's droned on in some echoy studio. 
  
  The things that bring the game down are Graphics, and Glitches/Techinical Problems. For graphics, 
 it looks semi bad the clothes/armor look glued together and basicaly everything besides the head 
 looks plain and not cared to. A lot of the rooms look exactly like the room you just left which 
 gets boring. Glitches bring this game down SO BADLY. I have a NCIDIA GeForce 6600 GT video card 
 which exceeds the expected requirments and a processor that also exceeds requirments, but yet the 
 game lags during battles, and wide open areas. When saving the game, it pauses for a long time 
 sometimes freezes and all the saved game pictures look like fuzz on the TV. The new patch fixed 
 most of that but the fact that they didn't test the game that well still brings it down. The game 
 is great if your card passes requirments by a lot if it doesn't it will lag a lot, the game is 
 still fun you'll play for the story mostly (That's what i played for before the patch) . So I suggest 
 getting it, it's only $10 now which is good. Pick it up today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pochacco_2099
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is set 4,000 before the Star Wars movies. The Republic has just recently finished fighting 
 the Mandalorian Wars and now faces the an even greater threat. The Sith army now challenges the 
 Republic under the leadership of the Sith Lord Malak, and the Republic is desperately searching 
 for a way to maintain the peace and stability the Republic has enjoyed for thousands of years.
 
  
  You start the game as a male or female member of the Republic army that aboard a warship who is 
 suddenly thrust into battle to protect an important Jedi named Bastila who has a very special force 
 talent called called Battle Meditation. As it turns out she had already fled in an escape pod, 
 so you follow suit and manage to escape the dying ship with a republic soldier named Carth. You 
 land in a city world named Taris where you must complete some tasks in order to find Bastila. After 
 finding her you must escape from the planet, which is currently under a world-wide Sith quarantine. 
 After escaping Taris (and about eight to ten hours of game time) you finally get to join the Jedi 
 Academy on Dantooine. After completing the trials you become a Jedi and begin a lengthy quest to 
 find the Sith Lord Malak and the source of the Sith warships, taking you to some familiar locals 
 (Tatooine, Kashyyyk, Korriban) and some new planets (Manaan, The Unknown World) . You will also 
 meet many characters along the way (Jedi and non-Jedi) who will be greatly help you in completing 
 your quest.
  
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The game uses a turn-based system used by most RPGs where you attack and inflict damage to the 
 enemy then the enemy attacks and damages your health. However, unlike most RPGs the turn based 
 action is very quick... so quick that it seems like the fighting is in realtime. To attack an adversary 
 what you have to do is choose from a variety of physical attacks or force attacks which you can 
 place in a queue. When an attack is carried out, then after the enemy counterattacks, the next 
 attack in the queue is carried out. As you progress through the game you gain experience points 
 (EXP) that you can use to level-up. At the start of the game you begin at level 1; you can keep 
 leveling up until you reach level 20.
  
  There are two main types of physical attacks: melee (sword or lightsaber attacks) and ranged (blaster 
 and rifle attacks) . For each main type of attack you have three subtypes: a critical strike, a 
 power attack and a flurry attack (many small attacks) . As with any game, if you get attacked you 
 may lose HP (health points) , and if you lose all you HP you die. As you progress in the game and 
 level-up as you gain EXP (experience points) , your HP increase. Also, as you level-up you can improve 
 attacks (there are three upgrades for almost every attack) .
  
  There are also force powers that you can use for attacks. There are three main types of force powers: 
 dark, light and neutral. Some examples of light side powers are heal (you recover HP) ; some dark 
 side powers are force lightning (attack your opponent from lightning that strikes from your hands) , 
 force drain (drain your opponents HP while you regain your own) and fear (your opponents cower 
 in fear and are disabled for a time) ; and some neutral powers are force speed (run and attack faster) , 
 and force push (push your opponents away using the force) . You can begin adding force powers to 
 your arsenal after becoming a Jedi at Dantooine, and also as you level up you can add other powers 
 and upgrade those you have. Also, as you use your powers you lose FP (force points) , but you can 
 recover these after a few moments. As you level up your FP increase.
  
  There are also skills, attributes and feats that you can choose that improve some aspects of your 
 character, such as strength, vulnerability to damage, dexterity (good coordination for shooting) , 
 defense, interfacing with computers, arming and disarming mines, and stealth, among others. You 
 choose these abilities you want when you begin the game, and can improve them further as you level-up.
 
  
  When you begin the game you are asked to choose a class: soldier class, scout class or scoundrel 
 class. The soldier class is the strongest (stronger attacks, better HP) , the scoundrel class is 
 weakest among the classes but they have better abilities, and the scout class is the all-around 
 middle class. When you become a Jedi you get to choose a Jedi Class: Jedi Guardian (like the soldier 
 - better at physical combat) , the Jedi Consular (like the scoundrel - they also get more force 
 powers and force points) , and the Jedi Sentinel (like the scout) . You can choose the Jedi Class 
 that mirrors the class you had before, but it is not necessary. Personally, I like to begin the 
 game as a soldier (start with a stronger character) and later on choose the Jedi Consular (have 
 more powerful force powers) .
  
  As you go through the game you can choose whether to be a light jedi, a dark jedi or a neutral 
 jedi. This is not one big decision that you have to make: rather you become light or dark depending 
 on all the choices you make. If you are selfless and always do the right thing, then you gain light 
 side points. If you are selfish and hurt others to gain benefits for yourself then you gain dark 
 side points. If you do some good acts and some bad acts, then your character will be neutral. This 
 alignment makes a difference in how you use Force powers: light side powers cost less FP than dark 
 powers for light jedi, dark side powers cost less FP than light powers for dark jedi, and light 
 and dark powers cost about the same for neutral jedi. The aligment you choose also affects the 
 ending of the game. Also, you can be neutral up to a point; after that you must choose between 
 light or dark.
  
  As I said before you meet many characters during your travels through the galaxy that join you 
 in your quest, in addition to Bastila and Carth. Some are Jedi (one of each class) , and some are 
 non-Jedi (different species of beings from different classes, and droids) . You can take up to two 
 characters beside yourself on your quest, the rest you must leave on the Ebon Hawk (the ship you 
 use to travel from planet to planet) . You can switch between yourself and your characters at any 
 time (when you are allowed to be accompanied by others) and choose their attacks and actions. You 
 can also level-up your characters and choose their skills and abilities, although when you first 
 meet them they will not be at their first level. 
  
  
  Story: 
  
  KOTOR tells the best Star Wars story ever told in a game. In my opinion, it may even be better 
 than many of the Star Wars movies themselves. It is the classic sotry of good versus evil, or evil 
 versus evil (if you're a dark jedi) . As you gain experience and progress through the game you perform 
 different tasks, that may be part of the main quest or may be different side quests that let you 
 gain experience or make money. You also establish a relationship between your character and the 
 other characters in your group. You can befriend or antagonize them, and you can influence them 
 for good or for evil. This game also features a very surprising twist in the middle of the game. 
 I won't spoil it, but I will say that it is one of the best in any game.
  
  
  Visuals:
  
  The visuals are adequate. The character models are good, at least for the main characters. 
 Many faces are used repeatedly for many different characters you meet, so that gets kind of old. 
 The enviroments are also pretty good looking. The planets properly show the enviroments they represent 
 (Tatooine - desert, Kashyyyk - forest, Manaan - ocean) . The visuals did look a bit dated when the 
 game came out, and even more so now. However, they don't take away in any way from the wonderful 
 story that unfolds.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  In terms of sound, the game offers the usual Star Wars music and sounds, which are always excellent. 
 There are a few new tunes that fit quite nicely with the story. The music changes depending on 
 what's happening in the story: if you are just exploring the sound is soft and relaxing, but when 
 you are faced with combat the music becomes more fast-paced. The voice acting is also good, even 
 though many of the voices and alien dialogue are repetitive.
  
  
  
  In conclusion, KOTOR is the best Star Wars game to date. It offers a great mix of exploration, 
 combat and a fantastic story. The combat and character progression system are top notch and really 
 help you become deeply involved in this epic story. This game is very worthy of its title of 2003 
 Game of the Year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WraithRSW
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best Star Wars game ever. It's got great gameplay, story, music, and sound 
 effects. Graphics are par compared to other games and there are a few glitches such as a couple 
 of hangups if you have a Radeon X850. But those are the only faults of what is a great game. It 
 has some of the best ingame music I have ever listened to as well as better acting and dialogue 
 than the first two Star Wars prequels. You can play this game for hours and not get tired. It's 
 like you just want to find out what happens next. One of the great PC games I've ever played and 
 if it wasn't for a few sloppy glitches (they really need to put some more effort on converting 
 it from X-Box to PC) , it'd be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsgroovygamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic was one of 2003s top games. The highly 
 anticipated RPG received rave reviews and numerous Game of the Year awards. Though the game is 
 now nearing two years old, its still a blast to play. KOTOR is a great game for anyone who wants 
 a satisfying game experience, regardless of whether you are a Star Wars fanatic or cant tell a 
 Jawa from Jabba the Hutt.
  Knights of the Old Republic is set hundreds of years before any of the movies take place. You begin 
 the game by creating a character which you can customize any way you like. You name it, pick its 
 gender, class, attributes, and look. As soon as you are finished creating your character, the game 
 begins. After a short introductory sequence aboard a space ship, you find yourself crash landed 
 on the planet Taris in the care of a famous Republic pilot named Carth Onasi. Your mission is to 
 track down a powerful Jedi by the name of Bastila. As your journey progresses, youll travel to 
 many different planets, meet an array of different characters, become a Jedi, and decide the fate 
 of the galaxy.
  In a normal game, the option of either saving the galaxy or continuing to let evil reign would 
 depend upon whether you finished the game or not. KOTOR, however, is different. You take an active 
 role in the plot. In every bit of dialogue, of which there is a ton, you get to choose what you 
 say. You also decide how you are going to complete each of your missions. You can choose to be 
 a righteous hero or an evil warrior. The fact that you have complete control over your character 
 is easily KOTORs strongest aspect.
  With a game as story-centric as KOTOR, the story better be good. Thankfully Bioware cooked up an 
 engaging story full of not so black and white decisions for you to make. KOTOR also employs one 
 of the best plot twists ever found in a gametrust me, its a shocker! All the characters in the 
 game are interesting and have distinct, realistic personalities. Throughout the course of the game 
 you will have the opportunity to uncover each of these characters pasts, all of which are truly 
 interesting. One of KOTORs best characters is HK-47, a homicidal protocol droid. Be sure to keep 
 him in your party if you are looking for some laughs! While KOTORs story is good overall, the 
 ending is very weak. It seems like Bioware may have rushed the ending to meet a deadline.
  Unfortunately, combat in KOTOR isnt as much fun as it looks. Battles are not random or turn based. 
 Other than those two things, they operate very similarly to other RPGs. You select your action 
 from a battle menu that pops up during fights. You can either pause the game to enter commands 
 or enter them while the fight is going on. There is really nothing technically wrong with the system; 
 its just not that exciting. Once you get your lightsaber, things do get a little more exciting. 
 
  In these battles you earn experience points to level up your character. Leveling up improves your 
 characters attributes (which are all standard RPG attributeshit points, strength, luck, etc.) 
 and allows you to choose new skills for your character. Skills are divided into light Jedi skills 
 and dark Jedi skills, but a light Jedi can still learn dark Jedi skills, and vice versa. Skills 
 help determine how you play the game. For example, I mastered Force Persuasion early on (I had 
 to have Jedi mind powers) . With this skill I often got discounts on items I needed to buy and got 
 information out of people easier. Other skills include Knight Speed, Cure, Wound, Throw Lightsaber, 
 and many more.
  KOTOR is a good looking game. There are lots of imaginative alien races to look at, which keeps 
 things interesting. Environments look nice. The outdoor environments are a bit more detailed and 
 colorful than the indoor ones, but the indoor ones dont look bad. The character models all look 
 pretty good, but everyones hair looks goofy and stiff. There are very few NPC designs. Also, slow 
 down is a pretty big problem when there are lots of things going on at once, sometimes to the point 
 that the game locks up.
  KOTORs audio is very well done. The orchestral soundtrack has a distinct Star Wars feel that suits 
 the game well. All of the many dialogue sequences use voice acting. Thankfully, all of it is good. 
 The writing is strong, and the excellent cast of voice actors really does a great job of bringing 
 KOTORs memorable characters to life. The sound effects are also very true to the Star Wars universe. 
 Pushing one of the key board keys makes your character twirl his or her weapon, and I cant tell 
 you how many times I did that just to hear the electric whoosh of the lightsaber!
  KOTOR is a big step forward for RPGs. In all RPGs, you play a role. KOTOR takes this farther than 
 most RPGsyour actions really do affect the world around you. The role you choose to play is one 
 of many, which means this 35 hour game can be enjoyed many times, each time giving you a new experience. 
 While the game does have its flaws, its a great and original show of progress for its genre. Hopefully, 
 more games will follow in its path.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  When Knights of the Old Republic was announced, it was like a dream come true for Star Wars fans 
 AND RPG fans. The combination of the best North American RPG developer in Bioware and the Star 
 Wars franchise seemed to good to be true. 
  
  And the final product is not just good, but great.
  
  KOTOR is a dreamlike middle way mix of 
 a typical american RPG like Bioware's own Baldur's Gate series and a japanese RPG like Final Fantasy, 
 at least that's the way I see it. It has a streamlined, more personal and linear quest like in 
 the JRPG's and it keeps a lot of the sidequests and in depth character development contained in 
 most ARPG's. The result is that of an outstanding game that grabs you by the throat with its excellent 
 story while still leaving you with enough depth to make the game your own.
  
  The story is set four thousand years before the rise of the empire in the modern star wars series. 
 The republic had only just defeated the mandalorians that the sith arrives and launch an all out 
 assault. At their head, the sith are lead by two of the greatest jedis of the era, Revan and Malak, 
 who were also subsequently the ones who defeated the mandalorians. Eventually the Jedi Order, led 
 by a young and promising young Jedi named Bastila ambush and kill Revan, but that only helps Malak 
 take the place his former master held and thus the game begins.
  
  As always I hate doing synopsises because I think the player should experience the story, even 
 the introduction, for himself. But I will say that the story ends up being one of the greatest 
 ever told, especially if you're a Star Wars fan. On top of that, I know a lot of friends who didn't 
 like Star Wars much before playing this game but after playing it became junkies. The game is THAT 
 good.
  
  On the gameplay side of things, it's hard to imagine an RPG playing better than KOTOR. You control 
 your character either with a traditional WASD FPS setup or with the mouse. I preferred the mouse 
 but some friends prefer the keys, to each his own. In battles you can pause whenever you want so 
 you have the choice of having the game in real time or turn based, which is a great touched and 
 a facet taken directly from the Baldur's Gate series. Once you select an enemy you have the choice 
 of simply attacking or selecting an ability.
  The characters will generally handle their own business by themselves, so you can just sit back 
 and supervise what is going on, this is by no means an action RPG you don't have any direct input 
 in the action, although the spectacular way in which battles unfold makes KOTOR a very nice game 
 to watch in play.
  
  When you create your character you select one of three classes (and whether you want to be male 
 or female) , Scoundrel, Scout or Soldier. That's a lot of S's I know. And when relatively early 
 in the game you end up being a Jedi you have the choice between Consular, Sentinel or Guardian. 
 It's a nice simple system which basically asks you whether you want to be a mage type character 
 (Scoundrel and Consular) , a midway type character ( Scout and Sentinel) and a pure warrior type 
 ( Soldier and Guardian) . There's a bit of everything for everyone. Oh and your original class doesn't 
 decide the Jedi class you will be so you can be a Scoundrel Guardian if you wish. The Jedis have 
 access to all the force powers in the Star Wars universe, and lightsabers. You gotta love lightsabers 
 :) 
  
  One of the focal point of the game are a revamped form of BG's reputation point in the light-dark 
 side scheme of things. Throughout the game your actions will tilt your personality balance toward 
 the light side or the dark side, so you can play an evil or good character if you wish. Neutrality 
 is also possible. Your alignment will not affect the story in the sense that it will be pretty 
 much the same whether you're evil or good BUT it will affect your actions throughout the story. 
 For example at one point you have to try and save a Jedi who has fallen to the dark side. If you 
 are light side you can convince her to abandon her evil ways and come back to the light, but if 
 you're dark side you can just kill her and say she couldn't be saved. The main story branch will 
 not be affected but you will have one less character in your party and additional dark side points. 
 
  The main difference between the two alignments is in the ending. 
  
  I have finished the game light side on the Xbox and dark side on the PC, and on the graphical side 
 of things there's no comparison: the PC dominates. When the xbox version came out I remember that 
 people were quite disappointed at the graphics; jaggies galore were the main distracting point. 
 On my PC I played the game at a resolution of 1280x960 with 4xAA/8xAF and let me tell you it was 
 quite a sight to behold. Bump mapping on armor, no jaggies whatsoever, crisp textures. Felt like 
 I was playing a different game! The only reason why I am not giving a 10 to this game is that there 
 are some performance issues with ATI cards which require you to add some command lines to the game's 
 .ini file which is distracting and could potentially be quite infuriating for a gamer who's not 
 as knowledgeable about PC's and is just trying to play a good game. 
  
  There is a lot of voice acting in this game and it is all incredibly well made. Jennifer Hale, 
 easily one of my favorite voice actors, is the voice behind Bastila and she sound terrific. All 
 of the other character are also excellent. The sound of the lightsabers is also spot on. I'm not 
 giving it a 10 because I felt like the music sticked too closely to the traditional Star Wars format 
 and would have liked to see more variety in that department.
  
  This is an RPG with a lot of replay value. You could easily have to play it 3 or 4 times to see 
 all of the sidequests there is to see for every character. I myself have finished with twice and 
 I am the kind of guy who doesn't come back to games easily, so that's quite a feat. The only major 
 problems with the game are bugs, especially on the PC side. My game crashed every time I tried 
 to change planets which required me to quit the game and come back, which kinda sucked. Also like 
 I said earlier there are come performance issues that need tinkering to fix. If the game was rock 
 stable it would surely have garnered a score very close to a 10 or maybe even a 10 who knows?
 
  
  It's that good of a game and is highly recommended to anyone who likes RPG's, Star Wars, or heck 
 even good games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider_minion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  George Lucas is no stranger to commercialism. With the recent release of Star Wars: Episode III 
 we have everything from a Burger King contest to Darth Vader Mr. Potato Head. But Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic (henceforth known as KOTOR) is not your typical cash grab. Instead, it is a 
 exemplary RPG meticulously crafted by the genre experts at Bioware. It's no surprise then that, 
 even though KOTOR carries the Star Wars label, it feels a lot more like Neverwinter Nights in spacea 
 good thing, to be sure.
  
  That's because Knights of the Old Republic makes use of a heavily-modified version of the d20 rules 
 setthe core rules system used in Dungeons and Dragons. Star Wars is fantasy after all; lightsabres, 
 blasters, and The Force take the place of swords, bows, and spells. There are a mix of normal, 
 Jedi, and droid classes and all the skills and feats are proficiently reworked for the new setting.
 
  
  You'll create a character at the outset of the game in typical Bioware fashion, choosing your gender, 
 portrait, class, skills, and feats. After that, you're thrown into the thick of the action; your 
 character is a Republic soldier onboard a starship when it gets attacked by the Sith. They are 
 searching for Bastilla, a young Jedi whose power of battle meditation has thus-far prevented the 
 Dark Lord Malak from conquering the galaxy. Your character will experience a familiar tale of self-discovery, 
 betrayal, and redemption (maybe) in your epic quest to comb the galaxy in search of an ancient 
 artifact that is key in the war. There are a few plot twists along the way, but the main purpose 
 of the story seems to be justifying the game experience.
  
  The core gameplay is KOTOR is familiar RPG territory. You'll spend much of the game talking to 
 people, either for important quest information or just for the fun of hearing what they have to 
 say. Combat occurs in real-time at an exciting pace, though if things get too hectic you can always 
 pause the action and issue orders. There are even a fair amount of puzzles; while some seem forced, 
 they do a good job of mixing up the gameplay. KOTOR also has a few minigames: Pazaak (a card game 
 kinda like blackjack) , Swoop Bike racing (a great way to earn credits if you have good reflexes) , 
 and some sequences when you have to shoot down enemy fighters with your ship's weaponry. Overall, 
 the mix is quite satisfying and its all too easy to loose track of time while playing simply because 
 its so much fun and doesn't get repetitive.
  
  To say that Knights of the Old Republic is open-ended is an understatement. You can go about the 
 main quest in any order you want, and accept or ignore the many side quests along the way. The 
 game gives you a lot of choices in how to resolve the many side-quests. Depending on your approach, 
 you'll begin aligning yourself with either the Light or Dark sides. There are many of those morally-ambiguous 
 situations to put the character of your . . . uh . . . character to the test. People even remember 
 what you do; sometimes, you'll even hear people on a totally different planet talking about your 
 last adventure. All these choices give KOTOR massive replay value; you'll want to play though as 
 both a hero and a villain just to see how things play out (especially because the Dark Side options 
 are just so funny) . And lastly, you'll get to choose which of the NPCs will accompany you on your 
 adventures.
  
  As with Bioware's other RPGs, the supporting cast is outstanding. You'll meet nine other characters 
 throughout the game that can join your party. Each has an endearing personality and most have a 
 very detailed backstorytalking with your party members to learn more about them is very enjoyable. 
 There is also a fair amount of character development for your party members as the game progresses. 
 You'll also be able to take on some character-specific missions by learning about your allies or 
 by bumping into someone they know. Its hard to choose just two NPCs to join your party.
  
  There are only a few minor gameplay issues with KOTOR. The first is that the game doesn't autosave 
 as frequent as I'd likeif you die there's a good chance you'll have to replay a significant portion 
 of a level. But since you can save anywhere in the game, this is only a real problem for the forgetful. 
 For the most part the game is fairly easy, especially if you've put a lot of thought into feat 
 and equipment selection. However, the hard mode (the few times I've tried it, anyway) throws the 
 game too far in the opposite direction. Finally, the last boss is incredibly cheap and you have 
 to fight really dirty to win. If your character isn't maximized for combat . . . well, at least 
 you can set the game difficulty to easy.
  
  KOTOR's potent graphics engine really brings the galaxy to life. The characters look sharp and 
 are well animated (the melee combat animations are particularly lively) . The Selkath (a race of 
 aquatic aliens) simply look outstanding. The only real problem with the characters is that there 
 are about a dozen models used for nearly all the human NPCs you come across, so they all start 
 looking the same after a while (this is true for aliens too, but is lot less noticeable) . Also, 
 virtually every female character has her hair in a bun . . . I guess that style has really swept 
 the galaxy. The game environments are richly detailed and establish the tone of the planets you'll 
 visit, whether it is the peaceful grasslands of Dantoine, the deep dark oceans of Manaan, or the 
 ancient and weathered ruins on Korriban. Good special effects really heighten the experience, such 
 as the reflections on polished armor, the soft glow of lightsabres, the tall grass wafting in the 
 breeze, or the air ripples caused by force powers and stealth fields.
  
  The strong visuals are complemented by good audio. The star-warsian orchestral music fits the mood 
 of whatever you are doing, from the quiet melodies you'll hear while wandering through a town to 
 the combat music that accents the action in battle. While perfectly serviceable, the music on its 
 own isn't all that memorable. The sounds effects are solid; the sounds of blasters and lightsabres 
 are particularly true to the source material. Knights of the Old Republic also features some talented 
 voice acting. What is most noteworthy is that the game's huge amount of dialog is all spoken, right 
 down to the comments made by nameless NPCs. Even the aliens sounds good; each species has its own 
 language that sounds straight from the films.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is an instant classic. It follows the same formula of Bioware's 
 other works, but applies them in a new setting. The game appeals to more than just Star Wars fans 
 with its original storyline and characters, meaty campaign, immense replay value, and immersive 
 universe. If you're looking for a good RPG or an all-around fun game, it's hard to find better 
 than Knights of the Old Republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  Many games have come out since the first series of the Star Wars of movies back in the late 1970s 
 in the universe that George Lucas created, but few have told such a great story as Knights of the 
 Old Republic. Gamers who are in need of a role-playing game with a good story need to take a serious 
 look at this game. Unlike most games from Lucas Arts franchise dealing with the Star Wars setting, 
 Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) , actually takes place 4000 years before the movies even began. 
 But just because you wont find any of the signature characters of the six movies released to date, 
 doesnt mean that the characters within KOTOR are flat and dont have any depth; quite the contrary. 
 Coming to the pc on November 18 of 2003, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic gives both Star 
 Wars and Role-Playing fans the game theyve been waiting for.
  
  Taking on the D20 system of the Dungeon and Dragons rule system, KOTOR lets you customize your 
 character multiple ways with skills, feats, attributes, and even force powers later on. From the 
 beginning, youll be able to choose from three classes of characters, but dont start thinking 
 that the number of classes limits your style of play because KOTOR lets you take any class and 
 make it your own from the opening levels till the final battle. The freedom of choice in your characters 
 perspective is not only with your skills and class, but with your attitude in-game, how you want 
 to handle different situations. Because we all know whats living throughout the whole Star Wars 
 universe intertwined in every living thing; that being the Force. Youll be able to choose which 
 side you want to be, but its not handled through a one time dark/light question. The choices your 
 character makes throughout the game determine which side youre on. How you handle different situations 
 and events throughout the games seven planets youll explore as you progress through the twenty 
 levels of your character. After starting out questing and doing missions from different memorable 
 characters, youll finally be given the chance to become a Jedi where youll again be given a choice 
 of three different classes that play differently, but again, this game is played how you choose 
 to play it. And the story thats interwoven throughout your travels is amazing. My first time through, 
 I had no idea what was about to happen when I got to the twist and was very surprised and it made 
 me appreciate the game that much more. Bioware definitely took their time with thinking about every 
 part of the story and youll begin tot realize what you missed earlier on.
  
  Throughout your travels across KOTORs planets, youll meet up with and be able to travel with 
 ten different characters thatll help you on your way. Some NPCs are Jedi knights like yourself, 
 and some are rogue type characters that have a lot of experience dealing with computers and traps. 
 While traveling in the different areas of each world, youre allowed to have three characters in 
 your party at one time, and youre also allowed to go solo to earn more experience points quicker. 
 All the NPCs have a different story and will want to converse with you during your time with them 
 throughout your missions and quests that youll be sent upon. Getting to know your allies helps 
 makes the story that much more rounded and put together as the choices that your main character 
 makes affects youre whole group and youll see your friends change the same as you do in whether 
 you decide to be part of the Dark Side or the Light Side. While stationed on the Ebon Hawk, your 
 main source of transportation throughout the galaxy, these characters will be able to craft items 
 for you to use during your missions which will help you out with completing your objectives. But, 
 the story and characters arent all youll have to keep you busy. Bioware created two mini-games 
 within KOTOR that can provide a good amount of entertainment to anyone. One being swoop racing, 
 which can be compared with pod racing from the first Star Wars movie, and also a card game called 
 Pazaak. While visiting each world, youll be able to compete in racing and also find and trade 
 for new cards for your Pazaak deck as you challenge greater and greater opponents.
  
  The graphics in this game, for 2003 look pretty good with a lot of detail made to the atmosphere. 
 Each world youll explore throughout Knights of the Old Republic is different from the other and 
 memorable because of the attention to design and setting displayed by the developers at Bioware. 
 The game is played from a behind view of the character you have selected at the time, almost an 
 isometric view. Each character you control is different from one another and the different enhancements 
 and armor you equip them with will change their appearance in the actual game world. Some of the 
 worlds youll explore youve seen from the movies such as Tatoonie and Kashyyyk, the land of the 
 wookies. Youll be able to see how these worlds looked before the Clown Wars even began; how the 
 different civilizations were before Anakin or Luke Skywalker crossed the galaxies. And with every 
 other Lucas Arts game, the sound is phenomenal in Knights of the Old Republic. Star Wars games 
 especially have had amazing sound being able to use the sound effects of the actual movies, so 
 your lightsaber battles with dark Jedis will sound like the saber fights in the movies. As with 
 all Lucas Arts game, Knights of the Old Republic sounds great from beginning till end and youll 
 enjoy the musical score not only in the opening cinematics, but also on each world as you explore 
 the likes of Dantoonie and Korriban, the land of the Sith.
  
  With having to choose between the Light and Dark Side of the Force throughout the game, and exploring 
 the seven different planets, youll be able to spend hours upon hours on Knights of the Old Republic. 
 Just going through this game one time alone isnt enough and youll be able to spend at least twenty 
 hours on each side as you progress through the story over two different ways. You have to get the 
 full affect of both the Light and Dark Side and the different powers associated with each. With 
 having a rich atmospheric world filled with a great musical score, any fan of Star Wars or Role-Playing 
 Games need to give this game a try. With the amazing story involved and the memorable characters, 
 youll be craving for more from the Star Wars universe.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bokista
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic is an exciting romp through the Star Wars universe, with a fun combat 
 system, a memorable story, and always something to do. It does have a few downfalls, however, which 
 can be attributed to the genre more than anything else. But now that KOTOR wears the 20 dollar 
 price tag, these annoyances can be overlooked to find a game that still holds up. 
  
  The first four or five hours of the game are a little slow. While I wont spoil any of the plot 
 for people who have not played it, I will say that I spent this time just waiting for my character 
 to become cool. Bioware simultaneously did something neat as well as trying when they created 
 these worlds. Crossing long distances can be quite a pain, especially because you have be attentive 
 to every step even when youre not in any sort of danger. Often times, forgetting to open a footlocker 
 somewhere or traveling back to a cantina meant a long run with no shortcuts. The recall system 
 to the home-base (whether the apartment or ship) was a nice feature, but I never had reason to 
 use it all that often when it was available and wanted to use it when it was disabled. 
  
  Besides the lightsabers, the upgrade system proved fairly worthless as I played through the game. 
 I could see how it would become important for a certain party of characters, but it would have 
 been nicer to see more customizable armors with different slots for upgrade pieces. The variety 
 of weapons was fantastic  something for everybody. The swords became arcane quickly, however, 
 as lightsabers came into play; they basically seemed to be created to start the main character 
 down a melee path so that they could use lightsabers later on.
  
  The environments of the different planets were all surprisingly unique. This design really set 
 each area apart from the others. Its unfortunate that going to a new planet meant only being able 
 to travel to a solitary new city and its surrounding area, and not a couple of locations on the 
 planets surface. Its obvious that doing so would have been a huge undertaking, but that doesnt 
 mean the hypothetical wouldnt be fun. 
  
  The game progresses quickly throughout most of it, but does get hung up in a few parts. There are 
 times when I wished that I could do the missions on a planet in between missions of other planets. 
 With the exception of a few sidequests, it always felt as if the game encouraged me to just beat 
 one planet at a time. It was nice that they left the order of the planets open, though now I wish 
 I had visisted Kashyyk sooner. 
  
  The voice acting was fantastic, considering the sheer number of lines that had to be delivered. 
 You did, however, begin to recognize all the alien speech patterns (as there were only 5 or so 
 stock lines per race to cycle through) . The original score also fit perfectly into the game, as 
 if John Williams had composed it himself.
  
  All in all, PC owners looking for a solid game that wont empty the wallet or fail graphics card 
 tests should turn to KOTOR to see what all the talk has been about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge fan of RPG's, I find them generally slow and boring, without enough action to keep 
 the gamer interested. However, Knights of the Old Republic doesn't really suffer from those faults, 
 though it doesn't match Diablo 2's exciting battles either.
  
  The story is basically about a Republic Soldier, you, who wakes up with amnesia after a devastating 
 battle against the Sith. Like all RPG's you choose your appearance, skills and abilities and the 
 game develops as your skills increase.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic has quite a good story, with some unexpected and interesting twists. 
 You travel to many different planets, though occasionally I didn't quite get a Star Wars feel about 
 some of the places you visit. Throughout the game you will gather a large party, each with their 
 own stories to tell and distinct personalities.
  
  Graphics are quite good, though sound is not quite up to par, saved only by some rhythmic and likeable 
 music. Lightsabers look quite good, though they looked much better in Jedi Outcast, which was released 
 quite a while before Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  Gameplay is immersive enough, though fighting can become very frustrating due to the game's strange 
 fighting system, which is neither turn-based or free for all. Lightsaber battles look quite shocking, 
 unfortunately. The game is addictive, though, and there are many side quests to complete, including 
 Swoop Races. Knights of the Old Republic is addictive, and will keep you playing to the end.
  
  This was quite a good game, though it just didn't have the Star Wars feel to me. I knew the 
 places and settings, but I couldn't relate. Some believe that Knights of the Old Republic is the 
 best Star Wars game to date, but I believe Jedi Outcast is much more entertaining and ground-breaking.
 
  
  In conclusion, Knights of the Old Republic is a good game, and can be enjoyed by most audiences. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKombatant2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2005 1:23 am PT
Review:  Ah, Star Wars. Every nerd's favorite franchise. The videogame adaptations have been, let's say, 
 lacking. There are a few standouts, especially the arcade games. But it always seemed odd to me 
 that Star Wars and RPGs never mixed. Well, now they have, and what KOTOR is is an amzing Star Wars 
 game, and an amazing RPG on its own. The character customization is very cool, and all the force 
 powers you can get is awesome. There are tons of items in the game, like lightsabers, armor, and 
 blasters. The graphics are very good in this game, and so is the sound. This is a very fun game 
 to play, but there should have been multi player. Come on Bioware, Neverwinter's multiplayer is 
 very fun, and this would have been too. Anyways, this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvtos
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  This is instantly a classic made to be. When i first played it, i was imediatley drawn in by the 
 sound, graphics, and immersing story. From the opening sequence i was hyped up. It is a game that 
 should set standards in the RPG gaming world.
  
  Down to business...
  
  The graphics were great, even though the frame rate was not stable. I overlooked it because i was 
 too caught up in the story. For my computer, it ran at perfect frame rates when in a small, enclosed 
 area, (Chuundar's room) and slower in crowded areas like Taris. But overall the graphics were great 
 with lovely details.
  
  The sound is awesome. The stupendously placed voice overs were magnificent. I loved it.
  
  
 Gameplay, im a little mixed. I liked the fights, but the turnbased part of it i usually got impatient 
 with. i mean, in the star wars movies, jedi dont fight with lightsabers in turnbased format, they 
 go at it blazing fast. That could have been better. And the constant, weapon out in the open was 
 a little out of place sometimes. Who walks with their lightsaber out and drawn in public? But after 
 an hour, i didnt mind.
  
  As for value, i have played the game from beginning to end 4 times so far. I spent more than 30 
 hours on each playthrough. Three times a good guy, and once a bad one. Right now im using cheats 
 to have some fun with the game and it really adds a TON of replay value. I mean, imagine taking 
 on the entire Sith Base as Carth with Mandalorian Armor and the hardest hitting weapons? That is 
 crazy fun/
  
  This game is great, great, and more great. I love it more and more with each day i play it. The 
 graphics, sound, and immersion of RPGs with the star wars universe was a near perfect one. The 
 problems with it are few and can be overlooked. Other than that, KOTOR is the best Star Wars game 
 yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I had reservations about how good Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) would 
 be on the PC. Knowing that it was suppose to be a PC game first that became and XBOX title first 
 was a little disheartening. I felt that the experience would be cheapened by the simplistic nature 
 of the console experience. I could not of been more wrong. KOTOR is one of the finest games ever 
 made for the PC. After playing the game, I have moved it into my top five favorite games ever made.
 
  
  KOTOR takes place in the Star Wars universe, but it set 4000 years before any of the events in 
 Episode I. This allows for alot of freedom and creative use of the Star Wars license. The game 
 starts with you as a recruit of the republic brought on personally by a powerful Jedi by the name 
 of Bastila. The story that is weaved from this point will take you to several planets and make 
 several twists and turns. 
  
  Your character is created at the beginning via the standard character creation screen. You allot 
 points to certain skills and move into the main story. You will meet several characters that can 
 join you in your main quest. The unique thing about these NPC's is that they each have their own 
 little mini stories that have quests attached to them. They are very fleshed out and you feel for 
 them in their gains and losses.
  
  As you progress through the game you gain experience points that will boost your levels and skills 
 and at a certain point in the game, you find out that you are destined to be a Jedi and you get.... a 
 Lightsaber. This is when the game really kicks it up a notch. The powers you can choose from and 
 the lightsaber duels are amazing. The best I have seen in any Star Wars game. Truly fantastic. 
 This also brings about a constant struggle between the light side and the dark side of the force 
 which you can monitor through one of the status screens. Every decision that you make in the game 
 affects whether you are aligned with the light side or the dark side of the Force. And sometimes 
 the decisions are really tough that will cloud your judgement. 
  
  Gameplay is easy to pick up on and is laid out in a sensible fashion. Any screen that you need 
 access to is either a mouse click or keystroke away. The interface never gets in the way of the 
 gameplay. The story is flawless and combat has a natural flow to it. The action can be paused when 
 it gets too hectic and all the puzzles seem to fit into the story of the game. 
  
  Sound is also fantastic. The voice acting is really good. Probably the best that I have heard in 
 a game. They really brought a lot of feel to the characters and made you want to keep them all 
 on your team and keep them alive. The weapons all sound fantastic and make use of the Skywalker 
 sound team. The sound production values as a whole set a new standard for game development.
  
  Graphics are also perfect. Force powers look devestating while melee weapons and blaster effects 
 look great. The character models look very detailed and tend to carry alot of emotion. Well, except 
 for your character who always seems to be staring off into space or really mad. But I can look 
 past that simple flaw. Drop shadows, lighting effects, cut scenes are all great with no real complaints. 
 
  
  The only real downside to this game is that you tend to get a bit too powerful for the final boss 
 battle if you perform all the quests. At least that is what I found to be true. I also noticed 
 that certain sections tended to be hard just to slow you down a bit and not because it made sense. 
 But again, these flaws are minor and do not really affect the game as a whole.
  
  In conclusion, I have to say that Knights of the Old Republic is one of the finest games PC, XBOX 
 or otherwise ever made. All other games should look at this game as the model for storytelling, 
 graphical splendor and fun. A perfect experience every time I fired up the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool-AN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game you learn just from the start what to do and you almost always known what 
 to do. However the game can be hard at times and i found myself saving before and after every major 
 fight, because i was afraid i might lose any progress. The games stronger enemies can be very hard 
 opponents forcing you to fight the same battle many times, which can be frustrating. This doesn't 
 change the fact that this game is very good, the story drives you wanting more and more and there 
 are many quests and puzzles which never are very hard.
  
  Your entire team consists of nine characters though you can only take two extra characters with 
 you at any time, except some few missions which you are alone. The characters all have stories 
 and you can discoverer them by talking to them which will help you in your quests and the story 
 line. All the characters are different ranging from a banned wookie to a killer droid.
  
  The sound is great the aliens all talk different alien languages and the humans speak english or 
 "galactic basic". Even the droids have voices and there must be hours of voice work in this game. 
 Every thing else is good the light sabers sound like they should and the blasters do to.
  
  The game, being a star wars game, also makes lot of choices of what way to follow. Since i played 
 a light character that would rather talk then fight i don't know what the evil way would be , but 
 there was a evil way for every good one to. Which also is a thing you could choose just to kil 
 an person or just talk to them. I offen found options for both meaning if you want to kill a person 
 you could do that or talk them out of it, not every thing can be solved with words though.
  
  Coming down to business this is a game you will like if you like star wars and/or RPG fan. 
 It has a few flaws which are easily seen but they are also easy to look aside since the game is 
 so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutDAVE3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  In an age where you cringe when you hear the words "Star Wars" and "game" in the same sentence, 
 Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a welcome addition to the otherwise lackluster Star Wars 
 video game franchise. In the game, you play as a newly "awakened" Jedi in which your main goal 
 is, of course, to save the universe from the evil Sith. However, you have the option of becoming 
 evil, or staying good by the way you respond to people in conversations, whether or not you just 
 go around killing people, and how you treat your party members. Both sides, light and dark, have 
 different stories, and you end up fighting the last boss differently depending on what side you 
 choose to stick to. You start out using blasters and regular swords until later in the game when 
 you're allowed to build a light-saber. The weapons are extremely balanced, as are the enemies. 
 You will never find yourself screaming "WHY THE  DIDN'T HE DIE?" nor will you be able to just 
 walk away from the computer while your player is fighting the enemy. Another nice addition is party 
 members, every world you go to, you're allowed to bring with you two party members. When you have 
 the option of choosing from ten party members, and are only allowed to pick two, you have to use 
 strategic thinking about who to choose and why. On some worlds, you may need a party member who's 
 strong in hacking computers, or in another world you may need a party member who has a strong blaster 
 shot. The ability to choose different characters for each area opens up endless options and ways 
 to play the game. The graphics in this game are good, comparable to any other RPG out. Not Half-Life 
 2 good, or Far Cry good, but you can always feel a sense of what the creators of the game are trying 
 to accomplish. The battle sequences are an example of these graphics, with your character often 
 pulling off some interesting moves while fighting an enemy. Also, grenade effects have a nice visual 
 effect when you throw them, you can see the heat radiation when they explode. The sound is also 
 another great example of this outstanding game engine. While in battle, you can hear the swords 
 or light-sabers swinging and clanking against each other, and all enemies, from animals to the 
 Sith make very distinctive battle cries. The voice acting is simply amazing, and the ability to 
 influence different parts of the story by simply convincing a person you talk to in one way or 
 another is a welcome addition. The value in this game is never ending. With the choice of being 
 a light or dark side Jedi, and tons of variations in conversations which influence the game later 
 on, you'll be able to replay this game three or four times without having done close to everything 
 you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomSlick13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game based on all of the great reviews. While the game is good, I believe the 
 game is too controlling. I guess I'm looking for a bit more of an RPG feel. It kind of like walking 
 through a movie that will have ending A or B based on a few choices I make. I do find the game 
 very good just not something I'm likely to play multiple times. The graphics and sound are great. 
 The story is good. The game-play seems a bit to slow for me. Also, there can be too much running 
 around in the levels. While I have enjoyed the game, I will most likely not be purchasing KOTOR 
 II. I have had the game lock up on me a couple of times requiring a hard reboot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 24, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I've never liked RPG's, I absolutely don't get what the point is of these games. I think there 
 is very little interaction between the player and the game, it's basically just a story and the 
 player makes some choices that vaguely affect the way the game plays out. The extremely unexciting 
 and boring Dungeon and Dragons system that these games are based on shows through so much it hurts. 
 This is the case with KOTOR as well (don't make me spell that title out, thanks) . It's a bit sad 
 to think that in Japan, the country where video games were born, RPG is the most popular game genre 
 of all.
  
  Something I do like is Star Wars though, I've been a fan of SW since I first saw the first movie 
 and I play any good SW-game I can get my hands on. So while i find RPG's disgusting, I am a huge 
 fan of SW so I decided to give this one a try based on professional reviews I'd read in magazines. 
 It was a bad move of me to make, it appears. I dislike this game with a passion, I grew tired of 
 it even before I had finished the very first stage. You make your small choices in the turn-based 
 combats and get some choices whether to act evil or good. Amazing. This game made such a small 
 impression on me I hardly remember a thing about it. I remember the graphics being somewhat nice, 
 but since I can't stand the gameplay it hardly matters at all.
  
  It feels like it's a bit unfair of me to review this game since I find RPG's revolting, but I did 
 buy the darn thing based on reviews saying it was the best game based on the SW universe for a 
 long time. So please don't get offended by this review if you like role-playing games, to each 
 his or her own, just see it as a warning to all people who like me are no big fans of the genre. 
 I think the fact that this is a SW-game is a very small factor compared to what genre the game 
 is in, at least judging by my experience with it. This isn't something that the many reviews of 
 this game I've read has made a point of and it is very unfortunate. I did play this game at a friend's 
 place and I found it much more rewarding when my friend was playing and I just watched him and 
 told him what to do next, but that's the only redeeming value I can come to think of that this 
 game had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezmorized
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Star War KOTOR is nothing like any other Star Wars game I have ever played. The game is immersive 
 and gives you choices. Dark or Light. The games lets you choose whether you wanna become a dark 
 jedi or a light one. The game is easy to start and easy to fall in love with. The story is set 
 before the times of the Skywalkers and it is the same basic fight. The Sith against the Republic. 
 The story is deeply immbedded in the game and it makes you want to play hour after hour.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game gives a new light on the rpg genre. The star wars paint on top make this 
 game fun to play and play again. The combat is fun and the pause feature is nice. This feature 
 lets you pause the game (whether in combat or not) and when you are in combat you can pause the 
 game, pick what attacks you want to do and un pause. The game will then resume just as it was. 
 This come handy when you have a lot of opponents or when you fight a boss. The game is like any 
 rpg in the sense that you have to collect items and gain experience points. The items you can gather 
 can vary between battle stimulants, weapons, and clothing. The game play is fun and it doesn't 
 get repettative, like other rpgs. Some things I didn't like was the invisible walls. If this was 
 eliminated giving me endless places to roam this would have made the game even better.
  
  Rating 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are stunning and the engine for this game is great. 
 The worlds and people are so discriptive. The face of people when you talk to the are very realistic 
 and I think they did a good job on that. Although the general graphics were good, when you got 
 to the open area (such as on Dantoonie) the game gets a little choppy and runs a little slow. This 
 has happened on some levels not all of them. This also may be that my computer is not the best.
 
  
  Rating 8/10
  
  Sound:
  What would be a star wars game with out the stunning music. The music is beautiful as always and 
 ties into the game very well. Also the sound affects are amazing. When I got my first lightsaber 
 and flourished them they make the sweetest buzz sound. The other sound affects are also good such 
 as the blasters, grenades, and more simple things like opening a door. One thing that definitly 
 stood out in the game was the dialogue/voice acting. The dialogue was what moved the game and made 
 the game so interesting. This is where they definitly succeded and the voice acting made it more 
 sweet.
  
  Rating 9/10
  
  Value:
  The value of the game is mediocore. You will be able to play this game twice imo. You play once 
 on the dark side and once on the light side. After that I don't think their will be much to do. 
 Once you have played both sides the games is complete. You will know what happened. I would say 
 you probably wouldn't be playing this three months after you by it. It is a great game, but you 
 could get bored of it after awhile.
  
  Rating 7/10
  
  Tilt:
  I was really impressed with this game. Playing through it was fun, but did leave you hanging for 
 more at the end. The game was a little short, for my experience. I could have explored the worlds 
 more and that probably would have meant 3 more hours to the 30 hours I played it. It was fun and 
 I could see why they left you hanging at the end. I hope the sequel will maybe answer some of the 
 questions I had from the first. Good game and I can see why it took GOTY last year.
  
  Rating 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars. Thats a franchise that needs no introduction. In fact, if youre never heard of it 
 and you are still playing games, you seriously need to donate all your games and systems to the 
 more fortunate (since theyre seen some of the best movies ever) and go back to the cave you mustve 
 been living in for over twenty-five years. Then theres Bioware. You might have played their games 
 but not known that they made them, but nonetheless, they are the brilliant developers behind Baldurs 
 Gate, Neverwinter Nights, and a few other great, lesser-known games. For a few years, they worked 
 on Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Combining Star Wars, one of the best franchises of all 
 time, with the rules of Dungeons & Dragons: 3rd Edition, the amazing folks over at Bioware made 
 not only one of the best RPGs of all time, but what is quite simply one of the best games of all 
 time, in any genre. If you play KOTOR and have any reaction besides awe, you should call an asylum, 
 because chances are, you're insane.
  
  Ill start with the gameplay. Dont ask me how, but Bioware managed to make KOTOR play in a completely 
 unique way from every other RPG, and yet make it incredibly familiar to those who play third-person 
 games or especially RPGs. The combat, which is probably the main part of the game, can be turn-based 
 or real-time, depending on options you set. You have, of course, your fair share of lightsabers, 
 armor, swords, blaster pistols, blaster rifles, grenades, mines, upgrades for all these things, 
 and of course, your defensive and offensive Force Powers. You can focus on using weapons, and from 
 there melee or ranged weapons, or on sneak-attacking, or using force powers, or on just avoiding 
 most of your enemies using stealth. You have different armor slots for different body parts in 
 your inventory, so you can try to have all your items special modifications do one thing (like 
 improve a skill) or do a bunch of different things (like improve a few different skills, make you 
 immune to a few different things, and protect you from a few specific types of attacks) . The combat, 
 though, is fast-paced, fun, and beautiful (especially with several Jedi using lightsabers) , regardless 
 of whether you use weapons, grenades/mines, or Force Powers.
  
  The combat would be nothing, however, without the plot and dialogue. The plot is basically that 
 4,000 years before the movies, the Sith and the Republic are at war, after Malak and Revan, heroes 
 of the Mandalorian War, suddenly turned to the Dark Side and created an enormous Sith army that 
 challenged the Republic in such a short amount of time that it almost seems impossible. You wake 
 up on board the Endar Spire above Taris, which is being destroyed by Sith fighters. Crash-landing 
 on Taris, you, as well as Carth Onasi and eventually a handful of other memorable NPCs, have to 
 rescue Bastila. Once you escape to Dantooine on board the Millenium Falcon-esque Ebon Hawk, you 
 find a Star Map and an ancient droid that tells you about the Star Forge, which is apparently what 
 Malak used to create the Sith army so suddenly. You are sent by the Jedi Council on a quest throughout 
 four other planets to find four other Star Maps, which will give you the location of the Star Forge. 
 Youll spend from 30-40 hours going throughout all the planets, finding the Star Maps and completing 
 all the side quests, and then not only finding the Star Forge, but stopping Lord Malak once and 
 for all. There are several different endings, depending on many factors, like, obviously, your 
 alignment.
  
  The dialogue is the truly unique part of KOTOR, though, in that while you usually have a fair amount 
 of choice in dialogue in other RPGs, only in KOTOR does it truly matter. Just about every single 
 choice you make has an influence to your alignment to the Force (either Light Side or Dark Side, 
 as shown by a scale on your character sheet) in a small or large way, and in turn, most choices 
 you make will help advance the plot or give you new quests or information about old quests. You 
 can [Persuade] or [Lie] to characters to get them to do things they wouldnt normally do or reveal 
 information that they wouldnt normally reveal. You can threaten characters into giving you information 
 or items or discounts, or just kill them for no reason, if you are going for a Dark Side shift, 
 while you can be kind and generous and helpful to people for a Light Side shift. You can kill a 
 person for the items theyre carrying, or help them with a quest to get it as a reward. You have 
 so many choices that its a very rare thing to only have one dialogue option unless youve used 
 all your other ones already. Not that the choices stop there- you have tons of different options 
 regarding the actual gameplay, like whether you should poison the water to kill a gigantic fish 
 or blow up a machine that was causing it to go insane and leave it alive. The dialogue and quests 
 both have enough different options and outcomes to make it worthwhile to play through the game 
 at LEAST two times.
  
  The NPCs are all memorable, as I said before. For instance, depending on your gender, Carth or 
 Bastila may become attracted to you, and depending on your alignment, HK-47 may be loyal to you 
 or reluctantly follow you only on the basis that you purchased him. There are backstories to each 
 character, both short and long, and sometimes containing an actual quest. Carth, for example, lost 
 his wife and lost the whereabouts of his son because his old mentor, Saul Karath, the current admiral 
 of the Sith fleet, betrayed the Republic to prove himself worthy to Malak, and so Carth wants revenge 
 on Saul. The revenge is solved inevitably when you confront Saul, but you can eventually find Carths 
 son and reunite the two. Meanwhile, NPCs like Jolee and HK-47 have interesting background stories, 
 but no actual quest to go along with them.
  
  That about sums up the gameplay and plot, but the gameplay is nowhere near the only good part of 
 KOTOR. First off, you have the graphics. The PC version of KOTOR, even today with all the brand 
 new high-tech ultra-detailed super-beautiful game engines like the Source engine and the Doom 3 
 engine, still looks absolutely amazing. The characters, items, textures, and special effects all 
 look incredibly great. While some of the characters animations are just plain bad and overused, 
 other animations, especially lip-synching, are done pretty well. The lightsaber effects, mine/grenade 
 explosions, and some misty effects (like in the tombs in Korriban) can sometimes slow down the 
 framerate, but it kicks right up to Smoooooooth a few moments after the dust settles. The in-engine 
 cut-scenes are only as good as the settings you set the graphics on, but the pre-rendered ones, 
 from simply arriving on a planet to a planet or ship being obliterated, look absolutely amazing 
 and on-par even with the high-tech games on high-tech engines coming out in late 2005. If those 
 arent great graphics, I dont know what are.
  
  The audio is both high quality and innovative. Its high quality because of all the new and classic 
 Star Wars-type music, and because of the new and classic Star Wars-type sound effects. Every area, 
 from the murky Lower Shadowlands of Kashyyyk to the somewhat tropical planet that leads you to 
 the Star Forge, has an appropriate musical score, and every event, from a mine exploding to a lightsaber 
 turning on to a blaster firing, has an appropriate sound effect that seems as real as a sound representing 
 a fake event can be. The part thats innovative (in that its never been done so well) is the dialogue. 
 Every word of dialogue, from humans and aliens, in every single language in the game, is spoken 
 and (if enabled in the options) subtitled. Your dialogue isnt spoken, to help enhance immersion, 
 and the NPCs that speak real-life English never actually say your characters name (it makes sense, 
 though- how could they record every one of the trillions of possible names you could have, because 
 it would sound tacky to use a system that tries to sound out your name, and would require the voice 
 actor to still voice millions of syllables) . This DOES help immersion. A lot. You always feel like 
 youre really a Jedi who has the dialogue options presented, who can go to the Light Side or Dark 
 Side of the Force, who is the last hope of the Republic or the greatest thread to the Republic, 
 who can end anyones life in a moment without thinking twice. These countless hours of recorded 
 dialogue arent actually innovative, and are, like I said earlier, only so groundbreaking because 
 no game has ever had such professionally done and plentiful voice acting. The audio may only help 
 immersion, but its just as valuable to the experience you get when playing Knights of the Old 
 Republic as the gameplay and plot.
  
  Those are the reasons why the game is so great. What I havent explained is why exactly all this 
 matters, and the exact reason for that is one simple thing: the value of the game. Your first play-through, 
 on either side of the force, will last you at least 30 hours if you do just a handful of side quests, 
 probably up to 40 if you do all or most of the side quests. You will almost be forced to play through 
 the game again on the opposite alignment and/or gender because you cant do everything on your 
 first play-through. Your gender alone has an impact with Carth and Bastila and how some characters 
 react to you, not to mention the alignment with the Force that gives you not only a completely 
 different gameplay experience, especially with your dialogue, but a completely different ending. 
 The game can easily last you 75 hours before you have seen most of what is available throughout 
 its vast galaxy. That is excluding the mini-games, like bounty-hunting, pazaak (cards) , and swoop 
 racing, which can give you at least 10 more hours in each play-through. If you can honestly say 
 that a 75-100 hour game available for $20 everywhere doesnt have incredible value, you need to 
 play games other than Morrowind, GTA, and MMORPGs, because you have some sincerely screwed up 
 values about value.
  
  One thing I should add in is that the bugs that everyone else constantly complains about, as well 
 as control issues, are something that I never encountered. I can see why you could complain about 
 them, but reviews are simply opinions, so why should I tell you what you could think when I can 
 tell you what you probably will think? The only crash I encountered was one that my computer does 
 in a lot of games, due to something wrong hardware-wise. The controls may be annoying at first, 
 but they are changeable and give you plenty of different ways to control your character, so its 
 hard to complain about them even if you dont actually like them, unless youre lazy and never 
 bother trying to change the controls because you desperately want to find a reason to not call 
 KOTOR a perfect game.
  
  Yes, the game is as good as Ive described. Hype did not factor into this game, nor did bias. In 
 fact, if GameSpot hadnt reviewed KOTOR or given it such a good review, I never wouldve gotten 
 it and the handful of people that Ive managed to convince to buy it or, if they have it and have 
 stopped playing, finish it would never have known how truly great it is. The gameplay, plot, dialogue, 
 choices, graphics, audio, and value are some of the most top-notch stuff in any game, in any genre, 
 on any system, ever. You simply cant go wrong with KOTOR. Bioware did something when they made 
 the game, something theyd tried and failed to do with Neverwinter Nights and had done to a slightly 
 lesser extent with the Baldurs Gate games. They made a game that people will be talking about 
 and comparing other games to even in decades. You cant talk about moral choices in games without 
 thinking of KOTOR. You cant talk about Star Wars games without thinking about KOTOR. You cant 
 talk about good RPGs without talking about KOTOR. You would have a really tough time trying to 
 find one thing that isnt at least good in the game, and an even tougher time finding a thing 
 that is bad, if one even exists. Bioware made what is, above all else, an extremely fun, highly-polished 
 RPG that gives you a level of choice that even the Grand Theft Auto games, even San Andreas, have 
 a tough time matching. For every even somewhat linear part of the game geographically, you have 
 a new dialogue choice to balance out any slight feeling of linearity. Yes, its one step before 
 impossible to find a problem with this game unless you are truly nit picking. Knights of the Old 
 Republic is a game that everybody with a brain, and even some people without brains, can enjoy 
 immensely, and thats that. What are you waiting for? Go buy the game go play through it twice! 
 Im surprised you made it this far without doing that. Doing that would probably be harder than 
 resisting the Dark Side of the Force.
  
  Meatbag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuronCloud7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  To this day KOTOR is my third favorite XBOX game (besides Halo & Ninja Gaiden) . How can anyone 
 not like this game besides to much dialogue, but well done dialogue. Also this game became one 
 of the fastest selling XBOX games of all time. The company behind this masterpiece is BioWare, 
 a Canadian developer that is also known for RPG's like Baldur's Gate Series and Neverwinter Nights. 
 Also BioWare is coming out with a pretty sweet new game in April 05 called Jade Empire for the 
 XBOX.
  
  You start the game choosing your main characters Sex & Race and then start the Adventure. What 
 made this game so remarkable is that you got to choose Good or Evil (light or dark) and gave it 
 a lot of replay valve. It takes place 4,000 years before Episode 1, you start on a ship taking 
 over by the Sith and then crash on a unknown plant (controlled by the Sith) . He is were your journey 
 begins to find out your past and you must choose light or dark. Your first mission is to rescue 
 a special Jedi named Bastila which is the key to the war and with her your journey begins. Your 
 main quest is to collect Star Maps from many of the well know Star Wars plants and bring the story 
 together. Through out the game you encounter another 8 characters (Bastila which is #9) to join 
 you on your quest and to save the world. The story in the game is OK, but gets better towards the 
 end. The other things that makes this game so remarkable is the Gameplay (customizing characters 
 & Jedi powers) , the Environments, the characters you encounter with there own languages, and the 
 little side quest. If you plan to do just the basics in the game it will take you 35 hours just 
 to beat the game. It is all most impossible to see everything in the game, but thats what makes 
 it have so much replay valve.
  
  Also the Battle System and Battles were great, so go out and buy this game for only $19.99 US.
 
  
  HATS OFF TO BIOWARE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dessna32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review:  About a year back Star Wars: KOTOR sent a rush through the gaming society because it was one of 
 the X-Box's great games (because it doesn't have many) . Now it is on the PC. This PC port is better. 
 It provides better graphics, more solid gameplay, and easier managing. It sounds perfect, graphics 
 look nice? And you can boom through it in 10-20 hours. One of it's defects is you can not use a 
 controller on it. It also doesn't feature very many details on character expressions and such. 
 Besides that there is litterally no differece in the versions. So if your gonna get Star wars: 
 KOTOR get it for the PC. For it is large amazing aand better thab the X-Box version. Peroid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps one of the most overly rewarding awarding games of the last few years, Knights of the Old 
 Republic Shines above the competition. Featuring game play that lets you choose to follow the light 
 side or be consumed by the dark side, the game features almost unlimited replay ability. With 9 
 members of your party, you set off to defeat the evil of the galaxy or ultimately make it your 
 own. Knights of the Old Republic is definatly a must have for any gamer, not just Star Wars fans 
 alone. Although the graphics do seem dated by todays standards, it does subtract to the overall 
 feel or fun of the game. Although the game does have a few bugs, they can easily be overlooked 
 because of the pure greatness of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banestyrelsen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Provided you've played RPGs before, the basic gameplay mechanics in Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic will be familiar to you. You start out by creating a character by choosing between three 
 classes and customizing your appearance and skills. When your character becomes a Jedi, he or she 
 will also belong to one of three specific Jedi classes, which have different lightsaber and force 
 abilities: basically you will either specialize in lightsaber combat, force use or a combination 
 of the two. Once you start playing, the game follows the standard RPG-concept of fighting and completing 
 quests for items and experience. What makes Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic interesting 
 is that you are always presented with choices which affect how strong your alignment is to either 
 the light or the dark side of the force. For the most part, these choices are fairly obvious, but 
 players will sometimes be met with temptations similar to the ones the Jedi characters in the game 
 talk about. For instance, there is a skill called Force Persuasion which will let you get away 
 with not paying docking fees, or making people afraid of you. Using this skill is effective because 
 it can save you time and money, but in most cases it will sway you further to the dark side. Force 
 alignment is always at the back of your head while you're playing the game and is an important. 
 Your force alignment not only affects the story and how characters interact with you, but also 
 your skills and abilities. Some force powers are universal and can be used by all Jedi, while others 
 are restricted to either the light or the dark side. Apart from the player character (your alter-ego) 
 there are up to 9 additional characters available, all specialized in different skills. The characters 
 include an old Jedi hermit who is quite mysterious, a Wookiee who's pledged a life-debt to you, 
 a violent mercenary and two droids, one specialized in battle and the other in computer-hacking. 
 You can only bring 3 characters on a quest at a time, and one of them must be the player character. 
 The remaining characters must stay on your ship, but a nice feature in Knights of the Old Republic 
 is that characters gain experience even if you don't use them. If a character stays on the ship 
 and you gain five levels in the meantime, you can level up that character until it corresponds 
 with your main character. In this way, you are not penalized for premiering your favourite characters, 
 which is a welcome touch. There is an enormous amount of dialogue in Star Wars: Knights of the 
 Old Republic, organized in the same manner as the dialogue in old LucasArts adventure games, but 
 there seems to be even more in this game. You can find out a lot about the characters in the game 
 by talking to them. Your behaviour in dialogues also affects your alignment. The voice acting is 
 done well, and the quality is fairly consistent, which is impressive considering how much there 
 is. The excellent dialogue makes interacting with other characters fun. It also makes the story 
 of the game more engaging. The graphics is definitely this game's Achille's heel. The environments 
 are repetitive, wall textures are bland and don't add to the immersion of the experience. The character 
 models lack detail and look generic. While the alien characters in the game look like they do in 
 the films (but for each race the same model is generally repeated again and again, so that e. g. 
 all the Wookiees look the same) none of the human NPCs are memorable. Even the more important side-characters, 
 like the Sith lord's admiral or his dark Jedi apprentice, are hard to visually distinguish from 
 other characters of the same type. None of the non-main characters really stand out. If you play 
 on the dark side, your character's appearance will look increasingly corrupt the more dark side 
 points you gain, which is a nice touch, but it doesn't outweigh the uninspired look and feel about 
 the character models available for you to choose from for the player character. I couldn't find 
 one I really liked, both male and female models looked plain and uninspired. The environments in 
 the game are atmospheric, and the different planets feel very distinct and interesting. The outdoor 
 areas, however, feel far too compressed, as if they are supposed to symbolize a geographical area 
 rather than correspond to it. It takes around two minutes to walk from Anchorhead to the Sand People 
 enclave, which is said to be hidden somewhere deep in the desert. This stands out since the cities 
 feel somewhat realistically scaled, but once you leave them, you are in miniature land. The length 
 of the game is about average for an RPG, at just under 40 hours. Players should be warned that 
 there is a level cap in this game, which I only found out existed when I reached it a couple of 
 hours before the final boss encounter. Creatures also don't respawn. This makes it feel like the 
 game doesn't let you build your character in any way you want. Rather, you are lead by the hand 
 to level 20, and then you have to start over. There are a few bugs in the game, but nothing out 
 of the ordinary for a PC-game. During my 38 hour playthrough, I maybe twice had an error where 
 the game crashed to the desktop. There would also be problems with the speech sometimes when loading 
 saved games. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a greatly executed Star Wars RPG. With a 
 rich and detailed story, and dozens of interesting characters, it's one of the best Star Wars games 
 out there, and anyone who liked the films should enjoy it, despite its lackluster graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willhelm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2004 1:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game. If you like Star Wars, you will too. If you like RPGs, you will too. If you are 
 like me, and love both Star Wars and RPGs, you are going to be in heaven for the 30-40 hours it 
 takes you to finish this masterpiece from BioWare. 
  First and foremost, this game just feels right. Much like the Jedi Knight series, this game does 
 the Star Wars franchise justice. Everything from the sounds, aesthetics and story just feels like 
 it is a part of the larger Star Wars universe.
  Secondly, the game NEVER gets dull or redundant. The combat system is just plain brilliant, and 
 is perhaps the best combat system in any RPG ever. 
  Finally, this game is just FUN FUN FUN!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostcurse
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2004 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Liked it, the sortyline is very good and the price is good as well; but the graphics could use 
 some work! This game is so easy that a hardcore gamer (like me) could pass it in less than 10 hours. 
 This is a really good game, specially because you can choose what kind of person you want to be; 
 You can be evil or good depending on your actions. This is the most interesting part because the 
 dark side and the light side both have unique powers and different endings. A real RPG fan will 
 enjoy this game very much, specially if they like Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vira22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2004 4:41 am PT
Review:  I would hope that with more games that are futuristic they could fine more intelligent words to 
 replace cuss words, to use words like dam, hell and such at every turn is really a turn off to 
 such a well done game. It makes the characters seem unintelligent. If you can overlook that and 
 also the skimpily dressed dancers you will enjoy this game. I cannot give it a low rating for this, 
 because the gameplay is just so fun, but for me, it could have given more replay time. This is 
 most definitely NOT for kids, but very entertaining and enjoyable for an adult and mature teen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick3333
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Everything that is to be said about this game has been mentioned already, so I'll spare you my 
 considerably less eloquent spin on it by simply saying this: 
  
  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is an absolute gem. If any of the following appeal to you; 
 be it character, story, charm, atmosphere, satisfying combat and a sense of immersion in a swashbuckling 
 take of the Star Wars franchise, you can't go wrong with this beauty of a game.
  
  KotOR nails two elements in particular: characterization and plot. 
  The fact that Star Wars 
 is an established franchise with more than 20 years behind it doesn't necessarily make these two 
 aspects a piece of cake for developers. In fact, exceeding expectations and established interpretations 
 of the license arguably makes things harder.
  However, the development team at BioWare has done a marvelous job at creating an original story 
 with plenty of twists and turns, and has elevated what could have easily been a clich-filled hack 
 job into a work of art. 
  Don't get me wrong, KotOR, like Jade Empire, is still full of your average RPG clichs, but they 
 are so well executed that 'clich' in this case certainly isn't a bad thing.
  Subplots are certainly where this game reaches its apex. They are varied and engrossing, and include 
 everything from joining a spy organization to becoming a lawyer in a murder case. The fact that 
 characters are deep and fleshed-out, having unique personalities as well as extensive back-stories 
 and subplots of their own, certainly helps bring Knights up a notch or two. The characters provide 
 many moments of entertainment and amusement as well as intrigue, and prove crucial to the story 
 on more than one occasion.
  
  Additional kudos has to be given to the music, which is, as is to be expected from any Star Wars 
 game, excellent.
  Similarly, the voice-over work is absolutely stellar. That goes for every character (I recognized 
 several celebrity voices in there... excellent stuff) save for the aliens, whose looping tracks 
 of galactic gibberish ("mucha chaka paka" anyone?) can get a little repetitive.
  
  In conclusion, BioWare has done it again. In fact, it has surpassed itself in a way not seen since. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is simply a work of art! If you have a hint of love for RPG's or Star Wars then this 
 game is totally for you. Amazingly stunning graphics, beautiful sound (the different choise selectons 
 that you can make are great and improve a lot as you progress through the game) and fun gameplay 
 makes this one a winner. And now with an expansion coming out soon this game will still stay top 
 game of 2003 for a long long time. If your comuter can handle the game, dont even hesitate and 
 just go buy the game. You will be doing me and you a favour :)
  
  Ive finished the game countless of times and the replayability it has is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostHunterUk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic gives you everything other star wars games haven't. A good 
 game that lives up to the great Star Wars films.
  
  Other Star War games have been an "OK" standard but have always been mostly a let down, we all 
 wanted a game that could make you feel involved in the game play itself and also make you feel 
 like you know the character you are playing and the characters around you.
  
  First of all I must say what a great story line this is and with it having multiple endings (jue 
 to the light side and dark side) it makes it every bit more better. For me I have always been an 
 RPG fan but I feel that Kotor is more than RPG, with the way you can control your player from a 
 3rd person angle is great etc...
  
  I could go on forever about how great the story is but I wont. Now onto the Graphics and I think 
 they are very good. They have captured certain things like lightsaber effects and water effects 
 fantastically well however there are a few glitches there and then.
  
  The sound is very good and has great music when you are battling, which gets you into the mood 
 to kill every single monster. While the music is great I was slightly disappointed that there was 
 no multiplayer added for the pc, however other people think differently and suggest that the game 
 wouldn't run as smooth with multiplayer attached.
  
  Overall I think Bioware have done very well to come up with a game like this and I think I speak 
 for all of us when I say that finally we have a great star wars game that we can play for a very 
 long time to come.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2004 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Actually, KotOR is one of the best games ever, if you consider the fact that I played it five times 
 start to finish, back-to-back right after I bought it. The graphics aren't the best, but the voice 
 acting is, as is the plot and all of the sub-plots. I mean, I'm pretty sure I went through all 
 of the sub-plots, but I'm going to play it at least one more time to be sure. The leveling process 
 was fine, I liked the Force powers (though the strength of the light saber in combat means you're 
 wasting your time learning how to use a blaster) , and the other minutiae all worked fine. And I 
 have to say, there's nothing like combat with lightsabers flashing and blasters blasting-whew! 
 But what really hooked me was the storyline and character interaction.
  
  From Bastila's snotty arrogance to Jo-Lee Bendo's grumpy old-man attitude, to Mission's teen naivite; 
 I felt as if I knew each character like old friends by the time the game was over. Being able to 
 play as a Dark Side devotee without being penalized really added to the game as well. Other games 
 may allow evil characters, but most seem to penalize you in some way for it; not KotOR! Besides 
 being a rude jerk of a Sith, it's likewise fun to bait the Sith on Manaan and at the Academy. Really 
 immersive, tons and TONS of replayability, and, oh yes, lots of fun to play, too!
  
  Holding my breath with crossed fingers for KotOR II: the Sith Lords! (Note: NOT waiting on next 
 Star Wars movie!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2004 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Bioware the king of RPG's out does itself again with KOTOR. A great RPG with an engaging story, 
 nice twist, great characters and probably the best Star Wars game ever made. This may be the best 
 RPG ever made along with Baldurs Gate 2, Torment and the Fallout Series.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are great. It uses a modified version of the engine used for Never Winter 
 Nights. You play in a 3rd person persepctive. This is Biowares best looking game to date. Everything 
 looks great from the environments to the character models. Character animation looks great. Weapons 
 and lightsabers look incredible. The PC version is the best looking version much more detailed, 
 crisp, DX9 effects, better shadows and with higher resolutions from the Xbox version of the game.
 
  
  Sound: Tons and tons of voice over. The game is done all in voice and not text. Bioware did a great 
 and professional job with the voice over work. Not to mention all the alien language voices they 
 did for all the alien characters. Weapon sounds sound just like they do in the Star Wars movies. 
 And any music in the game is superb. Great sounding game.
  
  Gameplay: Plays out just like other Bioware games with D&D rules. Except it wont feel like a D&D 
 game obviously because it is in the Star Wars universe but the combat uses the D&D ruleset and 
 is determined by odds from dice rolls. The combat is great there are a lot of weapons to chose 
 from an upgrades to weapons and lightsabers throughout the game. Lots of armor to chose and buy 
 and a lot of loot to discover and steal.
  
  The story in KOTOR is great. You have a dark and light meter which will go up and down depending 
 on actions you take throughout the game. IF you do a lot of bad deeds you will go towards the dark 
 side and vice versa, your appearance will also change depending on if you go towards the dark or 
 light side. This is done very well as you feel like you control your own destiny. There are 2 endings 
 to the game depending on if you finish it off as dark or light. This adds replay value as you can 
 play the game through twice once going light and then as dark. The choices you make in the game 
 are really fun. Here is an example of a dark or light choice, you come out to some thugs who are 
 mugging a citezen, light choice: you can tell the thugs to leave and pay the citezen what he lost 
 out of your pocket, dark choice: kill the thugs, then rob the citezen yourself. As you can see 
 it is a little more fun going down the dark path. I recommend that you play light side your first 
 time through and then dark side. Playing dark side first is so fun that you may not want to play 
 again through the wussy light side.
  
  Once you become a Jedi in the game you are free to travel to planets and complete quests in the 
 order you want, which gives the game a sort of open endedness to it. The system is a hub and spoke 
 system like Never Winter Nights. You will get many characters along the way that will join you 
 on your quest. Some are quite interesting and one of the coolest characters in video game history 
 is a smart talking robot called HK-47. Make sure you pick him up when you run across him, it is 
 well worth it!
  
  The PC version's controls are perfect. The interface for a mouse and keyboard is much better than 
 using a controller. The graphics are better on the PC version and there is extra content out of 
 the box that the Xbox version didn't come with. There are also many mods that you can download 
 for the PC version. When the PC version first came out there were some bugs which is why Gamespot 
 gave the BEST tag to the Xbox version but they even stated in the review that the PC version is 
 the best were it not for the bugs. The bugs have been fixed in patches so it is recommended that 
 you patch the game. If you are deciding between the Xbox or PC version, definetly go for the superior 
 PC version. IT is a great game with a great story around 30 - 40 hours long if you go for most 
 of the sidequests and there is replay value by playing again as light or dark. One of the best 
 RPG's ever made every RPG has to get it and honestly all video game fans should check it out. Kotor 
 is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 21, 2004 12:24 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is an excellent franchise.
  Role Playing Games are extremely fun.
  Combine them, and you get Star Wars, Knights of the Old Republic, one of the greatest RPGs out 
 there.
  
  The Breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: SW KOTOR excels in bringing constant hours of some of the most fun gameplay you have 
 ever had. There are no 'random battles' or jerking from walking on the field into combat. It is 
 all [seemingly] real time and you can see all enemies on the screen. 
  
  The battle system as well as your stats are based on a d20 system much like Dungeons & Dragons. 
 Those of you who do not know what that is, you wont even notice, it all happens behind the scenes. 
 For those of you D&D/ SW Rpg enthusiasts, you can check and see every single dice roll when it 
 happens, as it happens.
  
  The character development is incredible in this game. The plot has many twists that will keep you 
 yearning for more. The dialogue options are many, and almost all the NPCs you talk to have their 
 own voiceovers.
  
  This game also has insane replayability. The different things you do determine where you are in 
 the force [dark or light side] . In turn, this orientation affects the storyline, causing tons of 
 replayability.
  
  In all, I could keep going on the gameplay since there is so much there, but I must go on. To sum 
 it up, this game's gameplay is exceedingly fun and will have you going for a long time.
  
  Graphics: One of the games few ever so slight failings. The graphics are just slightly outdated, 
 but nonetheless look lush and suitable.
  
  Sound: The sound quality is very good. Not only does it feature a few of those classic tunes, but 
 also a completely original score.
  
  The voiceovers for NPCs are superb and varied, and many aliens speak in native languages! I find 
 this to be incredibly cool, loving the alien languages. It also shows the developers were willing 
 to put a lot of time into this game.
  
  Value: Really this score is subjective. This game is a gem, and worth any amount in my book. At 
 the current 20$ it is an absolute steal.
  
  Tilt: I absolutely love SW. I absolutely love RPGs. And having them combine, and not just rely 
 on the SW franchise, makes this one of my favorite games of all time. I guarantee that if you like 
 SW and RPGs you will love this game. Even if you only like one or the other, this game is still 
 for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchefner
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2004 7:31 pm PT
Review:  As a console RPG, this is arguably one of the best to come out since the early playstation days. 
 As a PC game, the scetchy graphics and music score can become an issue, but the gameplay and story 
 line will help you stray from that a little bit.
  
  The primary function of this game seems to be building a believeable Star Wars universe for aspiring 
 Jedi to hack and slash through 20 hours + of real time combat. The primary tilt of the game is 
 choosing between the light and dark sides of the force. The odd thing about the dark side is that 
 your companions (who always tend to lean to the light side) allow you to treat them like dirt without 
 any actuall reprecusions. The first time through i chose the light side for a more balanced experience 
 and ran into very few chalenges along the way. One interesting challenge is that jedi can't preform 
 many of their abilities with armor on. This leads to having a low defense character in order to 
 take advantage of the fun tricks the game has for you.
  
  As a dark jedi, I found myself killing future party members before they had a chance to join me 
 which seemed a bit of a waste. As a general rule, you will choose your favorite 2 companions and 
 stick with them for most of the game. You do have full control of your companions equipment and 
 placement, allowing you to develop your party to fit your individual playing style.
  
  Overall, if you're a hard core gamer you'll probably play through twice, after that, there's not 
 a whole lot to experience. Basic gamers will finish the first time and never play again. The sequel 
 comes out soon and seems to be promising quite a bit, and we will all wait anxiously for it :) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terdog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 7, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, Bioware did it, again. They took an epic series that we all know and love (well, not Episiodes 
 I & II) , and made it even better.
  
  First off, the graphics are good, not as good as I have seen in some games, but still, this looks 
 exactly like Star Wars. After looking at both Neverwinter Knights and this, I would have to say 
 that this is an modified version of the Auroa engine. Any why not? NWN looked great, and ran great 
 too. The sounds are excellcent, espically the lightsabers, they sound exactly like the ones from 
 the movies, and are totally customizable. The game uses the D&D 3RD edition rules, with some tweaks, 
 but its not a true D&D game.
  
  As for the story, well, its a great story, but not as great as some of Bioware's other games. I 
 suppose this can be partly blamed on Lucasarts, as they probally didnt want anything too crazy 
 to happen, but still, a great story though it does take time to get into. In my point of vnew however, 
 this should have been the Episiode I movie. And its huge, about 30 hours to finish every side quest, 
 and it can be tough at times.
  
  There are some things I dont like about the game though, all the running around you have to do. 
 Now, this is nothing new to an RPG, but it seems there is more than usual, and why such a large 
 cast, I would have ditched some of the cast for a more balanced storyline. But these are nit-picks 
 for an absoltely great RPG, and if you havent played it, get it now, the price is right..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2004 1:51 am PT
Review:  I bought KoTOR under the impression it was going to be magnificient from what the buzz had told 
 me, once I began playing it I had the thought in my mind of returning the game because of it's 
 somewhat slow pace and ackward interface. Luckly, I kept playing and found it to be downright awesome.
 
  
  Once you've mastered the interface and how to interact with everything, using the cursor or not 
 you'll be sucked into the immensely deep game of Knights of the Old Republic, I was never a big 
 Star Wars fanatic but was drawn into the game by the gameplay more than anything. The story sets 
 us far, far before the films take place with unique characters and basically all you need to know 
 about Star Wars are there are lightsabers and there is a thing called the force, and you just go 
 from there. Basically it feels like a single player Star Wars Galaxies but without the glitches, 
 stupid classes and confusingly technical interface and menus.
  
  The abilities and battle system is excellent, using an exciting battle system rather than a dull 
 turn based game, Knights makes melee battles extremely fun to fight and watch and ranged combat 
 equally exciting, enemies range from thugs to giant beasts and much more. Once you gain the power 
 of the force you can perform awesome moves including light and dark side force powers, everything 
 from healing to choking to creating fear in enemies minds.
  
  The graphics are very crisp and basic reflections and shadows are nicely displayed, while it is 
 no technological breaththrough it still looks very good and even better is the fact that it even 
 runs well on lower end computers. This is a major advantage for this already great game.
  
  The biggest drawing point is the fact you can be either dark side or light side. Depending on your 
 actions towards NPC's you will be rewarded for points towards either side of the force. If you 
 want to be dark, people may beg for you to not harm them but saying, "sorry, you could tell the 
 guards, I'll have to kill you" will give you dark side points even if your party won't allow you 
 to do it. Lying and persuading people will also give you points for the dark side and the best 
 part is when you gain force powers such as choke and someone who is giving you lip may learn a 
 lesson in respect by your wrath and use of the force. Of course, you can also be good by helping 
 people, stopping violent actions and being an all around nice guy, but where's the fun in that?
 
  
  Throughout the game more branches in the story are revealed and more options are avaliable giving 
 multiple endings and multiple pathes you may take which makes this game even better, you can play 
 it several times and see things and people you had never seen before. While this style of gameplay 
 is nothing new, it certainly works well and flows beautifully thoughout the game, now that I'm 
 a dark Jedi, I can't wait to start up as a light Jedi! It's the game that just keeps giving and 
 shouldn't be missed out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grayden
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2004 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Having been a star wars fan for many many years i have come to be a bit dissapointed by some of 
 lucasarts recent efforts of late. That is until i played KotOR, not only is this one of the most 
 polished and compelling rpgs ever but its an immersive experience that will leave you craving for 
 more once you have completed it.
  
  Set thousands of years before the events of episode 1, it tells the tale of Darth Malek as he tries 
 to gain control of the galaxy and you as the player must stop him. Of course you wont be doing 
 this alone, throughout your journey you will encounter many characters who will join you in the 
 quest.
  
  The story is fantastic and very deep and better than anything Mr Lucas has dished out of late. 
 Of course as well as the main goal you have the oppurtunity to go on side quests like racing or 
 playing cards games. You can choose to help people or hinder them, each action having a direct 
 consequence on the character you play.
  
  The voice acting is top notch, the graphics are fantastic and the plot unfolds until the final 
 twist ending leaves you breathless.
  
  This is an essential purchase to anyone who is star wars fan.... and even if your not buy it anyway 
 as its easily one of the best rpgs of the last 5 years!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 27, 2004 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. A great story, good mechanics, and some great ideas. The story revolves around 
 your character's bout with amnesia. You wake up on a Republic ship and wonder what your doing there 
 and what's going on. As the game progresses you get clues as to who you are. You eventually find 
 out and it's a nice plot twist. The characters you meet along the way are interactive and help 
 keep the game's plot moving. I love HK-47, a droid you acquire in the game. The main villian of 
 the game, Darth Malak is also a really neat bad guy.
  
  I happened to like the gameplay mechanics. How ever if your into hack n' slash type games like 
 Diablo, you may get discouraged. There is a little more strategy involved here. As you que up a 
 set of commands to use when attacking. You also have to make sure your other party members are 
 doing the right commands. It doesn't get annoying. It just keeps you on your toes.
  
  I personally liked the ability to tweak your lightsabers too. You can make your saber do more damage 
 and make it have a better chance of hitting some one.
  
  The other concept I liked was the option of either becoming a dark or light jedi. You can basically 
 start to change your path at almost any point in the game. This definitely adds some replay value. 
 As you will want to journey through the game a few times to see how each path unfolds.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing! The armor your characters wear reflect and glisten. Your 
 lightsabers glow and light areas. Each character also has some wonderful detail. All the characters' 
 facial features and animations are very good looking.
  
  Sound is also great from the mood of the music to the clashing of lightsabers. Voice over work 
 is also great.
  
  The only problems with the game are it's a little too easy to beat and the PC version has some 
 problems with crashing, but it only happens once in a while.
  
  Other than that this game is a break through for Star Wars games. Now hopefully KOTOR 2 will be 
 just as good or better. If you don't have this game and you even remotely like Star Wars, or like 
 a game with a decent story, then you definitely need to go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago in this very room I completed Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Without breaking 
 into the story Im going to try a review of this game, but you must be aware of a few things. First, 
 the game is heavily story driven and second that story is very good far surpassing the stories 
 of The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones.
  
  Gameplay  Knights of the Old Republic plays out in real time but runs on a turn based system of 
 attack (thus making the battles look, as they indeed are, scripted.) You can pause the game at 
 any time, choose AI for your allies and use up to 3 party members at any given time. The gameplay 
 for the game is solid  among the best for an RPG. It runs on the foundation of ADnD, which leaves 
 it with the strength flaw open for exploitation, but isnt a very difficult game in the long run 
 anyway.
  
  Graphics  Graphically speaking Knights comes up a bit short. Some of the character models look 
 very outdated and characters faces reappear over and over. Thankfully, they have thrown in good 
 environments, large arenas, short load times, and DX9 effects for good measure. I wouldnt be all 
 that concerned with the graphics of Knights of the Old Republic unless you are looking for Half-life 
 2.
  
  Sound  Knight of the Old Republic uses a nice mix of sound tracks that are new and fit better 
 with the themes far better than the original Star Wars score would have. It would the right move 
 so dont be alarmed by the lack of classical Star Wars music. The game retains its Star Wars roots 
 in all other aspects though, including the sound effects for lightsabers and blasters.
  
  Value  Knights of the Old Republic is certainly long enough for anyone (except a few people who 
 should probably see a doctor) at around 40 hours in length give or take. It provides plenty of 
 side missions that may or may not entertain you. If you only have a few games I guess you might 
 not mind playing them but they dont exactly add to the games story (which is driving everything 
 you are doing for the most part.)
  
  Bottom Line: Knights of the Old Republic lives up to the hype and is one of the best game this 
 year. Go buy it if you like RPGs, Star Wars or just want a good story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2004 2:22 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about a game that takes place 4,000 years before our beloved saga? In one word, 
 awesome. The modified 3rd edition D&D rules can mean only one thing. I just dont know what it 
 is because I am having too much fun with this thing. You have the ability to choose your fate. 
 Be it Lightside or Darkside of the force. The graphics wont win awards, but they stand up better 
 to other games out there, like NeverWinter Nights and Dungeon Siege. The game plot is simple; you 
 awake on a ship with no memory of your past, the ship is being attacked by Sith who are commanded 
 by Darth Malek. What follows is a quest to figure out not only who you are, but to stop Darth Malek 
 and the Sith from gaining control of the galaxy. You can team up with a total of 8 other people 
 and you can control up to 3 total party members. Each person will have some sort of strength that 
 others will not. For example, TC-14 ( a droid) will have superior computer hacking skills than 
 your main character. Mission (a Twilek) has better stealth capabilities. Then for comic relief, 
 you have a great character called HK-47 which commonly refers to you as Meatbag. 
  
  The graphics are nice, and the sounds id great. Everything you can think of in the Star Wars universe 
 is here. Wookie roars, droid warbles, lightsaber battles and clashes, and the music from the saga. 
 What is a nice change is the game designers didnt use the same recycled music that has plagued 
 the rest of the SW games. They actually recorded new music.
  
  The combat seems fluent and action orientated, but is in fact a bunch of checks and balances from 
 the D&D rules. You cant tell, you just fight. It is cool, to pause the fight while using the saber 
 and use the camera to rotate the action. The force powers seem kinda weak though. Some powers are 
 just not needed, and others seem to be thrown in there as a filler. Like Force Valor. WTH is this? 
 
  
  Either way a great time with 2 different endings depending if you chose light or dark. I cant 
 wait for Knights of the Old Republic 2: The Sith Lords. Due out this winter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confirmed_Kill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2004 10:45 am PT
Review:  KOTOR is easily one of the best RPG's of all time. Everything from it's stunning graphics to it's 
 facinating story. WHen i was considering to purchasing this game i wondered to myselfhow could 
 an RPG game be exciting?". Read on and learn about one of the best game of my time.
  
  Firstly, the gameplay in this game was excellent. It was simple and easy to understand with a help 
 system that could assist you if need be. It was also simply to organize attacks, switch weapons 
 or whatever was necessary given the situation. Simple and effectivfe, a leathal combination for 
 gameplay in an RPG. 
  
  Secondly, the graphics. Simply put they are awesome, the player models and environments look so 
 real you could swear that you are actually in the middle of some adventure off on a far planet. 
 I usually think that a story is what made the best games but in this case the graphics certainly 
 contributed a significant amount. Not to say that the story was superb, but to get the point across 
 that the graphics were breath-taking.
  
  Thirdly, the sound was excellent, definatly a Star Wars game. Excellent battle sounds and music 
 but even better was during tense conversations, the music would have a "dark aura" of sorts. It 
 contributed heavilly as well, to the story.
  
  This game is worth every penny, even if it were $100 there is no question that it is worth it. 
 I have finished it on many occasions already and i have found new items, side quests and other 
 excellent storyline additions.
  
  Confirmed Kill
  GS Complete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmok
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 11, 2004 7:45 am PT
Review:  Had this game featured the control interface and POV options of the Jedi Knight series of games, 
 I'd have stuck with it longer. There is just too much attack micro-management and character switching 
 required, and the 3rd-person POV just doesn't work in this game. Though the game offers a FPS type 
 of view option, it insists on jumping out to 3rd-person without your consent from time to time. 
 Guiding your characters around the levels in KOTOR's 3rd-person POV is akin to Gatorbacks in the 
 mud. Sloppy, mushy and laggard
  
  Here's hoping that KOTOR 2 is the best of both worlds: KOTOR 1 + Jedi Knight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2004 7:55 am PT
Review:  I haven't enjoyed an RPG this much since Final Fantasy VII. The gameplay is addictive, includes 
 much storyline for every character, and offers moderate replayability. Character definition is 
 continually the focus of this game, and you begin to identify with the cast and plot very quickly. 
 The only thing keeping the gameplay from being a 10 is that the item content could have been larger. 
 I found myself settling on the same few items each time through.
  
  There is more replayability than many RPGs, as you can play as a light or dark jedi. Many missions 
 are available to you only if you choose to go specifically down a light or dark path. Should you 
 choose NOT to weild a lightsaber, there are still many missions for you to accept. I played several 
 new missions my 2nd game through. I was amazed at the quest content! I only wish it was more open-ended 
 or free-roaming on each planet.
  
  The graphics are great, allowing for FSAA and AF without a huge hit to performance. I run a 9600 
 Pro, and could not use the full detail settings, yet had enough to play with style. The game IS 
 very picky about which video driver you use, especially with ATI cards (4.2 seems to work best) , 
 and I recommend installing your motherboard AGP driver AFTER installing the ATI Catalyst drivers 
 in order to gain stability. Some of the animations get redundant after a while, and you begin wishing 
 your character would start a random jedi whoop-fest (he won't.... I watched) . The sound is great, 
 as you can't go too wrong when seriously composing music around John Williams' masterpieces and 
 sounds around George Lucas' dreams. Familiar blaster fire and lightsaber sounds are heard throughout 
 the game, backed up by music that follows the mood of the game.
  
  If you are an RPG fan, you will enjoy this. If you are a Star Wars fan, you will enjoy this. If 
 you are BOTH, then why have you not purchased this game already?!? The price has dropped to sub-$20, 
 and you should play this game prior to playing the new one due out sometime next year. You'll play 
 it at least twice through, which is more than you can say for most RPGs anymore.
  
  Swami 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2004 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a great role playing game that you don't have to constantly micro-manage like some others. 
 I haven't had any problems with the latest patch installed. The best things about the game is the 
 pause feature that allows you to queue up commands while fighting, the ability to choose your way 
 to the light or dark side of the force, the voice acting, and the entire Star Wars sound. If you 
 are a Star Wars fan, this game is a great buy. I picked it up from a retail store for only $19.99 
 because I didn't get it when it first came out. If you have been waiting like I have, now is a 
 great time to invest some time in a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argash
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2004 8:19 am PT
Review:  I have one major complaint about Kignts, and the funny thing is it's the same complaint i had about 
 Never Winter Nights. What does BioWare have against looking up? sure it may not seem like a big 
 deal to some of you but consider the time spent on Kashyyyk, with all those huge tress it just 
 begs for you to look straight up and check out the scenery. Not to mention the city planets, I 
 want to see their skyline. Is this a major complaint? Not really but i still think its part of 
 the imersive experience that we are missing out on. 
  
  It kind of reminds of of a few years ago when Blizzard was still not aware that there are screen 
 resolutions higher than 640x480 except in this case BioWare is unaware that in most games you can 
 look up. And it is important when you think about it. There is never the possibility of a sniper 
 above you, no attack droids are going to fall on you all sorts of game play stuff we are missing 
 out on. 
  
  So there you have it my one complaint. I admit it's not much of a complaint as the game is damn 
 near perfect I had to go hunting for something I didnt like and this was it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2004 2:16 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is definitely an A+ game. I was kind of a skeptical when I first bought it but after a short 
 time I was immediately hooked! The storyline is really awesome, allowing you to visit many detailed 
 worlds. The side missions are great as well. Graphics are really cool, especially when you're fighting 
 many dark jedi at the same time. I have the value of the game a 7 simply because there's basically 
 two ways you can play the game: light or dark. After that, there really isn't much point in replaying 
 it, unless you take a long break and then go back from the beginning and redue it. Oh sure you 
 can choose different classes but in the long run it really doesn't matter what you are. In the 
 beginning it is more important but when you are a level 20 jedi, you are unstoppable, regardless 
 of what class you chose throughout the game. However, the game does take a while to beat and it 
 never gets old, especially when you're wiping out dark jedi left and right. The force powers for 
 the game are really awesome. There's nothing like releasing a force lighting storm on a group of 
 Sith Troopers. All-in-all, KOTOR is defintely a great game for any Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jolandir
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2004 9:15 am PT
Review:  Knight of the Old Republic was a very solid game, but far from a 9 because it is so obviously not 
 open ended dispite what reviewers said. And is very obviously designed for consoles not PCs. It 
 is one of the terrible problems that keep me from buying most ports from consoles to PCs. I would 
 not have bought this game except for the raving reviews and because it is Star Wars and I heard 
 the story was great.
  
  The story is most definitely one of best I have seen in a long time. It's graphics were great for 
 the most part, especially considering it was a port from a console game. Open ended games like 
 Halo and Morrowind make the comments about this game being open ended as different as night and 
 day. Yes you did not have to go to a particular planet after left the original two, but but no 
 matter which you chose it still felt like the same story. (except for the fact that you could play 
 either the side of the force for a nice second play. But when you got to the planet you were pretty 
 much funneled from one part to the next. There wasn't a feel of really searching a planet like 
 in Star Wars Galaxies, or even one planet as in Halo and Morrowind. It always comes of off feeling 
 artificial. You can't just go and search entire areas you only could search definitely marked containers 
 of one kind or another which is exactly how console games seemed to be almost always designed. 
 When I played Halo, Morrowind, Silent Hill and other games like this you feel like you are really 
 investigating a real place a real world, unfortunately Knights of the Old Republic never gave me 
 this feeling. It was all orchestrated.
  
  The controls were obviously designed for console play. Yes you could at least re-map so that it 
 wasn't as bad, but you never feel natural with them. As a console game I would have given it a 
 8.7, but as a PC game it was only a solid play.
  
  Halo 2, Morrowind 2 (hopefully!!!!!) I would easily buy for both console and PC play, but unfortunately 
 this has left me with the real doubt I will buy KOTOR 2, and if I do I most likely will buy the 
 Xbox version and leave it that way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2004 11:53 pm PT
Review:  OKRead this review. I'll tell you about this game. I got KOTOR when it first came out for the 
 Xbox and I probably played it through 3 or 4 times before I wrote me review on it. Im going to 
 include it here since what I wrote before also pertains to the PC version. Ill follow up with 
 PC differences afterwards.
  
  I waited a while to write a review it because this game has too much depth to experience it all 
 the first go-around, or even the second. No one who rents this game for a week has enough insight 
 on it to write a review. I wont bother going into gameplay mechanics or an explanation of the 
 game. Gamespot has already done that. I just want to mention a few things that really make this 
 game worth while for me. Hopefully to convince those of you who are still considering buying it. 
 But let me get this out of the way first, I hate RPGs. I never have liked them. Taking turns while 
 fighting is the most ridiculous concept. You hit me, then I hit you and so on. LAME! As you might 
 think I was very skeptical about this game. But owing to the fact that Im a Star Wars fan and 
 with all the good reviews this game was getting, I decided to give it a chance. Im glad I did. 
 Now listen up. 
  
  One thing that becomes evident very early in the game is that the worlds are very small. The floor 
 plan of each level is very simplistic. Youre able to memorize them very quickly. Yet, at the same 
 time, the levels dont feel small. Thanks to some beautiful scenery and ambient sounds the levels 
 feel surprisingly large and open. Anyone who plays this game must take a second to stop and check 
 out the scenery. Theres a lot of eye candy in this game. Although most of it is outdoors, the 
 indoor environments have some nice touches as well. 
  Another thing that really works well in KOTOR is the storyline. It is obvious that a lot of thought 
 and planning when into the story. The story holds true no matter if you choose to follow the Dark 
 or the Light side. And it does an excellent job. Ive beat the game 3 times: once as the goody, 
 goody, boy scout jedi, once as the jedi that never let anyone push him around, and once as the 
 evil, sinister villain. It was really cool to see how my different actions changed the game yet 
 still perfectly fit the storyline. 
  The final thing that I thought really made this game stand out was the fact that the game uses 
 voice actors for all the characters. What's even better is the fact that the actors they chose 
 actually know how to act (in some games it sounds like the voice work is done by the developers 
 themselves and family members) . Some of the voice work matches the characters so well that youd 
 swear thats how the characters look in real life. It also makes you feel like you're speaking 
 to a real person, not just some stupid AI. This is the biggest reason I had a hard time playing 
 as the Sith Lord. I wanted to see what it was like to play as the bad guy but I hated having to 
 mug and kill innocent people. I know its just a stupid game but I still felt bad for doing it. 
 Yes Im cursed with a conscience. Im sure for some it wont bother them at all playing as the 
 bad guy. But others like me will only like to play light sided characters (or at least as characters 
 that arent murdering psychopaths) . 
  So if you didnt get the point by now, this game is awesome. If you even consider yourself somewhat 
 of a Star Wars fan you have to get KOTOR. It has the ability to cater to all different types of 
 people. Heck, even my pacifist wife likes to play it.
  The difference between the Xbox version and the PC are pretty minor. It probably looks a little 
 better on PC since you can turn up the anti-aliasing more, along with some other bells and whistles. 
 The only problem is that you need to have a really high-end system to do that. Otherwise itll 
 look identical to the Xbox version. Gameplay is just as good with a mouse and keyboard (though 
 at first I was worried it wouldnt be) . And the PC version also has a lot of bug fixes that leaked 
 through to the Xbox version (I found one while playing it) . 
  I guess the biggest plus for me using the PC version is that you can enable cheats. Its a nice 
 feature after youve played the game 4 or 5 times already and are looking to find every little 
 secret there is (or if you just suck and need to use cheats to get through the game) . 
  So If I had to choose between the two I would choose the PC version for the above reasons and the 
 fact that I can play it on my laptop wherever I go, although you really cant go wrong buying either 
 version of this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  Well... I just got finished my second play-through of KOTOR and the bottom line is: It has been 
 a long time since I have had so much fun and involvement with a Game title. I very rarely (if ever) 
 play RPG, but I bought this one because of the Star Wars theme. I was not prepared to be so fully 
 immersed nor so throughly entertained! I played through the first time as 'Mr. Shining Lightside', 
 and it was totally fun. But then I played as 'The Queen Bitch of the Universe' and it was more 
 fun ... but I wasn't prepared for the GUILT! The story was that good that I felt BAD about betraying 
 my friends and being so NASTY! (suggestion: use a game like this as a psych exam. it will ferret 
 out all the sociopaths!) .
  The Bad? It crashed... a lot. mostly freeze-ups. I saved often and never lost a save but I usually 
 do not have issues with my machine. I am running a sub 1Ghz Athlon on an ABIT NS7 MB with 512 DDR 
 and an ATI 9600. The graphics looked very good but got better with the newer ATI driver.
  All told, well worth the money and the time. Now I have to get back to my life.
  Has anyone seen 
 my wife? I left her around here somewhere.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: droliver
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2004 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I read too many glowing reviews of this game not to try it. I've enjoyed a # of the Star Wars FPS 
 games in recent years, although they tend to be a little uneven. I haven't played a RPG in years 
 (except Deus EX which is really a FPS) now favoring adventure & FPS titles, but I cut my teeth 
 on the early Wizardry & Ultima games in the early 1980's as a teenager so I have a fondness for 
 the genre. All I can say is WOW! This game is addictive & will eat up huge blocks of time. It has 
 really renewed my enthusiasm for RPG's & was a success @ every level. One complaint, it tends to 
 crash a bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2004 5:19 pm PT
Review:  You dont have to be a Star Wars fan to appreciate what a great RPG this is, but it cant hurt. 
 Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is the best RPG that I have played at least since Baldurs 
 Gate 2, and it is the best Star Wars experience since the first trilogy. There is just so much 
 to see, and so much to experience. Then, when you are finished, you can go back and do it all over 
 again as an evil character instead of a good one.
  
  On a high end video card, the game is beautiful to look at. The level of detail in the graphics 
 is astonishing. The on-screen appearance of your character and your companions changes depending 
 upon what you equip them with, and your physical appearance actually changes depending upon how 
 good or evil you behave. The environments are immersive and realistic, and also varied. You fight 
 on grass-covered plains, beautiful beaches, desert, and even a bit underwater. The grass and the 
 trees sway in the breeze and sand kicks up when you run across the beach. Combat is equally impressive 
 to watch. Lightsaber battles are reminiscent of the big one at the end of The Phantom Menace. 
 You watch characters thrust, parry, feint, kick, and slice with their lightsabers. And then theres 
 the force powers  oh the force powers. They are fun to use, and dazzling to look at. .
  
  Every NPC line in the game is voice-acted. Every single last one. And its all high-quality material. 
 I cant state how great this part is. Its like getting to play through a 40-hour epic movie. Some 
 dialog trees are huge and go on for minutes at a time. Your NPC companions are fun to click on 
 just to see if they have anything interesting to say, and they usually do. They are deeply developed, 
 unique, and have interesting stories to tell. One of them, a homicidal droid, provides a lot of 
 comic relief. Another is brutal mercenary who tells interesting war stories. Chances are, you will 
 want to take different party members with you on different quests just to see what they have to 
 say. Lots of NPCs have their own side plots, which are woven into the game.
  
  The storyline itself is not that great, but its the way that the story is told that is so great. 
 The themes of Good vs. Evil and Light vs. Dark are shown to you over and over again. These concepts 
 are not explained to you. Instead, you experience them for yourself. You get to witness or perform 
 good deeds, as well as atrocities. If you are playing a good character, then by the end of the 
 game you will have developed genuine feelings of distaste for The Sith and their Dark Lord, Malak. 
 If you are playing as an evil character, than you will have an opportunity to commit some truly 
 heinous acts against helpless civilians, or your friends. All of this gives you a true sense of 
 role-playing that is unparalleled since Planescape: Torment. 
  
  The role-playing system isnt as robust as D&D, but there is still a lot to it. There are hundreds 
 of goodies like armor, weapons, and accessories that you can equip your character and companions 
 with. Chances are, youll play a certain way one time, and then want to try some different setups 
 the next time that you play. You can change the color of your lightsaber, and change the crystals 
 in it to upgrade its properties. You can wield just one lightsaber, a double-ended staff sabre, 
 or one in each hand. You can also choose between brute force or finesse, but brute force seems 
 to be an easier path. As you progress through the game, there is a true feeling of power progression. 
 You can feel yourself changing from a lowly soldier to a godlike Jedi who at the end of the game 
 slices through hordes of powerful enemies like a hot knife through butter. That feeling of progression 
 is what makes great RPGs like this so addictive.
  
  Its simple. If you like Star Wars, or if you have liked any of Biowares other role-playing games, 
 then you must give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 9, 2004 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars is a well used title for games after the all famous movies was made. You cant deny that 
 Star Wars is one of the most sucsesfull sci-fi movies of our time. Many Star Wars games lives up 
 to the challenge of releaseing the players into the star wars universe and some just does not cut 
 it. Here is my review of the latest RPG installment of the Star Wars universe.
  
  The good`s
  As I finished installing the game I popped into the introduction movie and watched 
 it with joy, the launch into the sleeping quarters where I find my character was rather nice and 
 thrilling. A very nice first time tutorial that kind of puts you right in the game instead of going 
 to stupid trials like most games do.
  
  Overall you can play this game for hours the first time you put it in, the graphics are up to date 
 and nice to watch, the sound is totaly star wars wich sets the mood for you and the gameplay is 
 really nice at first.
  
  The bad`s
  As I progressed trough the game it finally caught up with me, this isnt a very good RPG because 
 of the linear story approach they take. You got no choise at first to choose your destinations 
 and just go solving mindless missions to the point where you want to tear your hair off and scream. 
 But you need to find out more and go with it for the time being, after you become a Jedi you start 
 getting some choises but the choises sucks beyond all. Its the same deal you just get to choose 
 what kind of pain you want to suffer next, and if you decide to go somewhere else its the same 
 deal. The NPC`s really doesnt give you a feel of freedom and the side missions are worthless because 
 of the small areas and maps.
  
  
  Testing of AI
  After I played for 12 hours I started to loose interest so I popped around some sites and decided 
 to use some cheat codes to enhance my character. Changed from dark side to light side to test the 
 reactions of the people around you. Its allways the same additude no matter who you talk to. I 
 even went to the jedi council looking like a hellspawn and they kept saying the same stuff, nothing 
 like "OMG you turned to the darkside prepeare to die"
  
  
  End ressult
  I am really dissapointed, at first this game seemed very promissing as a good game to play and 
 enjoy but after a while you want to stand on the other side of the room running head first into 
 the wall hoping your skull will crack open and die a horrible death never to see it again. To this 
 day this has been the best 2 hours of my life and the worst 10 hours where all i want to do is 
 scream and shove my head trough the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is the best CRPG I've played in years. Highly recommended! After many disappointments on the 
 fantasy side of the CRPG world, this Star Wars CRPG based loosely on the D&D 3rd edition rules 
 is a breath of fresh air.
  
  For those of you who played and enjoyed the orginal Fallout, this game is just as ground breaking 
 for the same reasons. It has a great story, great NPC characters, enjoyable combat, a good character 
 system, is fun to play, and is not set in the standard Tolkien fantasy setting of most CRPGs (not 
 that I mind that, but Fallout and SWKOTOR are more fun because they are new and different, not 
 something you've played 20 times before) .
  
  I'm not sure about the reviewer's computer, but I didn't have any problems with bugs or other technical 
 issues. The graphics and sound were top notch, and the plot, dialogue, and videos were very well 
 done and really immersive. It was like playing a game and watching a good movie at the same time 
 because the story was well done and they really did a great job creating the SW atmosphere in the 
 game.
  
  If you like CRPGs or Star Wars, you owe it yourself to own this game and by doing so you'll support 
 Bioware, the last great CRPG software company left. I'd hate to see Bioware fold like Black Isle, 
 New World Computing, Interplay, and other great CRPG developers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I've been a long time game player and it's not often that you find games that you can emerse yourself 
 in, KOTOR is one of these.
  
  Kotor is really one of the best experiences i've had playing RPG's. I love the mix of action with 
 an amazing story that had a few nice twists and turns. Controls are easy to pick up with easy to 
 use, mostly point and click interface. The level of interaction you can have with other characters 
 is what I really enjoyed. There is hours of dialogue and it doesn't really get tiresome either. 
 Even characters in your party interact with each other. 
  
  Graphics and crisp and sharp, it's hard to fault it except some of the cut scenes look like that 
 came from the xbox and appear somewhat blocky.
  
  Sound is very good too, from the light sabers clashing to blaster fire, the 3d sound works well.
 
  
  I really enjoyed finishing this game, but in all honesty there's not much purpose completing this 
 game more than twice. Once playing the light side, and once as the dark. Your quests are still 
 mostly identical, you can just go about them in different ways. There also is no point trying to 
 get proficient in ranged weapons, especially once you become a jedi. 
  
  Apart from a few technical issues, like random crashings. Kotor is the best star wars game to come 
 out now, just slightly beating jedi knight 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: McShavious
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2004 8:31 am PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  I don't feel like writing a lengthy review, but I did want to put my thoughts on this board for 
 this game. 
  
  I'm an old time gamer and this is one of the best games I have ever played. 
  
  Rarely does 
 a game make me post my thoughts and sperad the joy of a game. 
  
  It really has it all. 
  
  For those of you who are reading these posts thinking maybe you'll get it, just get up from 
 your chair right now and get it.
  
  PS I played the PC version. Email me if you have any questions, earlmcshavious@comcast. net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2004 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought KOTOR having had high expectations of a Bioware RPG and languishing the time for it to 
 arrive on PC. It fulfilled those expectations. Quite simply, Knights of the Old Republic is as 
 astounding - though not quite perfect - game.
  
  It was easy to dubious of the story quality given the Star Wars concept behind the game, but the 
 story was convincingly delivered and unfolded seamlessly. The short in-game cinematics that in 
 most games simply serve to interrupt the flow of the game instead helped stitch together transitional 
 stages of the story in KOTOR more convincingly and make the shifts feel less abrupt - a small touch 
 that helped the unfolding progress of the game.
  
  The Graphics in KOTOR were plainly astounding. While a decent machine will be needed to appreciate 
 them - I myself playing on a GeForce FX 5700 - I was amazed at the way the game was able to present 
 large, detailed areas with incredible detail. The animations were convincing and lifelike. While 
 some of the spaceship interiors could get bland, some environments were awe inspiring for visuals 
 - sunset over the sprawling metropolis of Taris, or neat glass fountains throughout the city of 
 Manaan.
  
  The sound in KOTOR was good but not brilliant, though thankfully there was generally an absence 
 of stock sounds that we've heard in a thousand games and the movies themselves before that. (Although 
 I did note some sound bites originally used in Bioware's Neverwinter Nights... the Kath Hounds on 
 Dantooine have the exact same sound as Werewolves, for instance.) The music I was pleased to discover 
 was not bland repetitions of the irritating John Williams score, but original and consistently 
 themed stuff by Jeremy Soule.
  
  The gameplay in KOTOR is simplistic enough for the casual gamer but engaging enough for the more 
 serious ones such as myself. While you won't find the combat strategy here that will in Baldur's 
 Gate 2, you'll still find something that's straightforward and easy to pick up without being shallow 
 to play.
  
  The game carefully scales difficulty so that no matter what order you approach matters in or how 
 much you powergame, the game still offers a proportional challenge.
  
  The characters you pick up in KOTOR are all fairly simplistic, but they are effectively contrived 
 and presented. Each has their own story to tell, and each has something to contribute to the story; 
 lending the characters further meaning than simply additional bodies around you in combat as you 
 often get in many RPG's.
  
  KOTOR's design for a console originally is evident in its control and interface, and functionally 
 it could have been better designed with the PC in mind, but I was surprised to discover that the 
 differences of control did not detract from the experience. You may however adapt much faster if 
 you choose to use the keyboard rather than holding down the mouse buttons all the time to move.
 
  
  There were some evident gameplay weaknesses. The mini-games in KOTOR did not really add much to 
 the gameplay, for instance. The swoop racing lacked even the basic mechanics of any low budget 
 racing game and yet you could reap a quick few thousand credits playing it, while the Pazaak card 
 game was merely a pedantic exercise in numeric probability... and you could just hit the quickload 
 button if you lost credits on a bad game.
  
  A self-evident weakness are the skills in KOTOR. Computer use is an example of an interesting concept 
 not implemented to its full potential. Instead of rushing the barracks and slaughtering the guards, 
 you could hack into a security terminal and gas the room... but invariably though this method always 
 yields less experience points than the former approach, basically rendering it useless. (Probably 
 even siller is that you can get the experience points for gassing the room after you've slaughtered 
 the bad guys already in there... which is basically the only practical use.)
  
  The other skills were pretty much analogous in their uselessness; stealth had no value whatsoever. 
 The repair skill allows you to reactivate droids to help in combat areas, but naturally they are 
 far less useful than your own party members and basically do no good whatsoever. And mines pose 
 no threat but annoyance to the player, which basically invalidates awareness/demolitions - although 
 admittedly they do have some value since a character skilled in retrieving mines can sell them 
 off for a small profit later. The persuade skill is valuable but basically invalidated when you 
 gain access to the force persuade ability.
  
  All in all though, the gameplay of KOTOR was solid and fun. The only true negative that can be 
 spoken against it is the technical aspect, which cannot be overlooked. More than once KOTOR crashing 
 would corrupt one or more of my savegames, though thankfully taking the precaution of making multiple 
 saves averted any problems here. More persistently KOTOR would crash randomly not infrequently, 
 and at one stage the game would crash every time it tried to autosave at an area transition. (Disabling 
 autosave for that area solved the problem.)
  
  Overall though, KOTOR is highly adviseable to any fans of RPG gaming. It outdoes previous Bioware 
 products for fun and polish. I understand the general consensus would find the console version 
 preferable given the technical issues - and high requirements - of KOTOR, but if you are a PC gamer, 
 then go ahead and pick KOTOR up. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2004 10:30 am PT
Review:  First let me say that this is the first RPG Ive ever really played. The fact that Ive never liked 
 these kind of games before but thoroughly enjoyed SW: KotOR should tell you something.
  
  I had no technical issues with the game. I run it at 1280X960 res just fine and only had one crash 
 throughout. The graphics are top notch and some of the worlds are quite amazing. Little things 
 like blowing grass, etc really help with the you are there effect.
  
  The voice acting is all great to superb. The alien voices are also well done. The sound is also 
 extremely well done. If you have a good surround sound setup you will really enjoy it. At times 
 I had to turn the sound down because I thought the sounds in the game were actually noises I was 
 hearing! At times you very much feel like are you in your own Star Wars movie.
  
  While the game is excellent overall let me also say there are a few nits to pick. First is the 
 go into cave/tunnel and kill beastie syndrome. This gets a bit tiresome after awhile. The puzzles 
 I found to be much harder than I had patience for but you can find all the solutions for them online 
 so these wont really be an issue. Do other folks actually like having these in their games? They 
 remind me of the silly maze levels of first-person shooters that seem to be there just to annoy 
 the gamer and remove the suspension of disbelief instead of enhancing it. Another quibble is that 
 combat wraps around you and your band of three. This is fine in theory but the bad thing is that 
 there is no real maneuver involved in any of the fights. It is more an act in picking the right 
 weapon actions and counter actions than anything else. I realize RPGs are not combat simulators 
 so this is not a huge issue but the short (30m is the max I think) ranges of the weapons and combat 
 is a bit silly and the need for some tactical thought would have been nice. The turn-based aspect 
 to the combat is certainly preferable over the first-person shooter variety here. One final complaint 
 is the story line itself. It is interesting but not exactly original. Too bad the writers could 
 not have come up with something a bit more unique, but then again, perhaps it is what most folks 
 want.
  
  Overall these are minor points and if you are a RPG fan or, especially, a Star Wars fan you will 
 be very delighted with Knights of the Old Republic. Expect easily 40+ hours of game play for your 
 first run through. I suspect you could easily play the game a second time to pick out quests you 
 missed/passed and playing the other side of the Force.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2003 8:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  KOTOR starts off slowly, as you are not a Jedi until after you leave Taris, the first of several 
 planets you visit. So for a long time you'll be swinging a vibrosword or firing a blaster instead 
 of wielding a lightsaber. Additionally, the Taris quests just aren't as interesting as those on 
 other planets, so don't judge the game until you've at least made it off Taris. 
  
  The strength of KOTOR's gameplay is in three areas: Story, Tactics, and Strategy. 
  
  The story 
 that unfolds is somewhat predictable at times, but is told very well, with a great balance of drama, 
 mystery, tragedy, character development, and comedy, all in the style of Star Wars. The story is 
 reinforced with great voice acting and cutscenes. The story alone is one of the great strengths 
 of this game.
  
  Tactical play in the game is primarily in the form of combat. You'll be fighting a lot. Combat 
 in the game can range from too easy to very difficult, depening on your choice of classes, but 
 most of the time is balanced so that it is suitably challenging. With only three characters to 
 control, I would have preferred to have more options... there is no ability to simply defend oneself 
 or guard another character, or even to heal a downed member of the group. Force powers do add more 
 options, but not enough to really matter. If you are looking for a game that is tactically challenging, 
 KOTOR might not be the one for you. 
  
  Combat isn't the only tactical scenario in KOTOR though... conversations can be interesting as you 
 try to convince NPC's to cooperate and there are numerous puzzles throughout the game that are 
 fun to work through, but usually not mandatory. There are also several mini-games to play... swoop 
 racing and firing at sith fighters from your ship's turret are somewhat lame, but you may find 
 yourself playing the addictive card game pazaak for extra cash even when you don't need the money. 
 
  
  Strategy in KOTOR is in which classes, attributes, skills, feats, and equipment you choose for 
 your characters, particularly for your main character who will advance all the way to 20th level 
 by the end of the game. This part of the game is fun and adds a lot of replay potential as you 
 will want to try various combinations. Unfortunately, the last encounter of the game is so combat 
 intensive that if you create a main character whose focus is not on combat, you probably won't 
 be able to finish the game. Play a soldier/jedi guardian or soldier/jedi sentinal your first time. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are good, but not anything spectacular. Jedi robes look like tight bathrobes and don't 
 flow. Framerate drops on even the best system during the largest battles. The NPC's all tend to 
 look alike. There are probably a dozen faces in the game, and after talking to hundreds of NPCs 
 all using the same dozen faces it makes them all seem the same. 
  
  The ships, lightsabers, and blaster bolts are well done graphically. The architecture and landscapes 
 feel like they belong in the Star Wars universe. Equipped items appear on your characters, and 
 usually look pretty good. The cutscenes are well directed and propel the story forward. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The music and sound effects are good. As the Gamespot review noted, KOTOR doesn't 
 rely heavily on the John Williams score, but the music and sound effects feel very 'Star Warsy'. 
 Voice acting in the game is outstanding, and is the only thing saving the look-alike NPCs from 
 being completely 
  forgettable. The excellent voice acting draws you into the story, and forces you to take it seriously 
 as a work of drama central to the game rather than as something secondary to the hack and slash 
 that computer roleplaying games can be.
  
  Surround sound works well in the game, though it doesn't give much of a tactical advantage since 
 characters use an Awareness skill to target incoming enemies before you can hear them. Therefore 
 the sound adds to the immersiveness of KOTOR, but not really to the gameplay.
  
  Value/Reviewer's Tilt
  
  KOTOR can take 30 to 40 hours of play to finish. There are two endings, 
 and many different options as far as classes and powers to try out making replay value high. 
 
  
  I highly recommend this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz55
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2003 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent choice for any who is a fan of NWN. To me it is worth the money and a great 
 buy. Even if you aren't a Star Wars fan you will prolly end up enjoying this game. The graphics 
 are solid not the best even on my high end system. The game play is great with good sound. You 
 are left to make many decisions which will help decide the path you are taking to the end of the 
 game. I don't know that this is my favorite RPG I have ever played. I can't say I completely understand 
 all the hype this game recieved though some hype is well deserved. It does play a lot like NWN 
 though a much closer view which makes the camera and running annoying during the first short strech 
 of the game though it isn't very difficult to get used too. Unlike other point and click RPG you 
 can't just click to a certain area on the screen and expect you character to run there, though 
 if foot lockers or remains are available you are able to point and click and head there. I also 
 didn't particularly enjoy battles they just seemed boring most of the time. I personally am a bigger 
 fan of the game Jedi Academy which has some role playing value, and is much more directly involved 
 with combat. I love being able to control my character to his fullest abilities. I recommend KOTOR 
 to anyone interest in this game or interested in this style of point and click RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2003 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of RPGs and FPS'ers, KOTOR is a pleasant blend of both. Combat occurs in real time 
 but can be paused (ala Neverwinter Nights or Baldur's Gate) to make sure every party member is 
 optimally configured. Exploration and discovery are first-person, with charater dialogue surprisingly 
 excellent. The surprisingly excellent voice actors, create an interesting and engrossing storyline.
 
  
  The interface feels like second nature after just a short time, even though the menu system take 
 awhile to get used to. After the learning curve, finding new iventory items or new journal notes 
 is a snap.
  
  The game world feels large, although not as open-ended as Morrowind. There is a scripted, single 
 mindedness to some of the quests, but this doesn't seem to detract from the game's enjoyment.
 
  
  I would have to say that this is my second favorite game this year next to Call of Duty. Great 
 job Bioware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnpombrio
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2003 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! I have not been hooked on a game like this since the old Might and Magic 
 days. This game had it all in spades, beautiful worlds, great storytelling and acting, great voiceovers 
 and sounds, twists and turns. Only a couple of bugs on my PC and they went away after reloading. 
 Probably too many small items and grenades were kinda worthless. The combat was spot on and challenging 
 most of the time. Each of the sidekicks had their uses and I used them all at some point. The role 
 playing part was very satisfying. There was even humor! Only one diabolical laugh. Plenty of characters 
 to interact with. Long game, I must have put in 60-70 hours but I completed most of the quests. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesar_Lopez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2003 9:17 pm PT
Review:  [Anlisis en perfecto ESPAOL]
  
  Star Wars Knight of the Old Republic es, lejos, el mejor RPG de corte occidental actualmente en 
 el mercado. Sus caractersticas lo hacen mucho ms atractivo y entretenido que otros similares 
 (NWN, Diablo, etc.) , pero lo ms importante de todo, es que los chicos de BioWare lograron crear 
 algo que perfectamente podra ser parte del repertorio cinematogrfico de la saga. Y es ms, representara 
 de manera tan fiel los conceptos de Jedi, la Fuerza, el Mal, la Luz, la Poltica, etc. que se podra 
 construir una nueva triloga simplemente con una historia como la de KOTOR como base. Es Star Wars 
 resumido en 30 horas de juego y una evolucin necesaria en el concepto y forma de juego de los 
 RPGs Occidentales.
  
  Hablar de los grficos es tomar la versin en XBox y extrapolarla a niveles derechamente superiores. 
 Las texturas, las luces, el modelado y la resolucin han cambiado para mejor en la versin para 
 PC. Adems, toda la interfaz del juego ha sido completamente adaptada para aprovechar al mximo 
 las facultades del mouse y del teclado. Jugar KOTOR en PC es extremadamente cmodo e intuitivo.
 
  
  Las batallas, contexto y desarrollo de la historia en KOTOR son casi perfectas. Realmente se pueden 
 tomar dos caminos, cada conversacin o accin en el juego abren nuevas opciones que van definiendo 
 de que lado de la Fuerza se encuentra nuestro personaje. Y en base a eso, los poderes, los personajes 
 y los eventos a medida que se va avanzando en el juego se van definiendo. As, tenemos que desde 
 principio a fin, desde cuando puedes elegir que raza y que gnero ser tu personaje, hasta el propio 
 final, donde puedes ser salvador o conquistador de la galaxia, KOTOR va cambiando junto a tus decisiones 
 y va modelando tu personaje y su entorno en dos caminos opuestos. Casi perfecto, pero si lo comparamos 
 al resto, nico y nunca igualado. El sistema de batalla es una mezcla entre Action RPG y Rol Japons 
 por turnos. Debido a la naturaleza de la saga Star Wars, el dinamismo impreso en cada duelo es 
 sencillamente perfecto y va ad hoc en todo sentido con el desarrollo rpido y entretenido del juego. 
 Como es costumbre en juegos de BioWare, se puede pausar el juego para definir estrategias, aunque 
 todo est enfocado para que se haga slo si es necesario y as no perder la lnea de accin. De 
 todas formas, el ttulo requiere mantener un mnimo grado de planificacin en cada batalla importante, 
 utilizando al mximo todas las opciones que se tienen disponible.
  
  El Sonido en KOTOR es otro de sus fuertes. Todo (y me refiero a TODO) dilogo en el juego es hablado. 
 No existen frases que provengan de un personaje, ya sea el ms importante de todos o aquel que 
 aparece una sola vez, que no tenga su propia voz y lnea especfica. Pero claro, tampoco es perfecto 
 y en el transcurso del juego se notar claramente que muchas voces aliengenas se van repitiendo 
 una y otra vez. No afecta en gran medida la experiencia, excepto cuando el patrn se hace demasiado 
 notorio, en cierta parte crtica del juego. Los efectos especiales son una maravilla tambin, el 
 sonido de los Lightsabers al moverse, de los Blaster, del caminar en metal o en arena, cada rincn 
 tiene su propio sonido que ambienta el juego en una perfecta experiencia cinematogrfica.
  
  Star Wars Knight of the Old Republic es lo mejor en el ao, y si no fuera por esos horrendos 
 bugs que abundan en todo el juego, sera indiscutiblemente lo mejor en PC en mucho tiempo. Es de 
 esperarse que los de BioWare solucionen los problemas tcnicos del juego para hacer de KOTOR una 
 experiencia completa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHardTWB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2003 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it's like to play out the path of a Jedi? Well, you get to do this and more with 
 Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) . The story revolves around a middle aged man that 
 has a strong sense in the force and is placed on a republic ship when it's attacked by the Sith. 
 
  
  Your story begins with pratically no equipment and bare necessities. You won't ever be alone, which 
 is the good thing. You're always in a party except for 1 or 2 instances throughout the game, and 
 even though it isn't all that bad. 
  
  
  You build your player character in the begining through an all too familiar character generator 
 (a la Neverwinter Nights) however, you can either customize it step by step or simply go through 
 the recommended options. 
  
  
  The storyline and dialogue is one of KOTOR's strongpoints. It has a very strong Star Wars original 
 triology feel to it. You can connect with the characters and you get more and more involved with 
 their situations, which also leads into mini-quests. 
  
  
  Without going too much into the storyline, I'd like to cover the sound effects, most of them are 
 what you're used too, but the more redeeming quality of the soundtrack is the music. A fairly original 
 score has been composed for this game which doesn't bare the same time honored traditional music 
 which you typically hear in a Star Wars game. 
  
  
  Graphically, most of the visuals and Art Work are stunning, however I must say that much more attention 
 to detail and crisper models are possible with the XBox but I suppose some corners were cut in 
 order to meet the games expected release date. 
  
  
  Over all, this has been a very pleasant experience. 
  
  
  If it were up to me, BioWare would 
 have developed Star Wars Galaxies, instead of Sony Online.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2003 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Raise your glass and say "cheers!" to this outstanding RPG. I've always wondered what it would 
 be like if a company took all the time it needed, all the money necessary, and just created a HUGE 
 gameplay world with beautiful graphics and outstanding voice acting, an open-ended RPG experience, 
 and a truely interactive storyline. Morrowind pushed the envelope, but so far KOTOR has swiped 
 the checkered flag. Now, I haven't completed the game, and I'm not sure how far into it I am - 
 I'm at about character level 9 or 10 out of a possible 20, and have played maybe 10 - 15 hours 
 of gameplay, but believe me when I say Booyah! this game rocks.
  
  Most games hit the shelves with about as much content and polish as the producing company (ies) 's 
 pockets would allow. The final product reflects directly on their available resources - the time, 
 money, and facilities that they have had at their disposal to bring you their game. I'm sure every 
 company would like to produce a game with 80+ hours of open ended gameplay, voice acting for every 
 character in the game, a beautifully rendered 3D game world, thousands of pages of storyline, plot, 
 script, etc. and I'm sore they would spend 10+ years creating a game like this just to completely 
 cherry it out in every aspect imaginable - if they had the time and the money - but more importantly 
 if they could turn a profit. I've allways felt if someone did this, I'd pay whatever - 60, 70, 
 100 $ dollars to play it, getting a game with twice the content of most for twice the price. Unfortunately, 
 not everyone would agree and so companies shy away from such big endeavors for fear of a loss. 
 
  
  Bioware and Lucas arts could have put half the content and polish into this game, and released 
 it a year ago, and it would still have been awesome. But they didn't, and the result is an RPG'ers 
 dream come true.
  
  From what I hear, KOTOR isn't THAT huge, but it sure is grand. The gameplay estimates are around 
 40+ hours, but I'm assuming that's gotta be a minimum. The voice acting, the character interaction 
 and storyline, the game's presentation, it all steps to your game store's shelves and just smacks 
 down any other RPG. I CANNOT believe this game isn't a Game Spot Editor's Choice and didn't score 
 over a 9. Every computer gaming household MUST have a copy of this masterpiece, one of the all 
 time great achievments yet in the PC world!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby838
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2003 12:19 am PT
Review:  SW: KOTOR is easily one of the best games of recent years, let along the genre. The flexibility 
 of the character progression reminded me of the best aspects of Deus Ex, with an incredibly compelling 
 story on top.
  
  I found myself cursing George Lucas around the middle of the game, when the richness of the story 
 made me wish this had been the basis for Episodes I, II, III.
  
  The game isn't perfect -- I wish the were a bit more involvement in the fighting. But then again, 
 this isn't supposed to be an FPS. I also had some balance questions, as my Jedi Guardian with Force 
 Speed & Flurry made instant mincemeat of everyone in her path (including the boss-types) .
  
  All in all, a hearty thank you to Bioware and LucasArts for a reminder of what a wonderful 
 artform computer gaming can be when executed with such skill and creativity. Someone should send 
 a copy to that imbecile Judge sometime back who ruled computer games weren't protected by the 1st 
 Amendment as they're devoid of any artistic thought, commentary, or creative expression! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2003 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic for the PC is both an exhilirating and a frustrating experience. 
 While the game does an excellent job creating an engaging RPG saga set in the Star Wars galaxy, 
 there are inexplicable technical issues that really drag the game down.
  
  Let me start by saying that I am one of the lucky people who had no trouble installing or starting 
 the game. I have experienced no crashes, and no lockups to speak of. But, despite the fact that 
 my PC is built from only the best hardware and peripherals, and despite the fact that my PC exceeds 
 the recommended specs by 300%, the game still runs poorly, even at the lowest resolution and with 
 much of the effects dialed down or turned off. This is absolutely inexplicable. I mean, I just 
 finished Max Payne 2, which is waaaay more detailed graphically than KOTOR, and I was able to play 
 that in high resolution with all of the features turned up to maximum, all the while getting a 
 nice framerate. However, even in close quarters, KOTOR chugs along at what cannot be more than 
 15 fps. Inexcusable.
  
  But, enough with that, let's get down to the game itself. KOTOR takes place 4000 years before Episode 
 I, at the dawn of the era of the Sith. The story itself is long and complex, and you can read it 
 elsewhere. Suffice it to say that what starts off as a simple rescue mission turns into an interplanetary 
 quest, and along the way, you become a Jedi.
  
  The game plays like an adventure/RPG hybrid, with plenty of exploring on foot, a ton of interaction 
 with NPCs, and quite a few main quests and side quests. The main quest is both lengthy and engaging, 
 but it's the side quests that really flesh out the story. These side missions range from simple 
 errand running to complex, multistage tasks that can be downright interesting.
  
  Combat is relatively automated. When engaging an enemy, the game pauses, letting you queue up commands 
 to execute. Battle is done utilizing D&D rules that are employed behind-the-scenes, and is all 
 based on statistics combined with some good ol' fashioned luck. The battle animations themselves 
 are quite interesting, which makes them fun to watch, but I can't help but think that it would 
 have been more fun to micromanage battles as in traditional console RPGs.
  
  One of the coolest features of KOTOR is the ability to make choices that move you either towards 
 the light or the dark side of the Force. This adds a great deal of replay value to the game. Jedi 
 purists will want to do the noble thing, but once that wears off, it's so good to be bad. Even 
 more impressive is that your apprearance, and even your force powers will change depending on your 
 alignment.
  
  The controls have been completely revamped for PC, and now use the keyboard/mouse combo that we 
 have all come to know and love. For the most part, it works quite well. Controlling the main character 
 is a snap, as is selecting most options and accessing menus in the game. However, unless I'm missing 
 something, there doesn't seem to be a way to use a gamepad for the game. This is a minor quibble, 
 since the new controls work so well, but the option would have been nice.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. On one hand, much of the game's locales and textures look quite good, 
 and some of the alien skins look phenomenal, with bump mapping and the like. But, other characters 
 and textures look awfully simplistic. The lighting is decent, with some flare effects, but it's 
 nothing to write home about. The facial animation is decent, with fairly good syncing, but overall, 
 the non-combat animation looks a little stiff. Furthermore, many of the locales are comprised of 
 mundane hallways and passages that pretty much all look the same. If it weren't for the annotated 
 automap, it'd be pretty easy to get lost.
  
  The definite highlight of the game is the sound. First off, the entire game is voice acted, and 
 that in itself is impressive. Even more impressive is that I cannot find a single bad voiceover 
 in the game. It's probably the best voicework ever done for a game, certainly on par with the Max 
 Payne and NOLF games. The musical score, a rousing, inspired hybrid of the recognizable Star Wars 
 themes as well as brand new music in the spirit of the original soundtrack, is definitely worth 
 the price of admission. The sound effects are standard Star Wars fare, but a lot of the ambient 
 noise is truly impressive. Though the game advertises itself as utilizing EAX, the effect is rather 
 subtle, if hardly even noticeable.
  
  Other minor quibbles are lack of a quicksave button, some instances of excessive menu surfing, 
 and the relative easiness of the game, especially once you gain Jedi powers.
  
  All told, KOTOR is a solid game that RPG fans will love. As good as the game is, though, it's significantly 
 dragged down by the fact that it fails to run well, even on good machines. In the end, the game 
 feels very sloppily rushed to PC. Here's hoping there's a patch right around the corner that will 
 let PC gamers get the true experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 2, 2003 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knight of the Old Republic is a RPG that is set around 4000 years before the first episode 
 of the Star Wars lore that has been released as a theatrical release. It has been released for 
 XBox for nearly six months earilier with many accolades, and it has finaly seen the light of day 
 on the PC platform. 
  
  As insightful readers already know, this game is almost identical to that of the XBox version, 
 save for an incremental interface change. The game has a batch of additional high-powered items 
 that are dispensed by a new npc situated in a new area (it is rather odd how Bioware includes 'new' 
 materials all centered around one specific 'new' place that I would not elaborate further for the 
 fear of spoiler) , but these additions are superficial and being planned to be distributed to the 
 XBox version via Live downloads.
  
  Knights of the Old Repbulic is a RPG that is based on a derivative formula from the D&D rules. 
 From the quasi-turn based battle mechanic to the development of characters (via skills, feats, 
 powers, and attributes) the game bears the unmistakable mark of it conforming to the rules. The 
 rules are obviously altered to suit a CRPG setting and was incorporated to remain intact under 
 the interface. Therefore, the rules do not come off as being daunting, rather fairly easy to understand 
 and grasp. It also adds the advantage of rewarding those who carefully plan their characters in 
 advance. However, does the rule support the gameplay well? 
  
  Battle elements rely on real-time interpretation of turn based system that actively engages the 
 characters involved. A traveling party consists of three characters, and in battle only one of 
 them is under your control. Although there is a queue for reserving a number of commands, it is 
 limited to four actions, not to mention that it excludes a simple movement command. This flaw is 
 exacerbated by the poor a. i. of other members of the party, who acquire arbitrary targets and use 
 questionable skills, all thanks to overly simplified 'scripts'. Furthermore, the battle mechanics 
 suffer from the lack of any 'quick' slots and other amenities that were seen in games like Neverwinter 
 Nights. All this amounts to some frustrating moments during battles, where one has to resort to 
 hectic maneuver just to place the party members in right formation and not benefit from the strategical 
 element afforded by the turn based system.
  
  Inventory management is a chore, too. Partly owing from its XBox cousin, the developers overlooked 
 the crammed and archaic inventory management when a new interface was designed for the PC version. 
 The game presents too much of a hassle in order to move items in containers where one has to select 
 a single item for transfer before opening the container to transfer another one. A simple change 
 of allowing more than one item to be moved by means of 'tagging' them would have resolved this.
 
  
  Such problems with the interface plague many aspects of the gameplay. The game allows certain keys 
 to be mapped, but not others. Also the movement occurs not with mouse, but with a keyboard. Characters 
 move only by running. This only proves how the game was designed with XBox as its common denominator 
 and not enough has been done to acommodate the PC users with as much thought and care.
  
  The Odyssey engine the game is based upon is versatile in displaying various locales, and sometimes 
 impressive in portraying character models and animations. However, it is terribly inefficient. 
 The engine cannot run well even on high end machines, especially when equipped with an ATI card. 
 There is also a graphical feature that is only limited to nVidia cards, and a serious incompatibility 
 issue with Radeon 9600 cards and certainly older motherboards. This is disappointing given how 
 Bioware had ample time to develop the game and make the transition of the game optimized for the 
 PC platform. Another gripe involves from the game always displaying some kind of warning when trying 
 to do mundane or practical tasks, such as buying items that are priced higher than 250 credits 
 or trying to attempt solo mode. 
  
  As for the story of the game, and how much the gameplay features role-playing aspect, there are 
 certainly a lot of tasks and a few twists to be had. The first world is a fairly linear fare, that 
 hearkens the first dungeon of Bioware's Baldur's Gate 2. Soon after the game opens up for the party 
 to travel to any of the five planets in any order they would prefer, although some locales are 
 better off traveled in the later parts of the game. Within the planets themselves, however, the 
 missions devolve into same linear adventures that are devoid of variety. However, they themselves 
 are fairly innovative and with occasional serving of minigames, maintain the level of entertainment 
 quite well. 
  
  The plot of the game is quite good, involving betrayals and secrecy, but rather ludicrous in how 
 it unfolds, with heavy borrowing of plot themes from Bioware's other games, such as Neverwinter 
 Nights. Overall, the plot is interesting and does not get bogged down with too much detail at the 
 end. Also it makes the game's pace quite brisk and keeps the level of tension fairly high. The 
 problem in its roleplaying aspect is that the dark side and light side are portrayed as being absolute 
 extreme of each other. Although playing either as evil or good character in the Force is one of 
 the merits that the game draws quite heavily upon, some of the responses that a character has to 
 make in order to attain the rating are sometimes so outlandish. One does not certainly expect to 
 be a psychotic sociopath just to aspire to the dark side. 
  
  But I digress and commend the developers for pulling the whole good and evil roleplaying together 
 within the star wars universe and making it work to a degree. By the way, the ending leaves a lot 
 to be desired, which is not saying much since Bioware has been known for its often anti-climactic 
 and underwhelming endings. NPCs are colorful and well developed; if there is anything to play the 
 game again excepting the obvious opportunies presented by other base or Jedi classes, it would 
 be trying to interact differently with the NPCs and completing their individual quests that relate 
 to their agenda, maybe netting different conclusions. 
  
  The sound of the game is done well; and I was pleasantly surprised by the wealth of voicework that 
 was done to lend the game very cinematic flair. Of course, the alien voices repeat almost always, 
 even to the point of applying the same voice bite across races, as if Mandalorians speak the same 
 language as Twi'leks. When the alien and other npc models recycle, it further conspires against 
 your sense of disbelief, but it is a fairly trivial complaint. The music uses from the pool of 
 standard Star Wars bombastic anthems as well as the ones composed from ubiquitous Jeremy Soule. 
 A bit of what seems to be NWN music remixed into the game does not seem so bad after all. 
  
  The game would last you more than forty hours in all, given that all quests are attempted and 
 all of its rather lengthy, overbearing movies are viewed. This amount of playing time is mostly 
 unheard of in the recent game released, which is rather unfortunate. Although the game is fairly 
 linear, choosing other classes to play through and acquiring other builds with respective powers 
 or strengths would merit a second time of playing.
  
  So is this game a good one? If one is a Star Wars fan, it is a good RPG just for how completely 
 it remains faithful to the franchise's themes. On the merits of gameplay and roleplaying, it is 
 pretty standard. No particular aspect of the game stands out to deliver an overall memorable gaming 
 experience. The technical aspect of its engine and the interface that certainly has not adapted 
 fully to the inherent characteristic of the PC platform make what is a decent roleplaying adventure 
 a bit stilted and frustrating to enjoy. Nontheless, it is a good game, and one of the best to come 
 by in the PC RPG genre; indicates just how lean the year has been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2003 10:21 am PT
Review:  Yay !
  My first 10/10 review !
  
  I have to say that if this game doesn't win "Game of the Year", I will be very dissapointed.
 
  This game is simply incredible, and even though I'm a big Star Wars fan to start off, I think 
 anybody and everybody would like this game.
  
  I'm not a big fan of RPG's, in fact, I hate pretty much all of them except the Final Fantasy series 
 (up until 8) .
  But this game has completely reversed my hate into adoration.
  
  The story is very compelling and well written, in the true spirit of Star Wars.
  The characters 
 are presented and developped very well and you get to caring for each and every one of them.
  
  The graphics are simply stunning, the cinematics are the best ones I've seen in a very long 
 time and there is practically no clipping at all.
  The sound is true to the sounds you hear in a Star Wars movie.
  
  The only problem I've found, 
 although a very minor one, is that your "Party" seems to get in the way when you try to go around 
 a tight spot, so you have to change characters and move him out of the way so you can pass.
  Oh and another problem, the alien languages are very repetitive (especially for Rodians, Twi'leks 
 and Hutts) .
  But I guess that's ok, since some Rockstar mades games tend to use the "F" and "S" words ad nauseam.
 
  
  By the way, I have had no problems at all with the game, it is running smoothly on my system (P4-2 
 Ghz, 1024 Mb of RAM, GeForce 4200 video card) .
  The loading screens are very quick, and that is very surprising for a game that takes 4 CD's to 
 install and eats up 4 Gb of hard disk space.
  
  So, in resume, it's the best game of the year in my opinion, you have to get this game if you're 
 a Star Wars fan or an RPG fan... and if you're both, you've got it made !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingguy87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2003 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me star by saying i'm not usually an RPG kinda guy, however, when it comes to third person 
 action RPG's such as Morrowind (another great game) i usually will give it a try. And am i glad 
 i gave tyhis one a try.
  When i first booted it up, i was having all kinds of truoble, with lag, sound glitches, and other 
 things, then i just turned on v-sync and i haven't had a prob since.
  Now to the good things. First off the gameplay, this doesn't play like most other RPG's for the 
 PC, the action is in real time however u can pause it and give a line up of commands to your character 
 and the rest of the squad. The hit space and watch the fireworks start. The effects of fighting 
 with light sabers is just awesome, i mean it just rocks. If you want u can use blaster pistols 
 and what not, but who wants those when u can have a light saber.
  The great thing is u can choose the light and dark path. I'm not too sure what the affects are 
 excpet that the dark side sees a lot more action and money. I haevn't gotten far enough to tell 
 if i can become a sith or something. One awseome side affect of choosing the darka dn light side 
 is that ur appearnce changes, for example by character is very very dark and so he gets a kick 
 ass gotee, unlike the prepubescent light side portion of him who just smiles a lot.
  A few bad things are that this game takes up all my free time and has made me a loosea pound or 
 two from not eating. This is a must have for the Action/RPG person 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmeraldViper
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2003 8:30 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the canidates for Game of the Year. As typical of Gamespot anymore, They 
 give the Good games lowers scores then the OVER HYPED games. This is the best RPG I have played 
 this year. Temple of Elemental Evil would have been good but it was rushed and is full of bugs 
 and bad design ideas. Overal this game is great, the sound is Terrific. Story line is very very 
 good. The graphics just blow me away specially when it has great graphics and I ahve not had any 
 major performance hits, and the only thing I have turned down is the AA at 2.
  
  I think its hilarious that foe once the glitches have to do with an Intel/Raedon configured rig 
 (ROFLOL!) . Just shows you companies are not targeting Intel as much as they used to.
  
  Best STAR WARS GAME EVER!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2003 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing machine:
  
  PIV 3.0ghz
  ATI AIW 9700 PRO
  1GB DDR-400
  
  B-E-A-U-T-I-F-U-L !
  
  I also own the XBOX Version and got this one ... graphics are MUCH superior 
 on this version ! Very fluid game, did not get any crashes since I started playing (12 hours of 
 gameplay so far) .
  
  The game in itself is wonderful ! Lightsaber customization is amazing on its own ! Force powers 
 and liberty of picking planets to visit are just too much ! Cinematics are also SO AMAZING !
  
  Music/sound are also almost perfect (a few glitches) , hardly hearable ! 
  
  I cannot express 
 my gratitude to BioWare (Canadians rocked the gaming world again :) ) in words... this game is just 
 TOO DAMN GOOD !
  
  Having played Jedi Knight I & II, Jedi Academy , Star Wars Galaxies (still playing) , Star Wars 
 Rebel Assault, Dark Force, etc... this is definitely the BEST Star Wars game I have played since 
 my early ages and surely one of the best game EVER ... and god knows I played a LOT of game (at 
 least 125 different ones ... I try everything !)
  
  Hope it helps you choose your next christmas gift :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2003 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is one of the best Role-Playing games ever created in my 
 oppinion. It has some of the best things you can have in an RPG. In RPGs the main thing everyone 
 looks for is a storyline. This game has by far one of the most advanced and well thought out storylines 
 i have ever came accross. It has your basic level up battling like you would in most Role-Playing 
 games. The game has so many items you can tweak to update, make stronger or for somthing to look 
 nice. The real neat thing about This game is that you upgrade armor/weapons to become stronger 
 and learning new attack moves for each different person that can make the biggest of differences 
 in battles. You learn different Jedi moves that are extremely helpful in battle depending on the 
 opponent you are up against. Although, people who are not jedis dont get jedi powers of course, 
 but they also get their own types of attack moves. 
  
  The only real problem with this game is that it can glitch. Sometimes out of nowhere you can glitch 
 from place to place, or even worste your states when you level up glitch to somthing different.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Great, the battle system and everything you come accross is just by far one of the best 
 things you can encounter.
  
  GRAPHICS: Great, a like how everything is shown out like the planets and characters. Although, 
 the FMVs could have been better.
  
  SOUND: Perfect, everything you hear is astounding, the weapons, lightsabers, voice acting is perfect. 
 
  
  VALUE: Superb, If you love great storylines, interresting planets and awesome adventures. This 
 is the game for you.
  
  TILT: Perfect, A flawless game that is a must have
  
  
  I would give it a 9.0/10
  
  -Justin
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2003 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic couldn't have come at a better time, just when console gamers 
 thought they would never see a great Western based Role Playing Game, they did. In July this year, 
 Knights of the Old Republic was released for the Microsoft Xbox. It quickly became a major hit 
 with the Xbox userbase, and a huge hit with the reviewers. Knights of the Old Republic is from 
 the highly acclaimed developers of Baldurs Gate, and NeverWinter Nights, BioWare. BioWare has become 
 a huge success on the PC, as the undisputed king of Western Role Playing games. They ventured out 
 to make a Star Wars based game, and also put it on the Microsoft Xbox videogame console, a first 
 on both accounts for the developers. I can tell you, however, they did a knock up job on it, too!
 
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is a Star Wars game, so of course you'd expect it to be a Science Fiction 
 driven game, right? Well, it is. The story seems relatively familiar from the get-go, you start 
 out on a star ship that's under attack, and you must evacuate the ship on an escape pod, sound 
 familiar? It is, quite similar actually. But don't let that fool you, the story get's quite developed, 
 and quite fast actually. For a game with so much depth, it has an incredible plot. The game's story 
 circulates around whatever character you build from the beginning of the game. Whether it's a man, 
 woman, soldier, scout, or whatever suits your interests, it's all up to you. Anyways, when you 
 have fully made your character, the story will focus entirely around events concerning him or her. 
 The game's plot is basically that of a young hero or heroine who becomes a jedi, and follows his 
 or her path of destiny, which is quite a broad description, and leaves much to the imagination.
 
  
  The greatest part of Knights of the Old Republic is easily it's flawless gameplay mechanics. Just 
 about everything you'd want to do in a Star Wars role playing game is there. It's truly incredible. 
 The game is mission based, meaning you can do whatever tasks you feel you want to do, but only 
 certain ones advance the story, while others are means of leveling up your character and developing 
 the character further. The core character development is through your ongoing struggle between 
 the light and dark side of the force. The system in which your character develops his side is actually 
 quite genius. You have a scale in your character profile, that shows what side of the force you 
 are on, it goes up or down, depending on the various acts you do in the game. For example, if you 
 kill a certain person who doesn't deserve it, you will earn dark side points. Or, if you rescue 
 a person, or help them with a task that they perhaps can not perform, you will earn light side 
 points. It's really quite elementary, but it is an excellent formula, that never confuses the player 
 while in the game. As for the controls in Knights of the Old Republic, they are very tight. Surprisingly 
 fit for a console controller, yet still good on the PC. As I said, the gameplay in Knights of the 
 Old Republic is very good, and virtually flawless.
  
  The graphics in this game are the biggest downfall. They are choppy, and the framerate is horrible. 
 I can't really think of any redeeming part of the game's graphics. The game's lightsabre battles 
 are semi intriguing, but far from impressive, especially since this game is Xbox and PC exclusive, 
 I'd expect much more from them. These graphics could use much revamping, and really could have 
 done it. I can't think of any real reasons for them to look the way they do, it's really quite 
 dissapointing. 
  
  However, the sound on the other hand is quite impressive. Each line of text is fully worked out 
 through scripted dialogue, and is done by professional voice actors. This adds immensly to the 
 overall feel of the game, making you feel like you are really part of this Star Wars universe.
 
  
  As you can imagine, Knights of the Old Republic is a role playing game, and that's what you do. 
 Role play. The game is quite different from your typical console role playing game, like Final 
 Fantasy, or Dragon Quest. But, if you are a PC gamer, and have played a BioWare game before, you'll 
 feel right at home with this one. The game follows the rules of the role playing board game, Dungeons 
 and Dragons, so a fan of the game should also be familiar with that. 
  
  This game will last you for a long time. The main story is around 20+ hours, not including side 
 quests. With side quests, it will take you around 40-50+ to complete, oh, and did I tell you? That's 
 just one half. Each side of the force, light and dark, will give you virtually a totally new game, 
 and this adds incredible depth to the game. There are tons of sidequests, and minigames to folllow 
 up on the lengthy story campaign. This game will definitely keep you occupied for a long, long 
 time.
  
  Now, to be honest, I'm not a big fan of Star Wars, or Dungeons and Dragons role playing, so as 
 you can imagine, this game didn't strike me as an incredible addition to my library, but as I reflect 
 on the game, I realize how completely wonderful it really is. This is easily the best Star Wars 
 game ever made, and the best Western stylized role playing game to date. Any science fiction, fantasy, 
 role playing, Star Wars, or whatever, fan should check out this game, immediately. It's truly a 
 work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtek
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2003 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic must be one of the best blends of RPG, action, and adventure elements 
 but what's best of all is its Star Wars storyline.
  
  Here are the negatives:
  -Repeating character models/faces. 
  -Some bugs dealing with sound skipping/stuttering and graphic 
 resolution. (expected fix with patch)
  -Character cannot walk, only runs. (possible inclusion in a patch) Strange thing is that NPC's 
 (including pary members) can walk.
  -It can be cumbersome switching weapons during battles as there are no "quick slots" for fast switching 
 of weapons/weapon groups.
  -No offical Mod support.
  
  Positives:
  -Size. This thing is huge, 7 worlds and TONS of side-quests and 3 different types of minigames 
 (speeder races, card game, firing a turret)
  -Graphics. Very nice textures and variances in looks though major differences only come by visiting 
 different planets. Animations are well done.
  -Gameplay. Fight in real time but pause at any time to strategize your movements and attacks. Hits 
 and dodges are calculated by dice rolls using a D&D rules set. Run around to your heart's content. 
 The game is linear but it allows for a large amount of freedom.
  -Sound. All the expected quality Star Wars sound effects but also of note is the exceptional original 
 score and the superb voice acting. All but the main characters have completely spoken dialouge 
 even in different alien languages (which are subtitled) .
  -Added content for the PC version.
  
  If you're looking for an RPG with good action and adventure 
 elements, great sound, graphics, and storyline then pick this up as soon as possible. If you're 
 a Star Wars fan then this is required.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tektrader
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 24, 2003 10:09 am PT
Review:  I hate... HATE... ports from consoles to the PC. And don't tell me that KoToR is different (because 
 of being developed at the same time as the X-Box) , that's B. S. I assumed (there's my first mistake!) 
 that Bioware, being as awesome as they are, would do a port right. *sigh*
  
  The only real complaint I have is the controls (which is typically my complaint with console ports) . 
 Why can't I change the trackball (mouse) controls, so that they do the movement thing (first button 
 is for attack, middle for walk forward and right for moving backwards) ??? I know, just click the 
 left button and you can walk. But it's crap that I can't configure it how I want to (just like 
 EVERY OTHER GAME OUT THERE!) . 
  
  Otherwise, the story is relatively entertaining (though nothing like Neverwinter Nights or the 
 Baldur's Gate series... those pull you in way better than this game, for whatever reason) , the 
 graphics are OK and the sound is decent. The characters are mostly forgettable (which is a shame) . 
 
  
  Basically, if you've already played the X-Box version, save your $50 for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Centra
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2003 9:02 am PT
Review:  I don't have much to say other than this is a A++ title with great story, control, graphics and 
 sound. Even though it kept crashing soon after character creation, Bioware was on top of things 
 the day it was relesased with a beta patch to resolve issues with ATI Radeon cards, and certain 
 Intel chipsets I650, and I640. I suspect the game was originally designed for Nvidia based systems, 
 as this would have been the prefered graphics vendor 3 years ago when Bio started this project. 
 I don't think anyone would have guessed that ATI could pull so many rabbits from their hat. 
  The games graphics are top notch, especially at anything 1280x1024 or above, and if you have a 
 good video card like the Nvidia FX or ATI 9x, and a fast system 2.0ghz or faster, go ahead and 
 crank on the AA. Bring beer, chips, and a pillow, cause this one's gonna take a few days. Good 
 Job Bioware. Who says canadians can only export maple syrup, and build igloos. After you play this 
 title you'll think star wars was made in the great white north. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2003 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game. The graphics are spectacular, even at lower resolutions. The sound is 
 great and the action gripping.
  
  And this game has, by far, the most intuitive interface for an RPG as any I've seen. It's easy 
 to access info on your characters and items, but doesn't sacrifice depth for ease of use. It's 
 a great RPG for those who have never played them before, but even seasoned RPG veterans will find 
 everything they love about the genre here.
  
  And let's face it - who doesn't want to fight with a lightsaber?
  
  Even the non-Jedi characters 
 have great depth and are interesting to use. There are great items, upgradeable weapons (including 
 upgradably lightsabers) . All sorts of great stuff. And the cinematics of the fights (especially 
 with the Jedi) are absolutely spectacular.
  
  Matched with a story that is above average for and RPG, this game will keep you hooked until the 
 end. There is no lack of side quests, and quite diverse types of enemies and tasks that give the 
 game an epic scope.
  
  Overall, probably the highest quality Star Wars game on the market, particularly for those who 
 like the slower pace of an RPG over an FPS game. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IV4Quad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2003 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Throughout my humble experience as a casual gamer, I have searched high and low for a game that 
 lived up to its promises as one to "break the mold." A game that had a engaging story told through 
 memorable gameplay and cinematic beauty. A game that proved to those who prefer Star Trek over 
 Star Wars and Real Time Strategy over Role-Playing that "the other side" had something sensational 
 to offer. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, not only meets but exceeds these standards of 
 excellence.
  
  As stated earlier, I am neither a fan of the Star Wars Universe nor a follower of Role-Playing 
 games. I mean no malice to those of you who normally enjoy -- perhaps even worship -- either genre. 
 Simply stated, Knights of the Old Republic incinerates my stereotypes toward the respective franchises. 
 My hat goes off to not only my friends who persuaded me to take a risk and make this purchase, 
 but alsoe -- and perhaps more importantly -- to the men and women who made the game possible. I look 
 forward to countless hours entertainment and, of course, a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GollumOnline
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2003 10:02 am PT
Review:  SW: KOTOR immerses you into a great story of intrigue, plots, counter plots and double crosses. 
 The game play is fluid; this is certainly one of the better games to play if you are using a mouse 
 instead of the keyboard. The whole game play experience is 100%. Be prepared to make deals and 
 counter deals and from the very start of this game you are choosing your path with the Force by 
 the system awarding you Light or Dark points as the game tracks your moves and decisions. A classic 
 SW game in the true sense of the word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2003 7:58 am PT
Review:  I wanted to post my comments so people can get an idea of the game. I have only been playing 3 
 hours or so but here goes...
  
  First off, let me say the game is so far AMAZING!!!! The graphics, interface, gameplay, and sound, 
 truely stand out and demonstrate how much thought has went into this game. The combat system is 
 also extremely accessible and easy. The game captures the Star Wars universe sights and sounds. 
 RPG elements are classic BioWare but have been improved in many ways. The load times between areas 
 are very fast, dialog is great, and it is an extremely immersive experience so far. I feel I already 
 got my moneys worth from my purchase. You can dive right into the game with a very little time 
 to learn it.
  
  Some initial points of concern (and when I say concern I mean things that could be tweaked a bit) :
 
  
  1. Performance - With my 9800 Pro and the settings maxed out it can be choppy. Maxed out I mean 
 6xAA, 8XAnsi, at 1280. Don't get me wrong, it looks absolutely beautiful but it performs better 
 at 4xAA, 8xAnsi, at 1024x768. Wonder how other video cards are fairing.
  
  2. Mouse Look - maybe I haven't figured it out yet but you can't look up/down while moving. I hope 
 this is just something I am missing because I wan't to look up at things.
  
  3. Purpose - I know it is early on but I didn't get the sense that my character has much purpose 
 - meaning, I feel like I am just another lowly, expendable soldger without any special meaning. 
 I am confident this will change soon.
  
  4. Character Models - although most RPGs use common character models, there seem only to be a basic 
 set of models/faces.
  
  5. Ready for a Fight - another RTFM point but I couldn't find a quick key to arm/disarm myself. 
 My team and I look like we are running around the town looking for a fight.
  
  Overall, there should not be any doubts in purchasing this game. It was a long time in coming for 
 the PC and should definately not be missed by any RPG or Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTEJAS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2003 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The best Star Wars game for the PC since Tie Fighter!
  
  I still remember playing Tie Fighter almost 5+ years ago and how much I loved that game. Since 
 that time, not many other Star Wars games have come out from Lucasarts that really match that quality 
 although the Jedi Knight series came close.
  
  This is a great game. I've played around 3 hours and I feel like I have so much left to do! There 
 are a ton of sidemissions, sidegames to keep you busy and lots of choices! 
  
  You can choose to go to the dark side of the force and/or the light but the thing with this game 
 is that this is done without you knowing most of the time. Sometimes you'll make a decision in 
 a conversation that will earn you dark points and/or light points depending on what ou choose.
 
  
  The graphics are great although it seems they got a little lazy and kept most of the X-Box textures/graphics 
 with the port. The sound is amazing, supports EAX 3 and it's fantastic. Value is great because 
 you can play as 3 different types (scout, soldier, something else) and you can play dark side/light 
 side.. etc.
  
  ALl in all, this is a great game that will take a while to complete and even then you'll keep coming 
 back for more! Go get it today 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
