-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Battlefront II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starwarsbattlefront2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Space combat with marine landings.
 Playable Jedi.
 More interesting single-player campaign modes.
 Lots of multiplayer maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels pretty similar to the last one.
 Those not interested in online multiplayer won't get much mileage out of it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,984 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The incremental additions found in Battlefront II improve upon the overall formula, resulting in 
 another quality Star Wars game. 

  Star Wars fans got quite a treat earlier this week with a double dose of Star Wars media hitting 
 store shelves. Along with the Episode III DVD, LucasArts also shipped Star Wars Battlefront II, 
 the sequel to last year's Battlefront. Battlefront II, the sequel to the first team-based shooter 
 set in a Star Wars universe, adds a few notable improvements, but doesn't stray too far from the 
 formula that made the original game a big commercial success. You'll still take control of various 
 infantry classes and vehicles as you fight for control of capture points on conquest-style maps. 
 New space combat maps and playable Jedi represent some incremental improvements, but for the most 
 part, Battlefront II treads familiar ground, which is great for Star Wars fanatics and fans of 
 team-based online shooters.  

          Space combat is arguably the best new feature in Battlefront II.     

  The biggest 
 improvement made to the standard vehicle-infantry combat combination is the addition of the new 
 space combat maps in Battlefront II. Playable in both single- and multiplayer modes, the space 
 combat maps enable you to jump into small starfighters, fly out of the fighter bay of capital ships, 
 and dogfight in outer space as naval combat rages between massive star destroyers, frigates, and 
 the gnatlike fighters that buzz around them. The sense of scale between the ships is great, as 
 is the rush you get from trying to shoot down other fighters. The best part of the space combat 
 is trying to bring down the huge capital ships. You can attack their vulnerable parts from the 
 outside using larger fighters like TIE bombers or Y-Wings, or you can attempt to land inside their 
 fighter bay and blow the ship up from the inside out with a marine landing. If you're crafty enough 
 to land a troop transport inside an enemy fighter bay, you'll be awarded with a spawn point there 
 for as long as that ship survives. The array of infantry types on space maps is limited to just 
 pilots and marines (with pilots being able to repair their ships in flight, and marines having 
 a rifle for better hand-to-hand combat) , but fighting inside of an enemy ship is pretty cool, as 
 is stealing their own fighters. If there's a downside to the space maps it's that they feel pretty 
 similar, as far as setup goes, to multiplayer matches. There are basically two major capital ships, 
 a bunch of fighters buzzing around them, maybe a couple of smaller frigates, and that's it. The 
 only thing that changes is which planet you're orbiting or what game type you're playing, whether 
 it's assault or some form of capture the flag.  

          Hero characters are also playable in the game, but they aren't quite as fun as you think 
 they'd be.     

  The other major addition to Star Wars Battlefront II is the ability to play hero characters like 
 Jedi. When you earn a certain number of points in a match, the hero character is unlocked, and 
 you're given the option to respawn as the hero. Only one hero character per side, per match can 
 exist at any given time, so don't expect to see 12 Yodas running around against 12 Darth Vaders, 
 unless you're playing a modded game type. In general, only the top player on each side is given 
 the option to use the hero character, who's generally very powerful and hard to kill. While this 
 feature sounds fantastic on paper, in practice, the hero characters actually aren't all that interesting 
 to use. Most of them are lightsaber-armed Jedi, so combat involves running up to people and mashing 
 on the attack button quickly to swing your saber. Most Jedi can throw their sabers, and some have 
 Force powers. Certain maps will also let you play special characters like Boba Fett or Han Solo, 
 who have high-powered guns and other weapons. If members of the other team work together, concentrated 
 fire can actually bring you down pretty quickly. But if you can take advantage of the confusion, 
 a hero character can swing the tide of a battle. In general though, playing a hero doesn't feel 
 quite as epic as you might expect it would.  

  There have been some other interesting tweaks to the formula. One new class has been added to each 
 of the four factions in the game. The Republic get clone commanders, for example, armed with powerful 
 chainguns and an aura that imparts defensive bonuses on nearby allies. The Rebels get a Bothan 
 spy, who can cloak with a Predator-like shimmer and then unleash a powerful short-range flamethrower. 
 These classes, as well as the special classes from the first game, like droideka and dark troopers, 
 are not available to you when you first begin a match or mission. Like with the hero characters, 
 you need to earn a few points before these are unlocked, and only a few can be on the map at once. 
 You still have access to regular classes like normal rifle troopers and snipers. You'll also see 
 familiar vehicles on the appropriate maps, like snow speeders on Hoth, AT-STs on Endor, and more. 
 But in general, it feels as though Battlefront II is more of an infantry-focused game than its 
 predecessor, which can be a good or bad thing depending on your perspective. A good number of the 
 maps don't have vehicles at all.  

  The game ships with a couple of single-player modes. One of these, Rise of the Republic, is a linear 
 campaign of assault-style missions that follows the story of the 501st, a unit of clone troopers 
 who eventually evolved into elite stormtroopers under Anakin Skywalker, aka Darth Vader. You'll 
 embark on a series of missions that will take you from the Clone Wars era to the Rebellion era, 
 and you'll undergo the transformation from playing for the "good guys" to the "bad guys." The other 
 single-player mode is called galactic conquest, which combines a turn-based mode, where you move 
 fleets around a static planetary map, with basic conquest missions. Whenever you move your fleet 
 over an enemy-controlled planet, you engage in a land battle. When two fleets meet, a space battle 
 ensues. The planets you own give you production and combat bonuses, and the goal is to eventually 
 take over all the planets in the galaxy. Four different galactic conquest galaxies are available, 
 but they all play out pretty similarly. These modes are fun to play for a little while, but eventually 
 they grow tiresome, partly because the missions end up being pretty redundant, and partly because 
 the artificial intelligence isn't very good when you're playing a single-player mission. You'll 
 see troops get stuck in walls and hallways, and it can sometimes be frustrating to try to mount 
 concentrated attacks because your AI teammates don't always have the same idea that you do when 
 it comes to deciding on an attack vector.  

          Battlefront II sticks to a familiar formula     

  While the tweaks to the single-player 
 mode represent an improvement from the bare-bones modes included in the original Battlefront, the 
 multiplayer aspects of the game are still the primary attraction. The game supports 24, 32, or 
 64 players on the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and PC platforms, respectively. While it might seem as though 
 having twice as many players on the PC would be a huge advantage, the maps in Battlefront II don't 
 necessarily lend themselves to having 64-player battles because of their size. In general, 24 or 
 32 players is enough to adequately populate the game's 24 multiplayer maps. As far as performance 
 goes, multiplayer matches were pretty smooth across all platforms during our testing, even with 
 server populations reaching close to the maximum on the console versions and more than 40 on the 
 PC version. It bears mentioning, though, that if you try to operate your own server on your console 
 using the Xbox or PS2 versions of the game, you're limited to hosting only four players. The rest 
 of the match is filled out using AI bots. All of the servers that support the maximum number of 
 players on the console version seem to be dedicated servers operated by the publisher. This shouldn't 
 make too much of a difference though, as there are plenty of people online at any given time, which 
 makes finding a match easy, no matter what platform you play on.  

  Those who are used to online team-based shooters on the PC, however, may not be quite as impressed 
 with Star Wars Battlefront II. While mouse control is definitely very usable and a step up from 
 dual-analog controllers, the overall feel of the game still seems somewhat looser and less refined 
 than other popular shooters on the PC. In other words, Battlefront II feels like a game developed 
 for consoles and ported over to the PC. If you're a big enough Star Wars fan or not as finicky 
 about how your shooters feel, then this shouldn't be a problem... otherwise, you've been warned. 
 It's also worth mentioning that the standard perspective on the PC is first person, while the default 
 view for the console versions is third person. You can toggle back and forth on any version with 
 the touch of a button, though.  

          as well as familiar places.     

  What the PC does have going for it are more detailed graphics, smoother frame rates, and sharper 
 textures than the console versions do. The Xbox is noticeably more detailed than the PS2 version 
 of the game, but even those playing on Sony's console shouldn't have much to grouse about. The 
 game looks great on all platforms, as do all the character models, whether you're playing as a 
 lowly clone trooper or a mighty Jedi like Mace Windu. The console versions can get stuttery at 
 times when there's a lot of action onscreen, but it never feels as though you're losing adequate 
 control of your character. Battlefront II, as you'd expect from a Star Wars game, also sounds fantastic. 
 There really can't be all that much to designing sound in a Star Wars game like this -- the effects 
 of blaster rifles, lightsabers whirling through the air, or TIE fighters screaming through space 
 are all lifted right from the movies and used in the game. Ditto for John Williams' timeless score, 
 which plays not only in menus, but also during gameplay to help give you inspiration.  

  If Battlefront II seems like it's treading over familiar ground, that's because it is. If you already 
 played the first game, you won't be surprised to see the same maps in this one. You'll keep fighting 
 on the icy wastes of Hoth, the steamy swamps of Dagobah, and among the buildings in the dusty town 
 of Mos Eisley. Some incremental feature improvements, like the new single-player campaign modes, 
 playable Jedi, and space battles have also been tossed in for good measure. While there haven't 
 been any radical changes made since the first game, Battlefront II remains a worthwhile choice 
 for Star Wars fans looking for a good team-based shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (363 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cool5845
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  Well ive downloaded the game and managed to play it quite allot. The game is just awesome it is 
 great for all Star Wars fans and as me i own the movies also. I have never played the first game 
 but yeah allot say the first is the better. Okay okay the Single Player is fun with XL maps. I only 
 play Single Player on XL and its really fun. The Multiplayer is just good but i don`t get why all 
 say the multiplayer is best because there is two things: 1. Where hell can i add servers from internet 
 (No IP Input) .2. Few servers, few people. I play multiplayer but i onli play multiplayer in Hero vs 
 Villian servers. Jedi vs Sith its the most greatest thing in the multiplayer. I love it i play it 
 all the time. But if you want great battles and fun just play the Single Player. One thing is for 
 sure yeah the story mode is short, too easy and boring. Few last words: GREAT SINGLE PLAYER (NOT 
 STORY ( AND AWESOME MP HERO VS VILLIAN. :) ty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jangofett2688
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  I sorry the review is so long but I just copied this from a report I made about this game. Enjoy
 
  
  
  Star Wars Battlefront II is a team based shooting game in the Star Wars universe. It was made around 
 1996 and is rated Teen for Violence. You can play in both eras of Star Wars Clone wars, and the 
 Galactic Civil war. There are more than twenty maps in the game including: Endor, Hoth, and Geonosis. 
 A typical land battle includes many unit types, and vehicles such as tanks, speeders and turrets. 
 Most of the maps in the games are land maps. You can also go into space and dogfight other enemy 
 ship while trying to take out the enemy's capital ship by destroying key parts in the ship. One 
 of the new things in SWBFII is that you can play as a Jedi, you can only play as a Jedi for a limited 
 amount of time but you gain more time with each kill. Most of what I said above was about the free 
 play mode were you can pick what maps you want to play on and other rules. There is also a campaign 
 mode. In campaign mode you go threw a series of levels. The story of the campaign is about the 
 life of a group of clone called the 501st. You follow their journey from clone all the way to stormtrooper. 
 There is also a mode called Galactic conquest. In galactic conquest you are trying to take over 
 the galaxy as you go threw many of the maps in the game. The most popular aspect of SWBFII is its 
 multiplayer mode; witch has several modes such as: Conquest, CTF, and Hunt. Hunt is similar to 
 conquest (standard play) except that in Hunt one side takes control of animal species (depending 
 on the map) such as Ewak, and Geonosein. In the multiplayer mode you can have up to 32 players 
 at one time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archoniam
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Stunning.
  That's almost all I would say, if I didn't want to write a review for you GameSpotters looking 
 for a great game. To start, I can honestly say that I have never played a single Star Wars game 
 except this nor watched more than 10 minutes of a movie, with the exception of the Clone Wars. 
 However, it all made sense, from the weapons to the storyline. The controls were far from clunky, 
 let alone they were configurable. The gameplay was unbelievably understandable and easy, as I said 
 before. Maps were unbelievably detailed and would likely bring back the nostalgia from the first 
 time you watched a Star Wars movie. The space battles, unbelievable! It was all realistic, all 
 fast-paced and great. The planes even do a realistic spin-out scene before they explode!
  
  In all, this game deserves a 10 for everything. I was expecting a great game from my cousin's ranting 
 and raving, and I wasn't let down. If you don't have this game and are a fan of third/first person 
 shooters and Star Wars, this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickey6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Alright, here's why this game kicks absolute butt. The online stability is pretty good but then 
 again it all comes down to the internet connection your computer has. Mine's through wifi in my 
 house so it can sometimes suck if you're trying to play online sometimes. For the most part even 
 with a "Good" signal strength in my wireless internet connection it runs like if I'm using comcast. 
 I've played and owned the PS2 copy but online play never worked for me so I just played through 
 the story mode and the galactic conquest once for each team (CIS, Clones, Rebels, and Empire) . 
 Those modes were fun but the story line for Rise of the empire was too short and I managed to play 
 it through in less then two hours. I decided a few weeks ago after cleaning my house found the 
 game under my bed and traded it in at Gamestop and got store credit to buy ATV Offroad Fury 4. 
 But anyway, the online play is very stable and it won't screw up on you unless you install this 
 game on your laptop and tried to play online. My PC works fine, my Toshiba.... that's another story. 
 I usually host my own games as a lot of the servers are hard to connect to for me and most of the 
 time people join in my games or me and my friends practice CTF in Jaba's Palace (aka the funnest 
 place for that mode) . I gave this game a 10 out of 10 because of the replay value and just the 
 level of fun you have in online play. I could really care less about the single player offline 
 battles as they're not as intense and if you kill over 100 enemies it'll only go on your game profile 
 stats sheet but not update your rankings. That's the ture reason I play this amazingly phunky az 
 fun game online. Hopefully LucasArts comes out with BFIII because I'm for sure it'll be the **** 
 on PS3. Thanks for reading and hope to see you online, peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbertnation1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I stopped playing this game a couple years ago but even today with its a bit older graphics its 
 worth the time if you like starwars and enjoy good multiplayer.
  
  The single player is just plain boring, its to easy and to much of the same thing over and over 
 again.
  
  The multiplayer however is what makes the game, in space battles and you can fight as a jedi after 
 killing a certain number of people. The maps are all different and ALOT of fun. There are also 
 ingame vehicles, such as Walkers and Tanks.
  There are plenty of different races to play as on each certain map. Droids, Humans, The Republic, Doginians (they 
 look like flying insects) , ewoks, empire and rebels.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and the maps are a ton of fun to play on.
  There is even a few special 
 servers that play jedi only mode, you are at the Cantina on mos eisley and every player gets to 
 play as either a jedi master or a sith lord.
  This game is definetly worth a look at if you enjoy multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Star wars Battlefront 2 has got to be one of the best Star Wars games on PC. Lots of people say 
 its terrible and has bad gameplay. But don't listen to them because this game is amazing. I have 
 to admit, the singleplayer campaign mode is rather, boring at stages. But instant action mode is 
 really something good because you get to choose what map, what sort of game eg. CTF, conquest, 
 hunt, assault etc. Also the Heroes Vs Villains on instant action is really fun as well. (Only available 
 for assault on the map Mos Eisley.) Another thing that is appealing is the online play. Some servers 
 may lag, but when you find the best server you'll be at it for hours. I rate the gameplay 7.9 because 
 it gets repetitive unless you change the game type. The sound an 8 because it has all your favorite 
 Star Wars songs on it. The graphics a 7.7 because they aren't all that great, but I give it credit 
 because it was made 3 years ago. Overall, it is a good game for your collection and if you like 
 team shooters, then this will do well for you. But I do think that the CPU's are really stupid 
 at times.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  When you first play the game Battlefront the game is amazing. It feels as if you could never run 
 out of fun shooting the CIS and killing Luke Skywalker with Darth Vader. But beware, Battlefront 
 II's charm may be short lived.
  I too loved the game at first. This inclined my decision to buy it for the computer. And at first 
 it did retain it's charm. But when a flurry of glitches, poor equality and crummy lag begin to 
 ruin this experience the game isn't the best anymore.
  Okay first I'll start with the single player mode. This is probably the least messed up mode. First 
 there is Campain. This is a mode where you will play on a good majority of the stages supplied 
 and be given specific missions that align themselves with the real Star Wars story. You go from 
 saving the Republic against Seperatist to wiping out the rebels. The single player mode fits itself 
 right into the package seamlessly. The only problem is the missions tend to get somewhat repetetive 
 and the story mode is a tad short. However there still is some more content packed in for all of 
 you loners out there. Galactic Conquest is back and better then ever. Now with a little more of 
 a strategy twist you plot your every move while engaging in fierce battle with the opposing team. 
 There is enough customization options that you no doubt will eventually get to play with your favorite 
 team. The problem to this one is it also becomes a bit repetetive and the battles are still plagued 
 with some nasty little bugs that could have been fixed.
  Well now I'll go further in depth into the actual battles themselves. Well as fun as these battles 
 are they fail to live up to expectations. What is the worst perhaps of the battles is the pre-determined 
 odds. A lot of the time how the battle goes already seems determined. Sometimes this occurs randomly 
 sometimes it depends on the stage. For instance on Mustafar most of the time the odds a predetermined 
 in favor of the CIS. It will annoy those on the opposite side greatly as they endeavor to make 
 all the right moves and still fail. I've had occasions where I've made up over half of the points 
 taken throughout both teams and still failed to succeed. The predetermined odds often pit you to 
 the point that you have to be a one man army to have a chance at succeeding. And while most people 
 are, the new players like me who have only recently been able to buy it will find themselves dissapointed 
 with the gameplay effect. Other unfair factors include vehicles. On some stages like Hoth the battle 
 is just overwhelmed by these giant menacing, and seemingly unstoppable AT-AT's. On Geonosis the 
 some thing occurs with AT-TE's. So on this note the battles tend to be a little shaky on equal 
 odds.
  Another mistake and miracle of battles would have to be the Heroes. They are very fun yet very 
 destructive. And sometimes it proves to be too easy to earn the heroes. And when you've earned 
 them instead of having to earn them again you find yourself regaining them after a short time for 
 no reason. I think rather then the respawn of the hero being timed it should be to earn the hero 
 all over again.
  So while these battle bugs are enough to frustrate you they certainly won't keep you from playing 
 the battles. It will only lower the experience.
  Now lastly I will review the online. This is where a good portion of my playing goes. Now here 
 are a few things that frustrate me. First off when you create your own rooms. It claims to go up 
 to like 50 people online, and it does but not for you. The most people you can invite to your battle 
 is 4. And those people who want a party will abandone you and the room feels even more empty. At 
 this rate it is nearly pointless to start your own customized room unless it is to be with a well 
 known friend or perhaps a family member. 
  Also another thing that angers me is the awards. They didn't even make them optional! Now every 
 battle you have to start form scratch. How is it that one of the modes that will last you the longest 
 doesn't let you use all of your hard work. Now you just have to go and earn it all over again. 
 Worse somehow if you do earn it again it doesn't count toward your achievements! So this bugs me 
 greatly too.
  However this is only the bad side. Despite these flaws in the games making the game overall is 
 still avery good turn out. Space Battles were a nice yet unneccesary edition and the same gameplay 
 we love doesn't cease. You'll find your self playing countless hours with this jewel even if it 
 does frustrate you at times. And with this I give the game a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is a game similar to the first one, but this time some significant changes 
 are made to make this sequel better than its predeccesor.
  
  There are four interesting additions to the game that make it a game worth playing:
  
  The 
 first, is the new battlefields added, which are mostly inspired by the Episode III movie. Note 
 that each planet has only one battlefield to play in.
  
  The second, is the space fights. In this game, you can choose between 3 clone wars and 3 galactic 
 civil war space battlefields to play in. In this new mode, you will have either to destroy the 
 enemy's main frigate, or to capture a neutral flag.
  
  The third, is that there are, finally, playable heroes, like Darth Vader and Obi Wan, which makes 
 the game really interesting. To unlock them in a battle, you must collect a certain amount of points (the 
 points are collected by killing enemies or capturing command posts, or are lost by killing your 
 army) . Unfortunately, the last two troopers of every side need to be unlocked too.
  
  And finally, the new battle modes offered. Now you can select what you're going to play. You can 
 play a normal battle or play capture the flag, or an XXL battle. You can also customize your settings, 
 you can select the size of the armies, how frequently will you be given a jedi and etc.
  
  There is also a great update in the galactic conquest mode. Now, it seems more interesting than 
 ever before. You will have credits that you must manage right. The credits are used to unlock trooper 
 classes or to buy bonuses which last for one battle, or to purchase a frigate. Credits can be gained 
 by winning battles. To conquer a planet, you must select your frigate (s) and move them near the 
 planet you want to attack. The palyer and the CPU take turns, something which was impossible in 
 the previous game. Finally, there is a possibility for two frigates to confront each other in the 
 same planet or in a neutral zone. If this happens, the two sides are driven into a space battle. 
 The losing team has its frigate destroyed. Luckily, when all your frigates are destroyed, you can 
 have a new one for free.
  
  In this game, you begin as a simple soldier of the army, and by getting points by your battles, 
 you win medals and you can become a captain, a sergeant, and finally a general of the armies you 
 take part in. You receive special bonuses when you achieve certain things, for example when you 
 kill 12 consecutive enemies. These bonuses last only till you die, but when you are awarded these 
 bonus 50 times, you will have it activated in every battle and for every life.
  
  The grachics of the game are very good, but old graphic cards may have one or two problems executing 
 the game.
  The sound and the music are as good as they were in the first game, so in the section of sound 
 there is no difference at all.
  
  The multiplayer mode is a real masterpiece. There are many maps to play in and many customizations 
 to do when creating a game.
  
  Star Wars: Battlefront II is agame which must play if you are interested just a bit in this kind 
 of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madrox221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  let me make this perfectly clear: this review is for the PC version ONLY.
  okay this version is far superior to the console versions. the options are endless, the graphics 
 far superior, a PC only mode that is kick a$$, more bots on a map at once (750) , easy to use online, better 
 cheats and an easier to use interface and controls. some sloopy 1st person controls dont deserve 
 a whole mark less than the console versions. sure the corpes still look fake, and thres the same 
 tunes, and classes and maps but i still recommend this over the others. its an easy 8.5 for me.
 
  so if you have a pc get this instead of the xbox, ps2 or psp versions its much better need more 
 words, need more words, need more words, need more words, need more words, need more words, needmore 
 words. is that enough gamespot??? no! no! okay then... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCuttell
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ok... what can i say for this game? Sequal to the best selling star wars game of all time. But the 
 question is... is it better then it's farther game? Answer... yes it is! With brand new space combat, 
 new enviroment's, and a brand new story line. The game itself is much more improved with better 
 thinking A. I and new units. The controlls are not much different to the original game, giving players 
 that advantage of familiarity and expert control. To give players that extra gift to themselves, 
 they can go on certain websites (gamespot, filefront ect) to download new maps and units and mods. 
 With the addition of new maps, players can enjoy a brand new experince. With brilliant new maps 
 such as the space battle above Endor, order 66 on the jedi temple, or any other famous planet or 
 battle from the star wars saga. with the addition of new mods, players can enjoy a much better 
 experince. For all you players out there who play star wars battlefront two, download battlefront 
 2 extreme. Best mod ever made for the game, adding new heros, units, weapons, new vehicle weapons, 
 and cockpits for all vehicles. This has to be a sort review cous im about to go out with some mates, 
 so to wrap it up... Star wars battlefront 2 is brilliant on its on and with "upgrades". Give the 
 game a shot, and if you like the game download some new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedicw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I played it constantly. I got really far in campaign and I was an expert 
 soldier. Well one day my computer would start freezing up and it never worke from then on. I still 
 have it but haven't played it. When I did play it it was awsome! It was a good Star Wars game and 
 had great graphics and locations. The training level was really fun and I really didn't like the 
 space battles. Using the arrows on your keyboard was a good idea. Using your mouse for your view 
 and weapon fire took alittle time to get used to. I especially liked sniping and being an Engineer. 
 Space battles were one of the more difficult type of controls to get used to. This game was awsome 
 while it lasted. When it stopped working I bought a PSP so I could play this game beyond the PC. 
 This game was awsome aand the start of my gaming life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  First of all the campaign, there are about 15 missions to complete, they all have some cutscenes 
 and are different. The campaign tells the story off the rise of the empire. You will fight battles 
 from the movie like the droid attack on Kashyyyk, space battle above coruscant and more. But also 
 some missions not from the movie like the empire attack on kamino, a new droid army on mustafar 
 and lots more.
  The missions have all different objectives like retrieve the stolen plans or protect a oil refinery.
 
  There is a tutorial witch lets you play the battle of geonosis and a movie that explaines the 
 new space combat. The campaign can be completed in 6 hours and the story is bad but its easy to 
 follow.
  Then there is a instant action mode witch lets you fight againts bots, there are a lot of maps 
 and vihicles, like x-wing's, speeders, AT AT walkers and more witch make the game a lot more fun.
 
  The modes are cool like:
  Conquest where you need to kill enemies and take over command posts.
  Assault: where you need 
 to fly in space and destroy enemie fighters and attack the enemie capital ship, you must destroy 
 its critical systems and you will get points, there is also a land assault but more on that later.
 
  Capture the flag 1: there is a flag in the center of the map and you must capture the flag and 
 get to the enemie base. This mode can also be played in space.
  Capture the flag 2: each team must defend his flag and steal the others and bring it to his base.
 
  hunt: Each race must eliminate each other, you can take control of jawa's, tusken raiders, wampa's 
 and more.
  Extra large, this mode is almost the same as conquest but with more units on the battlefield.
 
  The single player is fun but the A. I. is horrible even on the elite setting it will walk just 
 by without shooting you, go in a ship and crash it a second later, or crash with a speeder in a 
 wall, walk in traps and stand still in the middle of a fight. The A. I. is bad.
  There is a lan mode but the most important is the online mode, you can join or create servers for 
 up to 64 people and there are a lot of server.
  The most played map is assualt on Mos Eisley its the only assault map on land, you can choose between 
 any jedi and battle againt other jedi's
  You can also play with bots online but the online is ruind because there are an enormous amount 
 of glitches and bugs in the game, people take advantage of these glitches, they go in a wall where 
 you can't shoot them or go under the ground, throw bomb from miles away and a lot more of anoying 
 things. Of course you can use these glitches single player as well. But some weird things can happen 
 like sometimes i fell through the ground into an endless black void, when i was just walking though 
 jabba's place, these things rarely happen but glitches and bugs are stupid they damaged the single 
 player gameplay and ruind a lot of the multiplayer but still its a good game with good multiplayer 
 also.
  The sound is great, all the Star Wars themes are in the game and the sound effects are also great 
 like lases that just have hit someone.
  The graphics aren't bad either, they are actually good.
  There are shadows in the game what was 
 not the case in Star Wars battlefront 1. and the animation is great, so good graphics.
  A lot of things have improved over Star Wars Batllefront 1, better music and sound, better graphics, 
 campaign, new maps, you can play as heroes like Boba fett, Darth vader and a lot more, you can 
 fight in space, and more fun.
  But they removed maps from the first game like Bespin, i think there where at least 10 maps from 
 the first game witch aren't in the second and there is also no aircraft in the land battles only 
 hoth, in battlefront 1 there where land maps where you could pilot starships but those maps have 
 bin removed. But there are a lot of mods for this game, with the battlefront 1 maps and new heroes.
 
  This game is better than the first one and has a lot off new things to offer but the story and 
 the A. I. could have been better and the glitches should be repaired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a great Sci-Fi shooter satisfying for all Star Wars fans. What Battlefront 
 brings is a fun game with all the characters from Episode 1 - 6. So were talking about like from 
 Anakin SkyWalker to Luke Skywalker. Not only that but they even have creatures on the game! Wookies, 
 Fierce Beasts, and more. They have characters from Episode 2 which included Battle Droids, Super 
 Battle Droids, and way more than you can imagine. This game was seemed way more than what I had 
 purchased it for. They improved from Battlefront to Battlefront 2. Now you can wield a lightsaber. 
 Long time I ACTUALLY wield one since Jedi Outcast on GC. If you like First Person Shooters this 
 is the game for you, if you like third person shooters this is a game for you, this game includes 
 2 ways of shooting. First Person and Third Person wherever way you like. What I didn't like about 
 this game was that the graphics wasn't as great as I expected. Apart from that you are also able 
 to go on vehicles which impressed me even more. You can go from a battle droid vehicle to a Genosis 
 Tank. The landscape of this game is just amazing, it felt like I was actually in the game. I couldn't 
 believe this but you could actually play as Princess Leia and honestly she is actually good. Now 
 for the negative things about this game... The story mode was very disappointing. There wasn't 
 really a story built into it and felt like the story mode wasn't really focused on the game. Apart 
 from that there were many modes to choose from and MANY maps to choose from. (Over 15) you think 
 thats already enough? You betcha! Man there was alot of modes which included Hunt, Assault, Ctf, 
 XL, and Conquest. Not only that you can engage in Space Battles where you choose whatever ships 
 you want and have a Dogfight, or play Ctf. This game is plain awesome, they give you a selection 
 whether you want to play over hoth, Kashykk, and more and depending which map you choose you either 
 engage space battles from episode 1-3 or episode 4-6. For the characters perpective you can use 
 force powers. Every character in the game has a power. Darth Vader uses a force choke, Count Dooku 
 uses lightning and Yoda uses force push. Just Amazing... Not only that you can play as Boba Fett 
 or Jango Fett. You can use their jet pack to soar around the map. There are also capsule looking 
 things that power up your or whatever to help you during your battle. What also attracts me is 
 that you could use a turret from the side to attack your enimies. The character system is very 
 unique, they have from sharpshooter to rocketman. Very organised and fun. Overall this game is 
 definetly, let me repeat that DEFINETLY worth what you purchased. It felt like I didn't pay enough 
 to get this game but no it just included alot of stuff to play. I feel that this game is underappriciated 
 and that it should deserve a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler -- 11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  At first all I did was play instant action but once i played campaign mode I couldn't stop and 
 the Knight-fall campaign level (which takes place in the Jedi temple during order 66) was GREAT 
 and the levels kept on getting harder so once i completed it on normal i tried elite and believe 
 me there is a large difficulty difference BUY THE GAME AND LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OH AND PS
 
  here are some cheat codes for the pc version of the but first here's how to put them in- go to 
 instant action and in the bottom corner there should be the SWBF2 logo put your mouse on top of 
 it and click and keep the mouse there- type in most impressive and hit enter that will give u invincibility 
 the type in a good blaster at your side and press enter which will give you unlimited ammo.
  note cheat codes don't contain spaces or they will not work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdrew93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Star wars battlefront II is just about the best game in the world. It has beautiful graphics and 
 runs a lot smoother on my computer than battlefront 1. The space battles give you complete control 
 over the ship you are piloting and the land battles have many more units to be. The Hero mode lets 
 you play as almost any of your favorite characters. 
  
  Star Wars Battlefront II also has many other modes of battle such as capture the flag, XL, hunt, 
 and a few others. In Hunt mode you can become an indigenous species of a planet such as ewoks or 
 wampas. XL lets both sides have massive armys all on the field at once! Capture the flag can be 
 in two flag or one flag mode. There is also of course conquest mode and assult mode which let you 
 play maps like in the first Battlefront.
  
  Battlefront II is a huge improvement and Is my favorite game that i own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  When I got my hands on his game, i didnt even imagine this would be the game I played the most 
 ever. First, the maps. They are just typical Star Wars maps, found in other games as well. But, 
 BFII is the only game that has so much action in one map, lets say 50 units on one map, and with 
 other mods, this number can be significantly bigger. And also the maps can be bigger. But, they 
 are beautifully textured and Really detailed, so If you want to see how a map from the movie looks 
 in 3d, go to BF!
  The AI in BFII is somewhat boring, but in its own way. Example, if you choose a Clone Sniper, and 
 want to hide in grass and kill troops without making too much noise, so they wont see you, it wont 
 work... and that's because every AI unit you target will automatically turn to you, even if they 
 are falling down from a huge robot, or a cliff, or are fighting with a tank. Thats a minus. But, 
 if you just wanna kick asses all around you, its great.
  And, I have to mention, that missions are not to be underestimated... They are hard at the end....
 
  And, the last, Jedi, and the Space Battles. Space Battles are the most exciting SW battles since 
 Starfighter. And, if you want to ride 16 different battle spaceships of SW Universe, this is the 
 place for you. The Battles, are somewhat slow, but more than make up with their effects, simulation, 
 and Motherships. Thats right, you have to destroy frigates and Corellians and more and more......
 
  And the jedi - not really the best jedi action game, but, as said, you got to kill 50 respawning 
 asses per game so its just pure fun. They can jump, use force-the most fun is the lightsaber throw, 
 and they can get killed. So, you must watch out for bombs and things like that because they kill 
 you instantly, and, in Jedi case, everyone wants to kill you.
  
  Overall, exciting game with awesome enviroments and fast paced action.
  I hope you kill the Robots. 
 or the Clones. or the Empire Troops. or the Rebels. or spacecrafts of any of these! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 has all features of the first Battlefront improved. From choosing how many 
 AI are in a map, to the type of gameplay, heroes (on or off) , setting long limits to having your 
 own profile. The game goes through several single player 'campaigns' from the actual campaign to 
 the ability to choose 'Rise of the Empire', 'Birth of the Rebellion', etc. It has a great addition 
 for some maps to use XL, which greatly increases the amount of troops (more than the limit allows) .
 
  
  With the combat you choose who your character is and fight. The game allows for excellent shooting 
 sequences and also allows you to tell AI players to follow you. Capturing bases can be harder as 
 well because in the 'Galaxy Conquest' game type, you or enemy can buy your abilities to enhance 
 your strength on the field. One of those abilities can be turrets for the Command Posts.
  
  Not only do you have the ground battles, but you also fight in space. You can take a transport 
 ship, have troops in there with you and then board the enemy capital ship. From inside you can 
 destroy 3 systems and also eliminate opponents along the way. When outside of the capital ships, 
 you fly around and take down enemy space crafts and also eliminate the enemy frigates as well as 
 take down external systems on the capital ships.
  
  Finally, the player profile was a good addition to Battlefront 2 because the more you play and 
 earn awards, the stronger you get, the more deadlier you become and also your weapons get upgraded. 
 However, you do not get to use space craft on the battlefields like you use to in Battlefront. 
 The game is a fantastic addition to the Star Wars game series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leandrobiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is just great! The graphics are really good and the game does not bore 
 you after a few days of playing. The objectives during the game are very simple and clear, but 
 are not too easy. The story isn't boring, but is very, very, dramatic. The Jedi mode is very good, 
 a real advance from the first Star Wars Battlefront. The scenarios are great too, very realistic 
 and full of details. There are also some places that are like "secret places". These places are 
 very good to shot on your enemies and hide, but I really don't think you should stand there too 
 much time. If you do, your team may lose too much men and Command Posts, what isn't exactly a good 
 thing. Star Wars Battlefront II is an awful game, just perfect! Don't have any doubts when plying 
 it, you'll be satisfied in the end for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axx1000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is definitely one of Lucas Arts best games yet. Giving us lots of things 
 to keep coming back for, patches, mods, etc. You cant ever get enough.
  
  __________
  GAME PLAY
  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  Campaign: First lets start out with campaign. SWBF2 has 18 campaign 
 levels. Starting out with a extremely simple mission on Mygeeto and ending with a pretty hard mission 
 on Hoth. Campaign has objectives like kill someone/something, defend someone/something, capture 
 the command post, capture the flag, kill a number of people.
  
  Tutorials: The game starts out with 2 tutorials. One is in space and one is on Geonosis as a battlefront 
 trooper. A very basic process of showing you the controls of space and the battle field.
  
  Instant Action: One of the best modes of the game that we couldn't live without. It lets you play 
 a certain map or custom maps on modes like conquest, 1 flag, 2 flag, assault, and hunt.
  
  Galactic Conquest: A way to play as 1 of 4 sides to a war with one other person. You need to battle 
 the opponent through about 18 planets, you start out with about 3 planets. You move about in a 
 space ship around the 18 planets. You can buy power ups like turrets, more ammunition, Jedi hero, 
 etc. to help you get through the planets.
  
  Multiplayer: My personal favorite part of the game. A server can hold up to 64 people. Multiplayer 
 is great for players that have surpassed the 2 difficulties built into the game. There's not much 
 else to say except that some custom maps can be played on multiplayer.
  
  _______
  SOUND
  ^^^^^^^^^^
  
  Begining menu (classic Star wars music) : Perfect! Has a Dark, Empire 
 feel to it.
  
  In-game sound: Sounds exactly like a Star Wars Battle field with the guns going off and the commands 
 for your troopers. The troopers commands are something very special to this game.
  
  ______
  VALUE
  ^^^^^^^^
  
  Money: At 20$ at Best Buy now or at 45$ (give or take a bit) 
 its definitely worth it. I've got my money worth at over 300 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3LLBOY93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a very good game, from battles on Geonosis to space battles above Kashyyk. 
 You play as a one of the four different forces Republic, CIS, Rebels, and lastly Empire. As you 
 play the roles of different classes in a war against one of these four forces. The different classes 
 are a normal trooper or assault trooper, the next is heavy trooper, then scout trooper-yes I am 
 basing it off of the Republic people-then Engineer trooper, then you have like the commander type 
 troopers that lead your troops to war, and last you have the special which could vary from Droideka's 
 to Wookies. You can also play as the many Jedi's throughout the planets/levels. 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is good in my opinion, all though it isn't as good as the first battlefront 
 game but still has its up and downs, I've pretty much explained gameplay in the top paragraph.
 
  
  Difficulty- The difficulty can vary, depending on you skill of a first or third person view. Because 
 as you know while playing as a jedi your game switches the camera to third person, or you can switch 
 the views in the games options.
  
  Graphics- As I said before the first game was better than this one especially in graphics, because 
 when I played the first one and then the second one later, I was fairly disappointed. The only 
 thing is, if they had kept the original graphics the game would have been a lot better.
  
  Now before you do or say anything remember this is only my opinion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: memnarch1113
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  The whole game was good. I was very disappointed in the options for weapons. Few unlockables and 
 almost no difference from army to army. There were quite a few glitches and not enough interesting 
 maps. The modding tools were good and turned out a lot of excellent maps. The game did not follow 
 the realism of the movies, there was a lot of discrepancies. It was probably just rushed into distribution. 
 I never felt all that sucked in. There were tones of problems with bots. Glitches were consent. 
 The heroes were not that good. almost all the vehicles were the same from faction to faction. Not 
 enough things to play for other than just being sucked in. In multyplayer the Spawn times were 
 long and boring. Somehow anyone who was good at the game would shoot rocket launchers with amazing 
 skill. If they missed they would have just bunnyhopped (quite succesfully I'll have you know) and 
 reload. The guns were completely disregarded. The shotgun is my pick for beginners. The bots could 
 always land correctly after being force pushed or pulled. Humans can never do that. The game is 
 also for learning more of the names of the Jedis and planets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_SLAUGHTERS
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the great things a game should have. A game should have some fair graphics, fun, 
 long modes, and a moderate level of difficulty. This game covers it all. Though sometimes the game 
 is a bit slow it is still very good. It has a very long yet challenging story mode with the 501st 
 and then have to do a very hard level on Hoth. The multiplayer mode is very fun and can play with 
 your best buds whenever you want and you could play with just anyone for just experience. I like 
 the fact that there's also jedi and sith that are available for you to use when you get a certain 
 amount of points. You can make them be on the battlefield as long as you want. Though it would 
 be better if the jedi/sith had better defense and more health. It would make them last longer on 
 the battlefield. The only good clones are the normal ones and the snipers. they probably last the 
 longest out there if you have a good place to shoot from. Finally with there being so much to do 
 and you don't really get tired of it, overall it is a very good game and Battlefront 3 will be 
 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  first off if you aren't a star was fan on any level you probably won't like this game. But if you 
 are you will enjoy this game very much. This game allows you to play as a standard trooper with 
 no powers what so ever and fight in some of the most epic battles yet. There are multiple modes 
 of game play which are very different. Conquest is the standard game play that you play as ether 
 the republic rebels stomtroopers or droids and either have to capture all command posts or kill 
 all the enemies. CTF is just a plan capture the flag. Hunt is where you play as a indigenous species 
 or a certain class of trooper. And assault either lets you play as a hero and fight other heroes 
 or a space battle. The only real problems with this game is the computer. It punishes you for doing 
 good and in most battles the winner is already decided even though it hasn't even started. An example 
 of this is the hoth battle, it is almost impossible to win if you play as the Empire. The game 
 also rewards you for playing well. The more medals you earn the more troops you can command. The 
 vehicles also are mostly the same. All of the speeder bikes have the same attack and all the big 
 power full vehicles have the same type of attacks. I hope you saw my reasoning for giving this 
 game a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsurfer200
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok, after watching the parts in Star Wars: Clone Wars Volume 1 where it shows the clonetroopers 
 fight their way through the city, I decided that I wanted to play a game where I could immerse 
 myself as a clonetrooper/stormtrooper and fight in these awesome battles. Star Wars: Battlefront 
 II finally fulfilled that craving. In this game you can play as the Rebublic, CIS, Empire, or Rebellion 
 in battle after glorious battle.
  
  The first thing about this game I think should be noted is its variety of gamemodes. There is campaign 
 mission that works as the story of the game, chronicling the battles of the elite team of stormtroopers 
 known as the 501st from the start of the war to the fall of the empire. There is Galactic Conquest 
 mode that mixes FPS gamplay with a little of turn based strategy by giving time between battles 
 to train new classes of soldiers, buy bonuses and enhancements, move you fleet in position for 
 your next attack. There are also quick battles and online play that feature various different modes 
 of play ranging from 2 Flag CTF, 1 Flag CTF, Hunt, Assault and XL. Two of the more interesting 
 of these are Hunt and XL. In hunt the goal is for the hunter team to destroy the hunted team within 
 a given amount of time. This pretty much equals to a mode where stormtroopers fight gungans and 
 snipers take out ewoks. XL mode, even though only 3 maps support it, is the best of all the modes. 
 Basically picture this: A huge battlefield with over a hundred players from each side fighting 
 it out in a chaotic pwnfest! It is like paradiseonly violent. [Note: Hunt and XL do not work online. 
 Also, XL is only on the computer version of the game because xbox and ps2 can't handle it]
  
  Another thing that deserves attention is the space battles. Although the advertisements really 
 made it look like a huge part of the game, it is not. In fact, you can skip it in Campaign Mode. 
 It is still however fun. You run around in the hangar until you pick out the ship you want then 
 you battle in spaceor you could land in the enemy's hangar and destroy critical systems from the 
 inside. Although it is fun, it is not as good as the land battles.
  
  Yes, you can play as Jedi. They are considered part of the hero class. After you do really good 
 you get to play as a hero. When you play as one, you are timed. Pwning bad guys buys you more time 
 while getting hit takes away extra time. This is really just a fun bonus but not a huge part of 
 gameplay.
  
  The character classes and vehicles are well balanced and you will be bound to find a favorite in 
 no time. (Mine is the basic infantry stormtroopers. They, have a gun that is weak, but fires rapidly, 
 and a few thermal detonators.
  
  The Graphics are beautiful and the music is classic Star Wars. "Nuff Said"
  
  All in all, this 
 is one of the best Star Wars experiences out there and a must buy for any fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmanimun
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Es un excelente juego, la partuda single player nos hara pasar por toda la saga de star wars, sin 
 mencionar que la version para xbox te da la posibilidad de pasartelo en modo historia con tus amigos, 
 lo cual hace que la experiencia de este se intensifique, y el modo multiplayer es sumamente entretenido 
 y te dara horas de diversion.
  
  En el modo single player eres un soldado y solo puedes elegir este tipo de undidades (soldados, 
 sniper, gunner, etc.) , despues de matar suficientes enemigos te daran la opcion de un jedi y aqui 
 es lo mejor que te puede pasar el jedi aunque tiene la desventaja de que la vida se le va acabando 
 (mientras mas mates mas puede vivir) es obiamente la mejor unidad de todas, es decir es como lanzarles 
 a los enemigos algo tan destructivo como GOKU (goku cuando estaba en el Dragon ball Z y no era 
 super sayayin, por que sino simplemente decia Kame Jame y ya se destruyo el universo) , y eso el 
 jedi de jedis JODA aparce mas fuerte que nuca y pelea como pleio en la batalla de los clones y 
 el regreso del sith.
  
  En pocas palabras tienen que jugarlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davekirchner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  For those who played the original Battlefront, the formula here is pretty much the same. There 
 were some changes made, some with significant impact, others with less. The addition of Jedi heroes 
 as playable characters was something most players probably welcome, even if they seem a bit too 
 powerful against your average AI player. In a true multi player match, they can add some welcome 
 spice to the formula, however. The other major change was to include the option of space battles 
 with ship to ship combat. This is an entertaining diversion from the body of the game, although 
 the real strength still lies in the traditional land battles. The addition of an additional class 
 for each faction also improves upon the game play, although I now find myself using the basic soldier 
 class much more often than in the first game. The balancing, although different from the first 
 game, is probably more accurate, favoring a balanced set of troops rather than giving any of the 
 factions an obviously overpowered unit. The difficulty is not really all that high, and an experienced 
 player should be able to take the galaxy from the AI without really breaking a sweat (with a few 
 planets being exceptions, of course) . The real draw to this game, aside from getting into a game 
 with a bunch of friends, is that you can play it for 100+ hours, put it down, and then pick it 
 back up a month or two later and still have it be fun. It's replay value is much higher than I 
 would have guessed early on. Overall, a good buy for either Star Wars fans or team-based shooter 
 fans, and I'd recommend it as an introductory game for anyone who is neither. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  It is said everywhere (including on the game box itself) that Star Wars : Battlefront II (henceforth 
 referred to as Bfront2) is the sequel to the best-selling Star Wars game of all times. I honestly 
 doubt that Battlefront 1 sold that well, but it does remain a relative success for the Star Wars 
 franchise. Bfront 2 builds upon Bfront 1, improving the general gameplay and removing some hassle 
 and annoyances. However, the meat and bones of Bfront 2 lies in the new space battles and playable 
 heroes.
  
  Gameplay 8
  
  For the sake of the review, I will treat the game modes/features, ground combat and space combat 
 separately.
  
  The four playable factions remain the same, though they have been modified and improved. They are 
 the Republic, Confederacy, Rebel Alliance and Empire. Just like in the last game, Republic can 
 only fight Confederacy (and vice versa) and Rebels can only fight Empire.
  
  The gameplay itself remains relatively unchanged. It is still centred around the capture of command 
 points, though some maps, in the campaign, have specific objectives this time. Two versions of 
 the classic capture the flag are also included as well as a new "hunt" mode that lets you annihilate 
 a specific type of enemy (faction versus wild life) . Finally, the Galactic Conquest mode, where 
 you gradually conquer planets, has been dramatically improved and now has a more "strategic" feel 
 to it (I will cover it in the "Story" section) . The game also tracks all the statistics (kills, 
 deaths, honours, ranks) for each profile you create.
  
  I must say that I was pleasantly surprised to see that Original Trilogy content was not left out 
 of the game at all. Given the game's simultaneous release with the Revenge of the Sith DVD, I expected 
 emphasis on Episode 3. Fortunately, the designers know that we all like Episodes IV-VI and gave 
 us as much content as in the first game.
  
  Ground combat is very similar to that of the first game. Unless there are some specific objectives, 
 your basic goal is to capture command points. This is still a fun and easy mode, though I do think 
 that objectives should play a more important role and be on every map. The maps themselves are 
 generally good, though a bit small. Some maps are the same as in Bfront 1, and I really wonder 
 why they chose to leave out some of the other Bfront 1 maps. Each side has six classes of soldiers. 
 Three of the three basic classes remain unchanged (normal soldier, tank buster and sniper) . Pilots 
 have been replaced with Engineers, which are basically a mix of medic/technician/special forces. 
 This is a great improvement, since it didn't make much sense for pilots to move around a ground 
 battlefield. The unique class remains roughly the same for everyone, though there is now a requirement 
 (in points) to enable them. This is a nice improvement that helps to make the battles more "realistic". 
 The sixth and new class is the Commander, which is more like a second unique unit, since their 
 abilities differ for each side. They tend to have abilities centred around supporting their troops, 
 which adds some team-play elements to the game. Vehicles are obviously still there and play a major 
 role. They have been toned though; a nice improvement, since they were really overpowered in the 
 first instalment.
  
  Ground Combat is also marked by the appearance of heroes. In the campaign you are prompted to play 
 as a hero after completing specific objectives. In normal games, you have to earn them by scoring 
 points. Heroes range from Jedi (Obi-Wan, Luke) to "normal" heroes (Han Solo, Leia) . A hero has 
 a time bar that slowly depletes over time. When they get hit, the bar decreases faster. When you 
 kill enemies, it increases. This leads to a rather balanced gameplay, since you must first earn 
 the right to play as a hero, and then be time-efficient and skilled to keep him/her as long as 
 possible. Heroes come with different abilities and weapons, and Jedi have relatively unique combat 
 styles (Yoda being a fast and jump-crazy green guy) . Lets not forget that this is not a Jedi Knight 
 game, and Jedi combat remains simple. It should be noted that heroes can be turned down if the 
 host of the game doesn't want to see Darth Maul ripping some clones.
  
  Space Combat is arguably the biggest addition to the game. Basically, space combat can be described 
 as follow : you must cripple the enemy's capital ship, destroy his frigates, and take down his 
 starfighters. There is only one capital ship per side (i. e. a ship with an actual interior, a hangar 
 and specific systems such as engines and shields) and about 2 frigates (no interior, no specific 
 systems) . I think that the number of ships is a little bit too low; two capital ships would have 
 been reasonable and enable more strategy. At least most maps provide the player with an interactive 
 background, so you can imagine yourself in a huge battle.
  
  You can only play two classes in space maps : pilot and marine. Marines are a mix between normal 
 ground troops and heavy weapons specialist. They are obviously used to repel an enemy invasion 
 of your capital ship, or conduct an invasion of the enemy's ship. Pilots are the best class to 
 fly the crafts, since they gradually "repair" damage done to their ship. They also have timed bombs, 
 and can be efficiently used to cripple an enemy capital ship from the inside.
  
  There are 4 types of flyable crafts. The fighter is a basic craft with laser power and torpedoes. 
 It can be used as a general craft capable of hunting down enemy ships and conducting light assaults 
 on enemy frigates and capital ships. Interceptors are fast and weak ships that excel in destroying 
 enemy crafts, but are weak against capital ships. Bombers are slow, resistant and have access to 
 powerful bombs that can be launched on enemy capital ships. Finally, transports are used to create 
 a "spawn point" inside the enemy's capital ship when conducting an invasion. The four crafts are 
 not that well balanced, in my opinion. I am not a pro by any means, but I think that the bomber 
 is too powerful; if you are careful, it's very hard to get shot down even once. A patch could possible 
 balance things, but LucasArts is not renowned for it's support. The ships also lead to some errors 
 with the movies. For example, the Republic's bomber is the V-Wing, which is supposed to be a fast 
 and light ship. Another annoyance is that the Rebels's transport is a republic gunship. I sense 
 severe designer laziness here.
  
  The goal of a space map is to earn more points than the enemy. Points are earned when shooting 
 down enemy crafts, but also by destroying frigates and crippling capital ships. The various systems 
 of capital ships can be crippled by either shooting them from space, or blowing them up from the 
 inside through an invasion. You can also manually control some of the turrets of your capital ship, 
 or of the enemy's during an invasion. This leads to a nice gameplay that differs from the traditional 
 "capture command points". However, the capital ships's interior is average at best. The first problem 
 is that they all look the same (only de CIS hangar is really different) . Basically, it's a hangar 
 that is connected to a central room which leads to three small rooms each with a specific system. 
 Having a more complete interior (with corridors and more rooms) would only have been natural, especially 
 after what we saw in Episode 3.
  
  The other problems I see with space battles is, like I said before, the size. I really think that 
 the game would have enjoyed at least 2 capital ships per side. I was also disappointed by the fact 
 that there is no trench run level; unless I am mistaking, the trench run is really the canon example 
 of a Star Wars space battle.
  
  I give gameplay an 8 for the small size of space battles and maps in general, as well as the lack 
 of popular Bfront 1 and movie maps. The lack of objectives on every map can also be considered 
 as a downside.
  
  Video 7
  
  The graphics are supposed to be improved from the last game. I personally think that they are unchanged, 
 or even inferior to those of BFront 1. I do run the game on maximum settings. Perhaps it has something 
 to do with my video card...
  
  Most of the models are good. Of special note are the heroes. Some of them are superb, notably Vader 
 and the Fetts. Unfortunately, the Dooku model is a pain to look at; he really looks out of place, 
 and I suspect a lack of motivation from the designers. Palpatine also looks strange; he seems to 
 be wearing makeup.
  
  Textures are generally fine, but really uneven in quality. Some maps will make you feel dizzy (the 
 planet Felucia, where Secura is killed in Revenge of the Sith, will give you a headache) . Others, 
 like Dagobah are of really high quality. Space ships look good, but not great. I must say that 
 I am pleased with the video quality of space battles though.
  
  I must also state that there are no cockpits in the game. I was quite disappointed by this, since 
 the cockpit views of the vehicles in Bfront 1 were great (especially the AT-ST and AT-AT) .
  
  I have always maintained that gameplay makes a game, not graphics. Some people, however, only 
 look at graphics. They are not stunning in Bfront 2, but not bad either. A future instalment requires 
 a new engine.
  
  Audio 9
  
  Really great. The music is more extensively used than in the previous games, and the new tracks 
 from Episode 3 are really great. Environmental sounds remain the same, and they are great. Also, 
 when you are given the privilege of playing as a hero, the music changes to represent this. It's 
 always a good feeling to rip some battle droids as Obi-Wan with the Battle of the Heroes track 
 playing.
  
  What I really liked is the fact that your troops now talk. They call for medics, thank you when 
 you give them a lift, warn you because they spotted a sniper, etc. That really makes the game more 
 interactive and thus realistic.
  
  Story 8
  
  The campaign is a strong point of the game. Bfront 1's "campaign" (if I am allowed to use that 
 term) was extremely poor (basically a bunch of instant action games with introductions) . The campaign 
 in Bfront 2 follows the story of the 501st Legion. You start out as a clone during the time of 
 Episode 3 (starting with the Battle of Geonosis of Episode 2 as a training/tutorial) and go all 
 over to the Empire after laying waste to the Jedi Temple. The missions also have specific objectives 
 which is a nice improvement.
  
  I have two complaints :
  - The campaign obviously lets you play only as the Republic and Empire. Why not make another campaign 
 for the Confederacy and the Rebels? Answer : designer laziness.
  - While some objectives require you to blow up specific things, most of the time the objectives 
 are to capture command points; only this time they are "disguised". The game tells you to, say, 
 take the bridge. In fact, it's just to capture the command point of the bridge. Also, "recovering 
 a specific data" is actually a "capture the flag".
  
  Then there is the Galactic Conquest mode. I chose to cover it here since it is really different 
 than instant action games. The original Galactic Conquest in Bfront 1 was really poor. The planets 
 were basically listed on the screen, and you had to choose one to attack. Once controlled, you 
 could use the "planet's bonus" in a future fight.
  
  In Bfront 2 you are now greeted with a galaxy map (as a small note, it is extremely useful to read 
 the "help" tips, since the interface is not necessarily friendly) . You start by controlling a number 
 of planets, and so your enemy. To attack a planet you need to have a fleet, and move it to the 
 said planet. Like I said, this gives a better "turned-base" feel to the game. When you win battles, 
 you get some credits based on various statistics (you also get some, though a lot less, if you 
 loose; this is great since it prevents you from entering a vicious circle if you loose a couple 
 of battles) . Credits can be used to build additional fleets (increasing cost) , to buy various bonuses 
 that you can use (such as extra troops available) and to "train" new character classes (in the 
 beginning, you can only use the basic trooper) . If your enemy has a fleet in orbit of the planet 
 you attack, you must first win a space battle. All in all, I was very pleased with the galactic 
 conquest mode; it's probably one of the greatest mode to play.
  
  The single problem I have is with the AI. While I do realise that Bfront 2 is a shooter, and not 
 a strategy game, the strategic AI in Galactic Conquest is very poor.
  
  Replay Value 8
  
  First person shooters tend to have good replay value because of the randomness of the battles 
 and online features. While Bfront 2 is no exception, I must also acknowledge the Galactic Conquest 
 mode which does make the replay value of the single player portion. The community should also stay 
 alert for the possible works of the modders and mappers; there were some extremely well done maps 
 made by the community for Bfront 1, and I suppose it will be the same for Bfront 2.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Bfront 1, while a good game, was not that well received by the public. The main 
 reason was that the game did not bring enough unique features to break the powerful opposition 
 in the FPS domain. With it's space battles and playable heroes, Bfront 2 becomes a unique game 
 in it's own right. This, coupled with an interesting (if somewhat still superficial) Galactic Conquest 
 mode, makes a game that can be enjoyed for quite some time.
  
  Battlefront 2 is the game that should have been released one year ago (and as such, it does suffer 
 a little from it's age) . A Star Wars game that claims to let you live any Star Wars battle that 
 does not include space battles in the first place is obviously flawed. Battlefront 2 corrects this, 
 and does bring an authentic Star Wars feel. In my opinion, the major flaw is the size of the maps; 
 this is sad since most of them look really great, but are simply too small. I really hope that 
 design tools will be released to allow community-made maps. In any event, Battlefront 2 remains 
 a good buy for FPS fans who wish to do something more than shoot things on the ground, and an excellent 
 buy for Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 021294
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a great game for people new to shooters. It is simple, but has enough 
 variety to keep you going. Battlefront involves more tactics than other shooters, most other shooters 
 involve going through linear passages or canyons, shooting anything that moves. The shooting anything 
 that moves part remains the same, bus since it's more of a "major battle simulator", SW Battlefront 
 2 has a battle field that you romp around while enemies continue to re-spawn once you kill them. 
 Because you can give your allies commands and so flanking and distraction techniques become very 
 easy and important. Multiplayer mode takes this to the extreme, the team that has the best tactics 
 win, not the team with the best aim. 
  
  You can play battlefront in three modes: Campaign, Instant Action, Galactic Conquest and Multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer is undoubtedly the best, that is what the game was designed for. The campaign is not 
 good at all, however, the campaign is a good tutorial or starting point for those new to Star Wars.
 
  Instant action is the training mode, you can set up battles on any map with any faction and any 
 rules, this is great training for multiplayer. 
  Galactic Conquest is by far the best single player mode. You choose your faction, and battle it 
 out against the enemy to control every map (planet) in the game. Along the way you will be rewarded 
 with the credits to buy units, bonuses and even build new fleets!
  
  But after a while, the single player modes become very monotonous, however, the multiplayer is 
 timeless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Great Star Wars FPS! Built on great game engine and great space battles! This is a fun game to 
 play on both the PC and game consoles. This is a great addition to the Star Wars SAGA of games 
 that bring you into the Star Wars Universe. Its fun to explore each different type of trooper and 
 getting to play the different Jedi! The ability to use and capture vehicles is also an awesome 
 part of the gameplay engine. The space battle aspect is fun to get into as well. Being able to 
 explore the different Capital Ships and BLOW them up is a lot of fun for the whole family to enjoy!! 
 The maps are shared in some instances with the first game but playing the first is not required 
 to fully enjoy gameplay in this first-person-shooter. I know some have criticized the game creators 
 for re-using some of the game-maps and planets from Star Wars Battlefront, however the familiarity 
 seems to change there. The detail and different enemy elements for each game become evident as 
 you fight, explore and conquer each planet experience. Overall this is a fun game to play that 
 helps keep you on your the toes of your boots... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  I played the original battlefront in the summer in the old days and I had to say it was fun. This 
 game came out and I then bought it. I tried it and it was a load of fun than the original game.
 
  
  The Good:
  Space battles are in the game! - Playable jedis - You can make your own action in the game - Being 
 able to get ranks
  
  The Bad:
  
  The gameplay is way too similar to the original game
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are pretty 
 much ok and so are the effects but it's still not good enough.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's almost the same (which is disappointing) but it's improved. There's more maps then the original 
 but what makes the game more fun are the space battles since you attack the ship with a transport 
 fleet or just a normal ship and invade their ship. Conquest also is much more better than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront 2 is a game that is set during episodes 2: Attack of the clones, 3: Revenge 
 of the sith, 4: A new hope, and 5: Empire strikes back. There is also content from episode 6: Return 
 of the Jedi, but there's no story on that episode. It first starts in the tutorial, which is set 
 during the last of episode 2. Then the story proceeds on to 3 through 5. The cutscenes were more 
 intense when Commander Cody narrarated. There is also a turn based strategy like mode called conquest 
 mode. 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the battles are very exciting. Conquest mode is great. Being 
 a Jedi, Sith, or some other heroes is fun. Great flight missions.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that you have a limited time with a hero. The online multiplayer 
 is unknown for me. (I haven't tried it)
  
  Overall, Battlefront 2 is the most intense Star Wars I've ever encountered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Say hello to the best star wars game ever. This game craps all over battlefront 1 and mabye even 
 battlefronts to come.
  
  Star wars battlefront 2 is a game which takes you into the shooting, fighting and flying way of 
 star wars. It has great missions whilst using the storyline of previous star wars movies and games. 
 Each level lets you use muliple characters inculding a jedi/ sith near the end. You obtain goals 
 and objectives to complete with a fair difficulty along with upgrading your men as you progess 
 with kills and objectives.
  
  The online gameplay is preberly the best part about this game. There is tones of maps and modes 
 to play on. Playing team deathmatch as jedi or sith is proberly the highlight, unless you like 
 shooting over hitting the crap out of people with a light sabre.
  
  It is a wonderful game. A must buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Star Wars has always been at the center of my heart, and when I played Battlefront II for the first 
 time, I was overwhelmed, you may think this game is wannabe Battlefield, but it has its own things 
 about it that make you want to keep on playing. 
  
  The amount of units you can play as, the amount of heroes and villians (jedi/sith/bounty hunters) 
 you can play as, the amount of weapons you can use, the amount of modes there are, the craft, the 
 bonus', everything. Once you've experienced every little damn thing, this game will still keep 
 you going.
  
  When you enter a battlefield on planet surface, you will, as usual just go and capture command 
 posts and eliminate CIS, Republic, New Republic, or The Imperials, or even fellow creatures you 
 saw from the movies, such as the Ewoks, Wookies and Wampas. After eliminating a targeted amount 
 of units, you will be asked to play as any corresponding Jedi or Sith (depending on your side) 
 from the movies, for instance if you were playing with the CIS on Mustafar, the game would ask 
 you if you'd like to play as Anakin Skywalker, and so on, you get the idea. These Jedi's benefit 
 you greatly when you're in a tight situation on the battlefield, however, a special characters' 
 (Jedi/Sith/Bounty Hunter) health depletes over time, so be careful, to replenish this health you 
 must eliminate enemies as fast as you can to restore your health the highest possible rate.
  
  Battlefront 2 also features space battles, there are a wide range of aircraft to use, and you 
 can also fly into the enemies hangar base and hijack their aircraft, how fun. At least you're not 
 just walking in getting blasted at.
  
  There are many more micro, mini, and mega things to do in this game, once you've found them all, 
 you'll be thrilled to do it all again. 
  
  Star Wars Battlefront II is arguably once of the greatest Star Wars games ever made. Hands down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  wow my lil bro got this game and ive been playing it more than he has! now if you like bf2/bf2142 
 and you have the star wars mod... get rid of it! it will be no longer of any use to you! this game 
 delivers the mod and so much more! you like pure pwnage then this is the game for you... and if 
 you like the quiet sneaking around as a sniper then BANG!! one kill... this is the game for you! 
 if you like jedi/sith battles this is the game for you! have you ever wanted to be a battle droid? 
 this is the game for you! or if you just plain love starwars... this is the game for you! so the 
 graphics are pretty good.... the sound is well! you can hear other units of your team talking... stuff 
 like "DESTROYER DROID! WATCH OUT!!" or "sniper! take cover!" 
  
  so if you like starwars or any thing i listed up above... you will love this game and is a must 
 buy!
  
  -thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  game play 10/10
  graphics 8/10
  online 10/10
  
  its an amazing game! campaign a little hard but its all 6 movies.
  mutlyplayer is amazingly great 
 tons of battling but, you have to make a game spy account and lots of other junk but other than 
 that its fun a real challenge from galactic conquest, instant action and story mode. graphics i 
 dont like an-akin looks like a weirdo. but bottom line it is fun for a 20$ game and online is free!
 
  
  side note: its kinda a cheat but its cool when using jedi if they have force push hold that down 
 and force run (shift) its unlimeted force run but slow motion!!! its sweet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TK-422
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun at first, but after a while I got sick of it. The Battles are the same, the A. I 
 is EXTREMELY stupid, Wining is Way Too easy, and the Graphics don't help. 
  
  The space battles are fun and is the only thing that keeps me playing. But even the space battles 
 are easy and repetitive.
  
  Yet for some reason I still played the game for a very long time. It might appeal 
  to star wars 
 fans but fans of real FPS will not Like this game. despite all of its flaws it is something to 
 do if your board and have a lower end pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Star wars heck I have all the movies . I never got Star wars battlefront 
 1 i heard it was good , when I got Star wars battlefront 2 for my ps2 I really enjoyed it doing 
 all the things I wanted to do in Star wars. Now that I have the PC game nothing has changed except 
 much better graphics ,online and MODS i really enjoy this game and if you like Star wars you should 
 try it out also you don't need a super computer to play so give it a try either borrow it or buy 
 it peace out everyone. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crows_bow
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics-7.5-This is 2007, and the holiday season is going to be historic, with games coming out 
 or are already out, that will bring or have brought many computers to their knees. Bioshock, Crysis, 
 Call of Duty 4, and, previously, Assassin's Creed, are all games with graphics that blow the mind, 
 and really show us that next-gen is now current gen, and as Bioshock puts it, bliss is inevitable 
 . Star Wars Battlefront 2 shows us, however, that a game set at max settings on a mid range computer 
 doesn't have to be a high-resolution powerpoint presentation. The graphics are more than acceptable, 
 while still being a step lower than state of the art. This game is a rare exception where graphics 
 should be comprimed for frame rates, and fun can be exchanged for realism. Sound-6.5-although I 
 gave it an average score, it really is no one's fault, since all the audio we can expect from a 
 Star Wars game is zips and zaps of lazers, overly dramatic dialogue, and the all-too-famous John 
 Williams scores. Gameplay-8-an interesting mix of minimum strategy and lots of action keeps multiplayer 
 action fresh and fun. It has some elements of Battlefield 2, but with more emphasis on fun rather 
 than all out war, where failure is not an option. Think of it like this; Battlefront II is to Battlefield 
 2 what Harry Potter is to Lord of the Rings. The downside is, just like Battlefield 2, the singleplayer 
 is dull, with almost no reason to come back to it over and over, other than getting practice for 
 multiplayer. Even the console version is no fun without a friend or family member.
  
  Conclusion-They could've employed a more satisfying storyline and general singleplayer mode, but 
 all in all, this is a fun game that's great for hardcore and casual gamers alike. It's intelligence 
 pokes through once in a while, but not too much to be intimidating. Teamwork is suggested, but 
 going solo has less consequences than in similar games, and the online community is, for the most 
 part, pleasant. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  For Christmas two years ago, i ripped off a bunch of (well packed) wrapping. i was so OMG WOOT happy 
 to see swbf2. i plop it in my drive, install it, play the campaign and wow...
  Then i go online. i get in a clan, but after the first month.. good lord.
  ________________
  
 gameplay
  ----------------------------
  AI:0/10. *what* AI? They only go on predetermined routes, walk into walls, and sometimes don't even 
 shoot! Multiplayer:5/10 its fun when you get in a clan. otherwise, don't try multiplayer if you 
 hate clans. So... many... point whores! Good lord those chipmunks (rocket using stupid question asking 
 twelve year olds) are gonna kill me if i don't kill myself first.
  
  Space:2/10 the AI crash into huge capital ships randomly. they never ever hit you. the auto turrets 
 are overpowered and over accurate at a WTF style. All the players in multiplayer decide to get 
 lazy, land inside the enemy ship and blow up the critical systems inside it instead of trying to 
 have fun and blow up the systems from outside.
  
  Community attention:0/10 SCREW LUCASARTS! One patch that causes a crap load of extra errors. ONE 
 patch in 3 stinking years almost. A bug is that the patch turns off team chat, and it fixes so many 
 useless things i wonder what they were doing in the 5 months before the patch was released. Fun 
 factor:4/10
  Well, it has its moments. but large scale battles my back end. a maximum of 32 bots with 16 per 
 team just kills the game. good lord! Someone give us LARGE SCALE STAR WARS STYLE battles. not measly 
 border skirmishes!
  
  _____________
  SOUND
  ------------------------
  No comment. 5/10 the voices are badly done, the sounds make them sound like BB guns. thats basically 
 it. and also a very nice soundtrack.
  
  ______________
  Graphics
  ------------------------
  Performance
  0/10 terrible! lowest settings on a new high quality 
 machine and you lag the hell! Appearance
  5/10. Well, at least it's 3d
  
  Animation
  2/10 for those terrible death animations. i doubt getting killed would make you fly in the air 
 for a sec and land perfectly straight. they could at least of made the death animations like... fall 
 on knees, then fall on front and roll on the floor dead
  
  Well, at least its animated
  
  ______________
  value
  ------------------------
  49.99$? NO! Don't be scammed! Lucasarts 
 has a smart campaign going on for this game that makes you want to buy it badly. but don't buy 
 this if its not used.
  
  OVERALL:
  4/10 for all those fatal flaws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendragon613
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I just want to start off by clarifying something. Some people have said that Star Wars Battlefront 
 2 is not as good as its prequel. This is NOT true. I own and have played through both Star Wars 
 Battlefront 1 and 2 and I like Star Wars Battlefront 2 way more. In fact since Battlefront 2 the 
 first Star Wars Battlefront is useless. Now don't get me wrong it was a good game in its time and 
 at the time I would have recommended buying it, but Battlefront 2 surpasses it in every way I can 
 think of. So, unless you are building a collection of Star Wars games or something just buy this 
 game instead of the prequel. Now on to the game itself.
  The singleplayer aspect of Battlefront 2 is pretty good. There is a solid campaign, the galactic 
 conquest mode is much improved over the last game and the instant action mode is a great way to 
 play a short match anytime you want. The only major problem is the campaign is too short. It won't 
 keep your interest for long although its fun while it lasts. There is another thing that bugs me 
 about the singleplayer mode: the A. I. It so bad you practically have to win each battle yourself 
 even though you're supposed to have a whole army helping you out. A nice edition to the game is 
 the hero system. When you get enough points you'll get to play as your faction's (CIS, Republic, 
 Empire, or Rebels) hero. The hero is usually, but not always a jedi or sith and can kill regular 
 players very easily. The only downside to this is that it gives quite an unfair advantage to a 
 team with an active hero. Although when you're killing stormtroopers with a lightsaber, who cares 
 if its unfair ? Another nice edition is the space battles in which you must pilot one-man ships 
 to win points for you team. This can be done by taking down other one-man fighters or by using 
 bombers to destroy the enemy freighters and cruiser.
  The multiplayer is lots of fun especially because the A. I. in singleplayer mode is so bad. However 
 glitches and lag occur so often it takes some of the fun away.
  In conclusion this is a great game, but no aspect of it is good enough to really get you hooked. 
 You'll most likely be playing this game in short (but fun) spurts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Contamination
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  I think the graphics are better than the first. Plus the maps are better. And the space battles 
 are good. And the troop selection is better than first. The campaign is not that good. Multi player, 
 is one of the best features but i think the Multi player, on the first is the best. I also think 
 its a good idea to have Jedi, hero's. All in all its a great game. But like i said if you want 
 a great Star Wars game get Star Wars Battlefront 1. And also try Star Wars Republic Commando. I 
 think its the best Star Wars Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Great game however the maps in this are not as good as the ones in the first battlefront i advise 
 you get the first one. If they had put in the old maps and added new ones to it this game would 
 have been much better online play is great so is instant battles with the computer. If you are 
 gonna get this game for single play don't bother it sucks but for online it is good and you can 
 have plenty of fun with it. Gamespy registration for online irritating but still its a good game. 
 In conclusion get this game if you want cool star wars online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringo1138
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This Game is really really fun.
  Its obvious now that you play as a jedi or fly in space.
  Flying in Space is really fun but it will eventually boring, but will stay fun.
  Playing as a 
 jedi is fun but you can only press the attack button numerous times, it would be better if it was 
 like Revenge of the Sith where you could do button combos.
  Playing as a soldier is really fun but when you go back to them aftering dieing from a hero, You'll 
 wanna the hero again... quickly, unless you hate them.
  Some Heros are good but Boba Fett is basically the same as a stormtrooper except he has cooler 
 armour, FlameThrower and can fly.
  And Jangos blaster is an imperial blaster : ( But the Graphics are awesome and out of this world! 
 But after sometime of playing all the maps, it will get boring.
  
  GamePlay: 9/10
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Music: 10/10
  
  How long to take til bored: 8-10 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is just like BF1, only with a few additional components. This time around, 
 instead of just random battling on the single player mode and doing pretty much whatever you want, 
 you'll be given specific objectives as to complete these tasks. There is a storyline to the life 
 story of how the clones came to be the empire and what happened to the droids, the Jedi, and Geonosians. 
 
  
  One of the main things about Battlefront 2 is that you get to play as Jedi. Yes, you'll be playing 
 as Mace Windu, Obi-Wan-Kenobi and Yoda as well as villains- Darth Maul, Darth Vader, the Emperor, 
 Anakin Skywalker and more. Each Jedi has a force jump (except General Grievous) . Mostly, the Jedi 
 will have Force Push and Pull, saber throw, and for the dark side, Force Choke. For Jedi, it's 
 time based. Killing enemies will increase time. Getting hit by weaponry will deplete your time. 
 Believe me, I am making this sound much more fun than what it actually is. The Jedi hard to control. 
 They walk slow and run too fast to control. If there is a large # of foes surrounding you, don't 
 expect to last too long. Also, you have a small limit and is timed for guarding and jumping. It 
 only takes a direct hit by a missile or a mine to make the Jedi go down. The lightsabers are rather 
 weak. It takes 2-3 hits just to take down a droid and they don't pierce through tanks well at all.____________________ 
 ______________
  
  It's pleasing to know that there are other heros and villains to play as. Jango and Boba Fett make 
 an appearance and have jet packs and flamethrowers. You'll also meet Chewbacca, Han Solo, and Princess 
 Leia. Each have their own unique weaponry and each of them are rather satisfying. For all these 
 characters, you don't necessarily choose exactly what you want. It is determined by what stage 
 you are on and what time era.
  
  
  Just like in Battlefront 1, you'll get to play Galactic Conquest and Instant Action mode. In Galactic 
 Conquest, you'll travel throughout the galaxy attempting to take over it all. Bonuses are available, 
 from Bacta Tanks to Extra Reinforcements to Jedi. In Instant Action, you choose the stages, the 
 time era, and mode of gameplay. Such modes include Galactic Conquest, 1and 2 capture the flag mode, 
 and Assault mode. Assault mode is space battle, one of the main additions to Battlefront 2. The 
 Space battles play out very well. There lots of ships and styles to flying. And finally, Hunt Mode 
 is added. In hunt mode, the characters you play as include Jawas, Wookies, Tusken Hutters, Wampas, 
 and more.
  
  In terms of the soldiers, every side all have 4 classes of troops in common: soldiers, heavy class 
 men, snipers, and engineers. Every side also has 2 unique classes. Example: Droids have Droidekas 
 (very hard to take down) and Magnaguards while Rebels have Wookies and Bothan Spies. Each class 
 has their own set of weaponry and differ from the rest. A great thing about this game is the option 
 of inverting between 1st person and 3rd person mode by just the push of one button. 
  
  
  Graphics: The grahpics have improved. The backgrounds look cool. The frame rate holds up. All the 
 clones, droids and rebels look good. There's nothing in this game that really truly stands out 
 on its design. Furthermore, some of the Jedi don't look that great. The explosion look pretty detailed.
 
  
  
  Sound: The voice acting is good. The weapons have a piercing sound to them. The music is composed 
 by John Williams and the game has just about all the Star Wars music there is.
  Value: Single player mode can be beaten in a few hours, same with Galactic Conquest. Online play 
 is available and it is fantastic. My only problem is being with 30 other people online there is 
 most likely a big time glithcer somewhere. As to whether to get this or not, Star Wars fans should 
 get of course. However, if you own BF1, I wouldn't reccomend this game because there just is not 
 enough to it to actually go out and buying the sequel. If you're trying to decide as to which one 
 to get, it would BF2.
  
  Overall, 
  Gameplay- 8 
  Graphics- 8 
  Sound- 10
  Value- 8 
  Tilt- 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game. Its fun to play and is a great pick it up and shoot at things kind of game.
 
  
  I'm frustrated by the quite frequent inability to actually change the outcome of any one match. 
 It seems that if you pick classes like a sniper or engineer, your ability to change the outcome 
 of the game is quite limited. In certain maps / styles, you just can't headshot enough enemy to 
 make up for the constant stupidity of your own AI troops. I hate getting a Defeat because the computer 
 was too stupid. My own stupidity? That I can come to terms with.... :)
  
  All modes are fun: space mode, ground mode and even the tactical mode, though it is limited in 
 its capabilities.
  
  Its a good game, just not as much fun as some of the others, like Jedi Outcast, etc. I know they 
 are different genre's, but I'd hoped that Lucasarts could have found a way to make this genre as 
 fun as the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ietam_Revan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Cool game . The first time i played this game I felt a epic kinda sensation cause' it's pretty 
 cool too
  fight in epic star wars battles , being your favorite heroes. you can be anybody from star wars 
 form the republic to the galactic empire you'll have to choose between 8 different soldier classes 
 ( 2 of em'are the special space battle classes) .So in this game you have the space battle , in 
 that case yoo have to choose between 2 classes one
  that is good at fliyng the ship (for destroying the enemy fleet from the outside) or choose a classic 
 soldier to go inside the
  enemy's ship and destroy form the inside planting bombs and destroying 312 century technology. 
 You can be droids too (except R2-D2 and C-3PO) it's cool to be the Droidteka .So the graphics are 
 nice ... game play is cool you'll learn playing in about an hour. The storyline is nice too you 
 get to live the star wars story with both the republic and the galactic empire and jedis , you 
 can be everybody form Darth Maul to Darth Vader (except Qui-gon Jinn and Ben Kenobi) but anyway 
 you will have a large display on who choosing , in the game are even Ayla Secura and the other 
 jedi master that has an egg-head. Whatever ....... . The game is cool ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1234575
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  the level of new content is very disappointing. again, there is duplicates of the same soldier 
 model, demo, sniper, etc with absolutely no unique feel or originality to them. they are all the 
 same cept for the different models. space combat fun, but does not compensate for the same play 
 during ground engagements.
  
  space battles are spose to be the end-all coolest update ever, but if that was so, there definely 
 wasnt enough space battle content. boarding enemy ships? cool idea. except theres only TWO rooms. 
 the hanger and the control station. the campaign was boring and predictable following the movie. 
 now that is sort of cool, only if they hadnt COMPLETELY followed it, it wouldve actually been worth 
 playing.
  
  multiplayer is not bad, but there are much better multiplayer games out there, why choose this 
 one? online matches can get frustrating when your opponents are there to kick ass instead of having 
 fun. like parking a heavy command tank outside a spawn point. forcing you to either go the long 
 way, or be obliterated with a fat chance of locking on withe the missile.
  
  the new system of buying new troop types. and equpment is pretty cool, along with constructing 
 fleets. but not worth the effort and doesnt stretch out the game.
  
  overall, this game was pretty bad, theres better ones out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game even though now getting old is just plain classic. Even though the style of play is in 
 many games including the famous battlefield series the style is still sooo fun in this game. The 
 orignal maps get alltile boring after awhile so you hit the internet. There is so much to do there. 
 you can have huge battles on naboo, goof around with some wampa friends on hoth. Or fly around 
 and try to do the captal landing glich with some friends. I found this game was super fun because 
 of the gliches and the wacky modes of play you can do with your friends. For example me and my 
 friends to first do the once popular hide and hunt on hoth hunt. This is when there is about 10 
 people on server (5 wampaas) (5 Rebs) the rebels are trying to get over the hills to a safe location 
 where they can defend against the deadly wampaas (Deadly in the right hands) . This was so fun because 
 like 2 wampas would run after you up the hill while you ran away and just as they where 5 feet 
 away you laid a mine blowing the wampa to high heavens. There were so many more fun parts abouth 
 this custom mode of play that emerged. Not only was the internet fun goofing around on normal levels 
 but on File front (a supplier of custom maps and mods) levels aswell. Here you could hind a mod 
 that enabled 5-9 new modes of play on EVERYLEVEL!!!!! This makes for some even more bizare ways 
 to play. ---------This game isn't for mass Pwning or saying I got a 100-1 kill death last night 
 but to have some serious goof off time in the world of star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront for PC is definitely on my list of favorite games I could say the same about Battlefront 
 2... for SOME things. Let's start with the aspects I enjoyed: space battles, added a whole new way 
 to battle; new classes, the officer classes are very diverse and all have their strengths and weaknesses; 
 new clones, I have to admit these clones look awesome but I still don't understand why a clone 
 commander (from the episode 3 era) is on Geonosis, I think they got lazy which is pretty much the 
 reason why this game is fun to play but still bothers me. Now for the bad. Uggh don't get me started 
 on Geonosis, they completely ruined my favorite BF 1 map the new AT-TE has bad weapons (weak lasers, 
 some useless yellow laser, and machine guns on the back wtf?) also no more gunships or techno unon 
 ships to topple, hat was so much fun but now it is nothing but a reminder how many things should've 
 stayed in BF 2. The machine gun weapons (they literally shoot lasers that do so little damage and 
 sound like machine guns they also feel out of place) are found so frequently on vehicles that it's 
 aggravating. Polis masa is an immediate win for every Rebel or CIS forces the clones or imperials 
 always start a bit far away from the comand post and have to run down there before the droids or 
 rebels get there but oh no they already took it. This next rant isn't the worst one but it bothered 
 me, the laser colors why did they change them around they just don't feel in place. Finally, the 
 Ai the biggest failure of this game they were very slightly improved form the first battlefront 
 at least now they acctually use some of their other weapons but they still don't do diddly poop, 
 some just stand there and others (especially in space) crash into things it's so very frustrating. 
 So you heard my rant, the game has many flaws but still very fun to play. I reccomend it but hope 
 for a battlefront 3 that way they could possibly redeem themselves for rushing this one. Oh by 
 the way Jedi heroes are fun to play as but they get boring after awhile and I also miss Rhen Var 
 and Bespin. In conclusion a fun game, probably if you're a BF 1 fan this game will be fun but still 
 annoy you with a few minor things, I still say try it out nonetheless. Okay I'm done now, glad 
 i got this out of my system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game tries to include everything in the Star wars universe - from Jedis and high-tech weapons 
 to space battles and land invasions -- in a single package. For the most part, it pulls this off 
 credibly.
  
  Starting with the sound.
  Everything was fine in this department. The grand Star Wars score played in the background at appropriate 
 times, and all of the weapons, ships, voices, and so forth sounded as they should. Overall, I recommend 
 this game to anyone into the Star Wars franchise or interested in first-person shooters. If you 
 only play the single-player component of games I would suggest waiting until the price of the game 
 drops to about $30. This game really does beg for an expansion which could add another campaign, 
 some more planets to add to the Galactic Campaign mode, more ships, weapons, etc. If you like playing 
 multiplayer, then the current price ($40-$50) is a bit more justified.
  
  To the gameplay
  This game is primarily a first-person shooter, although it includes some simple 
 flight simulation and strategic gameplay. The single-player campaign focuses on Darth Vader's unit, 
 the 501st squad of Clone troopers seen in the most recent Star Wars movies. Over the course of 
 about 16 missions, you'll go from classic location to location, fighting against rebels, Wookies, 
 droid armies, Jedi, and others as you tighten the emperor's grasp upon the galaxy. There are a 
 couple truly great missions. For example, the best mission of the campaign was a reenactment of 
 the capture and invasion of Princess Leia's ship, as seen at the beginnning of Episode IV. It's 
 an intense, nearly perfect rendition of the movie scene, with Vader and his army of stormtroopers 
 entering the captured ship through a hole blasted in its hull and battling it out with rebels. 
 Overall, the campaign is well put together and should last 15-20 hours. My major complaint is that 
 the missions vary wildly in difficulty, from those which should be easily finished by casual gamers 
 to others that will require as many as 10-20 attempts to complete for even a serious gamer. Needless 
 to say, your frustration level will likely get high after trying to conquer Hoth (the last and 
 toughest mission) after the tenth failed attempt. The game has three gameplay modes. First, there 
 are space battles. Generally, these are well done. The ships are detailed and scaled well, and 
 you get an opportunity to fly many different kinds of craft. You can even land inside of an enemy 
 capital ship, destroy vital systems, shoot it out with enemy soldier, and even fly off in an enemy 
 ship. The flight simulation feels a lot like the old X-wing and TIE fighter games, but with vastly 
 improved graphics. The second part of the game -- and the major focus -- is the land battles. These 
 involve fighting to control certain points of the map, which produce reinforcements for your army. 
 As long as you have reinforcements, you respawn after dying and can choose from among several classes 
 to return as (e. g., trooper, engineer, scout, etc) . If you hold certain captured points, you'll 
 be able to respawn as a hero character like Vader or Boba Fett. These characters are powerful, 
 but not unstoppable, and they are usually appropriate to their environment. Playing as a Jedi is 
 enjoyable, but does not have the same depth of control and tactics as Jedi Outcast or Jedi Academy. 
 Still, the entrance of a hero onto the scene definitely gets noticed. The third element of gameplay 
 is a Risk-like game called Galactic Conquest mode that allows you to fight a computer enemy on 
 a map of 15 planets. The object is to conquer all the planets (classic Star Wars places like Hoth, 
 Kamino, Tattooine, etc.) and destroy the enemy fleets. It's a decent diversion for a while and 
 should give the game some replay value. Additionally, there are various skirmish and quick-play 
 modes. One of the draws for this game is the multiplayer capacity, which is quite fun though. The 
 game is well polished, and I experienced no bugs in the campaign except that I never managed to 
 get the imperial officer's chaingun to work. The instruction book is thin but provides the necessary 
 basics, and there is a decent in-game tutorial. Unfortunately, the game does not allow any saves 
 within missions, which will be a bit annoying during a few of the tougher campaign missions. However, 
 the interface is clean and understandable and all of the controls can be customized for a keyboard, 
 mouse, and/or gamepad. Finally, I feared that the AI in this game was going to be bad, based on 
 things I've read. However, it's quite acceptable in most circumstances. Enemy computer opponents 
 will hide behind cover, try to outflank you, dodge and roll, snipe at you, and so forth. Computer 
 allies usually hold their own when the odds are even, but the game really wants the player to be 
 the star here, thus you'll be doing much of the killing, capturing of points, and saving the day. 
 So, the AI is not bad per se, it's just geared toward making the player the center of attention. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unstoppable_1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The single player portion of the game is decent. There are many modes of play and a main storyline 
 of the clones which eventually lead to the Jedi and their troubles.
  
  Multiplayer is perhaps it's greatest strength. There are a handful of packed servers usually on 
 primetime. Plenty of modes to choose from and the two most popular are either Hero Assault or team 
 vs team gameplay.
  
  Hero assault consists of the Mos Eisley map. Villains vs Heroes. Basically the Jedi along with 
 Han Solo, Chewbacca, and Princess Leia. Villains consists of the baddest SIth Lord's and master 
 along with the two bounty hunters from the movies. (Jango and Bobba Fett) .
  
  The other game mode changes from capture the flag to capture points. Space battles and all sorts 
 of great maps are available. As the maps change so can the troops. Servers mix and match the types 
 to keep things fresh. If you're one of the best players you can even play as a hero. However this 
 is only for a limited time and the more frags you score the greater you can stay in battle. This 
 is perilous of course as everyone targets the Heroes or Villains.
  
  All in all this is a solid game and recommended at the 20$ price range. Pick it up if you're looking 
 for something fresh. However do not rely on the single player. The multiplayer is much better and 
 the single player just wets your appetite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  a sequal to the most popular star wars game ever. battlefront 2 overcomes its predaccesor in many 
 ways. you now have the ability to fight as a key saga character and play all-new original trilogy 
 and episode 3 maps. introducing new casts for each army and all-new weapons and enemy health bars 
 the game is unbelievably addicting and i have played the same levels over and over with different 
 time-lines and armies. also includes a new campaign spanning the entire star wars saga. many of 
 the old maps have also been upgraded. all in all the second game in a series has once again outdone 
 its predaccesor. The game features all new playble casts as well as Playable Jedi and Hero Characters. 
 for the first tim in an FPS Team Shooter you can be Han Solo or even Yoda. Although the Hero class 
 dos'nt really bring anything big to the game its still a fun feature for fans. I have played Single-Player 
 for Years now as well as the occasional Online Match. Its a must for any Star Wars Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtMustang
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is the second game in the acclaimed Star Wars shooter franchise. 
  
  -Gameplay
  Star Wars Battlefront II does not stray too far from the typical multiplayer first 
 person shooter, it has the typical conquest and capture the flag modes, but brings in a few new 
 things to the table, like the Hero Assault mode. Hero assault mode allows you to play as the special 
 characters for an entire round, rather than the short times you do during standard conquest rounds. 
 Heroes are typically Jedi and other famous characters from the series, such as Han Solo, Chewbacca, 
 and Boba Fett, however while the Jedi part might make you get excited, being a Jedi consists almost 
 entirely of mashing the attack button whenever you get near a foe to hack them to death with your 
 lightsaber. The Non-Jedi heroes are not very fun to play as as they are almost inferior to the 
 Jedi in combat, and few abilities they have are unique to their characters.
  
  One place where Star Wars Battlefront II does fairly well is in it's space battles. Each faction 
 has 4 starships, one which is suited to fighting other starfighters, a bomber suited to taking 
 out critical components on the main ship, a general starship which can take out other fighters 
 as well as bomb the enemy ship, and a transport which is only meant to land on the enemy ship, 
 and when it does, becomes a spawnpoint, which can be devastating to the enemy. If you do not want 
 to take out the enemies critical components from the outside, once their shields are down, you 
 can go inside their hangar and take out some of the critical components from the inside. However 
 it is disappointing that taking out the critical systems does not effect the enemy in any way, 
 it would have been nice for there to have been a negative effect if you took out a component, like 
 reduced health, or slower ship speeds, or something like that.
  
  There is no notable unlockable content, and once you have done all the maps a fair amount of times, 
 you will notice there really isn't much variability in battle, a battle often plays out the same 
 way whenever you run it. So the game is fairly lacking in replay value.
  
  -Graphics
  They aren't that good, they just really aren't.
  
  -Sound
  This could be one of the highest 
 points in the game, it sounds like Star Wars, to a certain extent, you have all of the effects 
 you'd expect, Stormtroopers sound authentic, and the weapons sound just like they did in the movies.
 
  
  -Conclusion
  Star Wars Battlefront II is not a bad game, it's just too much of what we've seen before. It doesn't 
 have much replay value, so expect it to get old once you've beaten the single player campaign and 
 done on the maps on multiplayer a fair bit of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge12345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  If you have it for the PS2 you must go out and buy the PC version. You can download updates while 
 The PS2 is still the same. and the disk will be scratched up. Listen to me i have it for the PS2 
 and buying online products to put in your PS2 expansion pack has been discontinued and it cost 
 like 100 dollars with the headsets, while the pc is already in it.
  
  PS2+SWB2 +$=lose money : (
  PC+SWB2+internent=happy person :)
  
  If you want to waste a lot 
 of money then buy the expansion pack.
  But if you are smart if u dont have it buy the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been trying all star wars games and this one is good, but not one of the best. From all 
 star wars games i have played the list is the one that follows: 1- Kotor2: the sith lords, kotor, 
 jedi knight II: jedi academy, republic commando, jedi outcast, battlefront II, empire at war, lego 
 star wars (i have not played the original trilogy yet) and battlefront. The others star wars games 
 are not good (except for the old but still great x-wing series) . Finally, what is good and bad 
 in battlefront II?
  Turns on: 1- reproduction of star wars battlefield and climate, great multiplayer
  2- possibility 
 of playing with every famous character of the movies, including general Grevious (i forgot its 
 spelling) or the emperor. 3- space battle
  4- graphics
  Turns of:
  1- missions are boring and lack adventure
  2- a better storyline is needed
  3- the battlefront 
 system
  4- control of jedis and heroes - they are better than normal troops, but the movement needs improvement 
 In spite of all critics, it stils a good game. However, play the jedi knight series is better than 
 battlefront if you want to play the single player campaign. That's all folks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  After the pure enjoyment I had with the first game, I was so excited to hear that a sequel was 
 being made but this is one of the biggest letdowns in my gaming life. Pandemic Studios have tinkered 
 and changed a solid formula, which only needed some new maps and not to take out the best ones 
 from Battlefront 1. An overhaul in the graphics and sound system, plus small additions to the gameplay 
 and obviously less bugs than the first Battlefront game.
  
  Its not all bad though as the graphics have been vastly improved from the original title. The levels 
 look pretty good when you think of the other games Lucas Arts have brought out but sadly its not 
 enough to save the game.
  
  The sound has also been improved vastly from the original game in all areas which along with the 
 graphics show that Pandemic, got it half right but just like the graphics, it just is not enough 
 to save the game.
  
  The gameplay is were Battlefront 2 is brought down to it's knees and unlike the first game, sucks 
 out all the fun that I had playing Battlefront 1 for many hours a day, for many months. The gameplay 
 has been dumbed down for what many online players would call noobs in a desperate attempt to boost 
 sales by targeting the younger audience. The vehicles that hampered the first game return even 
 more overpowered and the space levels are a big letdown with the flying controls being the worst 
 criminal of this dumbing down factor as the flying takes no skill. This time you press a button 
 to do a fancy move instead of doing it manually and then to top it off, you can constantly hold 
 down the fire button to spam rocket after rocket. There are even attacks that poison, the other 
 players so now cowards who perform hit and run attacks are rewarded. Another big problem is how 
 the darktroopers has been ruined by giving them the lighting gun after many people asked for that 
 weapon to be removed totally from the first game when the clone pilot unit had it. To finish it 
 off, adding in Jedi and Siths among other special units just caters to the average 10 year old.
 
  
  The AI has been improved to go along with an actual single player, which the first game did not 
 have but the story is not that good and the AI aren't that clever.
  
  Overall the franchise has gone backwards on so many level but most importantly, the game has lost 
 its fun factor. Many other players from Battlefront 1 agree with this assessment and stopped playing 
 it early on and since most are clan players that could mean less clans or clan servers for people 
 to play on.
  
  A poor sequel to a now ruined franchise, which will struggle to see the day of light again, if 
 they ever intended to make a 3rd game in the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekygamerguy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Once you learn the controls SWBF2 is a fun Star Wars game just like the first. With the addition 
 of Heroes that you can control and many more maps to play on, it meets expectations for a good 
 sequel.
  The game is a 3rd-person shooter or a 1st-person shooter where you go around capturing outposts 
 and/or do other objectives. The heroes are pretty easy and fun to use and there's a good variety 
 of them. The problem with this game which bugs me about alot of games is that it's too easy. After 
 you figure out what you're doing and play for a couple hours (or if you're a veteran of the first 
 game) you'll be able to beat the computer easily every time. But you'll usually be able to find 
 a good challenge if you play it online.
  To sum it up-
  Gameplay: More fun than the first with the same basic gameplay with alot more maps and the addition 
 of heroes.
  Graphics: Great if you have a good graphics card
  Sound: It's Star Wars music. Enough said.
  Value: You can spend alot of time on this game without 
 getting bored of it. And if you do get bored of it, just put it away for a couple weeks then come 
 back to it.
  If you like Star Wars you'll like this game. If you like Star Wars Battlefront you'll like this 
 game. If you didn't like Star Wars Battlefront you probably won't like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgameboybobx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't see any connection problems so it's just that he doesn't have a good connection! Lol, this 
 game kicks so much ass that if you were to stick a coal in it you'd get a diamond! This game is 
 so addicting but sometimes it gets annoying when you play people with crappy connection to the 
 internet on their computer and then I have to wait for them! If any star wars fans like the games 
 lucas arts makes then buy this game because it's worth while! Try it on any system the online multiplayer 
 games are awesome as hell! Although I'd suggest the PC version if you don't want to pay for xbox 
 live or the playstation2's online features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Another Battlefront game you knew it was coming!
  So Singleplayer has Instant Action which lets you choose a Map and a Mode and fight out with not 
 so smart yet not so dumb bots.
  There are 6 Modes. Conquest is the Battlefield Classic we've come to love. you have a bunch of Command 
 Posts scattered across the Battlefield and the winner is the one who either Kills all the enemy 
 tickets or Captures all the CPs and kills all enemies in the Map even if the Ticket count is above 
 1. The characters are quite intresting especially the Special Classes.
  Droidekas, Jet Troopers and even MagnaGuards (Dubbed Grevious's bodyguards except these guys dont 
 have the double sided Lance.) Heros now playable But not excatly Balanced. If your gonna take a 
 Hero alone you'll need Heavy firepower or a lot of teamates because there fast as lighting! Weapons 
 arent really Futuristic but the Vehicles sure are! But overpowered -_-
  Multiplayer it has ups and downs.
  Good: 64 Players online! Thats a Lot! Maps are kinda Big to 
 fit the 64 Players online. Can be Addictive at times.
  Bad: Sometimes it can be frustrating. Heroes tend to be to fast for your connection and Disappear 
 and by the time they appear you'll be dead. Loads of Glitches.
  
  If you have a good connection then this game can really rock your world! If you dont well... Shadow 
 of Chernobyl anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Knowing that Star Wars Battlefront II was an updated version of Battle Front I, I didnt have to 
 worry about missing anything. This game has everything you could possibly want from Star Wars and 
 has a lot of content, but too much of everything isnt necessarily a good thing.
  
  Game design: Star Wars Battlefront II goes through the entire Star Wars movie lines and you can 
 even do missions that took course in between the movies. You can play as many groups in the Star 
 Wars universe from the Rebels to the Empire and with many soldier unites in each. There are also 
 a lot of weapons including all vehicles to choose from in the Star Wars universe. The newest edition 
 added to Battlefront II was being able to fight in space and play as a Jedi or a Sith Lord. All 
 Environments known from the Star Wars universe were put in the game both out and in the planets 
 orbit. Game Play: As mentioned before you can play as many groups and fighting units in the Star 
 Wars universe. Keyboard and Joy pad configurations can be set by the players, but the problem is 
 that there are so many functions it makes it unnecessarily confusing to set soldier and vehicle 
 settings so you will be spending quite sometime setting up your options before going to actual 
 combat, otherwise you will enjoy the spectacular battles taken place in Star Wars. There are many 
 modes to choose from, from Campaign to Galactic Conquest. Sound: There are a lot of voice castings 
 put in the game so expect to hear a lot of dialogues. There are also many classical Star Wars theme 
 music extracted from the films so expect to listen to some of your favorite tracks. The game has 
 everything you would possibly want from the Star Wars universe and you can do a lot of things during 
 missions. However your supporting units AI is quite slacky and they would hardly provide you with 
 any useful support, unless you want to use them as targets to distract enemies. Going through the 
 control scheme can also be quite a pain since there are a lot of options. The missions also tend 
 to be quite tough not only because your group is just simply stupid when deciding to take course 
 of action on their own, your enemy units will always make the smart moves you wanted to make, and 
 although you can play as a Jedi they only stay depending on the number of enemies you use them 
 to wipe out, which isnt long enough to the end of the mission, you would preferably play as a 
 Jedi since they have much greater power. You will also have to be careful not to lose your units, 
 although you can always respawn a unit you will quickly run out of soldiers and will lose the battle 
 so you will have to be precise in your shooting and have to be a lot more careful, honestly guerilla 
 tactics are most effective when wanting to win a battle so prepare yourself for some frustration.
 
  Overall this game has everything thats got to do with Star Wars packed in one disk (OK except 
 for Pod Racing) so if you are a Star Wars fan you will definitely love this game, if you are interested 
 in a massive shooter be prepared to go through a large control setup and some frustrating missions 
 before going through anything. Lucas Arts have definitely out done themselves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is an excellent universe, but the same story said over &amp; over again begins to bore 
 me. Whatever... This is a kind of FPS/TBS/action/space sim game. TBS because you have a map on turns, FPS 
 when you shoot the enamies in Battlefield style, action when you fight with lightsabers of the 
 Sith/Jedi &amp; space sim in space fights, with ships. The ordinary style will not be described, just 
 this: some special classes &amp; bonuses can be bought with points &amp; used in battles.&amp; the 
 bots are better spawned than in the Battlefields. Now the tactic map has nothing special, the lightsaber 
 fights are nice (each character has specific powers) , but the best ingredient is space battle. Two 
 big stations: you can either take a ship from the hangar &amp; destroy the other ships, or destroy 
 key partts of the enemy mothership, infiltrate it, plant charges inside it's core &amp; get rid of 
 it once &amp; for all, winning the battle. This are the best fights,&amp; they are surely spectacular 
 &amp; have great atmosphere. The graphics are somehow old, but some good  
 them up. The sound is simply great: the original sountrack &amp; superb sound effects. The game 
 is good, maby too hard in singleplayer, but in multiplayer it's really nice &amp; it's worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to state right off the bat that if you like star wars and you liked any of the battlefield 
 series of games, your prayers have been answered. SWBF2 makes some huge improvements on the first 
 game. First of all, it has a decent sp campaign. It also improves the graphics, has a buttload 
 of maps, space combat, good classes to choose from and weapons to unlock. One thing that seemed 
 rather pointless in the first game was the awards. I mean its nice to know if you got the most 
 headshots or whatever but it didn't really increase the replay value once you'd mastered the game. 
 In battlefront 2 there are awards that actually lead to unlocks after you've earned them a set 
 number of times. I can't remember the exact numbers but the awards are for various feats like a 
 certain number of kills with a blaster weapon, or a certain number of pistol kills. Eventually 
 after you've earned the award enough times you'll start every match with an upgraded pistol or 
 blaster rifle or with a damage increase on your weapons or something like that. Its fantastic and 
 adds just a sprinkle of rpg to an fps. Another fantastic element is the improved galactic conquest 
 game mode. Basically, the galaxy is set out before you in a kind of grid and each side has a home 
 planet. You start with one fleet that you can use to attack planets or the enemy fleets and try 
 to conquer the whole board. It kind of puts you in that rts type spot of super commander but then 
 you still get to fight in each battle as a soldier or pilot. Plus you earn credits to unlock new 
 unit types, build more fleets or buy battlefield bonuses. Fantastic. It should have been done a 
 long time ago. Oh and those unlocks i mentioned earlier, those stick with your profile in every 
 game mode so you can use your elite rifle, with your precision pistol, while rocking a damage increase 
 powerup and extra supplies battlefield bonus, while playing these battles to conquer planets. Brilliant. 
 Makes ya feel like the man.
  Anyway, my opinion is obviously extremely positive and i should probably mention the negative points 
 that come to mind for balance. Obviously the ai isn't always perfect. The game is simulating mp 
 matches really and that sort of ai is probably most difficult for game makers to nail. However, 
 the ai in this game is still way better than that of battlefield 1942 where it was not uncommon 
 to see soldiers walking around in circles and driving their jeeps into trees and sandbag walls. 
 That isn't to say you don't see some dumbass ai moves in battlefront 2 but usually they only lead 
 to an explosion that enhances the chaotic fighting around you and rarely detracts from the gameplay. 
 Another element that wasn't so great was certain points in the sp campaign.
  Certain moments were just so difficult it was unbelievable. I actually haven't completed the sp 
 campaign because the last task in the last map in the last 3 minutes of a timed mission is simply 
 too frustrating to bother with. However, moments like those were few and far between and though 
 they might have you pulling your hair out for a bit you can always take a break from it in galactic 
 conquest mode and relax as you take over the galaxy.
  Anyway, to summarize. This game is not perfect but its closer than almost any other war game i've 
 played. and its star wars! C'mon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The second game in the Battlefront series is a third-person shooter that you wont forget for a 
 while. Graphics: Good. They could have done more to the class models but that is my only complaint.
 
  
  Sound: Quite nice. Lots of voice in this game and It helps give you the feel of a epic battle, 
 Although the weapon sounds could have gotten some more work.
  
  Gameplay: Nice Gameplay overall. The weapons have a nice sense of power other than the sound. The 
 large armies give the feel of a very large and important battle. One thing I would like to mention 
 is the horrible AI. Even though the AI has fairly good aim when It comes to fighting they are simply 
 cannon fodder. Value: I'm assuming that you could get this game cheap now so the value is quite 
 high, But the game dosn't have much in terms of modifications
  
  I hope this review helped you decide whether or not to get this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaveno5
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I don't realy know what this text reviw is so i guess i better study for it i mean i don't want 
 to fail!!!!!!!!! that would be embersing sos sos sos sos sosi don't know waht 2 say oh yeah don't 
 know what to say!!! 100 word 1000 words words words words ooooooopppppssss better study on please 
 this is a long text long longword if you read this then you must send this to 5 popel or you will 
 die in two days and if you tdo send it to 5 then the love of your live will prupose to you in 5 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  In my opinion (which is always right: P) the Star Wars galaxy is lame. The idea was.... creative 
 and immaginative but lame. Kids everywhere will enjoy this..... no not really. I hate it and so 
 does everyone in my school. GAMEPLAY- a great idea but stick with the Battlefield franchise. The 
 classes and spawn points plus space battles r amazing. But the soldier; s shoot lasers...... puny, 
 pathetic lasers that make funny sounds. Can't complain about the looks of the soldiers but the 
 weapons were absolutley terrible. They felt bad, sounded bad and looked bad. It was tortue for 
 me cause I loved the gameplay but couldn't stand the weapons and everything else.
  
  Graphics + Sound. Crap crap and crap. Well the graphics were okay but nothing spectacular such 
 as Oblivion and the sound? play it on mute. (the gun noises sounded so pathetic.
  
  Value- well if ur a star wars fan (u should be ashamed if u r) then buy this. If u don't mind war 
 feeling safe and cosy buy this also. If u weren't in any of those two categorys get BF2142 which 
 has the same concept but everything is SOOOOOOO much better.
  
  This is a game u don't wanna enjoy (cause it is Star Wars which relates to the image of nerds and 
 geeks) but u do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyton
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I've played Star Wars Battlefront II for quite a while now and I'm glad that they came out with 
 a solid and fast paced game. Star Wars Battlefront lets you chose from many of unique and powerful 
 classes with different weapons and different functions. Most war games are difficult to operate 
 but Battlefront 2 is easy to use in every way. The graphics are great in this game but with a low 
 graphics card they look distorted. The Campaign is dissapointingly short with only a few levels 
 it's easy to beat in at the most a week. Even though it's short it's very true to the original 
 story but it does skip a lot of the good parts. The game has many of places to play on such as 
 Hoth, Mos Eisley, Dagobah and Kashyyyk. Probably one of the best new features is the ability to 
 pick up a Lightsaber and control a Jedi. Using a Jedi is very fluient and quick with many different 
 ways to attack. The only disadvantage is that the battles are to quick and most of the Jedi and 
 the Villians will die pretty quickly if you are battling other Jedi. Another great new feature 
 is Dog Fighting in space. Star Wars Battlefront II has given a great new atmosphere for space battle. 
 This feature is really quite realistic but takes a while to get the hang of. Even though Space 
 Battle can be loads of fun you are very vulnerable in space to other spaceships and auto turrets. 
 Even with it's few glitches short campaign and sensitive graphics Star Wars Battlefront II is a 
 perfect game for the PC and is something that will be played for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront 2 is a very-well thought out game with basicaly the same formula as its successor, 
 Battlefront 1. Most of te shooters of today are based on a rail system were the game guides where 
 to go from point A to point B. Battlefront's formula of gameplay lets you roam throughout the battlefield. 
 You get sense of freedom which made the Battlefront and Battlefield series so popular. I especially 
 like the Jedi addition to the game. The original Battlefront felt it needed something like that. 
 But with the new addition of the Jedi, Lucas Arts took away the ability to pilot ships on land-based 
 maps which hurt the game a little bit. Also, the space missions are just spectacular as you get 
 to dogfight with other ships and then fly aboard the enemies flagship. If only they had a conquest 
 mode on these types of maps but that's what MOD maps are for. Lucas Arts also published MOD tools 
 to make new maps, characters, sounds, and entirely new worlds. The campaign is great, the online 
 capabilities are great, and the whole sheer idea is awesome. I only wish they would make a Battlefront 
 3. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Millepe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I think their needs to be an Rpg star wars game besides Kotor. Like you should be able to gain 
 rank from recruit to 5 star General. And rewards and other cool things like new clothes when you 
 level up. Also there should be squads and commanders for the forces in that area. If you are a 
 good leader of that squad then you should be asked if you want to get a commisson. Then there should 
 be preps like on the command ship, A. K. A briefings. But over all the game looks good and it should 
 be played. But don't listen to the reveiws for the game. Look at these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akivaria
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I never got to play the original Battlefront game, so all of the comparisons I read between the 
 first and second games gave me very little insight.
  
  ... but the game is good. There are a few shortfalls, but this game is worth it.
  
  First, and 
 foremost, the games are very true to the films. This game does an excellent job of staying true 
 to the flat scenery of the Death Star from the films, but still making it detailed and interesting 
 for the modern gamer. The character models, particularly for the heroes and villains, will please 
 even the most implacable of Star Wars fans. (and then there's the really nice things.. like the 
 good old AT-AT)
  
  The sounds are good, but a little repetitive. The British style voiceovers for the Empire multiplayer 
 campaigns is very good, but you'll most certainly tire of it after a few sessions. Weapons effects 
 are very good, and the sound in space combat was particularly pleasing.
  
  What's best about Battlefront 2, however, is the friggin' awesome multiplayer community. In particularly, 
 the availability of hero characters for play in regular Capture The Flag sessions. (Seriously, 
 though, who in the 70's ever dreamed they'd get to fly Darth Vader through a Rebel bunker and slaughter 
 the rebel scum by the hundreds?) My personal favorite is the sniper unit, as a good sniping spot 
 will yield you some excellent fun. (though the game does reveal your location clearly when you 
 make a kill)
  As for the single-player campaign, the opportunity to carry out Executive Order 66 was... devilish 
 fun. The gameplay is nothing groundbreaking, but it's nothing backward either. You'll be pleased. 
 Same with the difficulty, I found it to be adequate. Weaknesses of this game? Simple, the short 
 duration of the single player campaign, a singular lack of unlockable content (inexcusable for 
 a Star Wars game) , repetitive sound, and not being able to hold a good sniper nest... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goraaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  for a star wars game this one was pretty good. haven't tried it in multiplayer yet but I doubt 
 its gonna be much fun for the others when I get ahold of a jedi and KICK EVERYONES ASSES! the game 
 might be unbalanced in other words... but the space battles are fun.. at least in single player 
 mode. oh yeah,, the game has a single player mode with a story, unlike other games of this kind (I 
 was dissapointed when I realised that battlefield didn't have this) . you get to play a jedi most 
 of the time and its all good.
  may the shwarz be with you all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12UnDeFeAtEd12G
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  the third person view lets you see everything around you so you are observent of all elaments around 
 you .Plain and simple this a fun game its easy to learn. but if you are a online mulitplayer kinda 
 guy you should get it. It dose give a very good feal in the battle like your there. the game deals 
 alot with straige. Its swome when ur a jedi or anyother hero charecter its like your unstopable. 
 The space battles are fun the best part of the is when you go inside the enamys ship and take it 
 out from the inside. this is a must have for Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II make a great shooting and strategical game experience. I had a lot of 
 fun playing, and I think this game deserves some credit...
  
  The music is excellent, as it is from the popular star wars movies. It sets a great, inspiring 
 mood when you hear it come on, you think: wow, this is so cool...
  
  Graphics were okay, not really any problems. Characters that weren't wearing a whole body-war-suit 
 looked like they could have been improved, and sometimes I got a bit of a blurry landscape view, 
 but it didn't bother me.
  
  Gameplay was really well done! I found immense enjoyment playing as all the different classes, 
 as well as using different gun types, as well as getting to use vehicles and tankers. In the main 
 game-Quest you are republic clone troopers who are fighting against the bad guys. You fight in 
 several different planets and locations, either on land or in space.
  Land:
  Battling on land was my favorite out of the two. More selection of troopers, guns, and basically 
 more choice. Mission objectives are more interesting and funner than in space.
  
  Space: Yup, this was good too. I personally (I've heard people say space is more enjoyable, but 
 this is just me...) think this is a bit trickier to handle, I mean flying a ship and targeting 
 another ship to blast on is kinda tough.. luckily if you get frustrated beyond belief like i did 
 sometimes, you have the option to skip space battles. Most space battles include destroying enemy 
 ships or thwarting their plans.
  
  This game includes multi-player (play with other people on-line) , instant action (instantly enjoy 
 a round of battling) , or playing republic, rebels, empire, clones and other alliances in a game 
 or the main quest. So there is a lot stuff to play with in this game. What I found cool was you 
 don't always play the good guys. I mean your troopers *ahem* turn to the dark side *ahem* and it's 
 cool when you play jedi and sith alike. Sometimes you have a limited amount of time to complete 
 a task, and the pressure is really on! Heroes are one of the sweetest parts of the game. Destroying 
 enemies is easy and fun! Play characters like Darth Vader, Yoda, Obi-wan, master Windu and others! 
 They are masterful.......
  
  I know this was a long review, but if you're reading this, thanks for bearing with me! If you are 
 a star wars fan like I am, you should most definitely play this game!! Get going!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrangard
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this game is well built, but some things are not the best. Such as only 64 players 
 online, lagging and slow dying time. Some things are good, such as no cheats, like the original, 
 good graphic, playable jedi, and space fights. The ground fights are a little bit small, only 40 
 ai including you on the field, and you can get to play the hero's very easily on default. One thing 
 the producers left out was the massive fighting. Also, no battle for/against the Death Star, which 
 i would believe would be nice. All in all, good, not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imeut
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Firstly Id like to say people who like Star Wars Battlefront 1 are going to like this game right 
 away. Let me introduce the premise of the game. Star Wars Battlefront 2 is basically a game that 
 tries to simulate the movies in many ways. It creates medium size battles which boil down to mostly 
 1 on 1 battle and larger battles. There are several game types some require more team work and 
 others less. Capture the Flag online features a slower game pace then conquest. The areas around 
 the flag are intense hotspots but other then that just small skirmishes. Conquest is your typical 
 capture certain nodes to win mode. Neither original or fresh but the Star Wars spin makes it different 
 enough. Space Battle is what makes Star Wars quite different from the first game. This time around 
 Space battles are altogether separate entity from the infantry and vehicle wars. Personally Im 
 not a fan of space mechanic. Basically you go in a ship and attack other ships in space or try 
 to land in the enemy ship and sabotage key systems. You need a lot of people to make this mode 
 interesting and even then its up to personal preference. Graphically Star Wars Battlefront 2 is 
 better then the first. So there really not much to say bad about the graphics here1and major improvement 
 can be made in the feature still. However graphical glitches are tiresome to see now and then. 
 I really think the testing team should have spent more team looking for bugs. Wall glitches are 
 very prevalent on many maps but most of the time the servers have rules against using them so it 
 doesnt take much away form the game as long as there is an admin while you play. Another big place 
 is do the player classes fit in well together? Ill give you a quick run down of the classes. The 
 soldier class is the dominating mid range class as with the rifle accurate quick shots can be made. 
 The sniper class on all factions is the dominating long range presence. With the engineer class 
 you basically get a self healing medic which dominates close range battle immensely. Heavy troops 
 are Enemy Territories equivalent to panzer noobs except with mines that dominate close range if 
 your not careful. So the basic classes fit in well not much to complain here. The part of the game 
 thats is a bit of a let down are the special classes which are not available right away you need 
 a couple of points first.
  
  First on the list is the Bothan Spy which is a cloaking alien with a flamethrower. The flamethrower 
 is weak and often an experienced engineer or shock trooper can get away in time. Then The cloak 
 should last longer. The Wookie is fine it has tons of health but lacks a decisive close range weapon. 
 Those are just two classes I wanted to point out as a non Star Wars fan these classes where obviously 
 rushed out the gate. The sounds are the now basic Star Wars sounds that have been repeated much 
 in the past. Overall its what you expect for sounds and is what we get.
  
  Now on to another major department which is the newly refined heroes. To the normal heroes are 
 easily taken down with a mine, detonation pack or rocket blast. So in normal game heroes are usually 
 nothing more then a nuisance which is good in many ways. In Mos Eisley assault mode where all heroes 
 are pitted against each other we start seeing that heroes are nothing more then who pushes or pulls 
 first which is truly lame and for the most part except the rare duel., heroes mostly dont work 
 because of there over dominating and cheap force power.
  
  In the end there is more to talk about but somethings need to be experienced before liked. Star 
 Wars Battlefront 2 will see most mileage from someone who has a friend with this game or a Star 
 Wars fan who likes first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lost_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty good, the thing is about this game, like everyone says, -.-, the maps aren't good enough, 
 too little space on the map, and plus, there isn't a lot of map to play. The storyline is good, 
 and i loved the stories and the sound they put on the movies. But hey, its just too easy, took 
 me less than fourty-five to finish the campaign. but hey i like this game a lot, you can either 
 play as first or third person , so i guess its airight. I do not like the fact that they made your 
 own teamates stupid like ****.
  
  overall, this game has it all the features that a shooting game should have and it is worth buying, 
 especially since it's really cheap now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHC_Kadaj
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The games alright in campaign mode but in multilayer mode it gets really boring fast, everyone 
 plays the same map over and over and over again, the jedi battle one, you hardly ever see conquest 
 and ctf as much anymore.
  
  i made alot of good friends on it but it got really old fast and some people a former clan leader 
 i knew took it way to seriously and acted like a communist dictator, i around 259 hrs on since 
 i bought it in may ( according to xfire stats )
  
  i only reccomend this to extreme star wars fanboys, like my self, because others will not like 
 it. seriously its to much like battlefield and i hate battlefield so....
  
  reason bought game : star wars, free online play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voxstellarum
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront 2 is much better than the previous one with much more better gameplay, maps 
 and game modes! If you love space fights you will love this game! It's simply amazing to be out 
 there in space and fighting against Rebel scums! Too much space? Okay then let's fight on Mygeeto, 
 Utapau, Kamino and on other Star Wars planets. Bored again! Ookay, let's play on Mos Eisley in 
 assault mode! Who do you want to play with? Vader? Solo? Grievous? or Emperor himself? It's up 
 to you! Although BF2 is a great game it has some... flaws. First, the AI is stupid. Not simple 
 stupid, ultra stupid! If you want see some stupidness in-game just play a space fight map and wait 
 in a battleship's shield generator. You see? Six (sometimes more or less) engineer class bots just 
 standing near the shield generator and doing nothing! Hey you! Engineer! Repair that damn shield 
 generator! Hmm... I think he's deaf. Anyway, other than this the second big flaw in the game is 
 that there is no Battle Over Coruscant instant action map! How pity... And last but not least, 
 I wonder why didn't the developers add Geonosis: Spire map on Battlefront 2? IMO, Geonosis: Spire 
 was the best map in Battlefront and should also be available to play in BF2. But thanks to Battlefront 
 2 file heaven  we have the chance to download both Battle Over 
 Coruscant and Geonosis: Spire maps. I suggest you use it! 
  
  Gameplay:
  The AI is ultra-stupid. But I think there is no problem since battle droids have no brains! (Hey, 
 what about the clones?) Other than, the gameplay is enjoyable and I'm sure every Star Wars fan 
 will spend hours by playing it.
  
  Graphics:
  Shiny, realistic, damn nice! I love it. You'll love it too.
  
  Sound:
  What can I say! It's 
 a Star Wars game and no Star Wars game has bad music! A lot of Episode III themed music which is 
 adds great atmosphere to the game! (especially if you play EPIII maps, like Mustafar)
  
  Value:
  I guess Battlefront 2 will be on my PC, installed, until Battlefront 3 comes out. It 
 doesn't deserve to be uninstalled.
  
  Final words:
  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is great game but could've been better. I hope in Battlefront 3 we could 
 see more maps (especially space) , more challenging AI and much better technical support (!) .
  
  Oh, did I say you can also play as a Jedi?... for a limited amount of time. Eh, you already 
 know this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  As a lifelong Star Wars fan I have high expectations for these games. I've seen every movie in 
 opening week since I was a small kid. I'm a die-hard fan and that makes me a good critic of these 
 games... in my humble opinion of course... :-)
  
  I'm still playing this one. I got this game this holiday (Christmas 2006) . Because I haven't put 
 it down except to sleep and to occasionally eat, I've already liberated the rebellion in the Galactic 
 Conquest portion of the game. I've achieved legendary &amp; elite status in a few catagories.
 
  
  The space battles are a great new addition to the game and are very entertaining and fun.
  
 
  The learning curve was pretty easy. The hardest part for me was going from my PS2 to the PC controls. 
 It took me about a day to get used to the new way to play this game. The story line, so far, has 
 been entertaining; I'm not on the edge of my seat or anything, but it's good. The action is awesome 
 and I've been unable to put the game down, even to eat lunch! Thank goodness I'm still on vacation! 
 Gameplay is good, so far it's pretty seamless. Graphics are just as good as you would expect. Sound 
 is amazing - TURN IT UP!
  Value for this game? ... totally worth it.
  
  I'm loving this game and I'm already hoping for a Battlefront 3. I highly recommend Battlefront 
 2, especially if you are a lifelong Star Wars fan like I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Battlefront 2 is a Battlefield like game but really isn't much better...
  First about the graphics.... the graphics are awesome and you will really like them, I really felt 
 like I was there shooting some droids, or clone troopers.
  The game feats a lot of new things and in the other way some are left away, if you compare this 
 game to the first in series, I think most of ya'll will stick to the first Battlefront. For example: 
 you can't lie on the ground and scrawl, that was to my opinion a really cool feat in Battlefront 
 the first. The graphics aren't much better as in the first one but are still very good. You can 
 ride a lot of vehicle's, but the levels aren't quite that big, for example: in Battlefield you've 
 got really big maps, like Hawai (refering to Battlefield 1942) .
  The vehicles aren't optimal at all, your weapon is really fast overheated, a really annoying feat 
 if you ask me. Still, driving an ATT is really cool.
  The very cool new thing in Battlefront 2 are the space battles, if you attack a planet in the campaign, 
 they'll ask you first if you want to play the space battle.
  This is really cool, you can really fly in a lot of space yets, (I lost the name for a  
 ever... I really am a star wars fan but I just got this no-knowledge moment) ... flying the yets 
 is quite hard when you play it for the first time, but you'll get used to it fast enough, then 
 you'll see it's really, really cool... I always enjoy the space battles really much....
  
  A new feat in the field battles is that after you've earned some points you'll be able to play 
 as a hero, like Darth Maul, the Emperor, Yoda, or the hot Twilek chick with two lightsabers. Every 
 battlefield has it's own hero, for instance, Aayla Secura will be the hero of the 'Green Planet 
 ... I lost the name of it... Coruscant?... naaw.... what ever... it's a planet excisting out of trees 
 and green big bubbles.
  
  Also really cool is that you've got a rank and a record, there will be this record sheet in the 
 main menu where you can see you're statistics, and for example if you shoot 6 headshots with a 
 sniper in a battle you'll be a marksman, if you do that like some 60 times you'll win a new sniper 
 rifle, you've got this kinda feat for every class. The shooting and flying/driving and stuff is 
 just really cool.
  
  There is also a really cool campaign, the campaign is about the clone troopers owned by Anakin, 
 you'll fight all the battles that were really fought by platoon....41 or something like that.... I 
 also forgot... man,, I'm in the mood: P.
  The campaign is about the same as the normal battles, however there will be certain objectives, 
 and it is possible that you'll be the last standing man of your army, and still win the battle.
 
  For example.... you're quite far in the battle and you'll need to steal the holocron of the enemy, 
 your army reinceforment are quite thinning, and by the time you stole the holocron, you're the 
 last standing Clone Trooper.... then you'll need to bring the holocron to some spawn point, if 
 you bring it you'll be granted new reinceforment and then you'll be able to do the next objective.... 
 your walking with the holocron towards the spawn point, you can see the red light of the spawn 
 point already and then suddenly, you're being ambushed by 5 yedi's.... WAAH!?... you push the sprint 
 button fast and in main time shoot one of the yedi's and there it is, the final strike.... you're 
 dead and you'll need to restart the battle... orrr... you shoot one more yedi, make it to the spawn 
 point.... get killed and then respawn because you've got reinceforments again.... those moments 
 are really tensed, but also really cool.
  
  Last but not least there is a conquest mode and in this mode you can conquer a group (rebellion, empire, clone 
 army. etc.) and you can battle this army for the total space world.... you'll have to fight a lot 
 of battles and choose special thing, spare money and stuff... really cool, but I thought it was 
 quite hard too.
  
  Ow... yeah.. I forgot something, if you play a quick battle you'll also be able to choose between 
 capture the flag and deathmatch and all that stuff, is really cool either. Playing cap. the flag 
 in a spacebatlle is quite fun, flying as fast as possible to the dropping point which is right 
 above the enemy mothership, in main time getting totally shot by the automatic guns...
  
  Well all together the game really rocks off the walls, but could have a bit bigger levels, for 
 example, in Battlefield you'll be able to fly an airplane in a field level, or to control a ship, 
 choose your own tactics and stuff, well, the levels are to my opinion too small for all this, not 
 that it ruins the game but I would have really liked it if it was a bit more like that... maybe 
 in Battlefront 3...:)
  
  So, to any Star Wars fan, any shooter 'person' or what ever, this game is really an approvement 
 to his/hers game collection.
  
  Great Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I've never liked SW games and I'm not going to praise this game very much. Single Player is too 
 hard, and you can't save in the middle of the level at all! When one of your allies sees an enemy, 
 the allly stops and starts shooting with pistol! Enemeies work a lot smarter but your allies don't, 
 that's why the game is too hard since It's all up to you. Sound effects are not very good, the 
 weapon shots are just beeping. Although the sound effects aren't good, the graphics are. They can 
 always make some great graphics, but never a great gameplay system, that's the problem of SW games. 
 Single Player is way too short, but the levels get harder and harder by a minute.
  
  Only reason why someone should buy this game is the multiplayer. If you can't work with the internet, 
 don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAW666
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game but it had fallen short. For one thing, they could have done more with the 
 story. They could have continue on after Hoth to fall of the Empire and rise of the Republic. They 
 could also done stories on CIS and Rebel forces. There should have been more battles in space, 
 worlds and different location. They also seem to compact everything when in the movies seem bigger 
 or cut parts out. I like the hoers but felt there could be more hoers, like those in the back ground 
 or some of those fleet commanders and those in books. Also the space battle don't feel like statically 
 like they should be. For essence, rebels fighters were stronger then imperials but their capitals 
 ships the imperials were stronger. Overall a good game that's laking and have no replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I got reall y addicted to it.
  
  Gameplay- The game play is really fun, I got addicted to it right away. It has a great star wars 
 feel to it, with all the planets and heros. The easy difficulty is really easy, but the elite difficulty 
 will make it more challenging. It's still a pretty easy game, though.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are average, but that doesn't take away from how good the game is. One of 
 the only downsides is that there are a lot of glitches. Sometimes you'll see your own men getting 
 stuck in walls, or just stopping in mid-air.
  
  Sound- Of course, the sound is awesome, with all the music you know and love constantly playing 
 in the background. The weapons pretty much sound as they do in the movies.
  
  Value- This game should still be worth $50, but it's just $20 now.
  
  Overall, this game is 
 really great. Even if you don't like star wars, you would still love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justheretodl124
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  gameplay: Like the last one except all the enemies target you and only you sometimes when you die 
 you can see allies and enemys sitting in the same room doing absolutely nothing. some how the game 
 looks exactly the same and probaly lost a gig worth of coding ... the game runs like crap and since 
 the enemys like to run and jump and strafe all the time this gets rid of sniping in the last one 
 your allies could take spawn points but now only you and the enemy can besides the space fighting 
 and deletions of everything good nothing at all has changed still the same old maps and missions
 
  graphics: same graphics as the old one .. i wouldn't complain but it runs worse than the first 
 so this ruins sniping...
  sound: just the sound from the movie and if your game doesnt mess up you can sometimes hear yourself 
 shooting
  value: heh... just get the first one..
  story: if you havent seen the movies and you havn't played the first one and you could get it for 
 free FASTER than you could get the first id recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobb45
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The game's single player campagin is short but interesting to play. You follow the 501st (clone 
 troopers as they become storm troopers) on the journey from episode 2 to ep 6. Nice part of the 
 single player campagin is you can jump right into instant action and just play. The new addtition 
 of maps and classes along with heros and space battles they have their pros and cons. Some new 
 maps just are fun to play while the others seem some classes can be unfair to some like engineers 
 and heavy troopers. The heros offer a quick change of pace which is nice but when facing another 
 hero/villain the battle is not much fun. As hero/villain can quickly overpower the other with force 
 moves (push, pull, choke) . Space battles are interesting but dont give a real space thrill. The 
 maps are all pretty similar and uninteresting to play after a while. Using mouse/keyboard for space 
 combat is a little intrusive, your better off with using gamepad for space. The multi-player side 
 is where you will find the games long lasting value. There are plenty of servers that offers gameplay 
 to fit anybody's preference. Like ,all space combat server, all hero/villain server or team kill 
 on or team kill off servers. With still plenty of people still playing to this day its a big plus. 
 A side from a few bugs and glitches this is a good game for anyone to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  I'm impressed... I just love the game... I mostly like to play with jedies but the evil ones... Yup, 
 I prefer the dark side! The graphics is great, and nothing but great... Now back to gameplay! I 
 love to play with villians such as Darth Vader and Darth Maul... I think they're really awsome... 
 Darth Vader has the abillity to fly for some time and Darth Maul has the two-sided Lightsaber... 
 They both look cool... It is great for multiplayer! I played it with my friends and it was freackin' 
 awsome!!! The best Star Wars game if you ask me... (actually, I haven't played any other) ... It's 
 a MUST HAVE to every Star wars fan if you ask me for an opinion! It's a 10/10 perfect... Not a 
 single complain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  They added just about everything I think they should have from Battlefront. It was almost amazing, 
 I was always talking about how Battlefront should have Jedi and Space Battles (as was everyone) 
 but also more subtle things. Like a Death Star level. And a Tantive 4 level. And the option to 
 turn off Auto-aim. And earnable things.
  And they added it all.
  
  So why isn't it a killer game?
  
  Gameplay: Here's the main reason. Somehow the AI just doesn't 
 feel... right. Not many people agree with me on this, so if the rest of the game sounds great to 
 you, buy it and you might not mind. I know everyone (me included) said Battlefront's AI was messed 
 up, and this solves many (all?) of those problems, but now it's just not as intense. There's still 
 the famous soldier freeze (they don't shoot at you for 5 seconds or until you shoot at them) , the 
 jedi jumping and pushing physics feel horrible (with bad push graphics to match) and there are 
 never the giant battles where you're surrounded and you fight your way out of twenty guys only 
 to find yourself with almost zero health and no ammo so you grab your pistol and turn the corner, 
 which is a mistake because there's many more, so you turn and run, but there's more coming from 
 the other side, so you ignite your jetpack and toss a few grenades down and then land right in 
 their command post next to a medical droid, then five more spawn next to you so you have to shoot 
 them all. Quickly. With your pistol.
  
  Anyway, the gameplay leaves something to be desired.
  
  Graphics: This is just like Madden 
 03 and 05. Madden 03 had smooth textures, not overly detailed, but they looked like people. 05 
 added many textures but lost some of the shape, so it looked like a sort of cartoon. A very detailed 
 graphic novel, but still... this is the same way, except in Battlefront 1 the soldiers' heads weren't 
 way too big.
  
  Sound: Return of the John Williams. Only now he's got his episode III tracks. And the sound effects 
 are believable enough.
  
  Value: Decent. If you enjoy this type of shooter you can get a lot of time out of this game. As 
 said there are almost too many features, so knock yourself out.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Somewhat low. If my PC could run Battlefront (very sad, I know) and it didn't 
 have auto aim I'd say it would be better.
  (The strange thing is my PC can run Battlefront II. It has the specs for Battlefront but it doesn't 
 have some Texture and Lighting feature. Which Battlefront II says it needs also but apparently 
 it doesn't.)
  
  One Last Note: Darth Maul p4wns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbear81
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is like the Battlefield series, except it is in a StarWars form. In this game the graphics 
 are just ok, nothing fancy. The sound, is just like the sounds of other weapons. The graphics of 
 the stormtoopers look a little messy, but they sound like the one in the movie. I would say ask 
 a friend and see if you can play it first before you buy it. I would recommend the other Battlefield 
 games to try first, for they have little better quality. The game is fun, and you can play for 
 hours, But once you have it for a while you get a little bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game if you can't afford BF2 or just like SW, if you want my word for it buy this 
 game, BF2 can come later. BF2 and SWBF2 are both great games but SWBF2 is a lot like it in many 
 ways, for example the vehicles, they are very true to SW and are a big portion of gameplay, the 
 only two complaints are that the vehicles are unbalanced because two shots can kill inf and if 
 you work at it you can destroy vehicles bigger than yours if he doesn't get you first. The other 
 con is the a. I sucks out loud, they can't find their way around a fence and find the door, they 
 can't hit the broad side of a barn, but let's spend less time complaining about it's bad spots 
 and go more toward the good points, it's decent graphically and the gameplay is so awesome I can't 
 describe it in words! If you REALLY want to know play it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  All I need to describe Star Wars Battlefront 2 is 4 words- This game is amazing! I picked up this 
 game in late July because the price had dropped 30 bucks. I was completely blown away by how amazing 
 the graphics and sound were. I don't have the original Battlefront so I can't say which is the 
 better of the two. The campaign mode where you play as the 501st is just plain fun, though it could 
 be longer. Galactic Conquest, which is a new feature is very good too, since you can take over 
 the galaxy as the Republic, CIS, Empire, and Rebellion. Also, the ability to play as a Jedi makes 
 battling a whole lot more interesting. Classic space fights that fit in with the movies like Yavin 
 and Hoth are also very fun. If you love Star Wars, then this game is a must for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront was LucasArts' most successful Star Wars title to date (in terms of sales) . And so 
 the release of Battlefront II on PC, PS2 and Xbox should be no surprise. But can it achieve as 
 much success as its father? Unlike Battlefront senior, part two doesn't have the luxury of being 
 new -- it's not the game to finally deliver every Star Wars fan's fantasy of large scale interactive 
 battles. That already happened. Despite whatever flaws were present in the first Battlefront, the 
 ultimate fulfillment of that fantasy was partially responsible for the title's almost universal 
 praise. Being second to bat puts Battlefront II at somewhat of a disadvantage. What then can a 
 sequel do to earn the same kind of love? Well, a sequel can fix issues from the first outing and 
 feature a more refined experience that doesn't require any kind of 'close enough' leniency. Unfortunately, 
 Battlefront II is so similar to Battlefront many gamers might be put off by an uncomfortable impression 
 of having been there and done that. There are many of the same levels, classes, weapons, vehicles, 
 sounds, graphics, animations, characters and problems. But then Lucas is at least trying to keep 
 the dream alive by providing new content we all wished we could enjoy the first time around. Only 
 some of that extra material goes in with mixed results, which ultimately leaves us with a product 
 that doesn't measure up to the potential of the first game, its success, or even the dream that 
 spawned it all. New to Battlefront II are revamped singleplayer modes. In addition to a reinvigorated 
 Galactic Conquest (with more earned goodies and a deeper level of freedom) , players can now partake 
 in Rise of the Empire. This mode chronicles the exploits of the galaxy's famed 501st cloned infantry 
 division with a variety of cool objectives and planned battles. It begins with a simple tutorial 
 on Geonosis, but then spirals out of control as the clones march across the galaxy on one deadly 
 operation after another at the whim of a mad supreme chancellor, Palpatine. Narrated by a clone 
 soldier and spread across a galaxy of war, Rise of the Empire servers as an enjoyable introduction 
 to the basic mechanics and premise of Battlefront II, but also as a worthwhile experience in its 
 own right. This thanks to the varying objectives that update in-mission and the political workings 
 that carry the 501st through Star Wars' major betrayals. The sinister nature of the supreme chancellor, 
 the secrets being kept from the Jedi, the devout preprogrammed obedience of the clones, and the 
 always intense action make for quite an improved game. Two of our gripes with the first title's 
 singleplayer mode were a lack of cohesion and challenge. Both problems have been fixed -- one because 
 of a story and the other because of more demanding objectives. But our third complaint... Bot AI 
 is simply still an issue, which will ultimately leave many players looking at the more enjoyable 
 multiplayer gameplay to pass their time. Singleplayer is fun, definitely, but it doesn't merit 
 a purchase on its own. This is doubly true since the singleplayer game, good as it may be, lacks 
 both the polish of a more heavily scripted and directed title and the character of a more focused 
 action game. Splitscreen on Xbox and PS2 is provided, but most gamers (and all of those on PC) 
 will immediately want to play online. Expect up to 24 players on PS2 with a default of 32 on Xbox 
 and PC. But crucial to the potential greatness or terribleness of online matches is not the number 
 of players. Two of Battlefront II's biggest additions are Jedi and starfighters and they can either 
 make or break online games. Jedi and other super powered hero units (like Han or the Fetts) -- 
 when added to already heated matches by way of a simple rewards and criteria fulfillment system 
 -- create a more intense environment. The side with the hero usually rallies to take additional 
 control nodes or strike more devastating blows against the enemy, while the enemy either flees 
 in horror or assails the hero in force. It's flee or fight. But running is rarely any fun. On the 
 other hand, stubbornly combating a hero unit with thoughts like, I'm going to kill you in spite 
 of your crazy powers is really terrific. That's not to say most players should just run headlong 
 into some lightsaber wielding master's grip, though. On PS2 and Xbox, it's not a good idea to square 
 off against heroes. They will kill you, hard. But frantically dodging and trying to gain a better 
 vantage point is still quite satisfying, so don't just lay down lightly. Think about it this way... 
 When a powerless victim in some horror movie dramatically escapes the wrath of a psycho killer 
 and then quickly turns the table, do you not cheer inside? Trust us, you'll cheer when you score 
 that first engineer vs. Jedi kill without any help. Unless you're playing on PC anyway. It's actually 
 pretty easy to topple Jedi over on that system because with such precise mouse aim comes great 
 power. We found ourselves circle strafing Jedi and pinning them in the head with multiple pistol 
 shots as they flailed about hacking and slashing with little effect. The wild undirected assaults 
 of Jedi often feel clunky, and from a third party's perspective, it can look like marionettes being 
 violently pulled around by some unseen force. This is because in action games of the sort melee 
 fights are typically a bit awkward. And here, with lag and the greater inconvenience of other human 
 players that never hold still, the clunkiness can become incomprehensible insanity. While the spastic 
 combat of the hero units is tolerable in the game's singleplayer modes and even in multiplayer 
 matches where few are present, the hero vs. villains games get way too wild. With any number of 
 players force jumping, sprinting, pushing, pulling and electrocuting their way around a map, a 
 gamer looking for a slick action game will find themselves helplessly bombarded by an array of 
 sloppy in-your-face spurts of sword slashing. It gets so hectic and frustrating, applying any kind 
 of skill to save yourself or vanquish a foe can become impossible. Again, helplessness of the sort 
 is limited to those games exclusively focused on massive battles between equally overpowered characters. 
 For the multiplayer modes that are more conventional (like conquest and the amazingly enjoyable 
 one flag CTF) , Battlefront II's heroes feel manageable. In terms of rides, vehicles this time are 
 perhaps not so dominating as they once were. While players that use grenades and the heavy assault 
 classes over stationary defensives will still have trouble taking out larger machines, the imposing 
 nature of the more destructive vehicles has been toned down. But for all intents and purposes, 
 the basic back and forth shooting of Battlefront is still very much the same. Unlike most sequels 
 that usually follow closely to their predecessors out of choice but often offer new designs and 
 styles, Battlefront is less capable of creating a new experience because of its branding. It's 
 Star Wars, and so there's the Hoth level, the Geonosis level, the Kamino level, the Wookie level, 
 and all the other goodies you'd expect of a Star Wars title. Those maps that have been included 
 look and feel very similar to their original counterparts, albeit with some slight and some heavy 
 design changes (more platforms in Kamino, a reworked pier setup on Kashyyyk) . This is one of Battlefront's 
 more pressing problems. There's such a heavy reliance on established Star Wars planets that it 
 doesn't ever feel like we're doing anything particularly new. Even in the original levels, the 
 game feels used. Most of this sense of overpowering d&eacute; j&agrave; vu is because of the environments 
 and available factions (all seen in previous games or the film) . It might have been cool to get 
 a handle on some ancient Sith or Republicans from KOTOR's era or even the armies as they were represented 
 after the Imperial fall, where Thrawn's remnant still caused trouble for the New Republic. But 
 another reason for all the 'been there and done that' talk is because Battlefront II doesn't add 
 many new gameplay enhancements to the original formula. The basic principles are exactly the same, 
 and no new advanced concepts (like progressive objectives, BF2 style command &amp; conquering, 
 or cycling conquest maps) have been implemented. And so we shoot, shoot, shoot. The shooting itself 
 seems to have been subjected to little change, at least on ground. Now, however, we get to venture 
 into the deep void of space and battle between frigates and destroyers and cruisers of varying 
 shapes and sizes. In terms of control, space combat in Battlefront II is more comparable to Jedi 
 Starfighter than to Rogue Leader. Turning and targeting is smooth, but can become problematic in 
 multiplayer matches with low pings and heavy lag. In an astonishing amount of matches we actually 
 could not even see the missiles and torpedoes we fired. And sometimes, even though the sound effects 
 would play, we couldn't even see our lasers! These problems carried over to all three versions 
 of the game, but on PC it was less evident thanks to an abundant supply of readily available dedicated 
 servers for us to join. In one memorable online match on PS2, I and six other teammates were tailing 
 an enemy flag carrier in a game of one flag CTF. He wasn't even trying to avoid us. We just followed 
 him casually, shooting like madmen and pelting his rear with volley after volley of missiles. There 
 were seven of us, laughing hysterically over the USB headset as none of us could see any of our 
 own attacks, but all of us could see the impacts of the others'. And yet it was to no avail. Our 
 opponent casually sauntered through our goal and then randomly exploded a good 10 seconds later 
 for no apparent reason. Much laughter followed. Inexplicable drops in performance are very, very 
 frustrating in space and land combat, and can be especially damning in those matches that focus 
 on the hero units, frantic as we've established them to be. And the problem is everywhere. All 
 three platforms and all three versions suffered. On PC there is a good supply of solid servers 
 on which to game, and PS2 seems to be very well supported by officially hosted matches that help 
 alleviate the lag issues, but on Xbox, each and every game we tested suffered terribly from a wealth 
 of poor performance issues so bad players within earshot over Live just sat around joking and complaining 
 with one another while trying to do the simplest of things like walk and shoot. It seems then that 
 quite a bit of polish work and a greater amount of dedicated hosts over high bandwidth pipes needs 
 to be provided. But when it works, it really works. Moving from spaceship to spaceship, taking 
 flags, gunning down AT-ATs... It's good. But it's also just like Battlefront. Closing Comments
 
  While Battlefront was a dream realized for many Star Wars fans, Battlefront II is an odd case 
 of d&eacute; j&agrave; vu that boasts two major additions: Jedi and starships. Conceptually, those 
 bonuses complete the Star Wars mystique and lend a much greater degree of authenticity to the game 
 -- even eliciting a deep sense of satisfaction if only because we finally can wield lightsabers 
 and fly starships. Now even though these additional options are granted, their implementation is 
 flawed. And so more than its predecessor, the faults and quirks of Battlefront II stand out and 
 become glaring because the new adds feel unpolished while the old gripes manage to rear their heads 
 for a second time. In a product that should have remedied issues of the past without adding to 
 them, this is a problem. It's because of this that we're inclined to rate Battelfront II a considerable 
 amount lower than its father. Of course, we must still consider that the underlying mechanics behind 
 online shooting and the collaborative use of Star Wars branded vehicles is still obviously decent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Basically, if you're a Star Wars fan, no matter how the flaws of the game affect you, you want 
 to play because its STAR WARS. AI for singleplayer is really hurting. But, to tell you the truth, 
 Space Combat was actually a lot better. There are a few noticable AI flaws. For one, if 2 Jedi 
 are attacking the same thing, at the same time, one might stupidly slash the other dead. Or Ground 
 Vehicles with AI get caught on raised obsticles and in cornors of walls.
  But that is basically healed by the action packd and epic gameplay. The battles are very tense, 
 and you have to do a lot of moving. So, you miss out on most of the AI stupidity, while you are 
 trying to complete a mission.
  Graphics are somewhere between just right, and a little dated. Looks like a Halo 2 graphics engine, 
 to be honest. Still works, and the design and textures really were done right to make it feel like 
 STAR WARS.
  Sound is this games strongest point. It has the Epic Star Wars music, along with some new tracks. 
 And the voice acting and sound effects are really good.
  
  So, to sum it up, this game has pretty much everything a Star Wars fan will love. AI is stupid 
 sometimes; but, riding around in the different vehicles, playing different characters and heros 
 is awesome. I'm really enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LASTDRAGON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  i went to go and get a game for my pc, went to gamestop and saw battlefront 2 i played battlefront 
 1 and loved it so i tried battlefront 2. i loved it also nice graphics alot of maps including space 
 fight... awsome! sound is good gunshots, what u can expect in star wars the lazer sound really fits 
 star wars bw.
  those are the good points now to the bad points.
  this games missions are really repetitive alot of taking bases thats prorbly all.
  another bad 
 point is the a. i i mean damn when im shooting at u that means i want you to shoot back i actually 
 got a fottage of this in youtube i stand in front of a rebel and waited 5:00 minutes!!!! that guy 
 didnt do anything and your own guys dont do much.
  and i love the multiplayer, and i love the mods u can put in here overall this game is worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Star wars battlefront 2 is an average game which I didnt much care for. Im sure there are alot 
 of people who like the battlefront games but I couldnt really get into it very much. The game basically 
 has you starting out with an assortment of troops you can pick from which at first are republic 
 commandos and eventually midway through the game stormtroopers. The troops have a few different 
 functions like the engineer can repair the ammo stations and medic units. Another useful one is 
 the heavy trooper for taking out tanks and gun emplacements. Most of the others i didnt find much 
 use for and was using the basic stormtrooper soldier for most of the game. The game alows you to 
 get hero units after certain objectives like capturing a checkpoint are met. Most of the missions 
 go by very quickly but alot of them i had to replay a few times because i couldnt get it right. 
 There are also space missions which are pretty fun as well allowing you to pilot tie fighters and 
 xwings and even land them in the enemy hanger to get out and destroy the ships systems internally. 
 The games graphics are good but nothing really that great. The sound effects are exactly what you 
 would expect from a star wars game. The lasers, the voices of the troopers, the music its all in 
 there. I just couldnt really bring myself to finish the game, im on the 2nd to the last mission 
 but dont think ill be finishing it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit91
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  My & my mates loved Battlefront one & then they announced this+loads of new stuff & we went crazy, 
 we then bought it & were slightly disappointed, there is loads to do & see & its a great game but 
 it wasn't really any better to the first one which was a bit of a disappointment
  
  GAMPLAY:-Brilliant, it's so fun & exciting & battles sre rarely the same
  
  GRAPHICS:-Could 
 have been better especially as it's on PC
  
  SOUND:-Quite nice, screams, commands & lightsaber *SHWINGS* all sound lovely Overall it's great 
 destroying huge starships or becoming a rampaging Yoda but they are really the only different thing 
 apart from 1+ its price tag so if thats what you want to do, be my guest :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsanczyk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  You can fight as a Jedi, using the force and the mighty lightsabers. Well, "Jedi Knigth" is sure 
 better, but it's very good too.
  
  You can flight the starfigthers, all of them. In this sense is the best, neither "Rouge Squadron", 
 "X-Wing Alliance" or "Starfigthers" can be compared whit it.
  
  If these two things don't impressed you, you can play at the traditional use, firing your blasters, 
 and driving many vehicles.
  
  This game is excellent for those melancholics old Star Wars game players. I think that you will 
 dedicate many hours to play it with your friends, as of course I did. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I'll start with a word of advice, when you see a realy cool trailer to a game don't think that 
 the game is the way the trailer says, because you may be disapointed. That's the case with Battlefront 
 II ( BF II) . I didn't play the first one because I just thought it to be a console ported TPS. And 
 it prettey much was and me beeing a huge SW fan said" No no Jedi, no space vechicles no deal". 
 Then BF II came out, and I saw the trailer... well as I said before I'm a huge SW fan; I saw space 
 vehichles, original SW music and most of all Jedi !!! Finaly I got a hold of it and well it was 
 exactly what I didn't expect.
  The Jedi/Hero action is out of logic I mean c'mon the movement sucks and why the hell did they 
 give them so much power that beyoned the fact that the enemyes come tens at a time and attack only 
 you, so your health goes a lot that way you hero's health just goes. That desn't make it fun it 
 just makes it hard and punishing.
  Now the big part of the game you'll be a clone that idea I like you die once you respawn for a 
 number of times but that get's repetitive and frustraiting from time to time. Talking obout repetitive 
 the game is often super boring the missions are all the same in all you do the same things : retrive 
 something, kill someone, and take comand posts and that's it, an objective allways has to be something 
 mentioned above, and that's only one of the many objectives you'll find in a mission. So the game 
 is just uber repetitive.
  Oh and final thing the team AI is just dumb.
  So as averdict this game is made for whom ever lioved BF I but didn't expect much improvment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  This is a good game because it adds several new fun features that the first SWBF didn't have it. 
 It also adds Episode III content and levels. Some bad things is that the space fights are playing 
 as a Jedi aren't as fun as the advertising for the game made it seem like. Also the campagin for 
 Rise Of The Empire is hard, interesting, and fun but it feels like it left too early because it 
 ends with the Battle of Hoth instead of going to the Battle of Endor or beyond. Also the AI has 
 been often made to have unlimited numbers of spawn tickets while your team only has limited support 
 and the AI on your team normally takes more tickets than you by doing stupid things. The graphics 
 are good, the sounds are good, and the gameplay is mostly good, the value is good, overall this 
 is a good game even if it has a few issues. I would reccomend you to buy this game and also buy 
 it for the PSP (which I have also reviewed it for) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is another Star Wars game based on the, you guessed it, popular Sci-Fi 
 movie series. Now given all that, I wish there were more original Star Wars Adventures that don't 
 necessarily deal with Darth Vader, Obi-Wan, Luke, or any of the other guys that you have seen in 
 the movies. Having said all that, most of the campaign stages actually take place between Episodes 
 III and IV. In the Campaign mode, you start off on the planet of Geonosis in which your Clone Army 
 attempts to thwart the Separatists movement (it's funny that in this game they are known as the 
 CIS or Confederate Intergalactic Systems, but the movies never tell you this; I hate those underground 
 references) reliving the Episode II battles. Actually, this is part of the training mode in case 
 you never played the original. If you want to skip the training, you begin in the planet of Mygeeto, 
 again, dealing with the Separatists. This is in reference to Episode III in which you battle with 
 Jedi Master Ki-Adi-Mundi (the conehead Jedi) . After that you do battle in more planets against 
 the Separatists until the Emperor takes control of the Galaxy. Then, as the new Stormtroopers, 
 you begin to deal with the Rebellion until Episode V. The backstory between Episodes III and IV 
 are actually very interesting. The Queen of Naboo after the birth of the Empire rebels against 
 you and you must take her down; the indigenous tribes of Geonosis are attempting to build a new 
 Droid Army to take down the Empire; even in the seemingly peaceful planet of Kamino is building 
 a new Clone Army for the same purpose. While the backstories do seem to bring great interest (if 
 you're a Star Wars fan) , the gameplay throughout is mostly the same. You get to choose which type 
 of soldier you want to bring in the battle: the regular shooting solider, the heavy artillery soldier 
 with the rockets, the sniper, the engineer, the leader, or a jet trooper. Depending on how well 
 you do in battle without getting killed, you'll eventually get rewarded with a "hero" (a funny 
 name because you also get to pick the bad guys too, depending on what type of army you have, so 
 I'll call them "leaders") , and with that, you are able to take down the enemy soldiers very easily. 
 The catch is that you must kill your opponents for your leader to maintain health because with 
 each passing time, your health decreases. Needless to say, taking hits will decrease your health 
 even more. Also depending on the soldier, you are awarded medals in which you unlock special bonuses 
 like stronger attacks or defenses, depending on who your soldier is (I think this doesn't work 
 for your leader; you must be soldier to obtain those feats) . The Galactic Conquest is almost no 
 different than what you see in the movies. You can either be the Republic, the Separatists, the 
 Empire or the Rebellion. In this mode you must conquer the planets of the Star Wars Galaxy. After 
 conquering planets or space battles, you earn credits to build your army (I recommend you doing 
 that first) and use bonus materials to help you win planetary battles (I recommend the Leader, 
 the Garrison, and the Sabotoge) . Unless you're a Star Wars freak or are interested in just gaining 
 medals to improve your soldier, this mode is of really no consequence. I said this because this 
 doesn't carry weight or mulitplayer online battles, which could've given you more incentive to 
 play. Of course, not all battles are in the ground. Some also take place in space. Most of the 
 time, your job is to destroy enemy space fleets by destroying the enemy frigates (those surrounding 
 the main enemy ship) , and other material of significance (communications, life support, bridge 
 towers, engines, etc) . The only catch is since your space ship in constantly on the move, so you 
 can't rest in the middle of flying or else your ship gets destroyed. The online mutiplayer game 
 is just like any other shooting game: a deathmatch, capture-the-flag, conquest, etc. Your selection 
 of opponents and leaders are extremely limited. They depend on the era of those battles. In the 
 Clone Wars, its the Republic vs. the CIS; in the Galactic Empire, its the Empire vs. the Rebellion. 
 There is no Empire vs. CIS, nor Republic vs. the Rebels, so on and so forth. Also, your leaders 
 appear based on not only the era, but also on what planet you're in. For instance, if you're in 
 Geonosis, and you're the republic, you only play Mace Windu; you cannot pick Obi-Wan, Yoda, Anakin, 
 Ki-Adi-Mundi, etc. The Force Leaders (Jedi and Sith) deliver powerful lightsaber blows and are 
 very quick when running, while the non-Force leaders (Han Solo, Princess Leia, the Fetts) deliver 
 one-shot kills. The most notable MIAs are Qui-Gon Jinn and Lando Calrissian, who would've made 
 nice additions to the game.
  
  The graphics in this game, especially the space battles near the planets, are very well-detailed, 
 realistic, and true to the Star Wars saga. The music is obviously derived from John Williams score 
 that keeps this game as Star Wars as possible.
  
  I can only wish that there are more Star Wars games that, in terms of storyline, are original, 
 like Knights of the Old Republic, but if you're a Star Wars movie fan, then this game is definitely 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This is really kl cause you're telling a whole series of film in an interesting gameplay concept 
 from battlefield and I thought it was amazing and fun same here along with the space battles and 
 jedi and sith it's great graphics aren't too bad I mean while characters don't look too bad the 
 vehicles look awesome and the environments are also something to be remembered I mean when you 
 play this game you'd be amazed about the fact that you could play that battle in which you thought 
 you'd never battle cause they were from films and alot of value is in this you got loads of campains 
 and the multiplayer unfortunately no co-op sucks although I wonder if there's any co-op on the 
 consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Trooper92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Wehen I first got the Game I was like "Another great game from LUCASARTS" but I felt disappointed 
 when I finished the story mode cuz sometimes the AI is retarted. Like people in multiplayer glitch 
 alot and cheat like hell. That is cheap multiplayer, atleat lucas arts released a patch to make 
 no cheats sort of like punkbuster. The reason i didnt enjoy the story that much was because the 
 AI never put up any resistance and never used real techniques. Maybe in the next game like Battlefront 
 2 they could add a punkbuster to stop cheats and glitches, And u actually get money for completing 
 campaign and u get to upgrade ur weapons. But in total this was a cool game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  A very good game a major improvement on the original big time. I played this game for countless 
 hours because i loved it and atleast its not like some star war games that is only on one era atleast 
 this game does both eras. For me i love the clone war era better. Just wish star wars empire at 
 war had the clone war era instead. This game has good graphics and sound and gameplay is very good 
 u can beat it and still go back and do somthing else. I very nice game indeed this is perfection 
 at its finest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holysoldier000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with a modest beginning and the difficulty builds on. This game enforces teamwork 
 rather than it's predecessor tell them to come than shoot like a maniac. There is a reward system 
 for a high amount of killing, the on-line was very nice, and the arcade mode was enjoyable. Capture 
 the flag was a breath of fresh air. The action was fast paced, entertaining, difficult at times 
 but worth the challenge. There were traps, dangerous setups, and some locations had a supreme fortitude. 
 All in all it had a good story, battle system, and fun intense missions. P. S. this game is ot for 
 the weak stomached this game requires quick reaction time, and a fair amount of reflexes, and the 
 fact it's on the computer makes all the much harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelscience
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  "Star Wars BattleFront 2 is a top notch Sci-Fi FPS with a lot to offer." BattleFront 2's campaign 
 follows the exploits of a division of the Clone Army, the 501st. The plot itself is virtually nothing 
 new, and is strung together with pre-rendered in-game cinematic, which feature an unseen clone 
 trooper who provides lackluster voice-over. These are interspersed with appropriate clips taken 
 directly from Episode III. The events of the campaign missions are almost entirely scripted, and 
 leave something to be desired. Rather than serving as a gentle means by which to introduce you 
 to the game, you are thrust into the thick of it after completing a brief orientation during your 
 "first day" of combat on the planet of Geonosis. Each subsequent mission has a series or set goals 
 which must be accomplished in order, to achieve victory. Another condition of victory is that your 
 team must not run out of reinforcements. The problem arises in the fact that your opponent is often 
 supplied with limitless troops while your force has only five or six dozen reinforcements that 
 are apportioned as objectives are completed. This mechanic was probably intended to encourage the 
 gamer to take a more aggressive approach to the missions instead of just waiting the computer out. 
 In my experience it only served to slow, and sometimes stop, my progress through the campaign entirely, 
 unable to reclaim spawn locations from a never ending stream of opponents. Several other modes 
 of play I found to be much more spontaneous and enjoyable. Galactic Conquest for example, allows 
 you the opportunity to conqueror the galaxy as one of the four factions, from the two different 
 Star Wars eras. You can play as the Republic clones, or the CIS droids, from the Clone Wars; or 
 you can play as the Empire storm troopers, or the Rebels from the second age. This partially turn-based 
 variation, offers an interesting change of pace with a layer of galactic strategy. During each 
 turn a number of options are available, such as: building or moving one of your fleets, hiring 
 a new variation of troop for land or space battles, or purchasing a special combat bonus to be 
 applied to a future battle. All of these functions, besides moving fleets, cost credits, which 
 are acquired one of two ways. The first is through the collection of tribute. Each planet has a 
 set monthly contribution when it is under your control, which is added to your total at the beginning 
 of each turn. The second means of income is engaging in battle, at the end of which the victor 
 is awarded approx. 700 - 900 credits, and the loser is awarded 200 - 400 credits. Each individual 
 battle lasts about five to ten minutes, taking about five hours to conqueror and defend each of 
 the thirteen planets (including space battles) . Given the ability to play as all 4 factions in 
 this game play mode adds at least another 20 hours of gameplay, and that was only on the lesser 
 difficulty. New to BattleFront is the concept of space combat. Each faction has access to four 
 basic ship types, a transport, bomber, hybrid fighter-bomber, and a straight-out fighter. Controlling 
 the ships is done by ways of three independent axis of movement. Doing so while maintaining any 
 semblance of precision when using a keyboard in lieu of a joystick, is by no means an easy task, 
 but in time will become second nature. It took about an hour of practice, and well mapped controls, 
 before I became proficient enough to "turn the tide" of a battle, but the learning curve would 
 be far less steep with the aid of a joystick. And for anyone totally opposed to space combat, you'll 
 be pleased to hear that you're given the option to "bypass space" during the campaign, letting 
 you tackle only the story's ground mission aspects. Speaking of gameplay on the ground, it's quite 
 good. None of the weapons feel overpowered, and each has it's own preferred application. Environments 
 are well realized too. The misty swamps of Dagobah lend themselves to ambushes with their reduced 
 view distances, and ample tree cover. On the opposite end of the spectrum are the wide open, icy 
 plains of Hoth, on which a well placed sniper can dominate from afar. Different still is the planet 
 of Tatooine, on which you battle house-to-house through the sandy windswept streets of Mos Eisley. 
 The lack of vehicles on this map is compensated for with plenty of turret emplacements both on 
 ground level and mounted on buildings. This provides an excellent tactical element. SWBF2's graphics 
 are up to snuff with the standards of most of todays games, but are still humbled by the likes 
 of Oblivion. Of course the advantage of having non-cutting edge graphics is that stuttering, a 
 crippling pitfall for any FPS, is virtually non-existent on mid to high-end gaming rigs. Sound 
 is becoming a null issue with Lucas Arts Star Wars games. Everything sounds the way you think it 
 should, and the musical score is of the standard motivational Star Wars fare, with some strong 
 orchestral tracks recognizable from Episode III. Eight months after it's release it's a bargain 
 at its going rate of $19.99 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront II is clearly better than Battlefront. In this game we can fly spacecraft 
 in the space! In the first game, it is only possible above the gorund maps. In the space, troops 
 (pilots) spawn in the hangar and they choose from a variety of spacecrafts (Empire: Shuttle, tie 
 fighter, tie interceptor and tie bomber; Rebels: Shuttle, a-wing, x-wing, y-wing) .
  
  There are 4 factions again in two ages (Empiric age and democratic age) So you can control CIS, 
 Clone troopers, New Order's troopers and Rebel Allaince...
  
  There is a medal awarding system, which boosts you during the combat. You can find information 
 about the medal system in Hints & Cheats section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  SWBF2 single player mode/campaign mode isn't that great actually but considering this really is 
 a multiplayer game, thats where its strength is, and boy is it strong. Multiplayer games generally 
 are hacker/cheater free but now and again, unfortuntely theres a few who ruin the fun with aimbots 
 and other hacks.
  
  Typical Star Wars gameplay, play either as the Rebels/Clones or the Empire/CIS in an all-out war, 
 plenty of vehicles on the ground ranging from the all powerful AT-ATs to the tiny speeder bikes, 
 the game does have some unbalances such as the AT-ATs are extremely difficult for newer players 
 to deal with, whilst at the same time, players who play the Empire and jump into one rack up kills 
 really easy. The space battles mode is a welcome change to the genre, could be a little better 
 but overall its pretty good fun.
  
  AI is strange in single player//bot matches, one moment they would be acting all dumb and inaccurate 
 whilst the next they become deadly accurate, especially annoying in space battles where you could 
 be really doing great then one shotted... still doesn't ruin the game, in some ways enhances the 
 gameplay especially when you're on the losing side.
  
  Heroes, such as jedi are a welcome change to the game, they can swing the battle very easily and 
 make the game more enjoyable, the only downside is that in many ways there a little overly-powerful 
 whilst some heroes are pretty sucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of levels, Gameplay options, heroes, space battles, some of the visuals actually 
 look quite impressive, value lasts a long time
  
  The Bad: When the novelty wears off it gets rather repetitive, ridiculously stupid A. I., heroes 
 are both abused and hard to kill 
  
  Sequels always had a bad connotation. The sequel is always better in some ways, but worse in others, 
 right? Its really hard to find a sequel thats truly better. Battlefront 2 is that one sequel. 
 A number of little and big things bogged the first one down. No space fights? Meh. I have to leave 
 the heroes to the rather dumb A. I.? Lame. I cant switch class without killing myself? What gives? 
 All of these and more were switched in Battlefront 2, and good riddance. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty simple. You start out with four character classes. A standard infantry with 
 an assault weapon, a rocket dude for when that tank doesnt take a hint, a sniper for those of 
 you who can make the slow traveling sniper shot hit anything, and a shotgun wielding engineer who 
 can repair vehicles and other things. Then, each army of the four has two special units, which 
 you unlock mid game after acquiring a certain amount of points (who actually calls it points anymore?) 
 After you pick your classyou shoot people. Nothing else to it. Theres an array of vehicles to 
 choose from, and unlike in the last game you can fire more than three shots with any given laser 
 without it over heating! Another thing fixed! I swear, the vehicles in the first game over heated 
 so quick that it was easier to shoot people with your gunAnyway, vehicles arent very common in 
 most stages, and if you play against anyone other than the stupid computers then youll get killed 
 out of them really easily. Between fusion cutters, which can jack you out of vehicles, rocket launchers 
 combined with critical hit spots, and multiple grenades attached to you the moment you enter a 
 battlefront, you get killed very quickly.
  
  The game modes are Conquest; basically kill everyone and whichever team runs out of reinforcements 
 loses, CTF, Hunt; where you hunt indigenous species, and Assault, where whichever team accumulates 
 the point amount first wins. Space matches are either CTF or Assault, and you get varying point 
 amounts for destroying the critical systems on the cruisers. Space battles are fun with the numerous 
 ways to tackle them. You can hang back in your cruisers turrets and pick people off, you can directly 
 assault the inside of the ship by taking a squad of people in a gunship and knock out certain systems 
 from there, you can dog fight and hope the one point per kill racks up the advantage over the other 
 team (not likely) , or you can take a bomber and assault the ship from the outside, and hope the 
 people inside knocked out the shields first
  
  I forgot about heroes! Heroes are pretty cool. You get them in a number of ways that I wont go 
 into here, but basically you have your array of Jedi and Sith (wheres Qui-Gon?) and also Boba 
 and Jango Fett, and Han, Leia, Chewie, who all use guns. Heroes are really only special for one 
 reason. The way life works. They have a large life-bar, and it slowly but constantly goes down. 
 However, every time you kill an enemy, it goes up. A good player can stay as a hero a very long 
 time. That said, they also can block shots (if they have lightsabers) and other cool stuff that 
 other guys cant. 
  
  Graphics are good in some places and bad in others. Certain things look fantastic, and others are 
 so-so. I cant really explain itjust the level of detail on certain things looks quite good. Levels 
 are nicely designed, with little things here and there to make Star Wars fans happy.
  
  Sound is great stuff. I love the array of blaster effects, the music, the voice acting, and the 
 background noises all make the experience that much better.
  
  This game lasts quite a bit. The matches never turn out the same way twice, and there are lots 
 of maps and game options to keep things interesting. While it takes no time at all to pick it up 
 and play it, it takes lots of time to truly master the game and dominate the noobz online like 
 me :P. Also, theres the inclusion of bonuses. A really neat touch. Basically, if you kill X amount 
 of people with X gun you get a beefed up version like the ones Jango and Boba use for the pistol 
 and rifle, or just a beefed up shotgun or remote controlled rockets. The rockets isnt determined 
 by kills, but by critical hits on a vehicle in on life. You get these mid match, and then lose 
 them after the game ends. However, if you get them X amount of times then you keep it for good. 
 I dont have any of the weapons for good, but I have some of the other non-weapon bonuses already.
 
  
  Bottom line: A really good Star Wars game, some cool game modes and the nice campaignthatIforgottocover 
 *flinches for blow*, make it worth a rental or a purchase if its cheap enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is disapointing, Multiplayer sucks with all the 'rules' on every server and getting kicked 
 all the time, the AI is just stupid, and this game is a total let down, Do not buy it, it sucks, 
 it just sucks. The main reason this game's multiplayer sucks is because hosts kick everyone for 
 not a good enough reason. The campaign is interesting, but gets repetitive. Get battlefield 2, 
 not Battlefront 2, Battlefield 2 is better, and so what if you can fight in space? just go as a 
 pilot, fly a ship into their hanger get out and blow everything up with ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingworldwide
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game adds a substational amound of stuff that add to the gameplay. First off the best thing 
 it adds is SPACE BATTLES which is the best part about it espicially in multiplayer where you can 
 go into peoples motherships and destroy there shields, lifesupport and all that stuff. The gameplay 
 is fun on either third or first person camera. The veicles are fun to control and you can play 
 this game for a good amount of time to unlock awards to help you in comabt and they HELP ALOT!!!!! 
 This game tho added one new thing that every star wars game must have of course you can already 
 guess it... JEDIS. Jedis? in battlefront like wats with tat?!?!?!? Though they add jedi's in battlefront 
 it turns out well as they balance them out so you could still get a good amount of kills but atleast 
 DIE while doing it. I never tried mods and i dont think any of them are good at all so stick with 
 the original game which is supurb. Worth the price and worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I didn't know if it could live up to the first one or if it would flop. The 
 first game was great and this one was better in many ways. The units, being able to play jedi, 
 boba fett and all that made me love this game.
  
  I jumped into it, then went right to into single player. I loved it until... i realized that AI 
 in this game stood for artificial idiociy. In the story mode the npc's don't seem to really care 
 about completing the object, also i noicted that every other enime troop can take a spawn point 
 but I am the only one on my side who can take one for us. So if i die with 40 of my guys on a point 
 and 1 of theirs there, then they get that spawn point. If you can put aside the AI then you will 
 have a great game on your had, great enough to be perfect, but I belive their AI holds that back.
 
  
  How ever there is a good side to their AI. If you do not play the story but instead play instant 
 action or galatic conquest, the AI seems way better and the npc's really help you take over control 
 points. This game is one of the few that bring the star wars out in well star wars. I give this 
 a 8.7 for the over all game. It would of been a 10 if they used a diffrent AI system but there 
 is not much you can do but deal with it or play a diffrent mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was a tough buy for me because of my previous "blah" reaction towards Battlefront 1. 
 I always thought the first was missing many details, like space combat, Jedi usage, and the fine 
 details of panetary air combat.
  
  I was happy to see a few of these issues not only addressed, but somewhat fixed in Battlefront 
 2. 
  
  Graphically, there is some visual upgrade especially with the space battles, blurring effects are 
 nice, and the ship and environmental visuals look great. The only problems I have is not enough 
 AA / HDR capabilities, and there is a restricted number of native resolutons not available, like 
 1440 x 900 is not available.
  
  Sound: Not unexpected the sounds are akin to the movies, and when a tie flies by you are offered 
 the unique roar of its engines. The music is done well, and compared to the previous title Battlefront 
 2 could be considered on par or better than Battlefront 1. 
  
  Gameplay : Pretty good, nothing new to the ground combat, Jedi and Sith are nice add-ons. Space 
 Combat should be noted as being more free roaming, but can be very tough. Joystick capabilities 
 are available.
  
  Overall, a good title to those enojoy the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront two is the sequel to the first battlefront released a few years ago. The 
 game goes through the clone wars, and a bit of the galactic civil wars of the old star wars movies. 
 The graphics are for sure beefed up to look way more better and what's really sweet about this 
 one is that you can finally take control of jedi instead of having near-invincibe jedi allies on 
 the field with you like the first one
  
  The control of the jedi just rocks! you can just cut up dudes like hell! but if you have like 10 
 enemies firing at you, you shouldn't expect to play that character any longer since the more dudes 
 you kill ,the more time you get to kill stuff. But if you manage to survive onslaughts of soldiers 
 as a jedi, you might have a chance of playing the entire mission as a jedi. For some reason, the 
 game repeats the Hoth mission also found in the first game, weired. But it is still fun to play 
 a AT-AT and crush dudes or just shoot em with your powerful lasers. (sooo fun) The game is pretty 
 short in which an experienced gamer can breeze through in less than 6 hours. Although the game 
 has no replay value the game is still fun to play what with new space combat, invincible jedi to 
 control and cut the hell out of clones and droids and still retaining the shooting aspect of the 
 game. This is an enjoyable experience that any Star Wars fan would enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkessler14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  the best multiplayer, single player and maps made in star wars history of gamesi spend most of my 
 time online . One really tough person online is darkened saber really tough (but if you you are 
 sniper you can kill him easily) . Ive had this game for three months and im really good online real 
 easy real fun 
  
  controls
  wasd&arrow keys to move
  left mouse to shoot
  right mouse to throw grenges and mines
  scroll down to chang your weapon
  scroll up is to change 
 to grenades or mines
  q is to change to third of first peson view
  
  and much much more controls 
  
  best game ever its worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvanusll
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 adds new maps and other new additions while still sticking to the formula 
 of the original game, making great for Star Wars fans and any tactical shooters.
  
  Perhaps the best new addition to Battlefront is the space combat, and it is done incredibly well. 
 Huge capital ships, frigates, and many small fighters flying around really draws you in to the 
 space battles in the movies. But if there was one thing to complain about the space combat, it 
 would be that pretty much all of the battles are the same. Either destroy the enemy capital ship 
 from the outside or go inside the hanger and blow it up from the enemy hanger. The only difference 
 in any of them is if you are fighting above different planets. Other than that, the space battles 
 can get very repetive.
  
  Another new addition is the introduction of heroes on planetary battles. Most of them are Jedi, 
 but you do have the oppurtunity to play other heroes and villians such as Han Solo and Boba Fett. 
 
  
  The Single Player mode of Battlefront has a couple of modes, one of them being Rise Of The Empire, 
 a campaign telling the story of the 501st clone troopers who start good and then bad under the 
 command of Darth Vader. The campaign takes you from the beginning of the Clone Wars, to the transformation 
 of Anakin into Vader in a series of assault style missions like the Battlefield series.
  
  The other mode that has been greatly improved on from the first Battlefront is Galatic Conquest, 
 which is a turn based mode where you take your forces around the galaxy and conquering planets 
 in conquest style battles.
  During these battles, you get credits from the planets you control and any victories you gain, 
 which can be used to spend on recruting units and purchasing bonuses. There are 4 types to choose 
 from (1 for each faction) , but all of them play the same and can be frustrating with the AI. The 
 AI can take out enemies on their own and shout gernade and other warnings, but they get stuck sometimes 
 and never have the same idea as you have. You can go on a different path fighting masses of troops 
 while your teammates can stand on the other side idle waiting for an enemy to show up. But that 
 is where the multiplayer shines. Multiplayer matches can have up to 64 players on a server, so 
 you dont have to have any annoying AI problems.
  
  Some tactical shooters may not like Battlefront 2 as much as other shooters out there for the PC. 
 If you're a hardcore Star Wars fan, this shouldn't be a problem though. Battlefront 2 has a very 
 noticable arcade-like feel to it that may turn some people away from it.
  
  There are some other problems in Battlefront 2. Awards can be gained by killing troops, capturing 
 command posts, and other actions to get points. Getting the right amount of points or completing 
 certain tasks (such as getting 6 headshots in one life) give you special awards like weapons and 
 regeneration. But sometimes you may not get the award after getting the requirements for that particular 
 reward.
  
  Also, vehicles feel pasted in. For one there aren't available in every single map, but also there 
 are not a big variety in planetary combat. Although Battlefront 2 focuses mainly on infantry combat, 
 it would of been nice to see more work done on the vehicles in the game.
  
  The sound in Battlefront 2 is the thing that stands the most. Blaster fire and TIE Fighters whizzing 
 by feel correct, and the soundtrack is the Star Wars music that everyone recognizes. Graphics are 
 good no matter who you are playing. It can get stuttering at times when a lot of action is on screen, 
 but it is nothing major that keeps you from playing the game.
  
  If you are a tactical shooter fan, you may not be as pleased with this game as others out there. 
 But if you are a Star Wars fanatic, this is a game you should play no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigben12020
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battle Front 2 is the best star wars game yet! I love the game play. But if your one of 
 those people that don't like Star Wars rent it first. This game is one of the best games I have 
 ever played. I loved this game and I think you will love it to. I recommend star wars games to everybody 
 who loves Star Wars! I wonder if they will make star wars battle front 3. That would be awesome! 
 Play hoth on battle front 2. That level is the best level in the world. First start out on training 
 and than go to the campaign. then go to space review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  This is not very different to the previous Battlefront. The maps are the same, except they added 
 a couple more maps to accompany the existing maps. The graphics have been increased in quality 
 but not as much as I expected from a sequel- they just changed the models (of the clones, and droids 
 are basically the same, same with Rebels and Imperials) and added better anti-aliasing and much 
 better lighting. 
  Another thing that is added to the game are the ever-so-cool Heroes. But it gets repetitive playing 
 as Luke and Vader all the time. Space battles are a much different approach, and it is fun, yet 
 it is harder than it was in the first SWBF, and you can't play Battle Over Coruscant in instant 
 action! That is a total letdown. 
  
  A good thing is that it loads very, very quickly, and is great for a short 'shoot-em-up' game in 
 spare time. Also, Obi-Wan's departure speech is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTay67
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Now, we all know that Battlefront was a huge success. That Lucasarts said that it was their best-selling 
 game of all time. I knew this would happen again with the addition of Battlefront 2.
  With Battlefront 2's new levels, the space combat, being able to be a Jedi, and new skins for the 
 troops this game couldn't be said anything other than a "Great Star Wars Game". Also with Lucasart's 
 new additions, KOTOR 2, Empire at War, Republic Commando, and Lego Star Wars, Battlefront 2 will 
 be just as good as these or even better in some aspects. Now I am very addicted to this game. It 
 has all the stuff that makes you come back for more and the fact that "No Two Battles Are the Same". 
 Space Combat is also the biggest addition to the game as well. Killing X-Wings in space is just 
 friggin' awesome! So, there is my input on this great game and I hope to see more of these great 
 Star Wars Game in the Future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rljthesim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Great game, really great. Good first person shooter, and still very well placed in the star wars 
 theme. I really got back into star wars, I watched the full series again bought a lightsaber etc. 
 etc. everybody around me including my mum asked me if I had suddenly gone nuts!
  
  The graphics are not that bad and the AI is better then in swbf 1. For instance you can now kill 
 jedi :-) .
  
  The music is great but yet then again its just the star wars music...
  
  Thats all for now folks, and may the force be with you.
  
  Ryan
  
  PS. did you notice that 
 I skipped the lame, "may the pork's/forks be with you."? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty close to the first, but the graphics are better, more of a storyline and of 
 course, new maps that span many types of terrain.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were good, especially when you go in a space fight, with all the explosions all over, 
 asteroids and laser fire all around. The colors on the maps were interesting, though one of the 
 maps reminded me of hell... Pools of lava, dark stuff and all, and another happy tropical ish map. 
 Graphics are not much to talk about, though they're not good or bad... the graphics a game in Pergatory 
 would have.
  
  Sound:
  The sound I thought was great, though like all othr laser guns in games they weren't exactly the 
 type that would make you happy... The voice and radio sounds I thought were great, so you won't 
 ever have to turn on subtitles since it's so clear.
  
  Gameplay:
  Not too bad, of course a huge variety of futuristic vehgicles, which allow for many types of assaults 
 and all. The story was just like in the first one, only now thy had a video to go with the narration 
 thing... The multiplayer is fun enouhg, though it lags a lot and stuff...
  
  Overall the game was great, and you might wanna rent it first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damofozz
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This is a very ambitious game that tries to include nearly everything in the Star Wars universe -- from 
 Jedis and high-tech weapons to space battles and land invasions -- in a single package. For the most 
 part, it pulls this off credibly.
  
  This game is primarily a first-person shooter, although it includes some simple flight simulation 
 and strategic gameplay. The single-player campaign focuses on Darth Vader's unit, the 501st squad 
 of Clone troopers seen in the most recent Star Wars movies. Over the course of about 16 missions, 
 you'll go from classic location to location, fighting against rebels, Wookies, droid armies, Jedi, 
 and others as you tighten the emperor's grasp upon the galaxy. There are a couple truly great missions. 
 For example, the best mission of the campaign was a reenactment of the capture and invasion of 
 Princess Leia's ship, as seen at the beginnning of Episode IV. It's an intense, nearly perfect 
 rendition of the movie scene, with Vader and his army of stormtroopers entering the captured ship 
 through a hole blasted in its hull and battling it out with rebels. Overall, the campaign is well 
 put together and should last 15-20 hours. My major complaint is that the missions vary wildly in 
 difficulty, from those which should be easily finished by casual gamers to others that will require 
 as many as 10-20 attempts to complete for even a serious gamer. Needless to say, your frustration 
 level will likely get high after trying to conquer Hoth (the last and toughest mission) after the 
 tenth failed attempt. 
  
  The game has three gameplay modes. First, there are space battles. Generally, these are well done. 
 The ships are detailed and scaled well, and you get an opportunity to fly many different kinds 
 of craft. You can even land inside of an enemy capital ship, destroy vital systems, shoot it out 
 with enemy soldier, and even fly off in an enemy ship. The flight simulation feels a lot like the 
 old X-wing and TIE fighter games, but with vastly improved graphics. The second part of the game -- and 
 the major focus -- is the land battles. These involve fighting to control certain points of the map, 
 which produce reinforcements for your army. As long as you have reinforcements, you respawn after 
 dying and can choose from among several classes to return as (e. g., trooper, engineer, scout, etc) . 
 If you hold certain captured points, you'll be able to respawn as a hero character like Vader or 
 Boba Fett. These characters are powerful, but not unstoppable, and they are usually appropriate 
 to their environment. Playing as a Jedi is enjoyable, but does not have the same depth of control 
 and tactics as Jedi Outcast or Jedi Academy. Still, the entrance of a hero onto the scene definitely 
 gets noticed. 
  
  The third element of gameplay is a Risk-like game called Galactic Conquest mode that allows you 
 to fight a computer enemy on a map of 15 planets. The object is to conquer all the planets (classic 
 Star Wars places like Hoth, Kamino, Tattooine, etc.) and destroy the enemy fleets. It's a decent 
 diversion for a while and should give the game some replay value. Additionally, there are various 
 skirmish and quick-play modes. One of the draws for this game is the multiplayer capacity, which 
 is probably quite fun though I haven't played it (I'm strictly a solo gamer) . 
  
  The game is well polished, and I experienced no bugs in the campaign except that I never managed 
 to get the imperial officer's chaingun to work. The instruction book is thin but provides the necessary 
 basics, and there is a decent in-game tutorial. Unfortunately, the game does not allow any saves 
 within missions, which will be a bit annoying during a few of the tougher campaign missions. However, 
 the interface is clean and understandable and all of the controls can be customized for a keyboard, 
 mouse, and/or gamepad. 
  
  Finally, I feared that the AI in this game was going to be bad, based on things I've read. However, 
 it's quite acceptable in most circumstances. Enemy computer opponents will hide behind cover, try 
 to outflank you, dodge and roll, snipe at you, and so forth. Computer allies usually hold their 
 own when the odds are even, but the game really wants the player to be the star here, thus you'll 
 be doing much of the killing, capturing of points, and saving the day. So, the AI is not bad per 
 se, it's just geared toward making the player the center of attention.
  
  The game looks very good. Character models, ships, terrain, and special effects are all convincing. 
 The game has a number of cutscenes from the movies. Also, on a mid-range PC (3ghz Pentium, 1GB 
 of RAM, Geforce 6600GT) , I experienced no lag or studder in framerates, even with a lot happening 
 on scree Everything was fine in this department. The grand Star Wars score played in the background 
 at appropriate times, and all of the weapons, ships, voices, and so forth sounded as they should. 
 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to anyone into the Star Wars franchise or interested in first-person 
 shooters. If you only play the single-player component of games (like me) , I would suggest waiting 
 until the price of the game drops to about $30. This game really does beg for an expansion which 
 could add another campaign, some more planets to add to the Galactic Campaign mode, more ships, 
 weapons, etc. If you like playing multiplayer, then the current price ($40-$50) is a bit more justified.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 19, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  I never really paid attention to the Star Wars games before, except for Knights of the Old Republic; 
 that game was cool. But as soon as i saw the trailers for Battlefront II i knew i had to get it. 
 This game has great graphics, the sound is of a good quality and the gameplay is great! The idea 
 of playing any of the famous battle from Star Wars was cool, and the game is cool because you are 
 like one guy in a huge war with hundreds of soldiers fighting besides you. I love the Extra Large 
 battle mode where you have about 200 men on each side all fighting at once and the first team to 
 350 kills wins is so cool! The idea of different classes is great, you can be a trooper, heavy 
 wepons, engineer, sniper, and the two unlockable guys that depend on what race you are playing 
 as. It is so much fun! YOU MUST GET IT!!!!!!!
  
  Towards:
  Lots of maps
  Cool guns
  Vehicles
  Great Graphics
  
  Against:
  Online play isn't that great because no one is online
 
  Some of the guns look the same but it shoots out somthing completely different. Like the Empire 
 blaster gun shoots out a lazer but Boba Fett's Flamethrower has the same gun model but it shoots 
 out flame... But that doesn't matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty good but in thrid person it gets real buggy sometimes and the first person view 
 is just ugly and stupid. The online 32v32 battles are cool.... but they lag too much and everyone 
 likes to team kill... 7
  
  Graphics: Not what I expected almost exactly like the original... The spcial effects are nice but 
 overall not very cool to look at... 7
  
  Sounds: Ahhh.... good ol' starwars music!!! I love the music thats the onlything that gets a 10.
 
  
  Value: You wont be playing it that long I reccomend renting it for the consols then buying it. 
 7
  
  Tilt: Meh. Its not bad not good. 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delro911
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  I have played the first Battlefront and it was a great game, even though it copied from Battlefield 
 1942 it was still different.
  
  I could say Battlefront 2's entry was really hyped, hype that was totally reliant on the success 
 of its predecessor. I bought it, I liked it, the space battles blew me away. Pair the double barrel 
 rolls with John Williams' score and it will give you a hell lot of goosebumps.
  
  Then we go to the land missions. There were a lot of new additions, the Jedi being the best, its 
 only limitation on my part wasn't the timer but the moves (Jedi Knight Academy Acrobatics would 
 give BF2 a whole lot more of depth) . Besides the those and the player upgrades, nothing else was 
 cool. I thought to my myself that the bar wasn't reached, not defying the standards that its predecessor 
 made. In my opinion, the maps were really flawed, especially the new Geonosis.
  
  The ups here would be the great multiplayer experience. Another obvious one would be the tantalizing 
 THXesque music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Star wars game ever, and thats saying somthing, there has been quite a few 
 great Star wars games, and its tuff to ge5t the top spot.
  
  This games has it all great multiplayer, instant action, story mode, galactic conquest, and each 
 mode has plenty of playing time. Although this game does get repetitive somtimes you cant have 
 to much of a good thing, this game is highly addictive.
  
  Your fingers will be flicking constantly slashing your way through the rebel army with darth vaders 
 light saber. Yes thats right you can play as hero characters ranging from Yoda to obi-one and from 
 anniken to the emporrer. You can do force jump, throw lightsabers, run super fast do special moves 
 etc, and its so entertaining.
  
  My favorite part of the game is the fact that you can have dogfites in space with x-wings and the 
 sort. The sounds of the planes are incredible and you just want to blow evryone to smitherines. 
 you can land on enemy ships and attack them at there week spots in the engine cooling rooms, and 
 shoot down ther marines on your way way out. you can destroy enemy support ships, sheilds, communications, 
 life support, the list goes on. There is a wide range of fantastic veichiles to zip around in.
 
  
  There is a large amount of maps to choose from, so you will never get bored trying to capture enemy 
 bases on similar levels. Multiplayer is great fun too and the veriaty of maps means that you wont 
 only like playing on a few maps you will want to strut your stuff on every planet there is and 
 show of your skills to people all around the world.
  
  If you liked number one then this is a must buy and if your a star wars fan then you will be pleased 
 with this fantastic first person shooter. the clone wars 501st legion does New Zealand proud with 
 great voice overs by Temuera Morrison.
  
  A must buy no doubt about it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serder_gamerz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  A great game. The campaign is better then in the first battlefront. You will start as the Republic 
 in the battle of Geonosis if you do the training or in Mygeeto if you skip training. Then as you 
 play the campaign at a time you'll have to kill all the Jedi and after this you play as the empire. 
 The Instant Action is great but you'll get bored because the AIs of your team are worst then those 
 of your enemy team. So you can have fifty kill and loose. The best part is the multi-player. There 
 you can play versus other players and after a 60 hours you will help your team by have more kill 
 then death or equal kill and death. Bu you must find your class, because if you're not getting 
 specialize with one class you won't help your team a lot. This game is very funny to play and teh 
 Star Wars fan will love it and the no Star Wars fan will like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I partially knew what to expect when I bought this. As a multiplayer this game has it's place and 
 can be fun if played in a large group (pretty much like the first game) . That is where the good 
 ends and the bad begins.
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Since single player mode is introduced in this game, then Pandemic should have at least attempted 
 to make it interesting. I just got so bored I had to abandon it. I tried Galaxy conquest mode and 
 had to abandon that as well. Shallow, no substance, no story to speak of (yes well a few cutscenes 
 with Mr Kiwi/Jango/Clone trying to bring some life into it hardly qualifies!!) .
  
  Basically the game revolves around running from spawn point to spawn point destroying this and 
 that, kill this jedi and pick up that item .... well thats it. Every mission is almost the same. 
 AI is passable on the allied front, but frankly the inclusion of dim-whitted Federation droids 
 and Techno-Union droids doing rolls to avoid your shots trying to act ... human just doen'st sit 
 well with me. Nor does a Stormtrooper who seems to have a sub-machine gun instead of a Blaster 
 rifle!!
  
  Jedi heroes pale in comparison to games like Jedi Academy/Outcast and Knights of the Old Republic. 
 I much prefer running around as a Stormtrooper or Clone .... surely that shouldn't be the case. 
 Oh and the so called new addition of space combat ..... what a pile of rubbish. Yes you can fly 
 a tie fighter, yes you can bomb a Mon Calamari yes you can transport troops to an enemy capital 
 ship. It is done in such a simplistic and brainless manner however that I ended up skipping all 
 of it. 
  
  One word BORING!!!
  
  Graphics
  
  Good for the most part. Planets offer a nice variety of scenery and vehicles move realistically.
 
  
  Sounds
  
  Pretty good, with the usual musical score normally present in Star Wars games.
  
  Advice - 
 Play games that specialise in what they claim to be, not ones that try to add in filler material 
 and claim to have a little of everything ... like Battlefront.
  I DO recommend this game to anyone who can play it with a group of friends or network on a regular 
 basis, it is the only way to get something out of this Jack of all, Master of none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II, sequel to the best selling Star Wars game ever, is now out on the PS2, 
 Xbox, PC, and PSP, and let me tell you, I was disappointed. While it is great in some areas, it 
 pales in comparison to the original in others.
  
  It's best quality is the Jedi. Its fun running around slashing stormtroopers! The Episode III battles 
 and space battles are fun too.
  
  Now for the bad parts. The maps don't show enemies for the entire map, only the ones you can see 
 on screen. When I first heard about it, they said that you could play every battle between Episode 
 I and VI. Yet nearly all the levels from the original arn't in it. The rancor in Jabba's Palace 
 dosn't move, you have to be in a certain area for it to even notice you. The voice overs are terrible, 
 nearly none of the people who play the heroes in the movies to the voices here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j111233
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is the best Star Wars game ever made. I got it for Christmas and have 
 played it ever since.
  
  You can play as almost any main Star Wars character and the multiplayer can be brutal at times. 
 Single Player is rather large and will be hard at times as well.
  
  Obi-Wan Kenobi is my favorite character to play as.
  
  I hope that they make Star Wars Battlefront 
 III at some point. This is got to be the best game to many others as well and hopefully George 
 Lucas gets inspiration from these games to make Star Wars Episode VII-IX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prisoner747
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  When Battlefront first came out it was a hit, and that was expected. It was after all a battlefield 
 style Star Wars game. But when a second was announced expectations were HIGH, space combat, playable 
 heroes and Episode III maps all sounded too good to be true... And in a way they were.
  
  While fun at first, the game ate away at me after a while.
  The sheer lack of realism and dated 
 technology was almost disgusting. The player dies in the same unrealistic way EVERY time, and the 
 space combat is more arcade the Rogue Squadron. The heroes are poorly coded and the graphics engine 
 was bad when it came out two years ago.
  
  This isn't helped by the fact that the gameplay was fun at first, but incredibly repetitive. There 
 was no cover, no alternate tactics, nothing. Just shoot in the direction of the enemy and hope 
 that eventually they'll die. (In the same way every time might I add) .
  
  Overall, they tried. But not Hard enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSaczva
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  not spectacular, but lots of fun to play, the fighting ranges from a regular soldier shooting a 
 laser rifle to driving tanks and such vehicles to space flight; flying light speedy fighters to 
 heavy strong troop carriers.
  
  the sequal to the previous game battlefront 1 has a very linear campaign with no immense depth 
 in the gameplay, but the instant maps are more than worth it; especially some playermade maps where 
 you can fly spaceships on landmaps and achieve massive kill-sprees on a troop bombing run.
  
  the multiplayer, now slightly more stable after the recent patch is fun to play, but there 
 are problems with cheaters in a small few maps, but don't let that put you off as it is only in 
 mos eisley where you can cheat really.. and
  the typing in multiplayer is hard as you have to slow down or it misses letters.
  
  it is still 
 worth your money as the space maps are really amazing with unique objectives that have to be met 
 in order to win, the land maps bring a variety of units all with unique abilities that help you 
 conquer your own battlefield with a range of weapons and items to help achieve an edge over your 
 enemy.
  
  the AI is nothing special and often even in alite mode the enemies will be a pushover for you all 
 the time, often with little help from your own allies.
  the jedi/sith lightsaber duels are abysmal and it is only hitting the enemy with your saber then 
 they will get knocked over and stunned for literally 7 seconds while you just piledrive them and 
 hit them over and over; which leads to limited fun with saber duels, which is why mostly you will 
 find yourself using heros powers such as saber throw and force pull: the 2 most commonly used powers 
 to totally thrash an enemy every time; which has led to much dislike for online hero maps.
  
  to sum up it is worth buyign and i do recommend you buy it, but also download player maps aswell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  i dont know what all of the other people were talking about, this game is one of the best games 
 in the world, and it deserves better than what gamespot and some other people gave it. the graphics 
 are great, the gameplay is even better and the multiplayer is the best part. also, you can play 
 as a jedi, and that is very cool. just buy the game you will not be disappointed. also you can 
 get it much cheaper on ebay than in stores, so go to ebay. and to all of those people who are saying 
 this game is below a 7 are really screwed up. really really screwed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rgasm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  the frist thing i noticed when i startrd playing is that the weapons all look the same, this may 
 sound quite trivial but it gives the impression that the producers have not gone to a great extent 
 to recreat the starwars feel. also when joining an online game the maps are named after the starwars 
 planets, understandably, but the problem with this is unless, you know starwars like the bqack 
 of your hand it can be quite difficult to find the right map. apart from this, star wars battlefront 
 2 is a fun game, especially due to the variety of veachles and the adition of space copmbat greatly 
 improves on the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabelhigh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is, hands down, the best online game i have ever played. Sure, Battlefield 2 has some great 
 moments, but this game beat the pants off it in sheer fun. The sound is brilliant, the gameplay 
 superb, and the online network smooth. My only compaint is the somewhat dated graphics. Mow i got 
 to fill up a hundred more words.
  
  Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION 
 Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION 
 Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION Go Get OBLIVION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underrated. My friend and others say this game sucks, but i think they are wrong. 
 This game is cool, very close to the storyline, and they jedis are awesome. The multiplayer is 
 even better than part one's. Especially the level where you use jedis and bounty hunters, that 
 level is sweet, usually everyone is a jedi, and you just kick the !@#$ out of the others. The campaign 
 is good too. The only thing is vehicles need to hit the enemy directly to kill them, EVEN TANKS! 
 But this game is pretty fun. MAny jedis in that multiplayer level, Mace windu, obi wan, count dooku, 
 anakin, darth vader, darth sidious, bobba fett, jango fett, leia, han solo, chewbacca, darth maul 
 (the coolest) , Aayla secura ( that blue chick, she has two swords) , general grievous, luke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinLeader
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game is definetly worth buying depending on what you're looking for.
  
  Campaign- To start out the campaign is pretty weak, its definitly better than the Star Wars Battlefront 
 campaign were you just fight on the multiplayer maps, but it hasnt improved that much. All you 
 do is fight on the multiplayer maps and fulfill objectives given to you. Trust me you'll beat the 
 campaign once on easy and maybe once on elite and then you'll never play it again.
  
  Jedi- I was a pretty big fan of the first game and have to say I thought playing as Jedi would 
 ruin the fps atmosphere. Luckily you can turn jedi modes on or off and you only become a Jedi sparringly. 
 You can make it so you have to achieve a certain number of points, or you can have the Jedi assigned 
 randomly or to the best or worst player. 
  
  -=Online Play=- 
  This element definetly saved the game. The online play is quick and keeps you thinking. The only 
 downside is you can get a lot of lag on the smallewr maps when you're playing with 64 other people. 
 But take it from someone who was one of the top thousand players in the world its pretty good.
 
  
  Overall Star Wars Battlefront 2 is an amazing improvement over the first game and flows much more 
 smoothly. Upsides: Onine play is intense and the games levels are all different and unique. Downsides: 
 Campaign is short and lacking and won't give you the fun replay that you get out of games like 
 Halo 2. Finally if you're looking for a good online game go out to a store or buy it on line. I 
 recommend Amazon. com or EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game can't make up its mind what it wants to be. Why keep asking the question if you want 
 to re-spawn after being fragged constantly. Just plain stupid. The Galactic Conquest has been superceded 
 by EAW. The only Real draw for me was to partake inn the opening sequence of Episode III (the only 
 decent part of the film) . Frustrating, but the only one around. There is a huge opening for anyone 
 who cares to tread there. George Lucas originally planned 9 movies- 1 to 9. Episodes 7, 8 & 9 have 
 plenty of quality plots and settings laid out in the novels. Hell, the Rogue Squadron series alone 
 provides an epic scope for an enterprising designer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_Giannelli
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Learning from past experiences, 1 out of 10 Star Wars games are really worth the money, the rest 
 are uninspired games set out to capitalize on the famous brand name. I enjoyed the 5-10 hours I 
 played the Battlefront main campaign. It was definitely not Republic Commando, a game I adore even 
 years after its release, but it was a good game. 
  
  The graphics were decent, nothing to ooh and ahh about, they did the job of looking Star Warsy 
 enough. The sounds were all there from the movies and well done. Vehicle and space action was severely 
 lacking, as in worthless. Epic Coruscant space battle was touted on the box, it was nothing like 
 the opener to Episode 3. Sure we could board enemy ships, all 3 rooms in a capital ship. The real 
 juice of the game was the ground combat and everything else was thrown in so they could put it 
 on the game box and make people say wow cool. 
  
  The ground combat was all to frantic, reminding me of playing Quake 3 online. Everyone is running 
 around blindly shooting at everything that moves hoping something gets hit. It usually ended up 
 with all the bots getting freaked out and blown up over and over. As with Quake, you respawn 
 and fight again and again. The game basically consisted of constant unstructured respawns landing 
 on your head to gun you down. 
  
  They gave you lots of classes to play as. Imperial engineer, dark trooper, regular storm trooper 
 and on rare occasions a jedi for like 30 seconds. Pretty much all these classes were for marketing 
 hype. The only class that had a weapon worth using was the storm trooper regular and occasionally 
 the shock trooper. Darth Vader was the only jedi worth playing as. While dark troopers were the 
 Elites of the wonderful Dark Forces series, their gun fired way too slow and did far too little 
 damage to be considered useful. This is all from the single player campaign perspective. Im sure 
 the multiplayer part is worth the time, but I have no desire to play multiplayer since the single 
 player campaign was a slight waste of time and I judge all games by their single player mode except 
 Tribes. 
  
  The single most worthwhile battle in the game was the Battle for Hoth. Sure its been regurgitated 
 in thousands of past games but this one was actually lots of fun. It makes for a great battlefield 
 because the long flat planes and rolling terrain. Other than that Hoth is a useless planet that 
 needs to be forgotten. 
  
  Well, when I started this review I thought Id be able to stay positive. Ive been spoiled recently 
 by such great games as Republic Commando, FEAR, Far Cry and even Quake 4 that this one simply cannot 
 live up to that image. In summary, this game is worth a play, if anything, just to get a quick 
 fix. Id look for it in the bargain bins. Sadly I paid full price. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I have purchased swbf2 and episode 3 dvd on the day they both came out and i still watch and play 
 them. The gamepla for me is amazing, over all sound nice, best ever. If you are looking for a good 
 or even the best starwars game ever go pick up STARWARS BATTLEFRONT 2. The new features are cool 
 like jedi (though overpowered still funny to kill them) , space (awesome, awesome) and the new locations 
 are breathe-taking. If you think that swbf2 sucks ass think again new story modes have you wanting 
 to do them over and over and pver especialy felucia where you get to kill acklay he he alright 
 i love those things. All the maps are or hage been redone to meet the best quality it can be plus 
 for the xbox version you get 2 months free xbox live trial pretty sweet offer. So dont underestimate 
 the power of swbf cause it is pretty awesome to have it to your collection and it will keep you 
 wanting to play more of it. Like the ewoks and scout troopers battle on endor i tried to kill the 
 ewoks got my ass owned by them so pick ewoks to best results. So go out a rent or buy swbf2 you 
 will get your money's worth. 
  
  "EVEN THOUGH I AM GONE, THE FORCE WILL BE WITH YOU......... ALWAYS"
  
  This game is awesome 
 cant stop playing it, did you like the reviews it gave more info and yet you crave more. The game 
 features new modes like CTF (capture the flag) a fun game to do especially on hoth, Hunt mode (allows 
 you to playa s either the natives or play as the soldier class and hunt them down. Assualt (space 
 and mos iesly) allows you to go head to head and destroy enemy ships or their main ship and go 
 as dark side or light side and duke it out witht he jedi's and non jedi types. Space is awesome 
 do dog rolls, twists, turns, cool stuff. To see how difficult the space battle can be use the cheat 
 to turn off the HUD mode and leave on you there nothing else (no health bars, no indicator no nothing) 
 and see how hard it really gets (turn enemy AI to elite) hard man hard. Bunch of new multiplayer 
 mpas for multiplayer of coarse. Detph difying action.
  
  Also on Xbox Version you get a free 2 MONTHS FREE XBOX LIVE trial. 
  
  There are tons of new 
 maps for the game and new areas and jedi to play as.
  
  Recommended YES
  
  It improves greatly over swbf 1 and can easily be game of the year but the agme does have its downfalls 
 with alot of glitches and bad points in the agme but still is a great game.!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  at least I liked this game it was probably the best game in star wars series because you got to 
 be the jedi and the sith while playing the only thing I hated about SWB2 was that in story mode 
 you had to earn different characters and I mean what the heck is that about? Thats the only bad 
 thing but there where many other good things like the graphics werent that bad the gameplay was 
 awesome sound average value pretty good so it was a great game and I like being the sith pretty 
 much because they're pretty awesome but still this game is probably the best in the series but 
 SWB was not that bad either just needed some stuff off of this one anyway this was a great game 
 and I dont have much left to say about it.
  
  Please Recomend My Reviews!
  
  Rebecca_Girl_1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameerkid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  in the game you control the 501st legen. when you enter the civel war the name is truned into vaders 
 fist. you have cool ships and things. the new hero thing let's you play as a hero for a limatid amout 
 of time. and story mode is cool. if you have some money and you can aford the game now mite be a 
 good idei to buy it. online is greht. cats are cool but STAR WARS BATTELFRONT 2 is amazing.
  the controls are good and not to hard. who cares abuotthe xbox verson? pc is the best! make lord 
 vader hapey and but the game now. the game is one of the best of the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0adphr0g
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased Star Wars Battlefront 2, because of all the hype I had been hearing, and that 
 you get to fly in space this time, and yeah, it's totally cool!
  So I got the DVD version (because I figured less time taken to install, more time for play) and 
 it installed just fine. Now all was left to do was play it. OMFG it was just liek playing the movies! 
 I totally recommend this game to any SW fan out there. So yeah, if you recall my newbie post about 
 this game, it was because I had a crap installation of SP2 that caused this game not to install 
 or see the CD/DVD. But, all is better now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro_AKQ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Descent game. Good Star Wars songs. Lots of characters and some good and bad maps online. Jedi 
 are arcadish, and there isn't any depth to them. Space batles are lack luster and repetetive. There 
 are no squads, so the game is basically spawn kill over and over. You wont find much team work 
 . It has a few gametypes and campaigns, you can also unlock certain characters. Graphics are detailed, 
 characters look as cool as ever, but ultimately for me, the online play seems like a pointless 
 frag fest. 
  
  I would check your bargain bin if you like what you see. There are no expansions for the PC, but 
 they released mod tools very recently. If you have questions the community is almost entirely comprised 
 of young kids, who may not be so helpful. You wont find Lucas Arts or Pandemic anywhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitedragon64
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  when i bought this game, my friend told me all about how awesome this game is but now that i have 
 actually played it, he must not have many games cause this game was a snoozefest the combat is 
 too confusing unlike bf1942 or bf2 where even the most confusing of combat can make somekind of 
 sense and the this game has serious framerate issues i have a gig of ram, geforce 5700, and an 
 athlon 64 2ghz and even after i turned all the settings down to low it still was bad and unplayable 
 the only thing really attractive bout this game is the space battles, multiple modes and tons of 
 levels, and an intresting conquest mode but too bad the gameplay cant back it up this game is for 
 u if yer die hard for star wars and not intrested in online cause no one is ever online and it 
 lags bigtime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisepye
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Star wars battlefront 2 is one of the last star wars games that will ever be published. on that 
 note lucasarts created a great game. though some parts were disapointing this is a game worth buying. 
 the game features new maps and some old but revamped ones. the introduction of jedis is a fun experience, 
 though the fun is short lived since becoming a jedi basically lets yopu kill anything you cross. 
 although on some maps, like tatooine, you can become a gunslinging hero such as han solo or boba 
 fett. i liked the way you have to earn the higher ranks of units, but to earn them is far to easy. 
 in conclusion the game is overall a good one and is worth buying but it is too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tr_hErM
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  this game is a very good game for the real starwars fans becouse you can just live in a battle 
 of the movie, not that you couldn't do that in the furst one but playing a level from episode 3 
 with a hero like Obi-Wan-Kenobi is much better. but there are limets in the game, mension the space 
 battles, you can only fly , shoot some and land on a capital ship and blow It up thats all, but 
 evan with limets Its a good game to play evan If your not a big starwars fan so I wont stop you 
 from playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  As with previous starwars games Battle Front 2 has an immersive and graphicaly detailed worlds 
 that make you feel as if you were actually in the movies, this is where you might start to think 
 all graphics and no game play well you might be in for a suprise with this game.
  After playing the game awhile im suprised at the replayability espeacialy when your multiplaying 
 with a few friends, i liked the fact you could Co Op play the main storyline with a buddy on the 
 other controler, i think that was the main appeal for me in games like Halo but this game takes 
 things too a whole new level with Bots on multiplayer fields which games like Halo lacked. 
  Whether your battling for the galaxy against friends or playing caputre the flag their are always 
 fun games in multiplayer plenty of replay value in this game.
  One of the best features of this game i think is the skill abilitys you gain from experience for 
 performing certain feats gaining in rank and improving your troops.
  For a first person shooter i find it very entertaining plus being an avid starwars fan i don't 
 think i could pass this game on the shelf without taking it home for a test run.
  
  Worth buying on any platform :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Battlefront 2 is a wonderfull game that adds on to the first Battlefront game which was also a 
 great game. The biggest inprovement in number 2 is the abiity to play as jedi and other heroes. 
 all heroes all have unique attacks and ability's such as force pull, choke and lightning. The non 
 jedi heroes are also extremely fun to play with and they to have unique weopons and ability's. 
 Another improvement from the first game is the ability to battle in space, space battles are way 
 fun and allow u to fly free without having to worry about hitting building and other structures, 
 but dont get me wrong u still have to watch out for enemy fire and fighter. The only downsides 
 for battlefront 2 is the constant lag in online play and some of the new maps whitch seem that 
 they were made to fast and were slapped together. Besides these few flaws Battlefront 2 is a highly 
 addictive game thats new feuteres and new soldier classes make this a must buy for any pc gamer.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvader80
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  its alright for ps2 xbox and psp but its really good if you have it for pc onlines better cuz you 
 dont have to buy the internet wire. on pc your parents can just pay for it lol basicly its better 
 for pc. and i just have to put like 88 more words so here it is. hi here wee poop weeee gee hi 
 vb kel ej jejk jeke dj dj d, dn dn dn dn dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj dj djj dj dj dj dj 
 dj dj dj dj dj dj dj d ddjhrff greg gr tg rt hg wr th wr th wr tg r th r th wr th wr th rth rth 
 rewth wrt h r hy ery h ewrhy ewr hy wr th wr th wr th wrt h rt h tr h tr h wrt h wrth rw th gwr 
 th wr ht wr thwr th wr th rt h rwt h wrth wtr h rt h wr ht rth r th rt h rt h re th rwt h wrt h 
 reth r th er th rt h et h yth te yh eyt h eyth e yth ty h te yh t h tr rt yh rty h ty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  I'm been trying every map and every faction, but still haven't seen General Grievous spawns. How 
 can I use this uber hero???
  By the way the Hero timers system just SUCKS! How would Lord Vader die in those scum? and why Driodeka 
 can't "roll" when it is controlled by player?
  NPCs just love to focus their fire on you even if 4 rocket launcher is trying to kick their ass. That's 
 kinda wierd actually. You would find it hard to win in instant action XL mode when your team sucks. Auto 
 turrets on the enemy ship keep killing player, which makes the space fight sick....... you just watch 
 yourself spawn, lift off, fly out and die. DAMNED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkgfabo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Good, but the menu system is worse than the 1's. Maps are ok, but i'm missing the maps of the 1. 
 I missed the republic gunship on the lands, and we can't use any of the fighters in non-space battles. 
 Another problem: there aren't enough vehicle; (AT-ATs just on Hoth, and now, they have just 1 seat)
 
  The Geonosis isn't like the film or in the 1.
  Rebels have only one vehicle, and there are more, more problems. 
  But it is a good game like 
 the 1.
  Positive things: There are heroes. It's a little thing, but funny.
  There are some new great gamemodes (my favourite is to fight as an ewok in hunt mode: D ) .
  Instead 
 of the 1's great vehicular fights, there are new characters and classes. 
  (It's getting to be like the CS :D)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbrains788
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  After playing battlefront on XBOX at my friends house, I realized what a great game it was, and 
 I was eventualy counting down the days until it's release. Once it was out though, I started playing, 
 and found the lack of planes in land maps disturbing. That was one of my favorite parts, the vehicles.
 
  The first campaign levels were very easy tutorials, and get you started very quickly, and I like 
 the proggression of the 501st. Eventually, the campaign gets tedious, forcing you to take out acklays, 
 who don't die from a single rocket launcher shot... My least favorite level was the Jedi council 
 level, which took me about 20 tries to finally defend the bookcases.
  Beside that, the gameplay is great, the graphics better, and vehicle play is smooth and attentive. 
 The multiplayer fits great with the command post style, and I love being able to switch ranks very 
 easily. CPUs don't follow commands very well, and will often lead you to your death, but the awards 
 are very fun.
  The special characters are a great addition, but I found that the gun-wielders are better that 
 the Jedi/ Sith. This is only because you can't heal from bottles, only from kills, and you get 
 shetot up quite a bit when you are a Jedi. Also, the commanders/ Special units have very fun explosives, 
 which are quite underrated.
  Finally, the Space battle have great control, especcially with a stick. Taking out their flagship 
 can be hard, but it gets you easy kills. The v-wing is probably the best ship in the game. Use 
 the clones whenever you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  For the first thing, I'm not saying this game is bad. However, it isn't as good as I hoped it would 
 be. Now there are a few new cool additons to the game, that make this a good sequel. The space 
 craft fighting, jedi playing, and some new worlds from the 3rd Star Wars.
  Now first I'll talk about the space fighting. This part is fun to do. I loved flying around in 
 all the spacecrafts of Star Wars, and shooting down others. Yet, I was dissapointed. This is because, 
 on board the main ship, there is nothing to do. You basically, sit there, and go to a ship, and 
 fly out. I would have liked it, if they added turents on the ship so you could shot ships down 
 from your own ship. Other than this, it is great.
  Jedi mode isn't what I wanted. I say this because, you attack with your Jedi with three buttons. 
 You move, use force, or use your lightsaber. Thats it. 
  The new worlds are incredible, and are very big. They make the game feel fresh and new to play. 
 
  Now the rest of the stuff from the first one are the same, Perfect! Still has the awesome Star 
 Wars music, and the voices of the Jedi are very cool. 
  Battlefront 2 still isn't perfect, but it is still pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addicting. You don't have to play the actual game persay to get the best experience 
 of playing it. The best way to take advantage of this game is to play in the multiplayer servers. 
 They are freaking sweet. THe gameplay is intense and flows well. Nuggzie's Funhouse is the best 
 server for this game... there are lots of AI bots that play in tandom with actual players that join 
 the server. Every thursday night at about 11, the action really takes off. I highly recommend this 
 game for anyone that likes to play fast paced online first person shooters. It also is good for 
 those who do like Star Wars and also those who don't. It really doesn't matter.. It is a good alternative 
 to Battlefield 2 for those who don't have up to par system specs to play BF2. Play this game and 
 you'll never wanna stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holyman2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  ya i dont know what to call this game. I like the fact that you can be Jedi but you have to kill 
 a amount of troops before you can be better troops whats up with that!!!! But still the game is 
 good i like the space battles kinda, your allies just kinda fly around and do nothing well ok they 
 fight but a little, so i would not play the space battles for a long time. Also the only fun part 
 of the game is just ASAULT on Mos Esly where you can be all the dark and light side jedi or sith 
 from all the movies Cool! 
  
  Over all i don't know if i totaly like it its ok for now...
  
  Thank you for reading
  ~Holyman2
 
  ~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  When I got the first Star Wars BF, I fell in love with it right away. I thought the second was 
 going to be the exact same except with space battles and playing as Jedi. I was so surprised when 
 i installed it and actually played it. One and Two Capture the Flag, Hunts, And my favorite; XL, 
 whitch is, for those who don't know, a MASIVE battle with like 100 AI on the feild. Now i was dissapointed 
 when they removed the pilot from the ground battles and with it, the abbility to heal the occupied 
 vehicle, but placing them in space ships, compensated for it. I must also say the Galactic Conquest 
 is much better that the first. And bonuses can be purchased instead of automaticly coming into 
 play. The story line is also a welcomed feature. The way it tells the WHOLE Star Wars story, unbeleivable. 
 I recomend this game to any hard-core Star Wars fan. In fact, I just recomend it period. This is 
 the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fell
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  the heroes and villains is what a lot of people wanted. the new planets and the ability to battle 
 in space. The online gaming is great I get to play against others and I have the chance to become 
 a jedi. what more could you want?
  Glad I asked. Generic jedi or heroes who can be customized in appearance and name. This would be 
 a huge boon. More than one story line to play through would be another. An add on pack with more 
 maps , missions and heroes would definately be worth the while. These are excellent suggestions 
 if the designers want to hear what the market wants. Will this happen probly not or they would 
 have done it with Battlefront.
  
  My only Real complaint is that it takes such a big system to run on that the slower computers cannot 
 keep up. There it is I would love to write more but the guys online are missing me right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victoryeung8
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  When I bought his game, I was very excited to play it. But when i played it though, it was pretty 
 boring after the first day. THe sound sucks its probably just a few sounds and i expected much 
 more from the game from what i saw in the advertisements and what people told me. THis game i probably 
 the worst one in history. Graphics suck too its just like the first one. MUtiplayer was fun. For 
 about 2hrs though. there are too little maps and i thought there would be heroes in space. the 
 new game modes all suck too like what is hunt? in the end, i decided to never buy another battlefront 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  As much as I adore star wars.... I don't adore battlefront.
  
  Why you may ask? Well really.... battlefront is the same ole stuff... over.. and over.. and OVER again. 
 If your not running or driving your ass to some flag point your probably engaged in some pretty 
 unexciting combat. Its pretty much a battle of who can shoot faster and has a notion of aim than 
 real skill. Whether its offline or online its really easy to pick up this game. Perhaps too easy. 
 I guess this was made for the casual gamer in mind... as for me.... this game is just way too easy 
 from the recoiless weapons to the auto aim on every weapon, nothing seems "real" in this Star wars 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelord319
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  And i thought the first one was great! This one actually has an objective to do in rise of the 
 empire (campaign) and the best part is jedi! With jedi you are basically invincible. Instead of 
 health, it has a time meter shown by a light saber. You will lose time if you are hurt, and gain 
 time when you kill something. I personally can stay alive the whole round. Most levels on rise 
 of the empire are easy, although some can be hard. This is from lack of reinforcments. Otherwise, 
 everything is exactley like the first, except for most maps and space battles. Space battles are 
 very fun. Blowing up a seperatist ship never gets old! I would recomend this game to anyone who 
 favors 3rd person shooters, and especially star wars lovers. That is, unless you like the star 
 wars jedi-own-all games that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  If you owned the previous version of this game then you may want to stay away, the new innovative 
 addition of starfighters is a little off especially for those who played the xwing vs tie series, 
 the heros are extremlly fun if not a little over power. If you own the PC VERSION BEWARE there 
 are several HUGE bugs that make the game inplayble on some top end systems. All and all... for cousole 
 gamer worth a shot, for a star wars fan a MUST Have. 
  
  The online gameplay for this is magnificent, much more fun then the famed BF2, there are always 
 people on the map. The sound in this game is amazing and exactly what you would expect comming 
 from lucas arts.. a great soundtrack. However It is a dissapointing game for us pc fans who own 
 every single SW game released to this date. Rent before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radomu
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  If you have the last game, and is expecting a big leap, you will never find it here.
  The new stuff in this game are the new maps, which isn't bad. The other new features can be the 
 right to play as a lightsaber wielding hero or the space battle, which was highly dissapointing. 
 (If you are looking for Jedi action, buy "Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy") You have to be 
 good in the game to play as a jedi, for example kill 5 units without dying, which isn't quite easy. 
 
  The Space battle doesn't make any difference to the normal fighter dogfight on land. You just have 
 bigger space to fight in. The controls aren't quite easy and it isn't impossible to crash into 
 a fleet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics look sleek and smooth; suitable for the futuristic setting of a game such as Star 
 Wars. The guns look unique and new, but some of their appendages do look out of place. If you ever 
 wished you were one of the clone troopers (or Mace Windu) out fighting in the Star Wars movies 
 you've watched, then this is the perfect game, as the graphics bring you stunningly close to realism.
 
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound's strong. If you use your normal volume setting while playing this game, you're looking 
 at movie quality sound effects, with huge explosions and terrific blaster feedback. Again, as with 
 the graphics, Battlefront II brings you as close to the movies as you could ever wish for.
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Now here's where Battlefront II dips a notch. The first person shooter idea on 
 a realistic star wars battlefield is interesting alright. However, actually HITTING those damn 
 droids aren't very fun. They jink around like they're on steroids, making them extremely hard to 
 hit, even with a sniper rifle! What I'm saying is: the game's got enough enticement to it, but 
 when you're actually playing the game, you'll feel insignificant, since you're against something 
 like 100 droids, each jumping this way and that. Now enough of the bad, the good more than makes 
 up for this. As with Battlefield 2, Battlefront II has fully interactive vehicles. This adds another 
 dimension of gameplay to the game, as you have a choice of shooting your enemies down or you could 
 drive a repulsor sled around running them over, or you could commandeer an AT-AT walker and blow 
 them to smithereens. One final compliment to this great game is the single player stat tracker. 
 Whatever you do in combat, even in training and campaigns, is tracked and recorded on your profile. 
 This gives the player an immense sense of actually role playing and pride (if they get good stats) . 
 Nonetheless, I think Battlefront II is probably the first to actually give single-player stats, 
 so this is a nice bonus addon.
  In short:
  The good: smooth graphics, interactive environment, large-scale combat, stat tracker
  The bad: 
 the cinematics, the combat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Compared to Battlefron 1 this game is really, really bad. And here are the bad parts:
  - on single mission the CPU. has an unlimited number of troops. How many soldiers fit on a corelian 
 corvette anyway?
  - the AI is the very poor. the "hard setting" means that almost any enemy trooper evades your fire 
 by moving from left to right. Also it aim is almost perfect. The "normal setting" means that not 
 every enemy evades you. Also CPU soldier from you team vs CPU solder from enemy, do not manage 
 to shoot themselves.
  - the vehicles are realy bad compared the Battelfront 1. The blast from the larger machine is gone. 
 The AT-ST has a realy stupid fire and of course the enemy evades it almost everly time.
  - the missle lock from the heavy trooper is gone. Try shooting down a snowspeeder like this.
 
  - the grenades are realy useless. When you throw a grenade agains a group of enemies, every one 
 of them runs the ege of the glast area and delivers you a head shoot.
  - the ships. Has anyone looked at the Star destroyer? Since when does it have lateral hangar bays? 
 And the Victory Star Destroyer is a joke. It is not larger than a corelian corvete.
  
  And now the good parts:
  - heroes. They can be somewhat fun until they die.
  - space battles. 
 They are nice except for the part with bording the enemy ships. What are this people thinking? 
 Lets see if we can land an X-Wing inside the hangard of a Star Destroyer and go blow up the engines (that 
 are about 0.5Km away from the hangar bay.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_trax
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I like it because in Star Wars Battlefront 2 looks more vehicle and of coruse it has great stuff 
 with fires that it looks real and plane etc.... but the only way that i dont like is the picture 
 from star wars battlefront 2 its not real and it looks like that its a picture :S well i like the 
 robot & vehicle even their weapones laser stuff like that big vehicle small vehicle its a good 
 stuff but this game is made like battlefield 1942 but its totally 100% different :) but as i can 
 say to you all buy this game and install it and then download the patch install fileplanet or download 
 from this site and then play the game on multiplayer with your friends & family and have fun with 
 this game do a server make a website public it & make it popular of coruse is to have fun if there 
 is more battlefront it will come better graphic card etc... battlefront 2 & 1 its just for their 
 beginer you know like battlefield 1942 :D i will have to buy this game because i like to play stuff 
 like war  & more.... & of course this game is a great multiplayer 
 and excellent game i hope you will enjoy this game byeee cya by the way if you want to contact 
 me register an acount & then leave some messages & then we can talk stuff and oh even ask me some 
 questions that was all now!! yes i am bored so :P
  
  I DIDNT BUY THIS GAME BUT I WILL BUY IT SO I GIVE IT MORE TIME IN THIS BUT READ PLEASE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiinn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Addicting space battles and nice gameplay make the game fun but dumb ai and unrealistic sounding 
 weapons which r un faithful to the movies draw the game back. May be unappealing to some gamers. 
 Can keep u going for a couple of days but not worth byeing if u diden't play the first one. Ai 
 can try your patients with their frontline tactics and you never see a bot flanking. Vehicle weapons 
 could use a little tweaking, bomber main weapon somewhat overpowered. Shotguns too underpowered, 
 and jedi way too powerful and to weak vs laser fire also a bit spammie with the constant clicking 
 to swing saber. 
  Saber swinging needs some limits. And more force powers would be nice. Some of the original maps 
 from bf 1 should be brought back and tweaked. Game needs to be harder. online play is very disappointing 
 and laggie. To me I say Battlefront 2 one total letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlfront II is a very good game. Its predecesor, Battlefront, was an award winning 
 game. You are a soldier either from the Republicans, Confedaration, Galactic Empire, or the Rebels. 
 You have a variety of weapons and you are free to use a vehicles. Now in Battlefront II, there 
 had been a major update. New soldier classes had appeared, now you can use jedis (unlike Battlefront) , 
 you can now use other vehicles that didn't appear in Battlefront and you can now fight in space! 
 Battlefront II is definitely game that should be bought. The online play is amazing, I was amazed 
 myself, jajajajaja. Star Wars Battlefront has very good graphics and the gameplay had always been 
 the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese-fish
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  if you liked the first one you will proberly like this one, you wont get the same fell like the 
 first one dont ask me why you just wont, the space battles are great fun when you play a bit of 
 chicken but even thats a bit hard.
  just because you have a choice of more doesnt mean its better, jedi battles and the rise of the 
 empire are really good, you also have this new feature which is career mode where after every battle 
 you do you get awards (like the first one) soon after a lot of battles your rank will upgrade, 
 but the awards will give you specal weapons like the beam rifle so its better in dat way but if 
 you havent played the first one get that it would proberly be more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfatmonkeys
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say this is one of the best games ive played but i like the origanal more than 
 this one. If you are going to buy one buy the first one first. I think that the gameplay is awesome 
 they probably could have done better on the story mode but the maps are awesome and big. The graphics 
 are decent but if there is to much stuff going on there is a graphical slow down. I was happy that 
 they added jedi, and they are not invicable and they can all some kind of force move. I really 
 recommend this game so go out and buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcraptorcy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Lucasarts has been trying very hard lately to improve the Star Wars games and to promote the upcoming 
 games, all after the end of the Star wars hexalogy.......
  so far all the created games have failed to introduce the user into an environment close or even 
 the same as the movies, but Lucasarts learns from their mistakes and they have shown this with 
 Battlefront II , which is quite an improvement from Battlefront I, but as I said, it can always 
 be better........ Well anyway I really liked it (especially the part where you get to be Darth 
 Vader....) so hopefully I will complete 100 words and maybe they let me post this.... eventually 
 and hopefully..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arm11389
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't hate this game, but it should cost less. The worst thing about it is that it feels like 
 you're just running around in circles and shooting stuff. There's no real purpose. They say that 
 the space battles are awesome, but there's only one capital ship. Before it came out, I was looking 
 forward to being able to dismantle an entire fleet ( I'm not saying that I can actually do this, 
 but at least you would know that this was possible with extreme skill) . What's the point if there's 
 only one?
  
  Now come the short complements section. I love the music. Excellent sound effects too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  iI only bought this game for the pc but i have it on ps2 and the psp. Its definitly the best battlefront 
 game so far as there is only two of them. I hope they make third one. This game i think really 
 miss's bespin and for some tatooine: dune Sea. My friend introduced me into the swb series with 
 swb1 2 years ago ive been itchin to get swb1. when i finnaly got i loved it. swb2 is well better. 
 before swb2 came out i was waiting for 6 moths for it the wait was well worth it. i expected it 
 to be better but it is still  
 good. This is my first review so dont go making any aquisations that im no good at writing reviews 
 im a noob. the online play is briiliant ive joined a clan called mw. for people wondering what 
 my gamespy name is ill appear eithras damofozz or mw-megakill. you really need broadband to run 
 this game on the internet perfectly but someties theres the odd lag. the campaign on normal is 
 easy i had trouble on hoth our finest hour on expert its a bit harder but i managed trough. im 
 really looking forward to empire at war but swb2 is i say better. ive now joined the star wars 
 battlefront union so i love talking about swb2. this game is great all round. you might have trouble 
 with the space battle control with the mouse i recmend lowring the mouse sensitivity. you can get 
 in and out of vehicles pilot four types of space craft each army including x-wing, y-wing, tie-fighter, arc 
 170s there the ships that sort of look like x-wings in ep 3. you can also get into the guns on 
 the ship and get into gun emplacements on a planet surface. the galatic conquest is more realistic 
 but forthose of you who liked the original in swb1 and dont want it to change stick with the first 
 one. in the story mode aka rise of the empire follows he stoy of the empires rise to power. you 
 even go in and kill all the jedi in on level there is alo jedi in other levels and ypu have to 
 kill them. you can also play as jedi and siths. THIS GAME IS GGGGRRRREEEEAAAATTTT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masternij
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is just so crap in a lot of ways. first of all this game might as well be a mod i mean 
 it is the same as the battlefield series just with crappier graphics and a different single-player 
 story. if this game was a mod or something it would have been ok . but it is a full priced retial 
 game! sure mybe the space battles are a bit fun and the jedis are pretty satisfying to use but 
 only the best player or the worst player can be a jedi so there won't be any cool lightsabre duels 
 with friends and the only thing that could be fun about this game is the multiplayer. i am not 
 even going to go on about the gameplay and storyline because you might as well go and buy a copy 
 of battlefield 2 it is much better than this piece of crap that they call a game when it should 
 most likely be a mod. i would not like any of you people to buy this game because its crap. i say 
 this game is for bigand hardcore fans of the movie who dosen't care about the graphics or the gameplay 
 or the fact that this is a crap game. this game is so crap that i am not even going to do a spell 
 check for this review.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuehlke02
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game folks!
  
  Graphics:
  Sure, there are games with better graphics out there, but they're great for the video card requirements. 
 The weapon models could use a little work, but it could be much, much worse.
  
  Gameplay:
  Generally good. Theres a few parts that need some work. For example, some of the missions 
 are stupidly hard. When the AI isn't as good as it should be, and you have limited reinforcements 
 and the enemy doesn't... well... I'll let you put two and two together. 
  
  A nice addition is the new Galactic Conquest mode. Unlike the one from Battlefront 1, this time 
 around it actually takes some planning ahead.
  
  Sound:
  Ahh... what would a star wars game be without good sound effects. Personally, I love playing as 
 Boba Fett, slaughtering the rebels while enjoying the tune of the Imperial March. Simply wonderful!
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  While this game is great, it could use a little work. Hopefully the upcomming patch fixes alot 
 of the AI problems, such as crashing ships, or standing arround in some maps. I am also praying 
 that us PC users also get the Battlefront 1 maps and the two new characters released to XBOX users.
 
  
  If you are searching for a fun game which you can spend hours enjoying on single player or multiplayer 
 with a friend, then look no further.
  
  Be on the look out for people who use glitches, and spam force powers on the internet. You have 
 been warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront II improves from the original from its improved gameplay, such as playable Jedi characters, 
 space battles, new story campaigns, as well as Episode III content.
  
  Battlefront II expands upon the original game's single-player experience with mission-based objectives 
 drawn from all six Star Wars films. The storyline spans more than 16 new locations, many from the 
 Episode III film, including volcanic Mustafar and the space battle above Coruscant. Another feature 
 included is a story-based single-player campaign which revolves primarily around the 501st Legion 
 as the unit evolves from Old Republic clone troopers to Imperial storm troopers.
  
  New features for gameplay are Star points, which are the key to unlocking advanced unit types as 
 well as playable heroes. Star points are awarded for positive in-game actions, such as kills, capturing 
 command posts, or destroying vehicles. In order for players to spawn as a particular unit, they 
 must accumulate the required number of star points. Until that time, the unit will be grayed out 
 on the spawn select screen. In addition, only a certain number of any particular units are allowed 
 on the board at one time.
  
  The most difference between the original and the sequel is the method of issuing orders. The number 
 of troops at the player's command is based on rank. Rather than using the directional pad to issue 
 specific commands to groups, commands are now issued by using the targeting reticule to select 
 a specific soldier. While aimed at an ally, pressing the up button issues a command. The system 
 chooses which command seems appropriate; for infantry troops, the up button toggles between back 
 me up and move out . In vehicles, the commands are either get in or get out . An infantry trooper 
 targeting a vehicle can order it to stop. Although the variety of commands is much more limited 
 and issuing them is more complicated, the new aiming feature allows users to select the exact class 
 of trooper they want to help them, as well as order vehicles to stop from a considerable distance.
 
  
  There are a total of nine different units from which the player can choose; six normal units in 
 ground battles, heroes, and two units in space battles. Each has different weapons, equipment, 
 and skills.
  
  Players can now play as a Jedi which include Sith characters, or a non-Jedi character such as Boba 
 Fett or Princess Leia. Each faction has a single character associated with any given battle map 
 and there is a time limit on playing as these heroes. The time limit is tracked by a light saber 
 blade which slowly shrinks as time passes and is increased by defeating enemies, and it is decreased 
 by taking damage. Each side may only have a single Jedi/hero on the field at any given time, and 
 how they join the battle varies depending on the type of game being played or settings being used 
 - generally, once a Jedi/hero is defeated, a certain amount of time must elapse or a certain number 
 of points must be earned before that character is able to reenter the battle. All heroes and Jedi 
 are superior to normal troops; their attacks are very powerful, often killing normal enemy troops 
 in a single blow or shot. Also, due to their unique time limit system, they can potentially withstand 
 far more damage than a normal trooper. Each Jedi as well as certain heroes carry some form of light 
 saber, and also have special abilities generally utilizing the Force.
  
  Aside from the main storyline another mode is the Galactic Conquest. There are 4 different starting 
 scenarios for galactic conquest (one for each faction) . The object is to conquer several enemy 
 planets, one battle at a time, increasing control over the galaxy. For example, Rebels start off 
 with Dagobah, Yavin 4 and Hoth, and must fight battles to win other worlds and expand their power. 
 Gameplay has improved greatly. This time around you can engage in space battles which you control 
 different types of ships and try to destroy the enemies ships and fighters. Also you can play as 
 heroes from the star wars movies, performing their famous moves and force abilities on many enemies, 
 Darth Maul being my favorite. Controlling many vehicles including AT-ST's, Tank Droids, X-Wings, 
 Spider walkers and many more prove fun.
  
  Graphics have improved much and in several areas, look amazing. Character model is excellent with 
 all your new, and old familiar star wars heroes and villains in the game. Movement and animation 
 are clear and accurate and special effects are used well.
  
  Sound is great as always. The music for each level is pieced well whether it be a huge engaging 
 battle or a tempting search for the enemy. As for sound they sound amazing from weapon fire to 
 saber strikes. The voices are cool which adds the star wars atmosphere to the game. They both add 
 to the action and intensity in the battle was gives more enjoyment.
  
  There is good Value. Once you've completed the main story you can move onto the Galactic Conquest 
 and then to the fabulous multiplayer. Even later on you can improve your ranking stats and become 
 the top player.
  
  Star Wars Battlefront II is very fun to enjoy indeed. The gameplay has vastly improved since the 
 original which gives a lot more to play with. There is plenty to do and you should have great single 
 player action as well as multiplayer. If you like star wars, it's highly recommended to get this 
 game, even if your not, it proves to be a great action shooter. Another great Star Wars game by 
 Lucasarts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tar1901
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Compared to Battlefron 1 this game is really, really bad. And here are the bad parts:
  - on single mission the CPU. has an unlimited number of troops. How many soldiers fit on a corelian 
 corvette anyway?
  - the AI is the very poor. the "hard setting" means that almost any enemy trooper evades your fire 
 by moving from left to right. Also it aim is almost perfect. The "normal setting" means that not 
 every enemy evades you. Also CPU soldier from you team vs CPU solder from enemy, do not manage 
 to shoot themselves.
  - the vehicles are realy bad compared the Battelfront 1. The blast from the larger machine is gone. 
 The AT-ST has a realy stupid fire and of course the enemy evades it almost everly time.
  - the missle lock from the heavy trooper is gone. Try shooting down a snowspeeder like this.
 
  - the grenades are realy useless. When you throw a grenade agains a group of enemies, every one 
 of them runs the ege of the glast area and delivers you a head shoot.
  - the ships. Has anyone looked at the Star destroyer? Since when does it have lateral hangar bays? 
 And the Victory Star Destroyer is a joke. It is not larger than a corelian corvete.
  
  And now the good parts:
  - heroes. They can be somewhat fun until they die.
  - space battles. 
 They are nice except for the part with bording the enemy ships. What are this people thinking? 
 Lets see if we can land an X-Wing inside the hangard of a Star Destroyer and go blow up the engines (that 
 are about 0.5Km away from the hangar bay.)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhunter99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great sequel to the original battlefront. When i went and bought this game I thought 
 it would be good buy I was wrong it was awsome one of the best star wars games I have played before. 
 although it is a good game I would have liked the capital ships in the space battles to be more 
 open to exploration like: going into the bridge, maybe the armory the barracks that kind of thing 
 but it was still very entertaining and it still is. One of my favorite parts in this game was the 
 addition of the hunt mode, In battlefront 1 you were never allowed to kill ewoks, or jawas but 
 now you can just go to town and totally blast them which is very fun (laughs) but yes it is fun. 
 they also have improved the galactic conquest mode you now actually have a plot for the mode before 
 it was just lets attack this planet oh no I lost that planet.......... yeah I just won yes
  no I like battlefront 2's mode much better. 
  but all in all Battlefront 2 is a great game I 
 recomend everyone at least trying this game.
  
  DARK HUNTER99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  as i said this game is a must have for some of the fans but all that is bad is that in a normal 
 game (not custom) like with the same rules it isn't that fun to always be a soldier than a jedi 
 then die and all over but it is reccomended for those who likes a bit online somtime or offline 
 so buy it invite friends over play it this is for me and maybe for you the best in the series get 
 it and be sure to have a good PC but still get it okay! and dont forget this is not for the casual 
 or those that are novice I got really bad at the parts where you have to gou fight in space
  
  
  
  thanks for those that trust this one : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lapogo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ok If you were to ask me to compare this to the 1st one I'd definitely answer that this new Battlefront 
 is much better than the 1st. Yet not on par with Battlefield 2 regarding quality, Star Wars fans 
 may feel right at home having complete options to relive the battles from standard infantry, to 
 Jedi, and most of all the space combat.
  
  Now to me the space combat is what I 1st tested once when I learned my younger brother bought the 
 game and i'll admit my initial dissappointment as I immediately compared it to Battlefield 2's 
 piloting system but soon learned the brighter side of it.
  
  Yes the cockpit view has been stripped and its practically impossible to fly using keyboard and 
 mouse but as I fiddled around I found that using the keyboard alone does the trick. For me stripping 
 the cockpit was probably because you can now perform great acrobatic feats in which your starfighter 
 swirls around and makes really tight angle turns making the flying system of this game quick and 
 fast paced (which is far better than Battlefront 1's limited flying space and controls) and im proud 
 to say I had loads of fun playing the space battles on this game even offline. My advice is not 
 to compare the space battles with Battlefield 2's flying system since it is more like Starfox's 
 flying system where most feats can be done in various button combinations.
  
  Now for the flaws of the game. Yes like I said I had alot of fun playing this but considering how 
 others may look at this game thoroughly and reading other's review I've easily noticed their complaints 
 such as the textures not being refined as much especially on the space backgrounds and the sky 
 as you can easily notice how the "wallpapers" suddenly are misaligned and in the starfighters you 
 no longer see a pilot mounted on them. They may get away with the Tie Fighters as their cockpits 
 are practically tinted but not seeing a pilot in the X-Wing's, A-Wing's or Y-Wing's cockpit can 
 bother some players as it shows how the entire project was rushed. The explosion sprites and animations 
 look a little outdated, the explosion animations when you destroy the capital ship's critical points 
 dont look convincing can easily turn off players who want to exploit the power of their graphics.
 
  
  Now the ground battles. This practically where many of the game's flaws can be found. The game's 
 dissappointing quality can easily be noticed by most gamers who expect alot of eye candy out of 
 a Star Wars universe. Adding Hero's like jedi's and bounty hunters was a great step to add to the 
 Star Wars essence and the fact they removed the option to go prone and turn the fps system the 
 be as fast paced as Quake 3 where in you no longer need to crouch to gain accuracy. Turning the 
 system to a friendly run and gun isnt bad but however it can dissappoint many fps veterans who 
 will easily expect Counter-Strike's or moreover Battlefield 2's standards.
  
  The game's sound is where its strongest especially in the space maps. Overall its a great game 
 for the hardcore Star Wars fans but yet its quite sad to see that much of its potential is still 
 untapped. Perhaps Pandemic should take more of their time to sit down and review what they could 
 have done to complete this would be masterpiece. Afterall we gamers arent pushing you to hurry 
 are we? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieES
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Like every game its got its good aspects and its bad aspects.
  
  Whats good about it is the normal trooper action the settings, which by the way if you liked the 
 movies you will love the settings, and last but not least the Jedi action which in some cases its 
 awesome. Also the epic battles become very attractive and they're well designed.
  
  The bad bits are probably the space action where it can get a bit annoying because ships are hard 
 to control at least until you get the hang of them. Also the space battles can get a bit boring 
 and frustrating when they get more complicated.
  
  In terms of graphics you need a decent graphics card like every game nowadays but if your machine 
 can manage it then the graphics are pretty good.
  
  In terms of sounds well like the first one they are more than acceptable specially when there is 
 a lot of action going on 
  
  In terms fo extras i really liked the fact that you can choose different ships for different purposes. 
 Also the ranks you can acquire with troopers and the more powerful weapons you get as a result 
 are also very attractive.
  
  In general its a good game definitely worth playing if you have the time and a must if you are 
 a star wars fan or you liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahg2426
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battle Front 2 is one of the best war games of all time, whether your a Star Wars fan 
 or not. Even if you have the first game, this one has improved some week points, for one you get 
 to be the jedi and sith, the new levals and space battles are amasing, and the stamina bar makes 
 for better game play. one mistake was getting rid of some of the better levels from the first game, 
 like Naboo and both Bespin Cloud City, and Platforms. Overall the game play has remained very similar 
 to the original, and the new features just make the game play better. If your a Star Wars fan you 
 must own this game, and even if your not, this game is still a completely original and fun war 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront II is the sequel to, in my mind, the best Star Wars game of all time. This 
 game mainly takes a, if it ain't broke, don't fix it approach and this is good and bad for the 
 usual reasons. If you have played the original, it's basically that game with a few added extras.
 
  
  The extras were absolutely nessesary. One of these is the addition of hero characters. This sounds 
 promising, but falls short in the end. The system feels very unbalanced. A small concentration 
 of fire can easily take down most heroes, while at the same time, a hero can sometimes go a whole 
 game without dying if the opposing team isn't very well coordinated. 
  
  The space battles are by far the best addition to Battlefront II. The developers did a very nice 
 job of creating a fun and simplistic way of dogfighting and attacking capital ships, while at the 
 same time allows a challenge if the teams are well balenced.
  
  One large difference is the lack of vehicles, as well as the pilot class altogether (with the exception 
 of space battles) . This creates the need for rocket launchers to plummet, but creates a much less 
 vehicle oriented battle which can even things up a bit.
  
  The graphics are crisp and deliver very good visuals if set on the highest setting. The music is 
 all old-school Star Wars tracks and the weapons sound how laser beams should, so the overall sound 
 is good, but not great. 
  
  WIth a relatively short and easy campaign (even on elite) , the one thing that will keep you coming 
 back is the online multiplayer. Hosted by Gamespy, the online battles are excelent and when you 
 get 64 players on an XL battle, things can become very exciting.
  
  Overall, Battlefront II is a great Star Wars game that delivers great squad-based gameplay, impressive 
 visuals, and an overall fun experience. May the force be with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  BattleFront ll defenetly is great game. The incremental addictions like playing as a jedi/hero and 
 fighting in space surely amused me. But... there some things that Battlefront l has, and Battlefront 
 ll doesn't have (wasn't battlefront ll supose to be like an expansion pack of battlefront l?) , like 
 the first person view inside veichles, space ships in ground battles and the thing that disapointed 
 a lot... what happend to the two Rhen Vars, Bespin cloud city and Yavin 4 arena...? Hoppefully the 
 update patche will bring these four wonderful maps back....
  
  
  Well, of course that playing as jedi sounds pretty fun, and it is, but after some time, I got bored... it's 
 just to easy when you use a jedi, you just go around and kill everibody you see. The game is a lot 
 more fun and competitive when there isn't a jedi/hero around. Yo simply kill a foe with one light 
 saber attack. And as for the non-jedi heroes.... well... I think they could hang around fine the game,'cause 
 they aren't as strong as the jedi/sith heroes.
  
  Now, the space battles were something tha amused me since when I heard there was going to be a sequel 
 to battlefront. Since BattleFront ll is based on all Star Wars episodes, it could deliver the awesome 
 and well designe episode lll space ships like the v-wing, droid trifighter and others. The space 
 battles are simple. You have to defeat all enemy space units, like in the ground battles. Well, you 
 start at your faction's capital ship, and you have a variety of space ships to choose. Once you 
 have entered the space ship, you leave the capital ship, to space, and you will encounter the enemy 
 space crafts. You're primary objective, is to destroy all the important parts of you're enemys capital 
 ship. By doing that, you're enemy will loose lots of reinforcements. One of the fun things about he 
 space battles, is that you can damage the enemie's capital ship inside it! When you are ploting a 
 space ship, you can land inside the capital ship and try to blow up it's engines, ife suport... Space 
 battles are fun, I just wish we could use some of the legendary Star Wars space ships, like the mileniun 
 falcon and boba fett's slave l.
  
  The "capture the flag" mode and the "hunt"mode, honestly... are very boring. I only played "capture 
 the flag" one time. I just played and said:"That sucks". Since then, i never played "capture the flag 
 again". And the hunt mode, it is in all aspects the same mode as conquest, he only thing that is diferent, is 
 that you can use alien creatures like jawas, sand people, geonosians, gungans and others.
  
  Fortunatly, the maps in battlefront ll are very fun, specially the ones that apear in episode lll.
 
  
  What I can say, is hat battlefront ll is a great game with amazing sound and decent graphics. Altough 
 the "hunt" and the "capture flag mode", were a disaster, battlefront ll delivers a fun game experience, and 
 if you enjoyed battlefront l, you will probably also enjoy this great sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paintbuster0001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Although you may have seen that other people don't think it's that great, Battlefronts II is definitely 
 a great choice. It combines all the factors that made the first game so great, threw in some new 
 levels, characters, an all new Hero option, and a spectacular space battles system to make it a 
 great game with a fresh look. I highly recommend it for fans of the first, and for those who have 
 never played the first or even seen the movies (both high sacrilege) . The difficulty is just right, 
 with an option to increase AI intelligence when the game gets too easy, and the graphics on the 
 computer version are superb. The controls for vehicles, and especially starfighters, are difficult 
 at first and give it that high learning curve, but it soon becomes second nature to you and you'll 
 be bulls-eyeing womp rats in no time. For those who have a platform, buy it for your computer. 
 Not only are the graphics better, but controls are easier and sniping is as easy as clicking on 
 someone's head. The only thing that would have made this game better is if they took all the levels 
 from the first and put them in the second, along with the new ones, instead of just a handful of 
 the old classics. This game is phenomenal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisofsteel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  I just wish I could play every level with a sith! Much like the original except for the addition 
 of playable jedi + sith, as well as space missions. You will also get to play as Boba Fett, in 
 fact you start off a mission already being him. The movie cut-screens they have added are great, 
 giving you a more in depth look at the life as a clone trooper. Eventually you work your way up 
 to becoming the Stormtrooper, we all know and love, and then travel back to Kamino to destroy a 
 new breed of clones. Clones fighting Clones, intense. Overall I would definitely recommend this 
 game to anyone looking for more after Star Wars III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bramdman_12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a great game with lots of action and fun. On the computor version, graphics 
 are amazing. I rated it a 9, the only problem with it is the fact that it does have a lot of laging 
 in intense battles. 
  The actual game play is fun and exciting, it uses the same idea as the original Battlefront. The 
 campaign is fun as you go through the battles of the 501st. Galactic conquest has improved with 
 more bonuses. Now there is a larger variety of vehicles, units and maps. One downside is that they 
 got ride of the Bespin map. There are 2 difficulty settings, Normal+Elite.
  This is a great game for star wars fans who want to live the battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrnotion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has excellent new features like space battle and being able to be a Jedi...... Lucasarts 
 really should have put more time and effort into controls. Space flight controls are standard (WHERES 
 THE B-WING!?) - Infantry controls are good (love the sprint ) needs a melee attack- Vehicles are 
 great (again love the boost option) - Jedi are incredibly sloppy and frustrating (especially online 
 play) needs more aerial attacks and more precision. Any game the incorporates swords should get 
 tips from xboxs ninja gaiden - no flailing crazily in hopes to hit something-but a good selection 
 of heroes. This game will definitely pave the way for upcomming battle games, I was just hoping 
 to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360motina
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Both the Single Player and the Multiplayer both have there ups and downs.
  
  Single Player:
  Cons - 
  The AI on your team is totally worthless, and the AI on the opposing 
 team is hard to hit. They roll around too much.
  On the main campaign, you do not keep your Jedi. I played the levels repeatedly again just to realize 
 your Jedi disappears when a certain objective is finished.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Cons - 
  Beware of Jedi, or you will be dead so fast. The first couple of games this happened to me. No 
 chance of playing the game because a Jedi came and cut you down in seconds of starting.
  
  Overall, I was disappointed in not being able to control a Jedi much. It is my own tilt on the 
 game. I expected to play a Jedi in a Star Wars game, not being a pawn. In addition, another thing 
 affecting the tilt is my dislike for first person shooters ; no depth at all. However, the best 
 part of the game is the space battles. Nothing like a good dogfight in a tie-interceptor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkatim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  While playing as a jedi or other hero is exciting, it is semi-hard to control. For instance, in 
 single player mode, many enemies surround you at once, and swinging a lightsaber in only one direction 
 leaves you open to fire from other areas. The campaign mode is very difficult, and galactic conquest 
 leaves something to be desired. In instant action, NEVER set reinforcments to anything over 200 
 because it will get very very tedious. Multiplayer is exciting, but the lack of servers to play 
 upon is disillusioning. The space battles are wonderful, but it seems the enemy is too hard to 
 kill and you are too easy. Overall a great buy, especially for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narwaffle
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Battlefront II is, overall, a fine game. It isn't going to amaze you with flash graphics, 
 and you'll flinch at the dodgy AI in Single Player, but it's Star Wars. So it's going to be a hell 
 of a lot better if you're a Star Wars fan. Launching your star fighter into space, or taking down 
 a big 'chicken walker' in your trusty snowspeeder just brings a sort of nostalgia. Pandemic has 
 hit the nail right on the head when it comes to experience.
  
  But down to the actual content. The game uses a fairly outdated engine, so the graphics aren't 
 top job. Textures vary from highly detailed to a tad blurry as you move through the level, even 
 if you're running the game with a nice fast graphics card and with everything maxed out. So if 
 you run into the game expecting 'Pow! Amazing graphical experience!' you'll be highly disappointed. 
 
  
  So on to the Gameplay. The Team AI in Single Player, is hopeless. You'll often see the bots shooting 
 through walls and using completely useless weapons in the middle of a battle. Hopefully the patch 
 will add some better AI scripts. But when you're playing online, against people who have actual 
 brains, it's pure fun. Teamwork isn't really a key element, it's just run in, take down as many 
 buggers as you can, and then get killed. Or, perch upon one of the nicely placed sniping spots 
 and pick off as many guys until the other team pinpoints where you are and snipes you back. Of 
 course, you can always apt for the 'Capture the CPs' method of winning. Either way, you'll rack 
 up points and kills, which moves you up in the Game Rank and unlocks 2 extra character classes 
 from each faction.
  
  There's also a great little campaign which depicts the course of the Clone Army, from the Clone 
 War to the end of the series. Unlike the last Battlefront, all the missions are linked in some 
 way or another, so it all makes much more sense why you're actually on this planet. Or above it 
 in space. 
  
  Speaking of space, one of the main features of Battlefront II is Space Battles. You choose your 
 faction, choose between a pilot or a foot soldier, and away you go. Hop into a ship that's docked 
 in the hangar (or hop in a transport ship and wait for your pilot to take you to the hangar. Or 
 wait for some noob to hop into the transport ship and fly away with you in it and crash it) and 
 off you go. You can attack the critical systems of the capital ship, or jumping in the enemies 
 hangar and disabled the shields (which is quite critical in it's own right) or blowing up the minor 
 systems. Either way, it'll result in lots of exploding. Like everything in Battlefront II.
  
  To wrap it up, Star Wars Battlefront II is a great game, that isn't technologically amazing, 
 but is just darn fun. Give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaulFENDER
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Battlefield 1942. I played it for several months, experienced the novelty of the 
 different downloaded maps and mods and also bought the expansions Road to Rome and such. And I 
 have to say that Star Wars Battlefront II was a dissapointing experience. The game stayed on my 
 HD for 4 days and then was promptly uninstalled.
  
  The game has a lot of Star Wars sugar coating and great FMV intro-scenes, but this is not what 
 you bought a game for. After the initial excitement, the game experience just goes downhill. The 
 strategic over-game got boring quickly as I fought to get planets, fought and lost them, then fought 
 to regain them again... the SAME map.
  
  As the article says, the best new feature is the space combat. I was worried about how this simple 
 game would handle X-Wing caliber dogfights... but this isn't a sim. Instead they simplified the 
 dog-fighting maneuvers so you could just trigger them with a double-tap. Ingenious. Unfortunately 
 after a few battles you realize that it's always the same map with the same objectives... and it 
 starts getting boring.
  
  This game would've been fun 6 years ago. For players who missed out on all that evolution, then 
 the experience will feel fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jseigler
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is a fun, exciting and overall enjoyable game. However, my major complaint is I would have 
 liked to have a more complete single-player campaign. There are quite a few holes where more action 
 could have been added, but overall a very good play. 
  
  The Instant Action menu is much improved and allows for multiple options, all of which make for 
 more inspired and enjoyable gameplay.
  
  I have not played the multi-player version, however many I know who have says it is much better 
 and more enjoyable than the previous Battlefront.
  
  Not the best Star Wars game, but a vast, vast improvement over the first Battlefront. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto138
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  As I said, this is my favorite Star Wars game. I don't really know what there is to say about this 
 game, so I'll just break it up.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in this is pretty addicting. I love going to so many famous Star Wars planets and 
 killing everyone, sometimes, even my own people. This game also has tons of different modes to 
 keep you with something to do for a long time. So don't expect to be getting rid of this game anytime 
 soon.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good, but nothing new. They do a rather good job at portraying 
 all the planets and characters.
  
  Sound
  
  I have to say, this game does pretty good in the sound department. It has good sounds for everything, 
 from shooting people, to stuff blowing up. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  In the end, I have to say, Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a good, worth-while experience. Whether you 
 like Star Wars or not (God only knows how you couldn't) this game is worth buying, and will provide 
 you with something to do for a long, long time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Mol
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Come play this game online!
  
  Why bore yourself if you can also cut other people down as Darth Maul.
  Or earn the right to 
 fly and electrocute people as a Dark Trooper.
  
  Single player bores after some time, but Multiplayer just keeps being fun
  
  Fast servers, 
 64 players!!!!, Jedi, Space, Episode III
  
  What I think makes this game so good is the balance between the different characters, although 
 it comes in handy to practise just one of them.
  Playing as a different unit type also means a complete different gameplay and different ways to 
 kick ass online!
  
  Not SW Galaxies, but Battlefront II is the Total Experience!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeunisPaul
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game freezes alot. I have tried to download the patches and they simply do not work. I try 
 to install the patch and it says it can't find the game and to reinstall the game. I reloaded the 
 game and it took about an hour on my high spped PC tried the patch agian with the same result. 
 Lucas arts has really let me down. Also I got a new joystick from Logitech and the game would take 
 two days to setup the joystick to be able to be usable. I cannot beleive Lucas Arts released a 
 game and then two patches that do not work. Maybe they should have kept the game until it was working. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is a FPS that is set in the Star Wars universe, it is like Battlefield 
 2 but with a Star Wars logo on. There are some nice extras, although it has too much of the original 
 Battlefront 2 in to make it a game that will stand out.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Ok here is where I must give this game some hard earned credit. The gameplay is 
 nice, with rankings and unlockables, dependant of your score in the game. There are a whole new 
 array of weapons aswell as the freedom to fight in space. The option of choosing a Jedi is a well 
 thought of idea, although all the different jedi are more or less the same. There is also non-jedi 
 heroes to choose from also. The only thing that stopped gameplay from achieving a 10 is the lack 
 of different maps to choose from, (like there is no Tatooine Sand Dunes map anymore with the Sarlaac 
 Pit) . The storyline is great, with the diary entries from the 501st is very realistic.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Graphics are O. K. I suppose, they could have been a lot better, with just the 
 few minor deatails here and there. The intro movie captions are a very nice extra however, and 
 therefore saves the graphics for the game to a solid 8.
  
  Sound (9/10) : I love the sounds to this game, very realistic, and different background music to 
 each level you play on. The sounds from weapons is very good also. Moreover real music from the 
 real Star Wars films is very good, which grants the sounds for this game a solid 9.
  
  Value (8/10) : Value is pretty average, nothing wrong with dishing out 32.99 for a game that will 
 grant months worth of entertainment. Perhaps, if you could play as different classes in the storyline 
 would have earned the Value in the game a 9 or a 10 depending on how long it would keep you entertained.
 
  
  Tilt (8/10) : Again, the tilt to the game is pretty average, aswell as the value. There are moments 
 of suspense in the game, rarely though. The ability to play different types of game on maps is 
 a very nice extra, aswell as hunt, assault and CTF (capture the flag) .
  
  So there was my Star Wars Battlefront 2 review. I would suggest that solid Satr Wars fans will 
 like to get this game to add to their collection. And even if you have Battlefront 1, you may aswell 
 give this game a shot. Just to find out if you like it or not.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Legolas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the first Battlefront and some of the other online FPSs that there are this one is 
 great, especially for a fan of Star Wars. Lucas Arts did a great job in balancing out all the units 
 for multiplayer making the game that much more enjoyable. The additions to singleplayer are also 
 good, especially campaign mode, which gives you a sense of accomplishment unlike the previous campaign 
 mode. Graphics and sound are decent, too. If you liked the first game you'll like this one as well. 
 The ability to play as a jedi really added something new and fun to the game, getting to run up 
 and slice someone in half with darth vader never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diflogeit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is not only the best Star Wars game I have ever played but also the best 
 I have ever played. The basic part of the game is campaign mode (story mode) , unless you have the 
 PSP version. You start out on the planet Mygeeto as Jedi Master Ki-Adi-Mundi commanding the Imperial 
 501, the top legion of the Republic clone army. You can play as different classes of soldiers with 
 different special abilities. First is the normal clone trooper. He is the basic trooper with a 
 pretty strong rifle and thermal detonators (grenades) . Next is the Heavy Trooper class. This class 
 specializes in destroying tanks with their missile launchers. Next enters the clone sharpshooter 
 (sniper) . He is well... a sniper. Finally is the Engineer class. They have shotguns (they are really 
 good) and fusion cutters. These can be used for slicing into vehicles (knocking enemies out of 
 vehicles) as well as fixing turrets and vehicles. Additionally there are two bonus classes of troops 
 for you to unlock as you play the level. First is the Clone Commander. He has a chain gun, the 
 best gun for me. Lastly there is the Jet Trooper. Hence the Jet Trooper he has well... jets. These 
 allow him to fly short distances. He is also in possession of an EMP launcher (similar to a rocket 
 launcher) . The only tradeoff about this class is the fact that they have weaker armor. The next 
 mode is Galactic Conquest. In this mode you cna either play as the CIS (droid army) , the Republic, 
 the Empire and the Rebel Alliance. As each different army you try to capture planets, win space 
 battles, recruit more troops, buy upgrades, construct fleets, and ultimately control the galaxy. 
 The next mode is Instant Action. Here you can play Conquest (like campaign mode) , Capture the flag, 
 hunt, and assault on every single planet. Finally for those of you who own the PC, PSP, and Xbox 
 versions of this game you will receive Multiplayer mode which allows to play online with your friends. 
 Lastly, for the people of have the PSP version in a trade for losing campaign mode, you will get 
 3 new modes. First is Imperial Enforcer, Rogue Assassin, and actually I forgot the last mode. Sorry. 
 Anyway if you don't already own Star Wars Battlefront II you should buy it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindstormpt
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  SW: BF2 is quite easy to learn and play, and it runs very well on middle-end hardware, with surprisingly 
 good sound and graphics.
  
  It makes for an interesting gameplay experience. It's a nice FPS and the space combats are a nice 
 twist. But even this diversity doesn't stop the single player game from getting boring too soon: 
 after a few hours of play the "destroy fighters, destroy battleship, capture command post" routine 
 makes the game almost unbearable. The multiplayer component is somewhat better, but not enough 
 to make the game worth it's price.
  
  If you're a SW fan looking for a single player game, please go for KOTOR2. It's just one of the 
 best games I've ever played. If you're looking for a good multi player shooter, maybe you'll have 
 to exit the Star Wars universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un-Gol-Dun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Overall, it's a good game, but some aspects of the game can do better. Like the Campaign Mode could 
 be a bit more longer, even though the missions are from Easy to Difficult. I would like it better 
 if I had the game on a PS2. The Jedi/Hero selection is good however, but I wish that you could 
 do more combinations with your lightsaber. I just hope that the new game, Star Wars: Empire at 
 War, has a better outcome. But, there's some good things to say about the game as well:
  
  You can play as:
  - Darth Vader :)
  - Anakin Skywalker
  - The Emperor
  - Boba Fett
  - 
 Count Dooku
  - General Grevious :)
  - Jango Fett :)
  - Darth Maul :)
  - Yoda :)
  - Obi-Wan-Kenobi :)
  - Aayla Secura
  - Ki-Adi-Mundi
  - Luke Skywalker 
  - Princess Leia 
 :)
  - Chewbacca
  - Han Solo :)
  
  I think that's it. The ones I've smiley faced are the ones I STRONGLY reccommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  granted I need a graphics card, but from the gaming I've played, Star Wars Battlefront 2 for PC 
 is decent, but I preferred it for ps2 when I played that. I thought that the PC version would be 
 so much better, man, was I wrong.
  
  I don't really like the interface of the game, it's hard to keep track of, and the whole lock on 
 feature troubles me. However, one of the cool features is that even when you're playing against 
 AI, it shows who you've killed, whether it's tighe bodalla (real name in game) or Wi 800 (another 
 real name) , it tells you, so if you get killed by a specific AI, you can go on a rampage and instead 
 of not learning of your revenge, it'll say that you got 'im.
  
  The good: I like the gameplay, I always have, and there's a pretty cool storyline to the "rise 
 of the empire" campaign. There's also really cool new ground levels and new techs.
  
  The bad: lock on feature is annoying if you're not in the space battles, it's hard to keep track 
 of your health and stamina if you're paying attention to the battle. The mouse controls can be 
 really cranky in ground battles.
  
  The beautiful: Two words: Special, Units. Unless you've played the game, you don't know how fun 
 it is to go tearing across the battlefield as a clone commander with your chaingun tearing apart 
 droids. Two more words: Unlockable, Heroes. I was playing my first level ever of SW BF2, and I 
 was on mygeeto, and I got a few kills, and suddenly, "would you like to play as ki-adi-mundi?" 
 now knowing this was I jedi, I said yes, and all of a sudden I was slaughtering droids, just tearing 
 them apart, leaping like fifty feet in the air and coming down on some unsuspecting droid. Final 
 two words: Space battles, this is where I got my rank of general and earned legendary status in 
 endurance, guardian, and war heroes, I think that pretty much sums it up.
  
  Whereas this is a great game, it needs a good graphics card and a good comp. You can't really run 
 the game that well without those. and if you don't have them, but need the game, go for the ps2 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Interesting in it's own rights, Star Wars Battlefront II is good to say the least... Well, the 
 armies look cooler, but I still think that LucasArts hurried the game production up to meet the 
 Movie. OK, the Online is fun, and the special Mos Eisley Hero vs. Villan battle is awsome. ( Mos 
 Eisley Assault) and some of the glitches are useful, very useful. The SWB2 for the PS2 is good, 
 and on the Xbox it looks like it's still in the sixties, but the PC, oh, the PC! The graphics are 
 sorta blocky, not realistic, like the PS2's... Oh, and the best part is the Music! Dum dum dum 
 duh da dum duh da dum... I sing it every day! (My friends are still annoyed though...) Besides, 
 it's not Star Wars without music! If you don't belive me, play a Star Wars Movie, without the sound. 
 Not pretty. But they stick with what works. Heres some bad news. Even my friend, who has SWB1 for 
 PC says that the controls need working. And on internet, the lag on some servers (other computers) 
 are horrible... but that's out of LucasArts control. Overall, I'm pleased with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequal to Battlefront. To start I will say that this is a worhty sequal to the original. 
 The gameplay is no different to the original. They did add some new features to the game. If you 
 hold down shift while walking and you will go into sprint mode. This is great for those missions 
 were you just want to get the hell out of there. They also added a new class to each team. These 
 are very fun to play as and they can to everything from be invisble to weild a huge chain machine 
 gun. They also added space battles. These are the best addition to it due to that you can go into 
 enemy ships and destroy there ship from the inside. You also get to play as hero characters. This 
 mixes up the gameplay alot. They do feel kinda tackted on, but still are fun to play as. My bigest 
 complaint about BF2 is that it strayed to far from its roots. They evolved it into a obvective 
 based gameplay. You can still do original mode of Battlefront in instant action. The galactic conquest 
 mode has gotten a huge face lift. You move your fleet around as you capture planets. After you 
 capture a planet you get credits. These can be used to purchase new units to upgrades for your 
 troops. This will keep you going for a while. The graphics in this game are very good. If you can 
 run it at a good frame rate and res this game has great graphics. The sound is the best part of 
 this game. They have all of the star wars music, including my favorite piece of music of all time, 
 "A Hero Falls." The value of this game is prettey good. This is a hard game and it will have you 
 at it for a while. I never finished the single player, but to the part I got to was very fun. There 
 is a rock'in multi-player mode that suports up to 64 people online. It is very fun and suports 
 all maps and modes. THis was part of the disopointment about the game. It really needs a patch 
 to fix some of online contectivety ishuses. Also despite gamespot's review and that they said that 
 it feels like a port, but I think that it is a PC made game. For a game that strayed to far from 
 its roots this is a very fun game. 
  
  8.3
  Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXTHExPAPERxBOY
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  
  There were many downs and ups in Sw: Bf2.... 
  
  Down.. Nowhere to go but DOWN..
  
  I'm a huge FPS fan.. See, I'm used to sneaking up behind snipers and slice & dice in Battlefield 
 2.... But Sw: Bf2 totally freaked me out.. I have a buddy I play with pretty much everyday on Ventrillo, 
 and I had some money left over from Christmas..
  He told me he got Sw: Bf2, and I had some money so I was interested in getting it.. ALTHOUGH.. He 
 DID warn me that's it's not very strategical coordinated, (But what does he know?) . I had the first 
 battlefront, and I played it about 3-4 times, and I nearly went crazy due to lag issues... I don't 
 have lag.. NEVER.. I got a ping of 4! BEAT IT!.. That's right, you can't.... Anyways, I got the 
 game, and I Played the multiplayer first, I'm not sure what map, but all I saw was stormtroopers 
 hopping around.. The blasters were always shooting off in diff directions, and I was like.. (-.-) 
 - - My friend WAS right, and I don't really play multiplayer anymore.
  
  Now, enough about downs.. Let's look at some positives...
  
  I started the campaign, and I 
 LOVE it. I haven't really gotten a chance to play it all yet, but I am looking forward to it. I 
 like how you can earn points and gain new characters, and play as a jedi for a little bit. The 
 levels are very detailed, and well drawn. One good thing is that in your server, you can have "All-Hero" 
 servers, and Space "dogfight" servers. Now, back to the campaign. I really like the cinematics, 
 and the storyline. There were lots of new vehicles in this game.
  
  Overall, with its Ups, and Downs, I am partially disappointed.
  
  xXTHExPAPERxBOY has left 
 the building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyloco
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  In a Star Wars fan's opinion, I think that this is one of the best games, Star Wars or not, on 
 the PS2. The overall feeling is great, especially on multiplayer or splitscreen. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who loves Star Wars or science fiction.
  
  The graphics may seem a bit blurred, especially the texture of the gigantic cruisers in space. 
 Ground maps are a bit sharper. There are some parts where the pixels shift around a little, but 
 mostly it is unnoticable and can be ignored.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game is immersive. Maps from Episode 3 add a new touch, the new features 
 are practical and the space is just plain fun. Even the small maps are huge! It is a great step 
 from the first Battlefront's gameplay. Objective based missions are quite fun, and difficulty has 
 increased over it's predecessor.
  
  The soundtrack of Battlefront 2 is the best feature in the game! Original music composed by John 
 Williams is addictive while playing. Whoever puts their volume on mute is just plain dumb when 
 playing this game.
  
  Overall, this is one of Lucasarts better videogames. I highly recommend it and it is worth the 
 fifty dollars that you paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta1238
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  its very good because it looks like battlefront one, but not too much.
  there is space fighting and this is really fun. ( the ai pilots are aces when on hard difficulty! 
 unlike in bespin platforms from battlefront 1!) you can blow up frigates and critical systems from 
 the capital ships. a bad thing, however, is that you can't blow up the capital ships completely 
 and you cant board frigates.
  
  there is an assault mode in mos eisley which puts all heroes against the bad guys. the bad thing 
 is, that in multiplayer the bad guys always use the 2 same tactics: with darth maul they force 
 push you, sprint to you and kill you.
  with darth vader, anakin, count dooku and the emperor they force choke you without you can do anything 
 about it.
  
  the campaing is addicting and fun, but it becomes hard and even in the medium level (lowest) you 
 cant complete the campaing without some advice from a friend.
  
  anyway, battlefront II is much fun and i recommend you to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  There are a few categories of soldiers to play as: the Republic, the CIS (droids) , the Rebels, 
 and the Empire. In these classes are four subclasses: regular infantry, anti-vehicle infantry, 
 snipers, and mechanics. Then there are two special subclasses per group; mix that in with a buttload 
 of heroes (and villains) and you get a game that's already soundin' pretty good. Also, there are 
 totally awesome space battles and a HUGE variety of weapons, and let's not forget the sixty-four 
 player multiplayer! Now that's impressive. Most importantly, this game adds another dimension which 
 some games have scrimped on these days: FUN.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  Okay, the graphics are good, but not anything spectacular, like Battlefield 2 or Half-Life 2. Basically 
 your everyday, run-of-the-mill graphics. Move along, folks, nothin' to see.
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  Your comrades are constantly chattering away, alerting you to the spider walker 
 ahead or the wave of infantry to come. Also, the game stays very true to the Star Wars music, which 
 is kind of a duh for a Star Wars game, but rather nice anyway. Sound effects are great too.
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  Lots of replayability, so much to do! If you start to think playing the computer's 
 getting a little easy for you, some of the addicts online can humble your ass quick. Not fun, but 
 a real skill-builder.
  
  TILT: 8/10
  The game's great and all, but it takes up a whopping 3.8 GB on your hard drive, and for a guy with 
 only an 80 GB hard drive, most of which is currently occupied by the Sims 2 stuff, that's something 
 not so great. Still, regardless of hard drive usage, I'd definetly recommend this game to any Star 
 Wars fan or any fan of the Battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofapig
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say, compared to the First Battlefront, not very good. The reason i say this is 
 because it is not very different at all. Sure its only a sequel, but many more features could have 
 been added. 
  
  Also, you cannot turn the graphics up. Not a good game for people who spent alot of money on their 
 gaming machine and can't even use it in this game. 
  
  The sound is also terrible. I only have 2.1 speakers, yet the game just does not portray good sound. 
 
  
  If i were you, wait until the price goes down, then think about getting it. This is, if you have 
 the first one. But if you do not have the first one, go ahead and get this one, it has a couple 
 changes. 
  
  I rated this a 3.5 because of it being much similar to the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terry71
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Good job! The developers did their homework, and made a fun time-killer out of a beloved franchise. 
 I never played the first one, because of not so hot reviews and word of mouth, but I have several 
 co-workers who gave this one dynamite reviews. (Did I mention that one of them belongs to a Stormtrooper 
 legion here in Ohio?) Excellent job folks. I cannot be happier, and at least my four year old daughter, 
 who is also a Star Wars fan, can watch her old man play a game without hearing questionable language 
 or senseless, but gratuitous, violence. (GTA San Andreas come to mind?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  When you buy a sequal, you expect some things to remain the same with the first, however what you 
 don't do is keep everything the same and add only a very small new part to the game.
  
  Which is exactly what they've done here. Ok Starwars Battlefront is a good game and I've already 
 paid my 29.99 for it. Then they've asked us to pay 39.99 for the exact same game with a few new 
 things like the space combat.
  
  Everything, Including the maps we fight on is exactly the same, I mean can't they make up new maps 
 for this. The Risk Style conquest fighting is a nice touch. Also the Space combat is good if rather 
 limited, 
  
  Boarding the other ships to sabotage is good but I feel they should of made it that we could capture/sabotage 
 all major parts from within. Not just the Turrets, engines, Shields and Life support, but bridge, 
 sensors, and sabotage their flight decks.
  
  The AI leaves a lot to be desired its only the Multiplayer that makes this game up to be a rated 
 7.0 on Gamespot. For people with Starwars Battlefront I
  
  I suggest you forget about buying this. Theres not enough new content to justify the 39.99 and 
 the $49.99. They currently asking
  
  Very disappointing, Lets hope that the players can come up with map packs to allow for custom maps 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo462001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  i recommend this game anyone who liked any of teh star wars movies. buy this game cause its totally 
 worthwhile. the space combat is also a very good addition to the game. if your not a keen star 
 wars fan and want to buy this game for the jedi/sith experience of playing as a jedi then i recommend 
 you not to buy it because it rally isn't as fun as is should be, this is where i found that being 
 a normal troop is actually more fun.
  
  On the whole is it a very good game and is definitely worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashMagic91
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:03 am PT
Review:  stwarswars BFII is a very good game for those interested in the star wars series and who likes 
 a goodfirst person or third person shooter. You have four factions to choose from rebels, droids, 
 clones and the Empire. Each faction has 6 playable units and a handful of heros u can command. 
 Also each faction has a variety of vehicles and space ships.
  Graphics are pretty good resembling the star wars films very well. Sound is ok. Being a Jedi i find 
 is really good fun, personnaly so far i havnt gotten bord of being one. Using force powers and 
 slashing people with ur lightsabrer, wat fun. Space battles are immense, especially online.
  If you love starwars this is a must have.
  
  Singplayer wil probaly take u around 15hours- 
 to do all 4 galactic campagins and then the campaign following the 501st clone unit. Overall i 
 think the campaigns r pretty fun. Instant action is very well done, many different maps and things 
 to play such as tdm and ctf.
  
  Multiplayer is also very good but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is average, more of an update to the previous Battlefront than a true sequal. Graphics 
 are no better than the first game, sound is the same as well. Addition of Jedi seems more of an 
 afterthought than a well thoughtout plan, only one force power to use with each jedi. For a true 
 jedi experence there are way better games out that makes better use of them, addition of some music 
 and maps from episode 3 is a welcome addition.. but where this game shines is in the spacebattle 
 sequences they are as well done as most space flight sims. NOW FOR THE REALLY BAD- the use of securom 
 7 copy protection has left this game for many players non-working, lucasarts only response is "call 
 securom and they can help you" don't take my word for it, hope over to lucasarts support site and 
 see for yourself... so a word of warning make sure you purchase from a place that takes returns..... otherwise 
 I'd avoid this title until you can risk burning the bucks for what could turn into a drink coaster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis159
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Other than that this is a fa superior game to Battlefront 1 because you can play the heroes, there 
 are extra classes, and more maps to play on than Battlefront 1 (even if you find every custom map 
 there is for Battlefront 1) . The AI's really work, because you can get sniped very easy or even 
 get the stuffing shot out of you. (I should know; my first profile had a death to kill ratio of 
 7:1) You earn medals and over time can get better weapons and bonuses to damage, health, energy, 
 etc. If you like Star Wars movies, and want to be in the battles, this is as close as you can get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rio-Raul
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  star wars RPG game what has loads of great battle fields and charecter the only thing i'd like 
 chanigns is swaping the big ugley dungen monster in gabaz palace with a beautiful women insted 
 can sum 1 do that :p go on make a patch or sumthing to change it  
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm just wasting space LOL) ......... (I'm 
 just wasting space LOL) ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocanuta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront II is one of the best Starwars games of all time in my opinion.
  wit han exelent campain mode giving you the chanse to fight all over the starwars galaxy, the new 
 abuility to fight in space is amazing!
  
  A perfect mix of first person shooter, flying in space, driving, and the starwars experiance realy 
 makes this game one of my favorites of all time.
  
  The graphics realy bring the psace scenes to life letting you fly past every part of the ships 
 in full detail.
  
  Also the abuility to play as the hero's of the starwars world, darth vader, Obiwan, Yoda makes 
 the game all the better to play beign able to slice enimys apart with twin light sabers, or quad 
 light sabers in General grevous' case.
  
  Online play brings the game to life and allows you to play your friends on huge maps, working with 
 them, or against them.
  
  What will you choose, light side, or dark? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manslayer2006
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:45 am PT
Review:  I got this game today (Dec 28th 2005) and i ws addicted to it for 10 hours but... it is just battlefront1 
 all ovr again... thought i will say it is a great game it adds more viecles, Units (Plus heros) , 
 Maps, And a bigger campaign (i think) And its new space battles are great and the galatic coquest 
 can take up to 4 hours.... (Its a huge map probly 25 squaes and 11 planets) But id have to give 
 it a 9.7 the graphics arn't there and well the sounds got a few glitches but great game if u liked 
 bfront1 because its sorta like an expantion... oh yeah its got multiplayer witch it pretty cool 
 and heros arn't teh best but they are strong... wow so tired i played this game all night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocaa9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I like to think of this as a sampling of Star Wars games, If you happen to like the on-ground combat 
 with troops then you might wanna get the 1st game and Rebublic Camandos game. If you like the Jedi 
 parts then get Jedi Academy or sumthing. If u like the space stuff get those tie-fighting games 
 or whatever.
  
  I think this is a very good game for star wars fans mostly. You can conquer various planets using 
 various troops from the series. I think the land combat with troops is the best part. Like it is 
 said in the GS review the Jedi isnt has fun has it could be. But with the online mode makes it 
 a lil better. BF2 has fast combat allaround through its various modes in gameplay. 
  
  As more things come to mind I will Update :)
  
  Bottomline- U like Star Wars get the game and 
 look into Lego Star Wars for some fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommysheerin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas, and even though I haven't spent a lot of time on it, it is seriously 
 addictive. Picking out your favourite factions and classes can take hours, but you have great fun 
 at the same time. The Vehicles are brilliant, aswell as time consuming mastering them. But my favourite 
 aspect of the game is the heroes. Anakin, Obi-wan and Darth Vader to name a few, all have their 
 different strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  The Multiplayer is quite good, never any lagg problems if you pick the right servers, always some 
 fun people to play with. I think that space battles aren't as good as normal game modes online, 
 but they are still reasonable.
  
  Graphics are nothing special, but the game really revolves around game play. Sound is alright, 
 with all the old star wars tracks, and some good sci-fi gunshots. 
  
  This game is well worth the money, if you have any sense you should fork out for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bensindunk
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  its a fun game! Nice objective singelplayer! And cool feature with playing as hero! FREAKING good 
 graphics!!! Nice lightning and textures. BUT, buggy: once i played as darth maul. then i wanted 
 2 change 2 the other team's hero. but then i spawned as darth maul in their base! Just think of 
 that happening in a multiplayer game! u would be kicked instantly. Sometimes when u change teams 
 nothing happens. Its really disturbing. and there are many bugs that lets u walk trought walls. 
 Well, They seems unreachable but not with heros. And some missions are way to hard! u like have 
 2 play them ten times to for example find someone. (like leia in tantive IV) or take over a command 
 point. (like in hoth) Seems like we have 2 wait for a patch. A really big one) Next thing thats 
 not pretty good is the AI on the bots. two bots from diffrent teams can stand back to back and 
 take each others team out. And when some bots are attacking they are just aming for u. Not your 
 bot pals standing like tree meters away. you, that can be like thirteen meters away. NEW PATCH 
 PLEASE. but the grapcicks are really good. And fun 2 play as a hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzx01
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  It's my first battle front but I think it's an awsome game. aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa a 1a 6168a49 a4 a89 498a4 98 4a984 a984 98 74 947 /8 748/a74 
 /74a/8 74/8 *a/ 97a/*7 74a a /7* 
  aa/a7/a874a/74aa4a8 4a 947a 9 a47 84a7a /74aa/ 7a56a 7/a9*a
  a48a8a4a8 8a874a8/a a8 48a 1a54 
 54 5 4a5 4a 6a8 *a/ *a- -/a*- -a- /a- /a-/ -a/ -sa- /s-a/ s-a/ -sa-a /s-a a aaaaaaa aaaaaaassss/ssssssssssa-/s-a/s 
 a-/s a/s -a/ -a/ -a/s-a/ a-8sa a3 18a96+4 6+a4 a+4 a9+ 49 4a98 9 4a9s7a9 7a9 7
  s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s ss s sss ss s s s s s s s ss ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Wow... just wow. This is truly one of the most amazing games I've ever played. From the beginning 
 I new this was going to be one of my favourite games of all time... I was right.
  
  Last year, I was planning to pick up a copy of the original Battlefront, but decided against it 
 as I had bigger, better (or were they?) games to play.
  
  Luckily for me, the sequel was just around the corner, and packed in practically the entire first 
 game, along with some great and exciting new features. The two most obvious being Space Combat 
 and Hero players.
  
  As I said before, ever since the announcement of Battlefront II I was hooked. It looked amazing 
 (graphically, of course you can see that it's not technically amazing, but overall, it delivers 
 an amazing looking Star Wars galaxy) , the sounds were delicious, and the gameplay was certainly 
 there.
  
  I decided to get the game for christmas, as I was fresh out of money. November 1st passed, and 
 unfortunately for Battlefront II, the reviews weren't all roses and sunshine. Gamespot's Bob Colayco 
 gave the game 7.8 (PC) , quite an average score, especially for the sequel to the number one selling 
 Star Wars game of all time. People complained about it being incredibly buggy, crash to the desktop 
 bugs, walking on the outside of a Star Destroyer bugs. Complaints about the AI, they jumped off 
 ledges, shot teammates, got in your way.
  
  I won't lie to you. At one point I felt as if Battlefront II was going to suck for me, and I'd 
 throw it out the window the minute I got it.
  
  I was wrong. They were wrong. Bob Colayco was wrong! Battlefront II delivered everything I truly 
 hoped for. Maps, jedi, space, graphics, sound, story, replaybility, action, choices, fun, and most 
 importantly, Star Wars! The online play is solid and works surprisingly well with others, and many 
 friendly people live there, who 1. aren't noobs, and 2. arn't s00per 1337 H4x0rz.
  
  I have so far run into only one bug, which happened to be on Mygeeto where my walker jumped from 
 one point when I stood there, but apart from that, I've had a perfect experience. The AI does tend 
 to stand sometimes, but I found them actually quite good. They respawn at the closest command post 
 to the action. They travel in packs, and work with you. They scream out appropriate line like "Droidekas!" 
 and such. The only things I want fixed is the fact that AI don't ever use jedi. I believe this 
 is a bug since they apparently work on consoles.
  
  Two other nagging features are that of the maps Mustafar, and Kamino. Although obviously architectually 
 amazing, the edges of the maps are sometimes a bit lacking. On Mustafar, there is a flat piece 
 of lava going somewhere, and then a waterfall of more flat lava. Kamino, the edges have a somewhat 
 tile-ish feel to them. I'm just saying these. I don't expect these matters to be resolved.
  
  Apart from those minor problems, the game is near flawless. Amazing graphics, artistically, 
 fun and enjoyable gameplay, with great fun both off, and online, and should appeal to anyone, especially 
 if that anyone like Star Wars. Excellent work Pandemic, and LucasArts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kael_blood_elfe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  this is a very good game, ill tell u that, but somethings missing. i cant figure it out though. 
 im a huge starwars fan and i got this game and i loved it. but they have 2 add something 2. in 
 a way, its the 1st game all over again just wit better graphics and more lvls.
  
  
  
  though it is fun 2 play online and even alone. ya over all its good and i would recomend u get 
 it if yur a starwars fan. it is quite addictive and fun but i feel like im playing something all 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcolbert17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  If you are tired of cookie cutter FPS games, give Battlefront 2 a try. The different variations 
 and game types keep it interesting. My only complaint is the lack of configuration available for 
 bot control and heroes. It would be nice to be able to setup games where humans are all heroes 
 against huge armies of bots.
  
  LAN hosting works very well. Hosting consumes low enough resource that the game plays smoothly 
 even during huge battles. 
  
  If you are tired of playing the same old FPS games where the name of the game is spawn - kill -spawn 
 - kill, then battlefront 2 is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari_man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  this is the sequel to star wars battlefront. this have have some good changes and some not so great. 
 like the new ai, they are smarter but the only thing they shoot is you, and instead of your teammates 
 helping you they shoot the distracted characters or stand there. i also like the new medals and 
 ranks system this lets you use new weapons unavalible in the first game. there is also the new 
 space battles, you finally get to shoot lots of starfighters down. the one thing i don't like is 
 the new graphics. sure there is more details and lighting effects it is still pretty dated. overall 
 the game was a great game. it wasn't the best yet not the worst. Good luck with the game and may 
 the force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts finally dit it. I never thought they would ever make such a game that would allow infantry, 
 vehicle and starfighter action simultaenously. When Battlefront came out it didn't really caught 
 my attention, i must say it's a pretty good game, but Battlefront II surpasses it in every aspect. 
 You have more planets, more vehicles, Starships, more positions (for turrets of vehicles or starships 
 etc) and Jedis (for jedi nuts) . Battlefront II makes Battlefront look like a demo. Graphics are 
 very good and smooth, sound not that good but good enough. Now i understand why other reviewers 
 say that the game is a must have if you are a true Star wars fan. The campaign mode in which you 
 start as a clone trooper is excellent, as others have said, it has some sense of direction and 
 storytelling unlike BF. The galactic conquest mode is very good, you earn credits by conquering 
 and defending planets and fleets, you get to buy and move fleets, buy troop types, and when two 
 fleets collide space battle occurs, which is an excellent feature since it increases game replay 
 value. Multiplayer is almost 100% good if you have DSL or above, unlike BF in which multiplayer 
 really sucked big time. As others have said before, BFII is worth every cent of your money if you 
 are truly a Star wars fan of both trilogies and lucasarts games, stop thinking and go buy it if 
 you haven't you're missing a lot!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyatt456
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe with all the advancements in graphics, (such as F. E. A. R.) that Lucas still puts 
 out games with such poor graphics and mediocre game play. I have purchased perhaps three of the 
 Star Wars games over the past few years and I find that there has been no improvements in the graphics 
 and the game play remains stilted and that's a major disappointment for me. I think we are being 
 asked to accept these games as good based on the reputation of the movies but they remain as bad 
 as the Lara Croft series of games which also never improved these same areas. I can't see buying 
 any more of these games unless there are major improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfDark19
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game is the second game in the Star Wars Battlefront FPS.
  Note: I write this review without playing the first game.
  This game is a good FPS for the fans 
 of Star Wars and thats it. The game have a lot of vehicles and kits to play such as medic and anti 
 tanks. you can play as a hero or a villian that can heal themselfs only with killing enemies, they 
 are powerful and the hero/villian that can be selected is depending on the battle place and the 
 army that you are fighting with, and YES you can play as Vader!
  There are some of battle types such as conquer. The game is including space battles, star battles 
 and space ship battles. You can play in campagin mode that you start playing there as the republic 
 and later the empire, You play as a clone in the 501st team. As you play the game you earn medals 
 if you done the condition of the medal, and as you getting better, you earn better rank. the graphics 
 is good but not too good so dont think that this game looks like Far Cry or something like that! 
 the sounds are good and the music is great but there is'nt so much of this. The gameplay is fun 
 and thats it, this game is'nt donor at all to the FPS genre. I liked this game and it made some 
 fun at the time that i played and i think that its worth checking out. If you like Star Wars then 
 you will love this game.
  
  This is my first review for games so dont expect that this review will be that good, and my english 
 isnt that good too. I hope you liked the review.
  
  Reviewer: LordOfDarkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PashernatePoet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  The good things:
  
  Graphics - You hardly ever find yourself staring curiously at the screen thinking - 'what the hell 
 is that?' - a problem I found with the previous game
  
  Gameplay - Fast paced, unique in each level and gameplay mode and with the addition of the 'heroes' 
 and space battles, the gameplay more than surpasses SWB1
  
  Sounds - Though the tie fighters are a little muted at times (which is odd) the sounds are familiar 
 to anyone who's seen the Star Wars films - which is all the creators of the game could really aim 
 for
  
  Value - As mentioned before, if you enjoyed the previous game but found that it wore a little thin 
 when the hours clocked up past 10/15, this game offers enough to recapture your imagination
  
  The bad things:
  
  Graphics - the heroe models for the Galactic War rebels look a little 
 unconvincing if you stare at their faces for too long (luckily you hardly ever get a chance to 
 do this)
  
  Gameplay - Although the space battles are a welcome addition, they're in their infancy and are 
 limited to a few surprisingly tedious tasks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Last year's Star Wars: Battlefront was generally considered a hit; especially by Star Wars fans 
 who always wanted to participate in the classic Star Wars battles up close and personal. Exactly 
 one year later Battlefront II arrived on the same day as the Revenge of the Sith DVD with some 
 new features.
  
  In Battlefront II you have three single player modes and multiplayer. The first single player mode 
 is "Rise of the Empire", which is a campaign spanning from the beginning of the Clone Wars to the 
 Battle of Hoth as told in the past tense by a Clone Trooper veteran. The campaign feels more polished 
 than the "Historical Campaigns" found in the original Battlefront, because you are given a variety 
 of objectives. You will still be capturing command posts a lot of the time; so in a way it's more 
 of the same with some other objectives thrown in.
  
  The second mode is Galactic Conquest which was also in the original Battlefront. Galactic Conquest 
 is greatly improved in the sequel, and now involves more actual strategy. You begin on the Galaxy 
 Map (which actually looks like a Galaxy this time around) , and you start out with one fleet, several 
 planets and 1000 credits that you can use to buy a number of things. Your only units are the basic 
 trooper and pilot at first, you have to buy new units along with bonuses and more fleets to efficiently 
 take control of the Galaxy. Your enemy's strategic AI isn't that great, but it works well enough. 
 I often found my fleets getting involved in deep space battles because the computer seems to take 
 a priority over destroying your fleets rather than conquering planets. Overall Galactic Conquest 
 is much better this time around.
  
  Instant action also makes a return in Battlefront II. Instant action for the most part works like 
 its predecessors, but there's more variety and more customization options. The primary game modes 
 for instant action are: Conquest, which is the command post capturing game mode of Battlefront 
 1 and 2. Next is CTF which comes in both "1 Flag" and "2 Flag" mode. There is also Assault mode 
 (Basic ship battle mode, there is also an Assault mode for Mos Eiesely which is a Heroes versus 
 Villains deathmatch) , Hunt mode (A group of hunters from one of the four main factions fight the 
 planet's natives, or natives fight natives) , and XL (Extremely large scale battles, usually only 
 found in the maps which are adapted from movie battles such as Hoth) . Multiplayer works like instant 
 action except with other players and AI if the server uses them.
  
  The two new main features added in Battlefront II are space battles and playable heroes. The space 
 battles aren't too hard to figure out; there are several starfighter types and your goal is to 
 amass a certain ammount of points before your opposition by either destroying ship components from 
 the outside or raiding the enemy's capital ship (Usually best if you're a Marine unit for that) . 
 The playable heroes in Battlefront II are decent enough; you can play as a number of heroes from 
 the movies such as Darth Vader, Boba Fett, Luke Skywalker etc. but you have to unlock them by doing 
 well as a normal trooper. Even after you get them you have to constantly be killing enemies in 
 order to keep them because your health bar is constantly going down as time progresses (and as 
 you're shot) which makes the game more balanced. Unfortunately the AI never takes advantage of 
 heroes unless you're playing Hero Assault for Mos Eiesely.
  
  The graphics in Battlefront II are not too different from Battlefront's. The existing units were 
 retextured and there is now higher detail map textures available which an improvement over the 
 always low detail textures of the original. There are some new visual effects for the space battles, 
 but the ground battles look exactly the same next to retextured units.
  
  The sound is good. You'll hear familiar sounds from the Star Wars universe as well as some decent 
 voice acting and the classic John Williams score is present. Heroes even have their own themes 
 that play in the background as you control them.
  
  Battlefront II often feels like a glorified expansion, but I found it to be just as enjoyable (even 
 more so) than the original Battlefront. The space battles are fun and the playable heroes can be 
 interesting to use if you just want to decimate large numbers of enemies. If you liked Battlefront 
 give the sequel a shot, if you didn't like Battlefront then the sequel won't change your mind unless 
 the only reason you didn't like it was because you couldn't participate in space battles or play 
 as a hero. If you're new to Battlefront and haven't played the original before; give it a shot 
 it's well worth it and probably more so if you have no experience with its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightjat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  I think it was pretty good for the type of game it is. I can not say if its better than Star Wars 
 Battlefront 1 but i know its better than a lot of other Star Wars games. One thing i would like 
 to see more of is locations and more hero and villains free for all. Lucas Arts and Pandemic defiantly 
 hit the hammer on the head with this game, for me at least. i can not see how people could say 
 that this game is a let down. The flying is great, all the characters are rich in detail, and another 
 thing I like is how they have the different types of medals. If that does not keep you busy trying 
 to get a lot of those i don't know what would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRKOXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the original, I looked at this game, knowing it would be great, and I was right. 
 The best part, of course, is the newest maps to the game. Mustafar and Jedi Temple especially :) . 
 But anyways, yeah, I love the Hero Characters, and have a great time playing on the all out Jedi 
 Battle Royal map on Mos Eisley. If your a Star Wars Fan, make sure to go the store and pick this 
 one up. You are playing in the battles you have loved throughout seeing all the Star Wars movies, 
 but you are playing them the way YOU want them to be... BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcissuscon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome very well made to be fun . i dont know why all u other people dont like it?
 
  its a good first person shooter, it has great levels and alot of multyplayer matches. space batlles 
 are fun they are a good addition to the game ctf is fun is space. there are diffrent kinds of matches 
 thers, CTF, CTF2, conquest,
  and assult also hunt. this game is good to fist person shooters and a masterpeace to hardcore fans 
 of star wars because it has all the famous maps and more like mustafar, utapu, tantive 5 , and the 
 death star plus many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmanbrendon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to tell you this is a great game a great new campain galatic conquest and any thing any 
 battle front person would want. This is an especialy good game for the people who already play 
 battle front it is basicly the first one with a add on of space.
  
  The campain is also longer for those who hatted it before becouse it was too short and I agree 
 yes it was. The maltiplayer is great though if you dont play maltiplayer then you will rate this 
 very low. It is the maltiplayer that makes the game worth the while. 
  
  P. S. The campain can get boring and frusterating at times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious5k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Battlefront II, unlike it's predacesor, gives you more of a story, something to make the single 
 player worth being there.
  
  The feel of it is much like Republic Commando, for those who have played it. The same great mood 
 inspiration that makes you feel with the characters, perhaps not as good as Republic Commando, 
 after all it doesn't follow a single character, thus making a story much harder, but suprisingly 
 it manages to pull it off.
  
  I have only played a few missions so far, thus i can't judge how addictive it is and wether or 
 not it becomes repetitive or boring, but so far it's solid.
  
  In the end what you get is:
  
  everything from the first game made better
  + extra features 
 such as full blown space combat (we did see some ship flying in the first one, but not to this 
 extent) , playable Jedi and more units.
  + Nice single player with a bit of a story
  
  The game is great, if you enjoyed either battlefront I or Republic Commando, you should grab this 
 aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  Its the bag of crisps of computer games. It provides instant gratifacition, is always enjoyable 
 and hard to resist however it will never have the lasting effect of a gourmet meal and perhaps 
 too much would be bad for you.
  
  In short beside a few issues with the A. I. (its crap) and the wish for some of the BF features 
 to return (like everyone else I want the gunships back on Kamino and a return to Bespin would be 
 appreciated) this is a game I would strongly recommend for those lazy Sundays. 
  
  The single player campaign was refreshingly enjoyable, something that was sorely lacking from its 
 predecessor and its award system will keep you coming back to improve those stats. 
  
  The air combat was a throw back to those heady days of 'Tie fighter' and added some great variety 
 to otherwise tried and tested gameplay, however some more variety in those space maps was needed, 
 while there were 4 space maps nothing really distingushed them.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  ive played the previous game and i was tremendously impressed by it, the whole concept and the 
 things you could do, but now lucasarts has made that game even better with more maps, weapons and 
 just more fun in the seuqel, battlefront 2!
  
  This game has many many many levels with many different things to do in one level such as capture 
 the flag or conquest or tag or things like that, but thats only in instant action, you can play 
 galactic conquest where its a kinda turn by turn things and then you go to war with that part, 
 so much better in the real game, just hard to explain this,
  
  You can make wars as long or hard as you want, and theres also another thing added to this game, 
 heros, you can play as luke skywalker or darth maul or darth vader and around 6 more and also this 
 game looks so much better then its prevous one, this game is graphically and technically better, 
 theres just overall more to do in this game.
  
  This game should be played by anyone who likes FPSs, whether or not youre a fan of star wars, you 
 must play this game, its so easy to get the hang of it and once you start playing it, you wont 
 be getting tired of it anytime soon, there are too many levels and things to do for you to get 
 bored of this game that quickly, this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: internationaal
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars fans everywhere were anxiously awaiting this game... follow-up to what LucasArts calls 
 the best-selling star wars game of all time.
  
  And all the media attention was there... released the same day as the DVD of "Revenge of the Sith". 
 But was that such a good idea?
  
  From playing the PC version of the game and visiting the LucasArts support forum you can clearly 
 see that LucasArts/Pandemic released a game that was still in a beta testing stage. If you've got 
 a nVidia card you can probably expect crashes and freezes. If you don't have a 2005 soundcard you 
 can probably expect latency (1 full second in my case) and garbled speech. AI seems to be non-existent 
 in some cases (space battles where the end results showed no fighter has actually shot down another 
 fighter) and just forget about your computer controlled teammates helping you with your objectives: 
 in space, you're on your own. Well, that's a bit harsh. Your computer buddies to get rid of your 
 fighter reserve, so by the time you're shot down for the first time, it's game over as you're out 
 of reserves!
  
  So, big problems. And you would expect big solutions.
  
  Well, we are now 50 days after BF2 went gold. And still no patch.
  
  So I have tried playing 
 a bugged game for over 30 days. And now I'm fed up with lucasarts inability to release a WORKING 
 game.
  
  I'm going to try and get a full refund as the game is just not working properly. And I would advise 
 others to do the same. Because if that's the only way to make LucasArts listen, then that's what 
 I'll have to do...
  
  Oh, "time spent playing" would have been higher if I wasn't trying all the hints from the forums 
 updating drivers, changing Bios settings and turning sound hardware acceleration off (because when 
 turned on I haven't got any sound at all) . All of which basically didn't work as the fault is in 
 the game, NOT the drivers...
  
  Along the same lines difficulty is hard... because playing a game designed for a "team" on your 
 own just makes it pretty hard... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I should admit Im a bit of a Clone Wars geek. And sadly, thats totally compatible with not especially 
 enjoying the new trilogy. For some bizarre reason Lucas decided to essentially skip the actual 
 Clone Wars in his movies. The battle of Geonosis was featured prominently at the end of Episode 
 2 (the Clone Wars Pearl Harbor) , but that was basically it for the films. 
  
  The 4 sentence paragraph description of the Clone Wars is this:
  
  Decimated Jedi peacekeepers 
 become defacto field generals for the unification side in an interstellar civil war. A staggering 
 number of their order were obliterated on Geonisis and there is wide spread desertion from the 
 Jedi Councils call for leadership. Those that do fight are tasked with the moral and physical 
 challenges of leading their clone soldiers against the CIS rebel droid army. Tragically overlaying 
 this cosmos wide consumption of life and resources is the truth its all an artifact of a pedestrian 
 power struggle on the unification side. 
  
  That essential setup has led to some of the most insanely kickass military science fiction ever 
 rendered in any media. Sadly the premier media of film almost completely ignores the actual Clone 
 Wars, and the associated rich, kinetic pulp. A brilliant peek into the actual Clone Wars is Genndy 
 Tartakovskys Cartoon Network series. There are also a number of wonderful trade paperbacks on 
 the Clone Wars available from the Dark Horse Comics, many of the stories written by Lucasarts Producer 
 Haden Blackman. Both whip out a real Indiana Jones-style, seat of your pants, action adventure 
 and bring into focus the matinee serial roots of the prequel naming convention (that so often has 
 people under 30 wondering WTF) .
  
  In the game medium, by far the best clone wars game was republic commando. It was an addicting, 
 memorable and fun as hell sci-fi brothers in arms right in the heart of the Clone Wars (Geonsis, 
 Outer Space, and Kashyyyk) . Battlefront II continues that fine tradition, though there are some 
 bizarre elements that I fear will make it not everyones cup of teaWell, as not every ones cup 
 of tea that the best selling star wars franchise of all time can be. 
  
  Up front innovations are remorselessly unbalanced hero classes that are unlocked based on mission 
 completion and, Im sure, other wacky triggers though only for a limited time. From Clone Wars 
 darlings like Aayla Secura, General Grievous and Mace Windu to old school archetypes like Han Solo, 
 Darth Vader and Princess Leia, this is the first time behind the controls for many of these characters, 
 in any game. Leading newly rechristened stormtroopers against rebels on rain-drenched Kamino as 
 Boba Fett is a gaming memory, pure and simple. Its done so well its even respectful of Star Wars 
 canon logic, as Boba Fett was raised on Kamino where the clone army was prototyped. 
  
  They do space combat better than most, fully embracing FPS mechanics and melding them with the 
 optional depth of Holland-era sims like X-Wing. Being able to selectively disable ships from space, 
 or aggressively board the enemy ships and shut them down from within, adds a nice layer of strategy 
 if so inclined. Cant wait until they let you actually drive the cruisers...
  
  Theres a clever single player game presented by slapping a decent objective system over the normal 
 mechanics of the multiplayer game. Its used to great effect in easing the newb into the diversity 
 of the games classes and weapons. Must be nice to have miles of insanely uber-designed film footage 
 laying around to bookend your missions ;-) . I really respect what they did here as MP games on 
 the consoles need a SP and this looks like a pretty efficient way to pull it off. 
  
  Back to the fanboy POV, this game is as far as Ive seen the only exploration of the time of the 
 upcoming TV show, the era between Sith and New Hope. In the game its the Empire going around, 
 kicking the **** out of various upstarts and pennyante rebellions. Since it could be considered 
 spoilers: [o] According to the game this is when clone troopers get rechristened storm troopers, 
 are no longer all clones of Jango Fett (fears of vulnerabilities and defects though those pure 
 clones still serving tend to be in senior positions) , and includes the theft of the death star 
 plans. [/o]
  
  A negative is blaster combat just isnt that much fun. The firearms all seem under powered and 
 mushy, while the explosives by comparison seem overpowered and the smart way to play the game. 
 I didnt find the vehicles especially fun to drive, and in multiplayer theyre easily exploitable 
 by hanging back and sniping in 1600x1200 glory (Im playing on the PC, natch) . Theres no autosave 
 in the campaign, which almost **** me except for a lucky replay save. Kinda clunky the title screens 
 are always 640x480, regardless of the res you run the game at. The AI is great background fodder, 
 but cant be considered comparable to human opponents in any known metric. 
  
  I can see why this game drives some people nuts, but man oh man have I been playing the **** out 
 of it. The game has that awesome habit of just when I'm about to shelve it, I try another class 
 that generally doesn't interest me and BLAMMO I have a new favorite class. Some of these moments: 
 
  
  * Discovering the depth of the jet pack systems. Namely the Boba/Jango/Jump Trooper style of hovering 
 versus the Dark Trooper rocket jump. Punching through the forest canopy on dagobah, flying along 
 the tree tops, then dropping straight down on to a hostile control point just rocks. Hovering over 
 command points as a Jet Trooper on the republic side is a blast. Bounding past overwhelming offensive 
 forces that have you pinned in your last node, and capturing some undefended ones behind any lines 
 is very addicting. Love the jump pack combat. 
  
  * Heroes versus Villains: Every Star Wars fan needs to play this one gametype at least once. It's 
 only on Mos Eisley and is all the good guys versus all the bad guys. It's a game type of only one 
 map and 20 different classes. Jedi force powers like choke, push, jump, run versus guided missiles, 
 jump packs and sniping weapons. Teams include literally every speaking character from the 6 movies 
 except Lando. Can get old, but again, being able to switch between these wild classes extends the 
 experience. 
  
  * Hunts: One normal unit type versus a "wildlife" class on various planets. Sand People versus 
 Jawas is a favorite. Empire snipers versus ewoks is fun when you accomplish the monumentally difficult 
 task of killing a storm trooper. Hunt or BE Jar-Jars or geonosisians. It's a great diversion and 
 I swear averted a shelf moment for me. 
  
  * Remote Controlled Drones: Many commander classes have these remote controlled drones you can 
 drive around, shoot ineffectively with, or detonate to devastating effect (albeit with a 5 second 
 immobilizing delay) . The challenging "deflection" shooting of these things, detonating them at 
 the end of hallways, that in 5 seconds are going to be filled with enemies, is very satisfying. 
 
  
  * Space Combat: The space combat missions, when everything is in sync on a fast server, are incredibly 
 unique. With fighters intercepting enemy transports and bombers, while escorting our own it's a 
 solid air-combat style action game. Add to this teams of players actively trying to board enemy 
 ships, and counter teams attempting to stop them, the action gets even crazier. Now add turrets 
 on the capital ships that can be manned, and people on repair duty, fixing ships components damaged 
 from space. There's a lot to marvel at here. As soon as they let us drive the capital ships as 
 well, this should spin off into its own product. 
  
  * Bothan Spies: Invisible guys with microwave flamethrowers. Great for ambushing and capturing 
 enemy nodes, the gun does so much damage at such a wide arc you'll quickly become the subject of 
 quit cheesing it with the bothan and play a real class newbie! taunts. 
  
  Like any multiplayer game, where you play colors your experience. I recommend "drunken masters" 
 which usually runs around 48 players at good speeds for me (Raleigh, NC) . It intermixes space, 
 hunt, heroes/villains, and the standard conquest maps to good effect.
  
  Battlefront II is a Clone Wars and beyond battle generator that looks great, innovates conservatively 
 but potently the DICEs Battlefield genre, and respects the source material to the point of molestation. 
 
  
  Go PanWare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintgatos
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  it sucks dont buy it. i regret ever buying it. if you want to buy a good game buy battle field 
 2. now thats a game. this game sucks donkey balls online. takes forever to kill someone guns and 
 vehicles are gay... . .. .... .............. .......... ........ .... ..... ... ...... ..... ........... 
 .........
  
  waring you now dont buy it 
  
  
  
  rgdfgdfgdtgvre grgrdfhg trh htrh h rth tr htr hrhr yr ur kut kk k 6r 6 ik k6 r8 68r i68ri i68rir 
 i6ri6r ii8ui6 8ir6irr 6i 6i6 6i8 i6i 6i i6 i 6iuyku k y ku k yuk yk yky iyi ky ky kyk ykykyky ykhgkhk 
 .l y kykjm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxby852
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  "Sequel to the best-selling Star Wars game of all time" is what the box states, and nothing could 
 be closer to the truth. With the addition of space combat and playable Jedi heroes, your sure to 
 have a fantastic Star Wars time with this game.
  
  PROS:
  1. Fantastic explosion effects.
  2. Large scale battles that live up to the movies.
  3. A large 
 assortment of weapons and vehicles to choose from.
  4. Great sound effects, you can hear the lasers whizzing by.
  5. The ability to play as a hero 
 character and wreak havoc on the enemy.
  6. Online game play, its fun to play together.
  7. Crisp graphics, you can see the faces of the rebels right before you pummel them.
  8. Great 
 space combat
  CONS:
  1. If your not interested in the online game play then there wont be much more after you complete 
 the campaign, unless your a diehard fan.
  2. Unless you have a fast computer, you may experience some lag in a few of the extra large battles.
 
  3. May be difficult at times to get a bead on the enemy and blast them.
  
  This is Star Wars Battlefront 2 and it supersedes is predecessor in nearly every possible way. 
 This is a definite buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timelord360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Star Wars game as good as this I have played the first battle front game 
 but is just a smear screw up compared to the new Star Wars battlefront 2 game this just what every 
 star wars fan is looking for in a game. But what they need more is a game that have Timelords on 
 it and have the legends of the galifeyans lol joking but i rank this game a huge 9.7 out of 10 
 rating and is the best SW game yet if anyone needs and all around shooting flying killing and all 
 around playing as the Jedi Knights of the republic then this is game just for you people man game 
 like this could even make people who hate star wars to the core could make them love star wars 
 this is how good this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront returns in this new sequel with new additions but still same shooting formula. 
 In Star Wars Battlefront II you can play almost every important map appears on the movies including: 
 Geonosis, Corouscant (inside jedi temple) , Naboo, Mustafar, Yavin 4 and many other interesting 
 maps. In this game you play has the clone troopers in the way they change from good to bad. Like 
 the original game you have the ability to choose from many different type of clone troopers: normal 
 troopers, heavy troopers (use missile launchers) , sniper troopers that can shoot enemies from far 
 places, commander troopers that have infinite ammo and better defense, the engineers that can repair 
 tanks, etc. and last the jet troopers that use jetpacks. The CIS robots and the rebels have different 
 types of soldiers giving the game some variety to it. The shooting with heavy troopers can be quite 
 troublesome since they take a lot of time changing ammo in the middle of a battle. There should 
 also offer more different ways to shoot like having 2 guns at the same time.
  
  The addition on the on foot stuff is playing has a hero which is a jedi or a non-jedi like Han 
 Solo or Leia. The controls are simple and each hero has their own abilities like for choke, push, 
 pull and the most common lightsaber throwing. Heroes can be exciting dpending which one you are 
 playing because if it does not use a lightsaber you will get the same feel has a trooper. Also 
 some heroes don't have fast moves with the lightsaber like Darth Vader which is quite a dissapointment 
 cause many fans want to play with him. Vehicles on foot work nicely altough some do not move smoothly, 
 like the speeder bikes that can feel useless and easy die by hitting a tree. Still at least the 
 tanks work out well.
  
  The other addition and the biggest one is the space battles. In space you can decide which type 
 of spaceship you want and hop into it. The missions consist of destroying important parts of the 
 enemy's battleship. The really good stuff about sapce is that you can land on your enemy's battleship 
 and destroy his interior parts and steal a spaceship. The controls can be tricky at first but you 
 can get use to them after a while, and start spinning around through space. Tough controls area 
 could have been better.
  
  Online play is good and bad. Online play is good because you can go against people that for the 
 most part are in your level of difficulty and is fun to battle against many different people. The 
 bad stuff is that there is someone who wants to play funny and do team killing. Also sometimes 
 they can boot you without even starting or because it was an accident and you say sorry but they 
 boot you. But the really bad stuff is the lag when the game starts to freezes and suddenly your 
 character starts moving weirdly.
  Still is fun despite his annoying stuff.
  
  Overall Star Wara Battlefront II offers a great package with most of the important stuff in the 
 Star Wars universe: war, jedi and space. If you are a Star Wars fan then I would checking this 
 game out. If you play the 1st game and not looking for something totally new but want to check 
 the jedi stuff and space then is a buy here. The rest should rent it first if you have a PS2 or 
 Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LT_Winters
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  How would you improve on the original Star Wars: Battlefront? Pandemic sure found a good way. Everything 
 and the kitchen sink was thrown into the sequel to the best-selling Star Wars game of all time, 
 all in a development cycle of just over a year. So how does the new Battlefront stack up? One thing's 
 for sure: Pandemic sure knows how to work fast. Every new feature in Battlefront is fresh and well-done, 
 and each one seamlessly adds to the fun in new and interesting ways. The game's graphics clearly 
 reveal its console origins, but who really cares? Star Wars: Battlefront II is a Star Wars fan's 
 dream come true - again. And no Star Wars fan should be without it.
  
  The new Battlefront follows the basic structure of its predecessor faithfully. It stirs up Battlefield 
 1942's flag-capturing goodness with Star Wars vehicles, soldiers, and environments, making one 
 heck of a tasty dish. The Rebels and the Imperials, as well as the Confederacy and the Republic, 
 have at it in some hectic skirmishes. The sequel wisely uses the blueprint of success, but chucks 
 in some excellent new additions. The most prominent is a new mode that adds some major variety 
 to multiplayer skirmishes. In the space battles, you and your teammates are based on a powerful 
 space cruiser that's well-shielded and defended, as well as escored by one or more combat frigates. 
 Unfortunately, there's an enemy fleet in the area as well. The idea of this mode is to find some 
 way to take out the enemy's home cruiser, be it through bombing runs or covert action.
  
  Players spawn in the hangar of their command ship as either combat marines or space pilots. Pilots 
 gain key bonuses when flying ships and have powerful detonator charges that can blow up important 
 structures, but are only armed with a blaster for combat. Marines aren't quite as good at flying, 
 but they have a potent blaster rifle and an extremely destructive rocket launcher. From their hangar, 
 players can either take up guard positions inside their capital ship or blast off in one of the 
 cruiser's fighters. Inside the capital ship, troopers can guard key power stations and man turrets 
 to fend off fighter and frigate attacks.
  
  If you choose to take it to the skies, you can fly one of a few different classes of ships. Bombers 
 are slow but effective against capital ships with powerful proton torpedoes. Light fighters are 
 fast and excellent against all enemy fighters and bombers. Medium fighters (such as the X-Wing) 
 can take on most enemies equally. Dogfights break out rapidly around the capital ships and, if 
 you're feeling daring, you can break through the enemy's fighter screen with some evasive action 
 (provided by your ship's special energy reserve, which can be used to some fancy manuvering or 
 a high-speed boost) and land inside the enemy cruiser. From there, you can try to sabotage the 
 ship from the inside.
  
  Of course, none of this is particularly easy, but the little details and fantastic design of the 
 space combat is nothing short of excellent. Space combat is a significant addition to the Battlefront 
 franchise, and the fact that it is so well-conceived and produced is a testimate to the skill of 
 the Pandemic development team, particulary given the myriad of other features that Battlefront 
 II has to offer.
  
  There are several single-player modes to choose from in the sequel. The big new story is the narrated 
 campaign following the 501st Clone Battalion as it trudges through the tough battles of the Clone 
 Wars. You play as a lowly trooper in this squadron who recalls his most harrowing experiences. 
 Campaign missions take place on standard Battlefront II maps, but have specific objectives that 
 have to be completed within a certain limit of reinforcement points (used every time you or one 
 of your computer-controlled teammates respawns) . Destroy this shield, take this command point, 
 hold this beach - it all adds up to an excellent sense of direction for a normal Battlefront II 
 conquest battle. The campaign missions only make up about 4 hours of play time, but they're a fun 
 distraction.
  
  As the missions unfold, you can take control of increasing advanced classes of troopers, and even 
 the representative Jedi for each battle (such as Mace Windu for Geonosis, or Yoda for the amazing 
 Kashyyyk mission) . The Jedi are a mixed bag of a feature, but overall are a nice addition to the 
 everyday combat in the game. Jedi usually have a powerful primary saber attack and a secondary 
 power, such as Force Push or a swift lightsaber throw. In addition, the Jedi have some sweet combat 
 moves that increase in power as you kill more successive enemies, and each Jedi has huge jumping 
 powers regulating by his Force reserves (much like in the Jedi Knights games) . You play Jedi from 
 the third-person view, but the experience of using the galaxy's most powerful warriors isn't so 
 engaging; combat is mostly a button-mashing fiesta with little actual strategy. It is viscerally 
 convincing, but not too complex. Additionally, most of Battlefront II's artificial intelligence, 
 though improves and certainly not deal-breaking, is not very impressive or challenging.
  
  It actually suffices to say that not too much of Star Wars: Battlefront II is that complex or revolutionary, 
 and that could be a downside for some gamers spoiled on Battlefield 2 or Counter Strike: Source. 
 The upside, however, is that the game is very easy to learn and to get the hang of. The game also 
 knows where it can succeed and plays up its best features well. Tons of AI bots can populate some 
 of the later single-player missions, making the sense of scale very credible. Battlefront II also 
 uses the liscense very well. Classic trilogy battles are represented equally with those of the 
 prequel movies. This is rip-roaring action for fans of Star Wars - and if you don't worship at 
 the feet of George Lucas already, Battlefront II stands a good change of making you.
  
  Battlefront II's presentation is, for the most part, rock-solid. The music is a great as ever, 
 and the selection during the battles is muted enough to be enjoyable, but still noticeable. Weapon 
 and battle sounds still aren't that great; they're all a bit muted and uninspired. On the visual 
 front, there are a few noticeable skybox rips and clipping errors, but most are very minor and 
 are surprisingly well ironed out by Pandemic. The graphical package is, for the most part, very 
 attractive on the majority of the maps, with some cool Jedi animations and a notable sense of atmostphere 
 on each map. In space, you can see tons of capital ships in the skybox blasting each other to bits, 
 while on the ground you'll be treated to cool lighting effects and the ominous, looming presence 
 of gigantic drop ships and gunboats up in the skies. 
  
  Battlefront II is much the same game as its predecessor, but it packs a whole world of single-player 
 and multi-player content. On the offline front, you can battle with the 501st, engage in some instant 
 battles, fight the galactic conquest mode (where, like in the original, you and your computer enemy 
 take turns choosing planets to attack) or take on a slightly scripted conquest mode with a minor 
 storyline (once again as in the original) . The whole experience is shaken up by the addition of 
 space battles, which combine originality with an unexpected silver lining of excellent polish on 
 all facets. A lot of new maps have been added, but most are hit-and-miss; while the space maps 
 hit the nail on the head with ease, some of the infantry-oriented Episode III-inspired maps tend 
 to be a bit claustrophobic and too focused on the relatively weak man-to-man combat that the game 
 has to offer. Battlefront II is about big, set-piece battles with tons of cool vehicles and aircraft 
 going at it, not clones and droids blasting each other with under-powered, easily overheating weapons.
 
  
  I can't imagine a Star Wars fan who plays Star Wars: Battlefront II not coming out with a huge 
 grin on his face as he blows up capital ships with torpedoes, kicks ass as Master Windu himself, 
 and ties up AT-ATs with his tow cables to defend Hoth from Darth Vader. The sequel is truly impressive, 
 packing in a whole new galaxy of content and an innovative multiplayer mode, all with a tremendous 
 level of design quality and sumptuous gameplay results. This is not a hardcore, complicated shooter; 
 it's a high-octane, adrenaline-pumping Star Wars experience that hits on all levels. Star Wars: 
 Battlefront II is pumping on all cylinders. Hop on before it leaves you in the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well i wasnt fond of battlefront one i played the game i felt nothing drew me to play it again 
 there was no wow factor but wow battlefront 2 is 10 times the game battlefront was. The single 
 player revolves around a group of clones known as the 501st but the real gem is the galatic conquest 
 if your like me youle say "galatic conquest that was **** in bf1" but this galatic conquest is 
 bigger and better and harder you must plan your battles as winning is no longer as easy as it was 
 before starting with only simple troops you must capture planets in order to gain more credits 
 with them you and train snipers heavy weapons and commandos. the bonous like jedi hero are no longer 
 planet specific anyone can buy them but they cost money and you have to be careful on what you 
 spend. the heros are done well giveing them more power but not makeing them invincable means that 
 any run of the mill droid can defete (not kill) obi wan. the one problem i have is that there is 
 no space battle of ednor and you cant play the spacebattle of coursant online which is a real bummer 
 but like the first battlefront im shure it wont be long before people are makeing maps for the 
 game so maybe the battle of ednor will be mine XD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOhkonut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront II is that one Star Wars game that gets closest to give you the feeling of being in 
 the Star Wars universe. LucasArts/Pandemic Studios does not succeed in creating a game that you 
 will fall in love with, just like the films, but they beat all of those other games trying to live 
 up Lucas' world.
  
  The Gameplay of SW: BF2 is not overly amazing or anything, but it hits the spot. When you score 
 that one kill, you gain a small sense of victory as they fall backwards to their death/malfunction. 
 The space battles are a bit out of order, but what really makes the space missions fun is invading 
 the enemy's capital ship. Sometimes you may enter with multiple people on one ship and sabotoge 
 their base. The Jedi feature of the game is all fun and good, but only because YOU ARE A JEDI. 
 Once you become a jedi, it would not all that fun if you didn't know a single thing about Star 
 Wars. It is especially fun online, because you easily pwn all of these other players.
  
  Graphics. There is not much to say of the graphics, other than that you will not find anything 
 amazing nor poorly made. Overall, the graphics are fairly good and follows the look of Star Wars 
 characters.
  
  LucasArts/Pandemic Studios are not in fact the source of the sounds, but from John Williams and 
 George Lucas' Star Wars trilogies. These superb sounds makes the game, Star Wars. It is pretty 
 difficult to make a Star Wars game sound bad. Imagine the cry of a wookie, the zing of a lishtsaber, 
 or the "Roger Roger" of a battle droid. It's as if you cut off your ears, and threw them a long 
 time ago in a galaxy far, far away.
  
  The value of this game is boosted by its online play. Without it, it would last five hours at the 
 most. The single player campaign does not require teamwork at all, it is just you, as if you were 
 a jedi in clone armour. But then again, there are instant battles and galactic conquest, so i will 
 change my "7" to an "8.
  
  All in all, Star Wars: Battlefront II is a decent game that i recommend to even Non-Star Wars fans. 
 As for the fans, although there are very Star Wars-ish  there are 
 a few errors made in order to create the game, but as long as it's fun, who cares?
  
  Thanks for your time to see my opinion on this game. (I bet you saw this long review and skipped 
 to the end so go back and read it properly.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mideypack
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to be said except it is a fun/addictive game.
  Great graphics, new maps, new classes, heroes, and new vehicles make it jst enjoyable. The only 
 things I find annoying or dumb are: not having a spawn time option in creating a multi-player game, 
 not being able to be in the cockpits as in BF1, and it feels arcadish from time to time. The campaign 
 makes playing alone far more entertaining, while massive online battles keep you busy the rest 
 of the time. Many of the lame things in BF1 such as vehicle splash damage or how you'd fire at 
 some1 on a turret and not even hit him have been fixed. 
  
  StarWars: Battlefront 2 is a fun game worth buying and is far better than the origional 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taffer_Garrett
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised by the quantity of bad reviews for this game. I think that its a great game and 
 actually better than the original. The new single player campaign is well done, and gives you a 
 sense that youre following a storyline. The Galactic Conquest mode is much improved. I love the 
 additions of the Jedi and the space battles. I was fearful the space battles would feel like a 
 rushed addition and more of a work in progress, but its actually pretty polished. I do find it 
 a little disorientating taking the control of gunner and laser positions in transport shuttles, 
 but the idea of taking a transporter of troops and landing in the enemys hanger to cause havoc 
 and take out their shields from the inside certainly makes up for it. If you are a fan of star 
 wars, this is a great game. The original gave the fans what they had been wanting, and this sequel 
 adds to it. Come on, youre running around in a star wars battle as obi-wan or Luke Skywalker. 
 That sounds pretty cool to me. Oh and by the way, to the people who say you can only be the Jedi 
 for a couple of minutes, I dont know about that, I know on my PC version, Ive been Yoda and Han 
 Solo for pretty much an entire conflict. Oh and Yoda is pretty mean when he wants to be. To summarize, 
 Id say that this is a great purchase, if youre a fan of star wars get it. If youre not really 
 a fan of star wars, then you are better off getting Battlefront 2 or whatever, but I personally 
 would rather be yielding a light saber than a machine gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JephirDromulus
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront II is quite a disappointment. Although the media did a great job of advertising, the 
 game didn't meet up with quality of Battlefront I. Though there are no major gameplay flaws, Battlefront 
 II suffers from smaller, more delicate problems that stack up to degrade the overall value. These 
 problems range from the AI troopers getting stuck in walls, to bugs where multiplayer DOESN'T EVEN 
 WORK. 
  
  With the new gameplay style, Battlefront II feels more like a FPS than the last game, however it 
 will never rise to the rank of games such as Halo or Battlefield. Combat is centered on massive-scale 
 battles, however AI problems usually make this a rare sight. The cone of fire system is broken 
 entirely and shots will fly everywhere even while crouching and zoomed at a target. 
  
  Prone was removed entirely and the sniper class is useless. The new roll function for infantry 
 is a good feature though. However, the biggest problem that Battlefront II suffers from is multiplayer. 
 If it works, it is great. But it doesn't. Apparently, Battlefront II cannot be played through a 
 router, even if you set it to bypass the game. Multiplayer servers will crash frequently and it 
 is hard to get a good play session going.
  
  In conclusion, Battlefront II is supposed to be an upgrade from the original Battlefront, however 
 it doesn't meet up to the standard of gameplay that the original was. Good, but not worth 50 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattacks
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  1 word. AMAZING the fact that i played on a high speed computer shouldn't change anything. the 
 gameplay was excelent and even if u didnt do the tutorial you'll know almost all of the basic controls. 
 and also it kind of teaches you new things in the single player missions. although, i have to say, 
 piloting an air vehicle is some kind of task.. in this new edition to the series u can play as 
 a jedi and the scale of the battles are gigantic as in battlefront 1. i have to say i loved this 
 game and refer this game to ANYONE who loves starwars and first person shooters. i haven't had 
 the pleasure of playing online but by the looks of it its gotta be great. Also i dont know if the 
 gameplay would differ in a normal computer. plenty of new units, maps and vehicles to play around 
 with. BUY THIS GAME for ps2 or pc both rock!... and xbox? yeah i think its for xbox too. GAME ON!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cseger3242
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I am so sorry that I threw away the outer packaging so that I can't return this game. It is so 
 dissappointing. Please don't give Lucasarts your money for this lame excuse for a full title. I 
 might have paid $5 if they had made it an expansion to Battlefront, but not if I had been able 
 to play it first.
  
  The controls, as in the last game, are loose and shoddy compared to similar games. If you are planning 
 to goonline with this farce and are used to the finely tuned controls of games like Counter Strike, 
 Tribes, or evenWorld of Warcraft, think again. Aiming is about as accurate as Mimi from the Drew 
 Carey show trying to use a men's urinal. The gameplay feels so sloppy that I finally just bagged 
 the whole thing after giving it a good long time to redeem itself.
  
  With games like FEAR and Civ 4 on the shelves these days, your hard-earned gaming dollar can bemuch 
 better spent than on this lazy attempt at cashing in on a franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DekuBoy5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first thing I thought when I played Star Wars Battlefront 1. "What the $^%! This 
 is just battlefield 1942 in space!" But of course, after playing for a little while, it grew on 
 me like a yeast infection, and soon I grew to love the 3rd person view and plastic imperial soldiers. 
 But unfortunity, this additional to the series isn't as... innovative.... as the first.
  
  The main problem I have with this is that it looks, feels and plays a lot more like an expansion 
 pack than an actual new game. For crying out loud, they actually REMOVED a few levels! The space 
 battle is interesting, but not too new. We can all remember back to that Battlefield 1942 Mod, 
 Galactic Conquest, that offered very similar space battles.
  
  The game plays almost exactly the same, except for the different rolling and jumping features. 
 The way the set up the controls makes it very easy to start murdering countless, nameless soldiers 
 in the name of justice.
  
  The graphics were an extreme dissapointment. I mean, if you're going to make a sequal, improve 
 the graphics! If they even did change the graphics, I couldn't notice.
  
  The sound effects are well done, and the voice acting is definetly above average. From the screams 
 of the Blaster Rifle, to the tinking of grenades, the game offers a symphony of bloodshed! But 
 the music could have been better. Especcialy in Mos Eisleys. If you like the classic tuned played 
 in the first movie, kill yourself! And save yourself the anguish of the ass-tastic alien pop that 
 rapes your ears!
  
  I think the 50 dollar price tag is ridiculous. With such little changes, I can't recommend buying 
 this title full price. Just playing the first one until Battlefront 2's price tag drops a little 
 bit.
  
  So in conclusion, they should have just stopped lying and classified it as a 40 or 30 dollar expansion 
 pack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeye75
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  this game far serpases battle front 1 with its improved AI and new vehicals
  and the best addition space battles. the AI has been going to school since bf1 its 4 times as smart 
 and reacts to the envirment if you through a granade at them they run they dont through nades when 
 you are in there sight and can efectivly drive. the space battles are great fighters have good 
 handling and are much improved from the clunky crash prone ones of bf1
  the rocket launchers cant lock on any more but the vehicals have weak points now so its easyer 
 to take down an at-at with a vangaurd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkG1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay for people who just want to know if it's the game is good are not the quick Review. Star Wars 
 Fans you will like this game so if youre an ultra hardcore Star Wars fan go and get this game. 
 If you looking a good alternative shooter you should also check out this game. 
  
  Now for the in depth review of SW BF 2. The game has been improved since Battlefront 1 which really 
 only had the conquest mode which is still one of the best modes in Battlefront 2 there are a few 
 new game modes theres Assault, 1 Flag CTF, 2 Flag CTF and hunt. Now as you probably heard you 
 can fight in space which is the assault mode there are two opposing Capital ships and the goal 
 is to gain points by killing the enemy or it's many fighters flying around. The big points come 
 from hitting critical spots on the enemy capital ship you can take these structures out by attacking 
 the exterior of the ship or fly in to the enemy capital ship and use different types of explosive 
 weapons to disable the structures from the inside of the ship. There are also 1 or 2 frigates near 
 the capitals ships that can be taken out to for points and thats the basics of the space assault. 
 
  
  Though this could have been done better there are plenty of space maps but there all pretty much 
 the same youre always doing the same thing. The only difference is the formation of ships will 
 change and the backgrounds will change. The turrets on the ships are almost useless on the capital 
 ships and frigates but can destroy the small fighters so no one really uses these turrets so there 
 are just to big ships sitting there not even exchanging fire and the few turrets firing are auto 
 turrets shooting at near by enemy fighters the only thing that really shines in space battles is 
 dog fighting you can execute flips and barrel rolls makes the dog fights interesting. 
  
  CTF Works as you would expect it to for one exception in both 1 flag and 2 flag CTF you take the 
 flag to the enemy base no big deal though. Hunt is usually one of the 4 games faction hunts a weaker 
 faction which are one of the primitive groups you have seen in the movies such as the Ewoks or 
 Gungans. This is really unbalanced mode the primitive fractions are underpowered and it would take 
 a very good team to beat the other team online but it is some what entertaining for a bit. 
  
  Also you can play as Jedi this time it usually works like this each faction gets a different 
 hero characters for each map and is usually unlocked after a certain amount of time or some one 
 gets a certain amount of points depending on the server or the person hosting the game has it setup. 
 Heros can change the tide of the battle fast but they can be taken down fast if you know how. 
 There are non-Jedi hero and villains like Jango Fett and Han Solo as well. The different classes 
 are back most of them are the same with a few weapon changes each Faction gets a Infantry, heavy 
 weapon, sniper and engineer units each faction gets to two exclusive classes that have to be unlocked 
 by gaining points and there can only be 4 people playing as these classes at a time they are a 
 bit more powerful but there's not a huge difference and a lot of them have the same weapons most 
 of these advance classes have a recon droid and a grenade launcher but they do each have a unique 
 primary weapon.
  
  The graphics are better then the first battlefront you will notice there a lot cleaner, crisper 
 and brighter though they were never amazing in the first place. The explosions are done nicely 
 but they arent used to there fullest in space instead of ships blowing up they just brake apart 
 most of the time. The frame rate is solid no real problems but the game gets real laggy with 50 
 to 60 players but the levels arent really build for that many players anyway. The music is great 
 its the music you know and love from the Star Wars movies. The weapons and vehicles have the authentic 
 star wars sounds for a few exceptions a few of the weapons sound and fire like machine guns and 
 the laser shotguns sound like a Nerf gun when youre firing them.
  
  This is an online multiplayer based game and is were you will be spending most of your time. There 
 is a single player campaign you play as part of a squad of clone troopers known as the 501st who 
 later become Darth Vaders Elite storm trooper squad. It has you doing different variants of the 
 different multiplayer modes. There are in game cut scenes after ever level and a little movie footage 
 spliced in. The single player campaign is better then battlefront 1 but being a multiplayer based 
 game its not to good the Galactic conquest mode is back and improved and you can play any of the 
 maps and modes offline with up to 64 bots. The AI is somewhat better but its really not great. 
 They shot out commands they but have no real tactics other then just trying to kill you it takes 
 a couple of them to kill you but I have seen worst AI.
  
  There are some bad Star Wars games but Star Wars Battlefront 2 is one of the good ones and is great 
 for Star Wars fans and those looking for a good shooter but it could have been better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coaler
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun with good vehicles and exceptional space battles, the more players the better, 
 not very good ground battles though, at least from the one i played so dont listen to me. The vehicles 
 and ships are wicked.
  Lots of diiferent styles of play and you can play as all the different teams, imperials, seperatists, 
 rebels and republic as well as jedi! The cruiser ships in the space battles could be more detailed 
 and its too easy to land on the enemy ship but hard to get past all the droids and auto turrets 
 guarding the inside. Overall good game but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregorreMH
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  I didn't play the first Battlefront, so this was new to me. I looked forward to playing a shooter 
 as rebels or stormtroopers or clone troopers, etc. I was not disappointed. Gameplay was brisk and 
 fun. The AI of my team was somewhat disappointing, but I couldn't get over the coolness of getting 
 to blast a set of stormtrooper, hack into an AT-ST, fly around as a jet trooper and shoot rebels 
 whenever I wanted.
  
  I liked this much better than Battlefield 1942. I have grown tired of the WW2 shooters for the 
 most part. They are all seeming to blend together. Star Wars Battlefront was much more interesting 
 to get into an learn how to become progressively better.
  
  Graphics and sound were adequate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhand7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I was not into FPS games in the past. I tended to avoid them because the gameplay 
 didn't appeal to me. Then I picked up a copy of Battlefront 2, and it blew me away. Long gone are 
 the days of the so-called Doom clones. This game is great in every aspect, from the campaigns, 
 to the online play. It is good for when you want some instant action. Just turn it on, and blow 
 some stuff up. Instant gratification. I strongly recommend this title to anyone, especially to 
 those who are a fan of this genre. A must have for any game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izod91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 is one of the best game I have played, and it deffinately ranks high above 
 other Star Wars games. It's great graphics and intruiging gameplay make it hard to stop gaming. 
 Playing as jedi, hacking into enemy vehicles/starships, and spaceflight are just some of the qualities 
 that make this game amazing.
  
  One of the great things in this game is the ability to pilot spacecraft. There are numerous spacecraft 
 in the game, many which are from Episode III, both good and bad. Battlefront 2 doesn't just let 
 you pilot in the Clone Wars, though. You can fly ships all the way to Episode V, where the game 
 ends. No, I won't tell you how it ends, either. You'll have to play the game to find out.
  
  Another awesome feature is the ability to play as a jedi. Just some of the force powers you 
 can use include: force pull, force push, force choke, force lightning, and flying. You can also 
 use your force abilities to block incoming blaster shots.
  
  On top of being able to play as jedi, you can also play as other key Star Wars characters, including 
 Han Solo, Leia, Chewbacca, and General Grievace (?) .
  
  Yet another good feature is the fact that almost every vehicle in Star Wars in included in the 
 game. You can control everything from droid Tri-Fighters to AT-AT walkers.
  
  Overall this game is really great and anyone who enjoys Star Wars will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDubb86
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  I didn't own the first one but I got a chance to play it every now and then over at a friend's 
 house. I thought it was interesting concept to move the Battlefield 1942 into the Star Wars universe 
 but didn't think the original was worth the cost. I mean, whats the difference between running 
 around shooting people with a semi-automatic machine gun or a laser rifle. But that was then.
 
  
  Now, we've got vehicles and the all powerful uber-jedi. What really draws me into online first 
 person shooters is the vehicles. I want to have an option of more than just running around being 
 "Private #1" and being shot dead by some sniper who's 10 years younger than me and played the game 
 for 5 hours straight. No thanks, I'll take an X-Wing.
  
  However, apart from the added levels and the new features, it's basically just the same game in 
 a different wrapper. Virtually nothing has been improved, just more stuff added. But if you're 
 like me and didn't grab the first one and you're interested in the genre, take a good look at this 
 one, it's hard to get away from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassist77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Massive battlefields, huge armies, deadly weapons and vehicles and Star Wars. This is the main 
 draw to the Battlefront series. While not a complicated formula for a game, it is the deliverance 
 of it that gives the game it's merit. How you alone can change the tide of a batlle, and alongside 
 your team, change the couse of the Star Wars Universe.
  
  Powerful words for an underpowered game. Somehow this Battlefron 2, as well as every other Star 
 Wars game ever produced, can't seem to capture the excitement of the movies.
  
  Granted Battlefront 2 is a great game, it is marred by several huge factors. First of all, the 
 A. I. is no significant improvement over the first Battlefront. Infact I don't think there is any 
 change at all. You can charge into battle, with the same abilities as every other character, but 
 you can shoot and dodge until you have 50 kills a hardly a scratch on you. This is why Battlefront 
 2 has online play.
  
  The online experience is great. Although team communication is a major difficulty, it is certainly 
 more satysfing to take down five human opponents than fifty A. I, opponents. Although online is 
 not as smooth an experience thanks to lag (which is low for the most part) , it is by far the most 
 enjoyable aspect of the game.
  
  The new things that Battlefront 2 introduces, namely space battles and jedi combat, are excellent. 
 You can traverse the landscape of Kashyyyk as Yoda, destroying all in your path, or take to the 
 skies as Boba Fett, picking off the unwary from a distance. It really doesn't matter who you play 
 as, it's just fun. Space combat took a little getting used to, but became a gratifying mode of 
 combat. The fighters are sctructurally on par with paper airplanes, but quick reactions can save 
 you in a dogfight.
  
  Perhaps the strongest part of the game however, is the sound. Absolutley everything is true to 
 the movies. But that isn't enough to warrant a 10 in soud quality. It's walking into a catina in 
 the middle of a fierce fight and hearing some funky music, right out of Episode IV. It's how the 
 music fits the mood in the battle and how the explosions and lightsabre swings meld together into 
 an auditory feast.
  
  In conclusion, this is an excellent game. Well put together and pleasing to the eye. But if you 
 aren't into multiplayer, you aren't getting the full Star Wars experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohankou22
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  If alot of people say this game sucks buttay then i think there should be a trial demo, i dont 
 know about you but starwars knights of the old republic is said to be the (upgrade) of star wars 
 jediknight jedi academy and guys what knight of the old republic SUCKED i couldnt believe i waisted 
 all that money and then i went back to return or trade it for something else at EB game and they 
 said "im sorry we do not accept PC game anymore" and i just thought all that ment was im sorry 
 we are trying to get rid of that **** game so cya and have fun! so thats why im still thinking 
 about buying battlefront 2, its an axpansion or (upgrade) of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic-Son
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Ya.... Very average game Its Fun For a while I play this game in my free time Its not bad It has 
 good online i like it on PC The best. Get Alienware with it and its a hit. If you need a game to 
 play when your bored I recomend this one so Its a rent it. This basically is for Starwars fans.....
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.4
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  Sound: Starwars Like: So 9
  
  Value: 5.5
  
  My Tilt: 6
  
  This game is Probably better for Fan boys Jiggling there money
  For this 
 game Either this game is awsome or Just Normal 
  I give this game
  
  a 7.3 out of 10 
  
  This is my first review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealover8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was meant to be so much more but it lost itself somewhere it lives insiiiide somewheres 
 it lives insiiiiide! Ahh Battlefront 2 if there was ever a game I wanted it was Battlefront 2. 
 But Battlefront 2 lacks a lot I'll now tell you what I didn't like. 
  
  It seems they took out all of the good battlefields. And kept all the ones I didn't like except 
 for Geonosis Which they totally ruined by changing it. 
  
  Didn't like no first person in vehicles and starfighters. 
  
  Really miss prone position (But 
 not that much actually) 
  
  Probaly the funnest thing to watch in the first battlefront was watching yours or somebody elses, 
 character, flipping & cartwheeling in the air waving his arms until he came into a rolling stop 
 on the ground. That hasn't happened to me yet. And I'm doubting it will. 
  
  Lack of ground vehicles: The at-te no longer exists except for Geonosis (Which I just explained 
 wasn't so great.) And my favorite, Republic gunships are no longer in the ground battles. (Unless 
 I missed them somehow.) 
  
  All the new maps seemed, I don't know small. Just confined. Even the space battles ( I enjoyed 
 those immensely) Seem small & confined)
  
  Besides that Battlefront 2 meets & exceeds it's predecessor in ever imaginable way. I especially 
 enjoy the medals you are able to unlock. The space battles are great. Now for the Jedi, Going into 
 the game I actually wasn't expecting much from the Jedi but I came out pleased with them, Not astounded 
 or wowed by them, just pleased. A very welcome addition to the game. 
  
  Battlefront 2 probably has the best replay value I've ever seen in a game to date. 
  
  Now 
 for sound, John Williams all the way through out the game! Hooray for John williams! Sound effects 
 sound just like the movie from the humming of lightsabers to spitting sound that the X-wings make. 
 Also blaster bolts that whiz by your head to hit the wall behind you makes a very nice little noise 
 like the one you hear in the movie. 
  
  The graphics are significantly better than the last game. 
  
  AI is so much better now the 
 super battledroids actually use their wrist rockets to good effect now. Many tiems I'll turn the 
 corner to see a well placed wrist rocket racing toward me. The new units are really cool too. 
 
  Best one I'd have to say is the Clone Commander. "Power to the chain gun!" 
  
  That is my review for BF2 Thank you for reading. Please buy! Highly reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpoullos
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 takes alot longer to get used to compared to the original. This review 
 is for 1 player, haven't played it online due to "dial-up" interrnet. the campaign mode has good 
 story line but the game play is pathetic. Example, you get stuck with a limited number of troops 
 and the enemy get unlimited. which isn't too bad on some of the campaigns battles.
  
  Then you hit the hoth battle, you the rebels are evacuating and they are down to their last ship 
 yet they still have unlimited reinforcements!!! You can kill hundreds of units and still lose. 
 This to me is totally pathetic. The reinforcement count for the 501st is so low at times during 
 this battle that you will definately run out at the final objective even though you keep landing 
 reinforcements.... game designers give your head a shake.
  
  The space battles are neat, but boring. there is no variety other than CIS vs Republic and Rebel 
 vs empire. sure you can up the point count but that isn't anywhere near satisfying. Every space 
 battle is the same old thing over and over again. It was one of the only "improvements" that i 
 thought was good, until even at the highest difficulty level and the most enemies they are too 
 easy and far too boring.
  
  The galactic conquest is the best part of the single player. However there are only 4 options in 
 this game. The idea of earning money by winning battles and being able to train new unit classes, 
 buy additional fleets, and purchase bonuses makes the galactic conquest the only thing worth playing 
 in 1 player.
  
  The squad commands i found to be completely useless especially the command for get in/get out when 
 in a multiseat vehicle. they put the get in/get out on the same button, and you can't choose which 
 one you want to say, it decides, which makes landing on an enemy ship diffuclt since if you land 
 all but one of the AI units will exit the vehicle. so you have to take off and land again to kick 
 him out. if you don't do this the AI in the game is so stupid the unit will take off and crash.
 
  
  The AI units in this game are worse than in Battlefront 1. They are as useless as you can get. 
 at least in bf 1 the units are capable of killing at least 1 or 2 enemy units before getting killed. 
 not in this game.
  
  They removed the "splash" damage of the large blaster cannons on the "tanks" and lowered the damage 
 done. in order to kill a unit now you have to hit them repeatedly or in the head. this makes no 
 sense...
  
  In conclusion don't waste your money on this game if you want it for 1 player. battlefront 1 is 
 a far better and entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinh1983
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  The game is really great, if you haven't played star wars battlefont 1 before.
  You got the old maps, old guns graphics aren't that good.... My advice is don't buy it if you already 
 got the first one the space combat and the jedi heroes does't worth it. Since the jedi hero's and 
 other hero's are only available 2 or 3 times in a battle and if you die you have to wait till he's 
 available again .... The space combat is okay it's not that good, it's not a space battle game 
 ... I've been waiting for this game to come out i tough it would be great but in the ends it's very 
 disappointing, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercow216
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  Perhaps it's better than the 1st Battlefront but not enough. The only thing you should do is to 
 borrow the game from your friend for a few days to reexperience the 1st version.
  
  Space battle is a good addition in the game but it is just like the Rogue Squadron (about 6 years 
 ago)
  
  Jedi stuff is overrated. Jedi's action and movement is too fast. When we use a jedi, the rest are 
 just body bags. If we are fast enough, we can wipe out the whole army (no vehicle) with a jedi 
 (Luke is the best)
  
  Vehicles in the game are adequate, easy to maneuver, 
  
  The only thing that impresses me is the soundtrack from the movie. It contributes one third of 
 the game's value.
  
  Last word: if you have the 1st version, stop saving money for the 2nd. If you don't have it, buy 
 the 2nd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfsinGeorgia
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  Started out fun but even with following directions; still have video problems. Game replay is great 
 especially being able to play both sides (be part of the dark side) . Darth is lame and so is the 
 emperor, all the heroes could have used more effort. This game really needs a patch to improve 
 the playing of the heroes and of course fixing the video problems.
  Game Play: Somewhat addictive.
  Graphics: Great except for the blue screen.
  Sound: Some hang-ups 
 like one would get from a scratched vinyl record.
  Value: Overpriced.
  Reviewers Tilt: Rent first or wait until the price comes down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeroy69
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I think the best part of this game is the music and sound effects. That is my favorite part of 
 the movies, and for the most part, my favorite part of most Star Wars games. The graphics here 
 are pretty good, and they certainly get the job done without forcing the player to have the most 
 up to date system. I have a two year old desktop, only 640 megs of ram, and a gforce 6600, and 
 i can play Battlefront 2 with 1280x960 resolution, with all the graphic bells turned on except 
 antialiesing and i have a constant framerate of 60 per second. That is not something that Battlefield 
 2 ever came close to.
  Anyway, I really do enjoy the battles, the presentation is great, and for the most part I am happy 
 that I bought it.
  Unfortunetly there are some major bugs that I have run into while playing. The worst is when in 
 the middle of a battle the sound will just cut out completely. I can't begin to say how much this 
 hurts the game. I mean without good sound, any FPS will basicly just turn into an advanced version 
 of whack-the-mole, and I'm sure we all got tired of that back in the 80's. The only way to fix 
 that problem is to completely shut down the game, which sucks because you have to forfit the whole 
 round and start over from the begining. Some of these stages take 20 or thirty minutes people, 
 with lots of objectives to acomplish. That is not cool guys. Of course that is in single player. 
 Multiplayer gamers would just have to tough the stage out while being handicaped. Grrrrrrr.
  There have been other bugs and glitches but none are quite so dire. everyonce in a while your character 
 model will not load its textures, so in first person, where normally you would see your arm and 
 what ever weapon you are wielding, you would see a black silouet. Sorry, I know that is misspelled.
 
  If not for those bugs I would probibly have temporarily given up Unreal 2004 to play this game, 
 but as it stands Battlefront 2 is just an alternative to play when tired of my other games and 
 when I forgoten briefly why I stopped playing it last time.
  Lucasarts, I know this was supposed to be primarily a console game, and so you had to focus testing 
 on those verisions, and ecconomicly speaking, I understand why you would let a few bugs slip by 
 on the PC version, since you can not patch games on consoles for some stupid reason that is not 
 your fault, but those console versions are released now. I expect patches ASAP.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny1698
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  I am a little disappointed with Battlefront II. Although it is better than the first one. It lets 
 you be Jedi but not from the beginning you also cannot be pilots on the ground. There are some 
 good things about it though like the space battles and the improved vehicles. Therefore I like 
 the space battles but I like the ground battles in Battlefront I better than in Battlefront II.
 
  So in a sense I do like it and in a sence I dont like it. It is good and again it is bad. If it 
 was pefect I would have given it a ten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiftninja223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game had much more then the first 1 and i loved how u could play as a jedi but there weren't 
 that many different skills for you to choose from but HEY you should still you must try this game 
 out it is one the best games ever. one of my favorite characters was a guy that had amachine gun 
 and he was wearing red armor and looked like a commando although it is fun to go head to head with 
 friends when jedi u get alot of stalemates if you dont know what your doing. i love the in depth 
 space battles although it is kinda tough to get used to having to dock destroy the mainframe get 
 in your shop undock then have to blow it up on the outside its kinda a pain but its fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slypher99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately the best one for star wars yet. The graphics are awesome and the textures 
 are clearly visible and pleasing. The music is pleasing as you fight trhrough the maps. The sound 
 effects are clear and straight to the point sounding ultimately realistic and straight to the point. 
 The gameplay reinacts all the best battles and then some. The new features ,like for example the 
 jedi or fighting in space adds to the realistic battles from all of star wars time. The one thing 
 i would like is to be able to be able to manever in space without a ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_6996
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I don't see how you can't like it, its amazing specially online
  You should obviously play it before you rate it, because obviously you havn't if you don't like 
 it, I'll own3 you anydays biatches!!! Just give me your info and we can be starwars internet mutiplayer 
 friends
  LET THE FORCE BE WITH YOU!!! WOOOOOOOT Starwars and Fps (first person shooting) are the best games 
 in the world... i dont know wat else to say, just buy it your poor people its the best, and this 
 site is the best so im going to invite all my friends here to play sum starwars so just ask if 
 u wanna play with us, were pretty good i can say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  zwhy the hell did Lucas art make this game . Battlefront 1 was totally unpopular .. ppl bought 
 it bcause it had a storm trooper on the front. everybody like sto control storm troopers , they're 
 way cool. Unlickily for me and them we fell into the trap and bought it, Basically a free for all 
 massacre no betr than serios sam 1 ! If I'd just waited half a year , i could've bought republic 
 commando . A way better game (although without multiplayer) Where u actually play the stormtrooper 
 commando team. All i have to say is , what the hell were they thinking bringing a sequal out ...
 
  The sinlge playr campaign is terrible 2 , they probarbly spend like a day making it! 
  The JEdi's are hard 2 control and give me little enjoyment or extra amusement! it's merely a thing 
 that looks good on paper.
  the graphics are Ok , but the gameplay sucks , its Unreal tournament with starwars ina halflife 
 deathmatch type!
  
  And why on the XbOX !!! XboX is 2 cool for a game like this .. besides you'd only be able 2 play 
 it with X box live HA!
  
  If anybody is offended by this review , 2 bad . I wrote this , not to annoy people but because 
 i like writing reviews that are full of critisism. 
  
  Jan schreurs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNT_Stuff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Starwars Battlefront II is a great game. It runs faster, the graphics are better, missions are 
 better, and the tutorial. I thing the gun models are the same but if you put it in third person 
 view you can tell its different. The one thing that I don't like is they took out the Bespin Platforms, 
 the very first level I played on the original battlefront. The ability to control heros isn't quite 
 what I thought it would be. The hero can die to easally, and when I try to block lazers, sometimes 
 they'll still hit me and kill me. Space combat is very fun. The controls on spacecrafts are easier 
 to use than the original BF. I really like getting in an enemies ship and killing all the droids 
 and taking their command post.
  
  My rating is 4 (1/2) - 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, in an apartment not so far away, I used to buy everything put out by Lucasarts, 
 from Tentacle to Indy and his desktop adventures; I loved their subject matter and I loved the 
 games (for the most part) . I've gotten choosier as I've gotten older so I find myself passing on 
 more and more. Also, I have a personal grudge against George Lucas for his recent excreble return 
 to the Star Wars universe so I tend to keep my purchases, especially with regards to this franchise 
 fairly exclusive.
  I did not play the original battlefront so I won't be attacking the game from that angle as others 
 have in other reviews. No, my point of attack is more directed at this type of game. I'm a single 
 player gamers; never tried multi player; have no desire; don't play online. I'm antisocial and 
 quite happy with it. Battlefield 1942, Battlefield Vietnam, Battlefield 2 along with this game 
 offend me; although this game does so a little bit less. The gameplay doesn't feel like a battlefield; 
 it feels and looks like a bunch of guys running around, shooting each other; a free for all; a 
 riot. That may be fun, in and of itself, but it doesn't really capture my interest. Defenses mean 
 nothing; both sides mingle; I threw Battlefield vietnam in the garbage; one map had them attacking 
 my base and stealing my helicopters and then strafing us; it was the stupidest thing I'd ever seen; 
 funny, yes, but not what I look for in a wargame. The offensive level to me is the reckless disregard 
 you can have for your troops. Oh, he's dead? No prob; I'll spawn in another one. What was Stalin's 
 famous quote? One death is a tragedy; a million deaths is a statistic. It just bothers me to spend 
 soldiers like that; it seems pointless; with all of the aimless running around, it FEELS pointless. 
 But, that seems to work for this game. Your soldiers are clones; got them all killed, Master Jedi? 
 No problem, we'll make more. This game still suffers from the free for all feeling but not as bad 
 as the battlefield games. Did I mention how much I hate that series? Oh, nevermind. One thing that 
 I seriously didn't like about this game is the flight model. It's fun, for about, oh, takeoff time; 
 then when you're trying to fly, and you remember how much fun X wing and tie fighter were, all 
 those many years ago, it really starts to occur to you, just how bad the flight section is. I didn't 
 skip them though because I still love those old space sims. Why can't they update them? Make more? 
 Make some set in the clone wars? Ah well. Not a bad game; it avoids some of what makes the battefield 
 series so awful, but it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollum007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is was very overrated and overhyped and a "there goes $60 bucks down the drain" game. 
 I liked it and was very obsessed with the graphics and jedis, etc. But somehow one day i messed 
 up the disk and was unable to play it again. I was sad the first two or three days but i soon realized 
 how overrated it was and how boring and repetitive it got. Not to mention the whole jedi system 
 is so flawed, too easy to use, and noobish. I had very great times with the game when it first came 
 out but a year or so later i lost interest in it mainly because it was losing alot of players due 
 to repetitiveness and because it became very average and kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yulias
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, I was looking forward to this game for a damn long time.. And then i bought it.. 
 And got damn exited! The game has Wonderful graphics (Althoug i cant run it on best performance) 
 and a good gameplay. But still i think some thing is missing, like in the first Battlefront. Cant 
 reallly say what it is but samething is missing :) . Playing in space was the thing i was exited 
 about when i heard it was coming. It is pretty fun, but you only have one capital ship, and your 
 enemy has one. And you also have to defence frigates.. Thats whats the problem is in space.. The 
 jedi.. Thats fun! You just jump around killing all enemy soldiers with one slash (sometimes more:) 
 or fight a hero battle in Mos Eisley.. The bad thing is i dont have a connection to the internet.. 
 Thats bad.. But anyways really good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Before i bought the game i read a few reviews just to see what people had to say, well things didn't 
 look to good. So i went out and got the game for myself anyways. 
  
  Wow what a fun game, i don't know what the low scores are for, i mean its a game intended to do 
 what its suppose to fast furious action. Don't go look for a breakthrough in the genre game. Its 
 amazing fun, i've been playing it on lan with friends and its a game i havn't had this much fun 
 with for i don't know how long. Anybody wanting a good action title, and have about 5 or more friends 
 to lan, give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamumu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  Pros: Jedi, I don't know why some people didn't like being a jedi that much! It was awesome! I 
 get to run through groups of enemies and waste them all. Redone units, units have different equipment 
 and a new class for each faction. New Locations and a lot more level customization, Great new lighting 
 for computer, loads better graphics then ps2 and xbox. 
  
  Cons: I didn't have as much fun in space as I did on the ground. Interface has some bad parts to 
 it, it took me a few times to finally see that I could be a jedi, its is written really tiny! Some 
 of the weapon icons look like they were done in paint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-Moneo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  SW BF2- A perfect new game. This is a good game... i like it very much. This game still look like 
 the first battlefront but in BF 2 theres more planets, characters, vehicles and u can make battle 
 in space. In bf2 u can also take control of a hero, like jedi Sith or bounty hunter and others. 
 The new one thing the best that u can fight in space. The new characters ar good. My favorous character 
 is the imperial Pilot. In BF2 the new characters are: Bothan spies, clone commander, Imperial Engeneer.... 
 And the most i like in BF 2 is battle in space and contorl a Jedi or Sith or Bounty Hunter. :-) . 
 And BTW on PC multi-player in 1 server can be max about 60 players. But the one problem i have 
 that i dont have BF 2.. : ( but i read about BF2 and its very very cool!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:20 am PT
Review:  I have to admit it, i didn't believe this game would be that much different from the first, but 
 i was proven wrong. After my friend bought this for PS2 and watching him play it for a few hours... 
 i had to play it. The single player campaign is amazing, but short, and the space battles are amazing, 
 and intense at times. If you have a good system to run this game, it looks astounding. 
  
  I have yet to beat the game, but it is getting to be somewhat the same stuff it seems. 
  
  
 All in all its a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCPT
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first battlefront and much of the previous Star Wars games, Battlefront II is 
 an improvement. Due to the addition of the space combat it gives more a feel of you are playing 
 Star Wars. Multiplayer mode is still the best way of playing the game. Human players strategies 
 are different to programmed strategies.
  
  To me Batllefront II would be one of those games that u will play when u are looking for a change 
 of scenery or if u are an Star Wars fan. To the likes of games like Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 and other new releases the game will be a dust collector until u are done with all the new releases.
 
  
  All in all it is not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I had the highest hopes for this game. That it would just be the best starwars game ive ever played. 
 But no! The graphics looked outdated like crap and in order to get a massive battle going your 
 gonna have to lag your comp to its grave. Sound is a bit eh. Gameply is basicly go to objective 
 complete it thats it. The space battles didnt even add any nice touch just frustation. Even being 
 a jedi was stupid. You hop around 12 feet into the air slashing and once you die you dont use them 
 again the end. Honestly this has been one of the biggest let downs ever. Seems like they half did 
 the projected. Make the graphics and sound better and actualy put a better objective campaign and 
 alot more freedom into battling and alot more NPC players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewyDeng2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Basically if your a fan of Star Wars you will really enjoy this game. I have no idea why it got 
 such a mediocre score with gamspot because this game is so much better than a 7.8, it really deserves 
 at least a 8.5 or better. The addition of jedi/heroes is really what sets it apart from the other 
 game, being a hero is just so much fun. If you want to try these hero classes out immediatly then 
 there are several servers that are just hero servers where you can pick what hero/villain you would 
 like to play as. The addition of maps from episode III is another thing that sets it apart from 
 the original. There are also quite a few different maps you can play on as well. The music is always 
 a big plus, it has alot of music from episode III as well as the classic star wars music. The units 
 are all unique in there own way which is a huge reason why I enjoy this so much. So if your a star 
 wars fan go out and buy it, i promise your wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby2388
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to lack the quality of a good game. First off the games AI is very poorly written 
 since every time the AI kills someone it seems that they just run to the dead player and shoot 
 them even when the fire fight is still going on. Most of the time players can actually just walk 
 up to other enemy AI and they won't fire back until the player shots. The worst part is the AI 
 in space. There seems to only be 4 or 5 AI players that go in ships per team and they rest kind 
 of just hang out in the bay or just sit there. In the end of rounds it is not uncommon to see the 
 AI go 0-0 (kill/death ratio) in space.
  
  The fire fights are basically taken from the first game and just slapped on to the second. Players 
 just go around to bases and capture them. Nothing different from the first but this could be a 
 good thing or a bad thing if you like it from the first one. There are maybe only 6 types of vehicles 
 in the game (not including space) that you can take up.
  
  One of the good parts is the new way to get units. Everyone gets a turn on this map with there 
 fleets to attack planets. After a battle depending if you win or lose players get more or less 
 credits. Players then use the credits to buy units or bonus for they next attack like the leader 
 bonus (Your factions hero) or the clone sharpshooter. Once players buy a unit they are their for 
 good. Only catch is that you need to get a certain number of points before you can actually use 
 some of them on the battle field which is a pain. The best part of the game is the in game bonus 
 which is if you go on a killing spree (6 kills without dieing) you get a bonus of damage double 
 or something similar. Although they took out prone, there is really no use for it. The game is 
 a fast pace game and prone is not the fast pace style. The game just seems like it is too easy 
 over all. Since players are more skilled over the AI players usually go 25-8 over the AI 7-8 so 
 the players team most likely wins all the time. Over all this game might be something to buy if 
 you like star wars but if you want something different and challenging then this isn't for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakeebl
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  There were some graphical issues that I noticed when playing that are rather funky. Sometimes your 
 player can be ghosted out or transparent from different angles. Its kinda weird but you get use 
 to it I guess. I don't remember having this problem in the first battlefront. I think that they 
 could have put a little more time and care into each of the character types add another weapon 
 or allow you to pick up other weapons that have been dropped by those who have died. I still play 
 it quite a bit but will it have long term gameplay like battlefield 2 or battlefront I, hmmm... 
 probably not, even though there are more worlds and battles but the jury is still out we'll have 
 to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlwillin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't care for the single player mode. Lets face it who would buy this game for that? This game 
 is made to be played on multiplayer. It almost seems as if the STAR WARS francise is putting all 
 there apples in one basket... excuse the metafore. Battlefront 2 has mixed x-wing game play in space 
 battles with jedi outcast gameplay with heros vs villians and the battle sences from of course 
 the original Battlefront. Space battles fun and truly enjoyable with joystick land battles just 
 fun however lightsaber is missing more control over the characters. There is only hack and slash, 
 i play because i can weild a lightsaber which is as MR. Burns would say "EXCELLENT". And besides 
 every since that incident at WAL-MART im not allowed to weild a saber agian DAMN smily face with 
 his savings. Anyway good game over all still room for improvement. STAR WARS is on the right track 
 to making better games im so proud. 
  
  May the FORCE be with you, you, and you but not you i never cared for you and you know who you 
 are (damn smily face always smiling) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay... this game was pretty bad... first of all when I picked up this game I thought it was gonna 
 be a whole lot better than the original, but than the graphic bugs hit me. And also, of all the 
 things they DIDN'T put into the game was a huge disappointment, sure, they put in Jedi and sith 
 and junk.... but that is nothing compared to making it like what it's supposed to be, which is a 
 first person shooter, they don't let you roll or prone anymore, there is no more "ship repair droids" 
 (but i can kinda see where that idea was going, that you would get the most of your mechanics and 
 stuff) ... and... it was a bit too much like the original... it would keep a SW fan going for about 
 a month or less, but after that, it's not worth the money, my advice, rent it first, and if you 
 love it than you love it.
  
  PS. They better hurry up and make them patches for the PC version quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltrain90
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the second Star Wars game that I have played. So I am new to the series. I enjoy playing 
 the game but would like to have seen a little more meat to the battle sequences in the single player 
 mode. One I figured out that camping close to check points with little AI resistance, things got 
 pretty easy.
  
  After playing Rebel Commando's I was expecting a little more from this game. I still enjoy the 
 game play even though the AI could have been a little smarter.
  
  I still recommend the game for those that want to enjoy some of the back story that is nicely connected 
 to the Star Wars film series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerrudy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  this game was better then first 1 but only thing is 1 agen i beat it in like 2 days. the missions 
 are to short like i said befor i think but in the end its still fun. i bought it on xbox but psp 
 look like it was fun on that to o well. an the space battles are sweet. this game is way better then 
 battle front 1 big time well to me it is at lease. any way well byee e e e e e e e e e e e e e ee 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02dthompson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Lots of people have been criticising this game expecting it to be very different from its sequel 
 but the fact is, it doesnt matter what its like compared to its sequel! It is a brilliant game 
 and the websites seriously made a crap job of writing their reviews, IGNs review was terrible! 
 They completely focused on the bad points of the game and casually mentioned some good points quickly 
 and then went ranting on about some other bad point, the fact is, ITS BRILLIANT GET IT 
  
  The game has everything that you wanted more of in the first one, when I first heard about playable 
 jedi and space I was really happy, and when I got the game I was even more happy, sure, it may 
 have a few glitches but its all improved from the first one and you cant have something else new 
 because it will move away from the theme of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buflonob
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game definately filled the aims of the creators I believe. They follow the films very well 
 (apart from Darth Vader and other great players being blown away by a grunt, or 20, for example) . 
 I believe they should have made the SUPER characters a bit harder to kill and maybe put a time 
 limit on their use, and not only until they die.
  
  The down points being, the game has little to offer anyone who is enjoys a more tactical style 
 of gameplay, instead you round a few corners, if you are lucky, and blast away hoping you get someone 
 before you get killed. 
  I played this for a while, and I play well at FPS games in general, and found it very hard to get 
 a KILL count higher than my DEATHS count. In the games I played, only 1 or 2 people out of a server 
 count of 32+ players had more kills than deaths. This can't do as being a good player is rewarded 
 by given an even harder to kill character? doesn't really make sense now does it!. The eevels need 
 to be made more intricate, detailed, and less limiting on the movement.
  
  The fighter flying is the best, I really enjoyed this, but think they need to make there more to 
 do while in these levels, and maybe gunning positions etc (if there isn't already these that i 
 haven't found) .
  
  All in all it's levels ARE the same and just tarted up a bit, but then we wouldn't want it any 
 other way.
  
  Well Done Lucas Arts, keep on improving, maybe bring it closer to the Battlefield 2 gameplay style 
 and tactial play etc, then you'l have a clear winner.
  
  All considered i'm sure most people can appreciatte that a fair amount of improvements have been 
 made, and keep on improving at this speed and you'll soon perfect the balance between, relating 
 to the flm, and playability.
  
  I can say that I have bought the game, but will probably spend more time playing Battlefield 2 
 because of the playability factor, but these types of game are the best, so please keep on improving 
 it and i'm sure you'l crack it soon.
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalebibinemo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are average, the game play is like an every day task job, wake up eat go to work and 
 get back home ( walk, shoot, get health, hide and level complete) . I was expected something special 
 from the game, at least a better game play. You have to earn points to play as a Jedi, no offence 
 but that's LAME ! When you play a Star Wars game the first thing you expect to do is to play with 
 a Jedi. At least the hero caracter, you could play with a Robot but not all the game. I have BattleField 
 2 and it's way better than this Battle front 2. George Lucas was great producer for him to make 
 the Star Wars Saga, but i guess he should of stoped on movies and not to go into games. Altough 
 hopping to get some REAL Star Wars games ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are a die hard star wars fan, then this is a definite buy, but if you are looking for a 
 good shooter for PC, then you might want to look somewhere else. I love this games predicessor 
 (the first Battlefront) , but this one just seems weaker than most shooters out there for PC. I 
 play Battlefield 2 and think that this might be great, but Battlefield 2 is superior in many ways. 
 This game had a lot of potential, but they didn't utilize the resources the could have. The space 
 battles are rather bad, and the land battles are great, but as I said, you'll have a lot more fun 
 playing Battlefield 2. The campain in this game freezes all the time (even if you have a good computer, 
 especially the poeple with dual processors) . I would recomend this game if you don't like Battlefield 
 2, but if you haven't all ready played it or own it, I would definitly get that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWRC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Basically if you are a Star Wars fan you are going to like this game. First person shooters aren't 
 normally the kind of game I excell at so I didn't mind that the AI isn't the most lethal. I think 
 this game will give others like me a good run for their money. But that said if first person shooters 
 are your sole source of gaming fun then the AI probably isn't going to be tough enough for you. 
 The dogfights in space are rather entertaining but I think it is more fun to play online with friends 
 rather then just against the computer. That can probably be said for most areas of the game. Playing 
 as Hero characters is also very fun. The best part is if you can setup a duel between say Anakin 
 and Obi-Wan. The story mode is pretty fun with the campaign and the Galatic conquest but overall 
 I would say playing online is the most entertaining. Space battles can be be a challenge playing 
 with real people who know what they are doing.
  
  Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthAltano
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought SWBF II was going to be not so special: pretty much the same as the old Bf, 
 only with a few new gimmicks...
  I was wrong! Spacebattle is amazing, and the Jedi heroes are very cool to play with!
  It felt 
 familiar, playing the game (I played the first version for days and days!) , but there's something 
 different about it, and I like it...
  The only letdown is the sound: sometimes, when a fighter crashes far away, and a guy fires his 
 lasers next to me, the crash is louder, it's kind of disturbing...
  But that could just be my copy of the game.
  
  I recommend this game 100 %, fan or no fan of 
 Star Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkampff
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  A truly immersive and intense game, a must for any star wars fan, they throw you right into the 
 battle, with all the heroes and villains from both trilogies. For those who like the first edition, 
 this is like the mother of all sequels, it does disappoint in any category, you can fight as any 
 Jedi, and almost any of the special characters. Tons more vehicles and weapons too The movie based 
 storyline make the game that much more exciting as you play from serving the Jedi, to helping wipe 
 them out. Still not convinced? Play online and feel what a real battle is supposed to be like 
 When you are done, you will be taking your obsolete Halo and Battlefield games to the pawn shop 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fo-sniz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  hmmm fantastic gameplay graphics really quite good.... the use of the lightsabre is pretty bad if 
 they had made it more like the jedi knight series it would have beeen total awesome........ waste 
 time and words il just bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla blabla bldfbkegtie wdgripebrtoue wjrpoewtg [oew 
 weikrhowehrtoiwhr rgterothpeorhitnhf. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a abla bla bla bla bla bla blabla bldfbkegtie wdgripebrtoue wjrpoewtg [oew weikrhowehrtoiwhr 
 rgterothpeorhitnhf. a a abla bla bla bla bla bla blabla bldfbkegtie wdgripebrtoue wjrpoewtg [oew 
 weikrhowehrtoiwhr rgterothpeorhitnhf. a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chadski
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  One great game! I havent been so addicted to a game in a long time. I dont know what all the 
 complaints are about. The AI isnt all that bad and for having a couple dozen people running around 
 it does pretty good. I think that the controls of the Jedi are great, they arent Jedi outcast 
 quality but it is fun to force run around slicing people up, which is what a Jedi does. And I find 
 the space flight really fun, I have heard complaints that it is too difficult, but that isnt true 
 if you have the force. I can last a whole battle while only dying once or twice. 
  What it comes down to is that this is the coolest game I have bought all year. Good job Lucasarts.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  While much of the original Battlefront remains in tact like capture the enemies command post, the 
 new objectives in the single player game (like capture the command post) , do add some structure 
 to all that previous running around without direction. I've had no problem installing from the 
 CDs or playing with most features cranked up and I'm only running a Dell P4 2.40Ghz with 1 GB RAM 
 with Radeon 9500 Pro video cards. The Instant Action feature lets you customize planetside and 
 space battles so there's plenty to explore there, as well as the chance to play as or against the 
 Jedi. Especially chilling was when the order is given to kill the Jedi and you are playing as a 
 clone. But as a fly jockey, I can't get over the space battles. Using a joystick with a throttle 
 I am getting hot and heavy into some incredible ac, sometimes almost too much as these battles 
 ain't always easy. They also have objectives like landing on an enemy ship, exiting your craft 
 and blowing something up. Graphics detail (like lights on in windows) on Naboo add an extra touch 
 not found in the previous game. And I haven't even gotten started playing online yet. This game 
 is a win win buy. Battlefront is the only game where I keep the music on 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cimmy2005
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Star Wars. In my opinion this game really delivers the goods of the series. Just 
 about every location/character/vehicle known in the Star Wars movies are avalible to play. A great 
 feature, one that benifits multiplayer hosts, is having bots fill the server until people join. 
 You may set a match from 1 to 64 bots. This feature guarntees that people in a low populated server 
 can experince a big battle, not having to suffer boredom waiting for people to join. 
  So players don't get bored doing objectives over and over again, the game incorperates several 
 games modes for multiplayer. A campaign mode for singleplayer and a instant action option for the 
 solo gamer that wants to access everything and start the droid slaughter. 
  The drawbacks of the game are rather simple AI, bots seem to just run around and shoot, not taking 
 cover and flanking. Another flaw is the small roll ground vehicles and turrets play in combat, 
 they alot feel too slow or too weak against infantry. The last and most important let down of this 
 game is the fact that the game was built on the Battlefield 1942 engine. May I remind everyone 
 that the Star Wars series is built off of impressive visuals. Having the game built on the 1942 
 engine, this game sadly has no impressive visuals. Battlefield 2, however, uses a far more advanced 
 and better looking engine than its predecessor, and it was released about a half a year ago!
  Star Wars Battlefront 2 SHOULD of used the Battlefield 2 engine. It would of been a major leap 
 from Battlefront 1, but Lucas Arts choose not to take that leap. Even though there are no impressive 
 visuals, all the Star Wars content you could ever dream of is there. Except, there is no cloud 
 city location! Lets just hope the nail it on the ball in Star Wars Battlefront 3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoloJon
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 accomplishes what it set out to do and does it quite well, but there are 
 still a few problems. First off, I have to say that I've experienced quite a decreased fervor for 
 the setting in general, since the release of the (largely disappointing) Episodes I through III. 
 But lately, I've been feeling a resurgence in my enthusiasm for the series, particularly the classic 
 trilogy, of which there is a decent amount of content in Battlefront 2.
  
  I had a pretty good idea of what to expect when I picked up Battlefront 2, having also bought and 
 played the first game. The first game had a number of new ideas for gameplay, but in execution 
 they were somewhat incomplete, and I had hoped that Lucasarts would develop them for the sequel. 
 To a large extent, these problems have been addressed, but some of the old ones have been carried 
 over.
  
  The single player side of the game has been improved and developed. So far it feels very similar 
 to the campaign in Republic Commando, with Temuera Morrison reprising his role as narrator. Playing 
 against AI opponents isn't terribly engaging, however, so my preference is still for the multiplayer 
 game.
  
  The standout experience of both single and multiplayer is the Space combat -- which has been brilliantly 
 and enjoyably included. Being able to race to a hangar, hop into a tie fighter or xwing (or the 
 respective era's vehicles) and fly around, dogfighting, and taking out the enemy capital ship's 
 hardpoints is great fun. The implementation is simple and arcady, but nonetheless fun, as the player 
 is able to execute rolls and other maneuvres with a few key presses. The window dressing is terrific 
 on the space scenes, with battles being reminiscent of scenes from the movies. Additionally, being 
 able to land in your opponent's carrier and take out vital support functions on foot is a great 
 idea, but in practice it's not as fun as one would imagine.
  
  The on foot action has changed little, made slightly the worse due to the lack of flying vehicles, 
 as in the first game. It's a shame that the battlefields weren't able to be expanded, as they were 
 in Battlefield 2, because the omission of the starfighters and the like is noticeable. I'm guessing 
 they have changed the maps in favour of putting emphasis on the space-only levels. I feel I must 
 also mention that I may not have the ideal internet connection (DSL, but not a huge throughput 
 level) , but nevertheless, I seem to be able to play Battlefield 2 with no problems. In Battlefront 
 2, however, I seem to get the "network traffic" icon a lot, and the action seems jumpy and very 
 laggy. Perhaps this is just some necessary code optimisation and will be fixed in a future patch. 
 For the time being, however, I find the game mechanics and physics a little frustrating, and too 
 unrealistic to be terribly, fun, although Battlefield 2 has a similar feel for me. I much prefer 
 solid shooters with a bit more realism than the run-and-gun type of gaming that most FPSs in the 
 genre seem to be. The fast-paced action does make things frenetic, but it cheapens it a great deal, 
 making players feel as if they're just running around blindly, trying to survive and get a few 
 pot shots off rather than accomplish some specific goal.
  
  Aside from this, the game plays very similarly to the original, and to the Battlefield games, with 
 tickets depleting the fewer capture points a side has control of. The inclusion of playable Jedi 
 and other super-characters is a welcome addition, and I found their playability fun and engaging, 
 if a little simplistic (as compared to the Jedi Knight series, which in itself was fairly rough -- 
 moving side to side to initiate different maneuvres makes the combat feel like flailing about and 
 far from Noble and Elegant as the Jedi are supposed to be) . Graphically, it's not top notch, but 
 chances are it will run smoothly on most machines, even if yours isn't up to scratch for some of 
 the other new releases. The graphics have been improved a bit, but they're nothing mind-blowing, 
 with a few little details but nothing whizz-bang. They get the job done, however, and represent 
 the backdrop of the Star Wars universe quite well. Or at least, well enough to provide an arena 
 for blasting the competition to pieces.
  
  The "conquest" game is much, much more developed and feels closer to what Lucasarts was trying 
 to achieve in the first game, but it still falls a bit short. Essentially, there's a galactic map 
 that two players can take turns moving fleets around to different planets, capturing them and colliding 
 with one another for combat. The idea is quite similar to the classic 8-bit era game Archon; you 
 take turns and if your move onto a square that contains the opposing fleet, a battle commences.
 
  
  Hope that gives you a thumbnail sketch of what the game is all about. I'll try and update this 
 as I get to play the game some more (if I have the patience for it in this release-rich time of 
 year) . If you're on the fence about it and have not played Battlefront 1, I would only pick it 
 up if you're really hurting for a Star Wars experience. If you have played the original, you pretty 
 much know what you're getting, and your decision might depend more on your reactions to the original 
 (and the speed of your internet connection) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gundamxzero
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Around a year ago I hosted a local LAN, myself and about 15 other good acquaintances played the 
 predecessor to this game for about 8 hours and the gameplay was fresh the whole way through.
  
  Recently I have just obtained a copy and of BFII and to say the least disappointment was not 
 a tangible adjective for this game. I began with the campaign mode and the first thing I noticed 
 when then quick load screen faded was the incredible level of detail. Immediately I was immersed 
 in a battle with laser flying past me and dozens of enemies in the distance, I was pleased to see 
 objectives appear taking away from the usual capture and hold gameplay still the while being impressed 
 by the on par graphics comparable to many of HL's source titles. Having played the previous game 
 this version's controls were about identical with a few added maneuvers ie: sprinting and rolling. 
 Obtaining a high enough score I was able to play as a Jedi which was a great experience after the 
 frustration of trying to dispose of them in the previous title only to see them deflect a missile 
 or an AT-AT laser. Added vehicles and extra playable classes brought a new level of depth and strategy 
 to the game and the added feature of weapon heating made you a bit more vulnerable in some of the 
 large titans.
  
  I also had time to play the "conquest" mode which was like a sort of chess game, moving a starcrusier 
 from planet to planet which every new planet would bring you down onto the battlefield and you 
 were able to acquire credits to purchase new playable classes or bonus. I also experienced my first 
 space battle. Spawning in a large ship I walked to the docking bay only to be very nostalgic on 
 seeing some of the ships from the movies. Controls very fairly simple yet effective making dogfights 
 very entertaining yet still requiring a level of skill in order to be efficient.
  
  All in all I was very impressed with this game, exceeding my expectations there are so many new 
 features it is not just a battlefont 1.5 I cannot wait to host my next LAN and play this with all 
 my friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmpug
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  very good. compare it to the first and you find many the same problems but on its own it stands 
 apart. if you have complaints just wait till the mods start pouring out. that hould correct most 
 of the balance and map issues. by far the most fun are the hunt and assault modes. vehicles are 
 underepresented in ground combat however and i think it was fun to play lvls like the dune sea. 
 but it makes up for it by adding space warfare.
  very good solid game with nothing to complain about. i recomend it to anybody who likes shooters 
 and anybody who likes star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  For the Multiplayer is a whole lot of fun for playing with it On-line with up to 64 players on 
 the PC. But it does feature some PROBLEMS with the On-line, such as the ping of a server or on 
 players depending were there connecting from which could cause LAG and could also cause problems 
 if your driving a vehicle. And also the MINOR PROBLEM of the whole On-line experience is if the 
 game CRASHES OR the connection to the HOST IS LOST and I have no idea what this is all about. The 
 only thing you can do is find the right server, the right ping and the right players to play with. 
 But is it worth your money the only answer is ?, its up to you but from my point of view its a 
 whole fun of very thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AU_Jedi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  A major improvement from Battlefront, which was itself a very good game but was lacking a few features. 
 BFII goes way beyond what the past game had tried to implement. I was so surprised to find how 
 different this game was from its predecessor. Just to mention one of the greatest changes: the 
 ability to control the Heroes, more importantly wielding a lightsaber on to the battlefield. I 
 thought this idea would be somewhat hokey and really would not be more than a novelty. I was pleased 
 to be proven wrong. The way they worked the Heroes into the game was brilliant. 
  
  I was playing online the day after the game came out. I had not yet seen what it was like to control 
 the heroes out side of the training session the night before. The droid I was controlling had just 
 been destroyed, so I went back to the unit class selection screen to spawn my next Zealot. Suddenly 
 there was a new character that popped up on the screen for me to select. After respawning in a 
 certain location on what I remember as being the Jedi Temple, I was controlling a recognizable 
 figure in black with a double ended light saber with glowing red blades. I soon found myself surrounded 
 by Clone Troopers. The attack was on. Leaping from victim to victim through the air with acrobatic 
 moves, I was leveled my opponents to the ground with flashes of red. 
  
  This truly gives credit to the skill and deadliness of a lightsaber and to the Heroes of the game. 
 Kudos go out to Lucas Arts. They have created another masterpiece for the Star Wars Universe of 
 Games, that out shines them all. 
  
  -AU_Jedi
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atu12atu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  Sory of my bad english.
  
  This game is so good and soo coll. I think this is best star wars game at this time. All game elements 
 is beautiful, guns fight and of course jedi fights! All Star Wars fan must try this game.
  
  Graphics: This is good, game authors give more work to others attributes, but i don't say, 
 the graphics is bad. Graphic is not perfect, but it is good.
  
  Sound: I think it's very good, not perfect, but Star Wars will always be Star Wars...
  
  Gameplay 
 and Rewiever's Tilt: This is perfect. Authors create very realistic background and tilt are very 
 good. For that all Star Wars fan must be thankful to authors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  I think it drew me in with it's pretty lights and promises of lightsabers and jedi mind tricks. 
 Somehow I guess Battlefront was misconstrued as the best star wars game ever? Star Wars Battlefront 
 was the best Star Wars Battlefront ever, Maybe, but common. I would rather play jedi academy than 
 this crap. The packaging looks great, and the first few campaign levels are fun, but then you go 
 online. the clumsy controls, and hum-drum gameplay make for litteraly moments of fun, followed 
 by anger, then sadness, then snapping your headset. But still you play on, faithfully hoping that 
 ol' george won't let you down. But he does, just like he has for years. You die, and respawn, and 
 die, etc....... this is an infinite loop whether it is single player or multiplayer, similar to 
 Battlefield 2 to, only less fun, less strategic, and far less visualy appealing.
  
  I have now waisted $50 more on another star wars game. I just keep hoping they will get better, 
 but it just never helps. Maybe they should just give up, or at least try something new.
  
  As for the ability to play as a jedi, if you like clicking fieriously and hopping around in a random 
 manner, you'll find it amusing. Unfortunately it requires little to no skill at all. wouldn't it 
 be nice to be able to rank up to jedi status?
  
  I'll keep this game for one reason, because I can't return it.
  
  Uninspired, uninteresting, 
 boring, and the list goes on. I guess the one good thing I can say is that the game runs great, 
 and seems to have no major noticable glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdrumso5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  But once you really get playing it, you can't stop.
  
  The greatest thing about this game are the jedis! Not only is it a shooter, but Lucas succeded 
 in adding jedi that fit perfectly and do not destroy the game. With many different jedi ranging 
 from Vader to Obi Wan (the younger) to Yoda with powers such as choke, push saber throw and others, 
 it add for a great new experience.
  
  Another awesome feature are the new ships and classes of units. With ambitious new fighters and 
 bombers, there has to be space battles, and the game gives it all! From the skies of Hoth to the 
 halls of the jedi temple, new features pop up. Capital ships, jedi, chain guns and more... what 
 else coudl you want?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sendtodave
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Decent game in is own right (minus the Star Wars theme) but the Star Wars theme does take a big 
 knock for me by the ease of which Jedi can be picked off. Takes you out of the feeling of the movies 
 and makes them seem like a clone trooper with a lightsabre. Although making the Jedi stronger would 
 have caused issues with balance, I would have preferred they were removed from the game than the 
 current state which seems like a half measure.
  
  Gameplay is ok but a little repetitive, graphics are decent, and the sound is (as ever) great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game, at first i thougt it was going to be a more strategic game with only some first person 
 shooting/fighting from what i saw in trailers and so on. At first i was a bit disapointed, but 
 later on when i found out that jedi's are not the only "heros" you can play and that it is actually 
 really fun to put yourself inside of a stormtroopers outfit and go blast some rebells.
  
  This game is great in multiplayer and really good in singleplayer to.
  
  The graphics on some 
 maps is amazing but on some other maps it is kind of disapointing, like naboo for example.
  
  The feeling is there and they follow the movies quite good (except that it is kind of funny 
 that you can play darth maul and count doku on the same campaign, but perhaps he was NOT killed 
 just really wounded... and got some new legs and so on) .
  
  Nothing is more satisying to blast some random droids with help of wookies and powerfull tanks 
 to later on play the droids and then blast those walking carpets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidsax
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  I've read so many bad reviews. People complaining abuot controls, and comparing it to battlefront. 
 Man, don't even start listening to them because they havn't even figured out the controls yet. 
 I actually read one post saying that they took out prone position, crouching, and close up views, 
 also pilots on ground levels. Lol, what game are they playing? None of it's true. I've done all 
 of those things. The controls are about the same as battlefront 1 with a few tweaks, and for those 
 complaining about controls and playing on PC... why don't you stop being lazy and change the controls, 
 in fact, it's lets you change controls in a complete custom way on all systems so quit your whining 
 and complaining, and go to pause: options: controls. hehe. The game is amazing, if anything it's 
 an improvement on the first game. The game is more challenging and let's you be certain classes 
 mid battle depending on your skills in that battle, which I thought sounded bad too... until I 
 actually played it and it's a good switch. You don't want all these crappy player picking these 
 super speacialy classes when they can't even play, which ends up earning less kills if they can't 
 make the bassics. It's not really hard to show you have some skill either, so that part is kinda 
 good too. The setup for online games can be confusing at first, but get better once you get the 
 hang of it. The graphics are an improvement from the already amazing graphics of the first one: 
 to think they could put these graphics on such a massive scale is amazing. The ship to ship battles 
 are quite fun, where you actually have to organize some sort of atack. The campaign is fun with 
 interesting objectives, but it's rather short if you are really addicted to the game and can't 
 drop it. Being the heros is fun and can really turn the tide of battle. It is neat to fight along 
 side vader and know it's another person controlling him or see Yoda tearing up the front lines 
 and knowing he's a conceous character and not some PC doodling around and killing, then taking 
 a break to stand. Overall the game is amazing, I find little to no flaw with it. Has tons of additional 
 content, and I've ran into few problems playing the game technically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAMF2000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  After Playing This Game a Few Hours One Thing Came to my Mind.. Been There Done That. This Game 
 is an exact duplicate as far as gameplay , ragdoll physics and problems. The only thing good about 
 this game is its a bit fun with the space combat, but that's it . then its a matter of destroying 
 their ship before they destroy yours. What would have been better is if your fighters were under 
 attack and you just had to shoot down the fighters with both sides losing points as you go.. and 
 where is the Death star Attack Run? Having the X-wings go into the death star seems like it would 
 HAVE been fun... like The gamecube had it in Rouge leader... PERFECT.
  So what your left with is A game with new levels and lame space combat.
  Selling this crap on 
 E-bay. Maybe I can get my $50.00 back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I had the game for 2 days before I opened it. I was afraid I would be dissapointed by all the negative 
 feedback the game has been getting on the forums. I finally had to try it for myself and I'm glad 
 I did. I am not disappointed at all. I went into it knowing it wasn't going to be a graphic spectacle 
 like Battlefield 2 and got what I was expecting. A fun Star Wars game.
  
  The gameplay has been tweaked this time around and plays out a bit faster. This adds to the over 
 the top chaotic feel of battles. Some times it feels a bit too fast but overall it fits the game 
 nicely. I still wouldn't mind it being slowed down just a bit since the added speed makes the controls 
 a bit too twitchy. The game is reminiscent of shooters such as Team Fortress or BF1942 (smaller 
 maps then its sequels) and alot less then games such as BFV or BF2. The game is generous about 
 getting you back in to the battle as quick as possible. This is a welcome aspect of the gameplay 
 since I always hated playing games that take me 5 mins to get back into the action only to die 
 right away and then having to spend another 5 mins getting back. 
  
  There are added game modes this time around for multiplayer. This adds a nice change of pace from 
 game to game giving you a different feel between games such as capture the flag, control points 
 or hunt (one faction vs. races of ewoks, gungans, etc.) . The most notable is space combat. Not 
 Rouge Squadron or Xwing vs. Tie Fighter but a fun arcade like multiplayer shooter.
  
  It's obvious the game was developed for platforms and the PC took a backseat graphically. They 
 did provide support for resolutions over 1600x1200 though. With a good resolution and some antialiasing 
 enabled the game's graphics are competent enough to pull you in. Bloom lighting, a warp effect 
 while applying boosters in space, smoke and sparks from damaged vehicles, bodies flying left and 
 right.... you won't be in awe of the flatly textured graphics but combined with the effects they're 
 good.
  
  The audio is top notch. Traditional Star Wars musical scores boom throughout the gameplay and really 
 set the tone for the epic battles. Blaster fire, explosions, teammates yelling out warnings all 
 add to the sounds of the battle raging around you. In space the vehicles sound very much like thier 
 big screen counterparts. An example is the blaster fire from tie fighters and interceptors. In 
 the movies they always had the high resonating blast sound but also an underlying rat-a-tat-tat 
 reverb which the game presents very nicely.
  
  With a short singleplayer campaign you won't be spending much time getting lost in the story of 
 the 501'st (Vaders Stormtroopers and single player storyline) . Luckily there is plenty of replay 
 in the games galactic conquest and multiplayer modes. As an arm chair emporer you can choose your 
 faction and your route to victory in your attempt at claiming control of the galaxy in galactic 
 conquest. On the multiplayer side you will have 24 maps to play on, several game types, and a heck 
 of alot of troop types to choose which should keep you coming back for awhile. You will come back 
 just to get better so you can claim your chance to play as one of the games hero's/jedi characters. 
 I never knew there were so many to play as... yoda, luke, han, boba fett, the emperor, vader, obi 
 wan, dooku, windu, grievous... should I go on??
  
  If you're a fan of shooters and Star Wars then this game is a no brainer. If you passively have 
 an interest in Star Wars but love shooters then you'll probably want to look somewhere else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thun712
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The one thing you will hear about Battlefront 2 is that it just does not live up to its original. 
 Battlefront 2 could have added considerably more things than it did so it is basically and expansion 
 pack to the first. Sure! Some of the new features and maps are very much welcomed, but the general 
 gameplay falls too clunky and just doesn't feel right. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Overall gameplay is acceptable but clunky. The AI is horrible, as it is in most shooters. New Maps 
 are included and the old are expanded; this adds considerably to the experience but after a while 
 it gets just a repetitive as the original. New gameplay modes such as CTF, Hunt, and Assault add 
 some variety but it is only worth the time in online multiplayer. Assault maps are the height of 
 Battlefront 2. 
  The addition of space combat saves the game from eternal doom. Space combat is solid and fun, but 
 as a Star Wars fan I find it embarrassingly unrealistic. I just have to get this off my chest: 
 The Hangar to a Star Destroyer IS NOT ON ITS SIDE! There! In addition, the ship's communications 
 and sensor arrays are just antennas sticking out. You would expect more from a licensed game...
 
  Planetary fighting has more variety now with new classes, sprinting, and weapons balance. Jedi 
 are basically useless, period. The heroes are just all flash and no bang. One time I played the 
 hero Anakin in the campaign level of the Jedi Temple and I was killed by a padawan who somehow 
 broke my guard, while it was up (obviously) . OK... Anakin vs. Nameless padawan... you work it out. 
 To sum it up, the gameplay is not perfect but it is solid enough for a regular gamer. If you are 
 a fan, you will enjoy the many locales and the new heroes. If you are a hard-core fan you will 
 think the game was produced by some company in central Africa instead of a team who took the time 
 to get details right (still thinking about the star destroyer) .
  SCORE: 6/10
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are one of the best improvements to battlefront 2. The new soldier classes 
 look like their movie counterparts and the models are well-done. Almost all classes are remodeled 
 and the end result is very pleasing. The heroes could have been done better, my biggest remark 
 goes towards the Mace Windu model. The space battles look beautiful with laser blast going all 
 over and the animated fleet fighting in the background along with the planet. The environments 
 are detailed, but some of the plants look cartoonish. The graphic improvement are a lag to the 
 consoles (at least the PS2) . During some matches on the PS2 I noticed some serious lag but the 
 PC version worked just fine. It is fair to say the graphics are very nicely done and really add 
 to the experience. 
  SCORE: 9/10
  
  Sound:
  I have very little to say about sound because it is just right. It is what everyone says about 
 a Star Wars game. More voices have been added to the troopers so they talk more during the missions 
 and it just makes t=you feel part of the action. Soundtracks are the usual Star Wars with a few 
 twists and are the right ones at the right times. You can even hear the "buzzing" of a lightsaber 
 when jedi are nearby.
  SCORE: 10/10 Just beautiful...
  
  Value:
  This one is difficult. If you are looking for a good shooter with some space combat, hey! get it. 
 It is good, but not as good as it could have been. If you just love everything Star Wars then you'll 
 be fine, obviously. It is a lot of fun to play with your friends for a while but after a few rounds 
 of Galactic conquest you may be changing the disc. Single Player is just not worth it even though 
 the new Single player campaign is very good compared to the last. It actually has a somewhat separate 
 storyline, but the attempt to draw you in and make you feel like part of 501st "Vaders Fist" fails.
 
  SCORE: 8/10
  
  Don't misunderstand my picky-ness, from a strict gamer point of view Battlefront 2 works very good. 
 You get to blast your friends in space and slice them with your lightsaber. However, if you have 
 been following Battlefront 2 since it's announcement and are a fan you will be disappointed to 
 know it was over-advertised. You can still enjoy the game though, and despite the hangar being 
 on the wrong place on a star destroyer (there I go again!) I personally will still play it. I lean 
 towards a 7/10 and total it to a 7.5/10. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Man501
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Hi i am a Star Wars fan and played the first Battlefront. This game is its equivalent and not exceeding 
 my expectations, but it was not a big disappointment. Im pretty hooked on the game and i`ll tell 
 you why. Its true that the game is not perfect and the developers could have used taken more time 
 on the details. Such as the fact that you can`t go prone, or when you are playing rise of the empire 
 you can`t do previous levels once you completed them. What makes me play this game is it`s just 
 plain fun. Who cares if the graphics are`nt award winning or the texture is not perfect what matter 
 is game play to all you graphic fanatics ot there. The preview stated that the Jedi heroes would 
 not be the biggest terminators in the game, well they lied. You can basically pull a win out of 
 the air any time you get your hands on a Jedi hero. The controls for the vehicles and star fighters 
 are pretty crappy but if you don`t like it you could always get a joystick or set the controls 
 to your preference. Also what the developers did is give the bots dialog. For example when your 
 about to flank the enemy they say to their comrades that your about tho flank them. Also the dialog 
 fits the soldiers situation and personality and adds more interest in the game. The maps did not 
 disappoint either they are larger than the ones in battle front one and the details are fair plus 
 the space maps are all the same. I noticed that the space maps all have three capital ships for 
 each side and the only difference is the planet the battle takes place over. The makers could have 
 fixed that but probably in a rush to make the game come out the same day as the Episode III DVD. 
 Game spot said about the A. I. and that it would be in proved on. That was not completely true. 
 Yes they can flank you and fight in formations but it`s not a big improvement. In spite of all 
 the flaws it`s still a pretty good game and its fun thats all that matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corkster77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  the game is almost like the first for most things but the space combat is great. in the gamespot 
 review he says that playing with the heros isn't all that great. i dont know what hes talking about 
 cause i think its awsome. space battles are cool too, like the best part would be attacking the 
 ship from the inside. other then that the games infantry fighting is almost the exact same as the 
 first battlefront. the other thing that is different, is that the vehicles are a lot weaker. in 
 the first one u could just jump into a tank and blow the whole enemy army to bits. but this one 
 the vehicles are only good at certain things. for example one is good at killing infantry, but 
 is useless against other vehicles, and doest offer the driver any protection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 669594
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Why all of you people don't like the game it's really an exellent game it worth every dollar you 
 spent on . I think it should be game of the year , it is very star wars and the missions are absolutely 
 magnificent. Really great game , a MASTERPIECE. The online gaming is better than bf1 and the AI 
 are much smarter than before ( not on normal, but on elite) they can dodge and we can hear them 
 talking while in the battle. I think Lucas Arts has done it the perfect game . I hope that battlefront 
 3 will be on the xbox 360 and i hope it to be a excellent game as it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bLiNCks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - Better then the first one. Solid graphics and good animations, somethings could be better 
 like the planets and some space backgrounds but they are fine!
  
  Gameplay - Very good gameplay just like the first one. But now you have space combats that are 
 GREAT and tou have also jedis !
  
  Sound - It is just awsome to be in a rush with many of your teamates while Battle of The heroes 
 is playing :)
  
  The new additions, new maps and the space combats make Battlefront 2 a great game. If you dont 
 have it now, go and BUY IT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guifodaum
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  man... i already write about this game, and i defined the game suberb... but a little more time playng 
 the game i realized!!! the game is perfect!!! man the maps are marvelous!!! and playing like heros 
 is one million times cool!!! and i am thinking... if the maps are super cools... how will be the 
 maps of the guys that lose a lot of hours making maps... like was with BF1?? SUper-hyper-ultra cool 
 maps!!! thats it... i am tired of write about this game i already says the best things about it!!! 
 i dont have any more praise to do.... battlefront 2 rox and rules!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoNameded
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  this is peace of nothing. dont buy it, or youl regret it, trust me, its not worth youre money. first 
 game was nice and addictive but this is same game people. nothing more. lightsabers are much better 
 in Jedi Knight 2, and fight is boring. if you are playing Battlefront 1 it is same thing just give 
 more money for it. tomuch hype tomuch videos but same game like first time. call of duty 2 is much 
 better in multy.
  
  this is peace of nothing. dont buy it, or youl regret it, trust me, its not worth youre money. first 
 game was nice and addictive but this is same game people. nothing more. lightsabers are much better 
 in Jedi Knight 2, and fight is boring. if you are playing Battlefront 1 it is same thing just give 
 more money for it. tomuch hype tomuch videos but same game like first time. call of duty 2 is much 
 better in multy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NMCN_raider
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 (PC)
  
  Synopsis:
  No evolution in graphics (even the 1st part looks better) , low-res and ugly movies, boring maps, 
 spaceflight levels developed for consoles (as the whole game) - That is NOT the game all Fans have 
 hoped for.
  
  Review:
  What has happend to Pandemic? This game is a ugly console port to the pc.
  The look and feel 
 of the menus is very basic, the movies are absolutly low-res and ugly.
  The Singelplayer tries to bring singelplyer fps mission structure to a multiplayer game. This do 
 not work.
  
  The multiplayer is laggy and the gamplay hectic. No fun at all.
  
  The space levels are designed for consoles in terms of stearing and graphics!
  This makes no 
 Fun at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  My computer specs are 3.4 ghz Pentium IV processor, 1 GB RAM, nVidia 6800 Ultra, 80 GB hard-drives 
 (Raid-1)
  
  Playing through I have really enjoyed this game. Atleast in the first four missions. Sheer beauty 
 in the planets.
  
  In one of the missions you are charged with the task of protecting book cases from being destroyed 
 by Jedi. What a severely stupid mission. What is this Barney? 
  
  I loved how the Jedi deflected rockets coming from different locations. It was so ridiculous I 
 was laughing. The physics are horrible. In several occasions I fired a rocket past a beam. The 
 beam would absorb the explosion even though my rocket didn't come close to touching it. It reminded 
 me of a poorly made Nintendo 64 shooter.
  
  Basically all the jedi did was kill everyone in one hit I'm totally fine with that. What happens 
 when you become a jedi? You can swing your sword around too. But for some reason you die way easier 
 when you're a Jedi even if you just hold your little "deflect" button down. So the option of becoming 
 a jedi? Pretty much boring and useless. They should have modeled the jedi action off "Jedi Outcast" 
 but unfortunately it (Battlefront II) was trash.
  
  What I also greatly enjoy is how enemies pop up out of nowhere. Whatever happened to enemies that 
 actually came out of their DESIGNATED SPAWN ZONE? Jedi spawned in the middle of the map even though 
 they had no capture points. They jumped over balconies as if they were there the whole time and 
 destroyed the thing I was assigned to protect.
  
  Apparently this game doesn't register hits frequently. I have hit people with rockets just to see 
 it go right through them and collide with the tile. Is there no body shots with rockets allowed?
 
  
  If a patch is released and these issues are fixed than I'll give this game an 8.5 rating. Until 
 then it's staying a 6.8-what it deserves. This game should have been a cheaper expansion pack instead 
 of a full priced game. The graphics got a slight facelift. The lasers look a bit better now and 
 the sounds are definately better due to the updated soundtrack by John Williams.
  
  The music really saved the game and the "journal" of the 501st was actually pretty interesting. 
 It saved the game from being a 6.0. Space combat is fun but the graphics still aren't all that 
 great despite getting upgraded from Battlefront I. If Factor 5 is the only company that can pull 
 off gorgeous looking vehicle combat then maybe they should be offered the task of making this game 
 next time. It's sad a Gamecube game can look better than a shooter on the PC.
  
  
  Difficulty varies from easy to hard due to the stupidity of the AI on both teams. But when the 
 other team is smarter? Yeah. It's impossible. Infact repairers/engineers will repair a turret instead 
 of an item that has been damaged (which is required by the mission to protect) sheer idiocy.
  
  6.8- What a disappointment. I had high hopes for this game being a Star Wars fan. Atleast the 
 cinematic element is still there. Still enjoyable. Just barely. I'd stick to waiting out for "Empire 
 at War" for the PC instead of touching this game atleast until it's fixed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrerFox
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:18 am PT
Review:  Having not played the original Battlefront, I took the plunge and purchased its sequel on a whim, 
 remembering the good things that were said about its predecessor, and looking forward to a quality 
 product along the lines of the other franchises I have enjoyed in the past: Jedi Knight and Knights 
 of the Old Republic.
  
  What I found certainly eluded my expectations, and by a wide margin. Going into this Star Wars 
 inspired fray, I had in mind a type of Battlefield experience, which wide-open fields of combat, 
 all manner of vehicles roaming about, and a generally professional execution of gameplay. Battlefront, 
 however, does not exactly meet these pretenses.
  
  To make it as brief as possible, Battlefront's combat is more akin to a 'standard' FPS multiplayer 
 frag-fest, with surprisingly close-quartered combat, and a generally more frenetic pace than what 
 might be expected from a game that affronts the air of a Battlefield-esque title. So you may be 
 thinking 'Alright, a Star Wars Halo? Good deal!' To that I would again say: 'Not Quite.'
  
  The feel of Battlefront, at least at its launch, embodies a bold step backward from the extablished 
 norms perpetrated so very well by the aforementioned Battlefield games, especially the latest in 
 that series. Very frenetic, very chaotic, very glitchy. It is difficult to know exactly what is 
 going on in this game, and in a manner that is unconfortable and non-entertaining. The UI of Battlefront 
 itself does not contain the information necessary to really get the picture of the battlefield, 
 and the maps and other directional utilities are far too archaic to help.
  
  Vehicles slide about erratically and unrealistically, weapons feel a bit soft and clunky, animations 
 are very snappy and lack fluidity... generally, it all makes for an experience that is lacking 
 the even remotely tactical feel that many gamers of this genre enjoy.
  
  By the same coin, this could float a good quota of players' boat, and if you just eat up hyper-speed, 
 chaos-ridden firefights, then this will not disappoint.
  
  In respect to the visuals, what is said about their general quality being a little under-par is 
 accurate. The PC version does not contain the appropriate level of graphical prowess for the current 
 technology, and one cannot help but notice the general ineptitude of the engine. No ragdoll physics 
 does hurt one that has been spoiled to them in most shooters available today, and the old 'stiff' 
 animations do tend to harken back to the old days. Lighting is average, overall, and done well 
 in the special effects area, providing bloom that is executed to a perfect degree without pushing 
 it. The rest of the lighting palette leaves much to be desired, and the obvious features, such 
 as reflections of armor and weaponry, scarcely exist at all.
  
  The graphics are not impressive, and I have higher expectations for a company that can do these 
 things so well if they just made the effort. A few situations are really embarassing, such as the 
 Wookiee bowcaster charging about an inch to the right of its barrel, or a good deal of the level 
 skyboxes. 
  
  Sound fares a good deal better than the visual aspect. The standard Star Wars score is, as always, 
 appropriate and pleasing to the ear, and it is hard to go wrong with sound effects pulled straight 
 from the films, and impressive voice acting. I have no qualms with the execution of audio in this 
 title, and I would not imagine many others will.
  
  There is a lot to Battlefront II, but, again, this is coming from one who negleced the original, 
 so the apparent re-hash does not effect me. I will err on the side of the other reviewers and concede 
 that, at least from what I have seen, it does seem quite similar to its forerunner. The inclusion 
 of the new campaign, and the Episode III content will make any Star Wars geek (like myself) giddy 
 for sure, but I can see how previous fans would be turned-off in this regard.
  
  One facet that Battlefront II does well, and indeed pioneer, is the inclusion of space combat into 
 a Battlefield genre. The space maps, albeit very similar (then again, it is space, not much variety 
 aside from the scenery and ships present) , can be very fun, and the option to hop into a turret 
 lining one of the frigates, and the ability to board enemy capital ships is riveting. I can definitely 
 see a history in this sort of engagement.
  
  I represent the hardest of Star Wars geeks. I love this universe, and just being able to step into 
 the shoes of a grunt and participate in battles that are pretty faithfully represented, as far 
 as level design and feel go, can be enough. That said, I am finding it very difficult to take this 
 title seriously, and that pit of disappointment lingers on.
  
  Chaotic, archaic, sometimes amateurish, but not without its entertaining moments and features. 
 I would recommend this game only to true Star Wars fans, and gamers that are looking for a shooter 
 that is set back in the 'good ole days.' But if you are a general FPS fan wishing to get in on 
 the Battlefield phenomenon, pick up Battlefield 2 and do not look back.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChunkyMilky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. BF1 was alittle better. But BF2 was pretty good with the story line. The multiplayer was ok 
 and i liked it. But still BF1 was more of a classic and that BF1 is alittle better than BF2. The 
 game play was crappy because it just seemed like a suicide mission or some thing. It just didnt 
 feel like much of a battle. Dont get me wrong this game is pretty solid and all but it needs alittle 
 more upgrades. I just thought that this game didnt live up to the hype and the name. So over all 
 BF1 tops BF2 alittle more, and also the fans wont get dissapointed as long as it's just Star wars 
 the fans would love it for some reason.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I own Battlefield 2 and did not think Battlefront 2 was going to surpass that truly amazing game. 
 However, even though I was prepared for the worst I was still truly shocked at how AWFUL this game 
 is.
  
  The graphics are terribly outdated. I'm sure the original BF2 looked better! The way all the badly 
 drawn/animated models run around crazily shooting at each other is totally feeble! The AI is dreadful 
 as well, especially on the single player missions  I wiped out half an army on my own at one point 
 (lol) .
  
  The space battles were actually quite enjoyable and looked better, despite the fact that the controls 
 totally sucked. This was the only part of the game that was fun though.
  
  The sound was pretty average and in some parts extremely weak. The squeaky mouse noise the rebel 
 sniper makes when she gets hit particularly made me laugh.
  
  After trying to enjoy this for a few days I stopped and returned to Battlefield 2, which is still 
 the best multiplayer shooter there is. If you dont own it then get out there and BUY IT NOW but 
 definitely steer clear of Star Wars BattleYfronts 2  its truly rubbish!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd7-03
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I was very dissapointed with this game. Its possibly the worst Star Wars game to be released within 
 the last 5 years, and it looks like a game from 2000. Everyone just runs around like idiots, sprinting 
 from one place to the next. The AI in the game must have a 6th grade eduaction. I really wanted 
 this game to do well, and even after I got the game I tried saying that to myself. Luckily my denial 
 only lasted for an hour, then I put the game up on ebay, and someone bought it a half hour later. 
 Battlefront 2= patch for Battlefront 1. I really thought this game was going to be good. Last night 
 when I went to pick up EP3 on DVD I held off on buying it. This morning however I went to my local 
 Best Buy to get a DVD and instead ended up buying Battlefront 2. I had a gift card for $25, so 
 it costs me $25. The game isn't worh $25, yet alone $50. I'm a Star Wars super fan too, so incentive 
 to play is not a problem. The gameplay is boring, and crazy ( in a bad way) . The graphics..... WOW!!! 
 5 years ago this would of been the best looking game, idk, at times Unreal Tournament looks better. 
 The sound it nothing like Jedi Accademy or KOTR, its weak and lacks detail. The space combat is 
 useless, hard to control, and boring. I'll take Battlefield 2 anyday over this junk. I feel horrible 
 for buying this game for $25 and using my $25 gift card (which I got for a bday gift from my cousin) 
 on this junk. Heck I got Quake 4 for my birthday and its way better then this game, can't really 
 compare them though. I'm used to getting quality games from Lucas Arts but this is far from it. 
 The game wasn't even worth the $25 (had $25 gift card) I paid for it, and should be given away 
 for free with any Best Buy purchase or something, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HazarSavo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  AAAHHH yesThe sequel to a great game. Star wars battlefront 2 is a spectacular sequel. Its just 
 as fun as the old game and adds tons of features to make the experience worth your $55. The space 
 modes are very entertaining, and the multitude of options u have in space makes it very addcting 
 and makes it so you really can play the battles anyway you want. The graphics, while still weak 
 are much improved, and the new unit skins look really nice. Sounds are great... well what can u 
 expect, its a star wars game!!! The campaign has a real story and a much more entertaining objective 
 systems for the level. (I like it even tho i cant kill those darnned jedi in the 0rder 66 level 
 (knight fall) ) The jedi systems makes volumes of sense and adds is a very entertaining addition 
 to the game. Multiplayer is fun and works well. I absolutley love this game, but i dont think its 
 really a game for non star wars fans, or even some really hardcore gamers because many will say 
 its more of the same, but i think its a necesity for any star wars gamer. 
  
  Why its different- Campaign, the campaign is very different from last year, and is completely different 
 from the instant action/multiplayer, and it is much more enjoyable than Battlefront one's singleplayer. 
 
  Space- Definitly a good addition, well put together for the most part. however, if ur only getting 
 the game for space, i would wait untill its cheaper, or get it used. 
  Jedi- Very very cool, gives u something to really strive for. and theres nothing like haking apart 
 droidekas with mace windu's bad mother f***** lightsaber. the all jedi level (mos eislely assualt) 
 is very very fun
  Graphics... slightly better, but the skins and vehicles are nice changes
  -AI- sure their a little tougher and ur friends tell u whats going on, but ur friends never actually 
 really help u and ur enemies r still pretty easy to mow down... but there diffenetly is an improvement 
 
  Multiplayer modes- 
  1) Hunt- aaa yes taking my rage out against ewoks and gungans... not what its cracked up to be, 
 what is fun however is playing as an ewok and throwing rocks and pointy sticks at stormtroopers. 
 good addition but nt great. 
  2) Massive armys- LOTR meets star wars, thousands- i mean thousands of troops going head to head, 
 much harder, but really inforces a chaotic helpless feel. Overall a great addition
  3) CTF, i dont get it yet... its hard to catch on to but its pretty fun ( i like to put the hero 
 settings on easy so i can almost instantly get heroes and murder the enemies that have the flag. 
 The best part of CTF is the imperial guy annoucing when those damn rebels take ur flag good, but 
 hard to pick up
  
  overall a good improvement and a must buy for ALL star wars fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeLaC510
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Its a vast improvement from Battlefront 1 but that dosen't mean it can't do without some tweeking.
 
  
  Gameplay: It is really fun. The levels replayablity is uncomapered nothing is ever the same in 
 the hours i played it. One Stradegy works one day but when i attempt to duplicate it something 
 always goes wrong. It creates challenges and forces you to think things threw... or you can just 
 run and gun...
  
  Sound: Does have the sense of me being there... i prefer games where if i here a shot from a rifle 
 I duck. Its hard to get consumed into the game.
  
  Graphics: Well i went from console BF to PC BF2 so i can't really comment on how it changed or 
 the stayed the same but im pretty sure it stayed the same.
  
  Heros: The addition of playable Jedis and others was and is a great idea. This is one of the only 
 games where there Hero is actually balanced
  
  I'd buy it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynehopwood
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I have no prior experience with the first Battlefront, but have played most Star Wars video games 
 dating back to the 80's and that good old line-drawn 3 color x-wing arcade game.
  
  As a virgin Battlefronter, I consider this game a mild disappointment.
  
  Graphics: good but 
 not spectacular.
  
  Sound: disappointing. What I've always loved about most Star Wars games is how the loud laser bolts 
 and other sounds make you feel engulfed in the Star Wars universe. But here, even in first-person 
 mode with the gun in front of your face, it sounds very distant; it doesn't sound/feel like you 
 are actually carrying the gun. Same in space; X-wing and TIE Fighter sound effects made you feel 
 like you were actually in the cockpits; here, again, the lasers and explosions sound distant and 
 generally atmospheric rather than immediate.
  
  Heroes: fun but limited. They've hit the right balance between having powerful hero units while 
 not giving you free reign to single-handedly wipe out the entire opposing army. My complaint is 
 that it feels like you're just doing the same move every time you press the button.
  
  Space battles: enjoyable. But as a hardcore veteran of the aforementioned X-wing and TIE fighter 
 games, the space gameplay pales in comparison. Looks wonderful though.
  
  Environments: they're all here. Not terribly immersive, but I'll chalk that up to needing to save 
 on graphics demands in order to accommodate overall game complexity.
  
  Overall gameplay: fun, especially in multi-player. But one thing I can't understand about programmers: 
 has no company figured out that it looks very lame when characters move back, forth, left and right, 
 shifting their momentum absolutely immediately? Is it that hard to do momentum programming? This 
 intrudes on the realism aspect, and also makes it frustrating when you're trying to nail an opponent 
 and s/he just keeps shifting directions on a dime.
  
  Conclusion: An above-average game, sure to consume many hundreds of hours of my time, but it could've 
 been even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickla
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I give it a 2 because it will run on my laptop, but that's underpowered. However it won't run at 
 all on my athlon 3200 6800 nvidia setup. 
  
  Should I have a poor review for something because it won't run? Yes its about time publications 
 also do the same. I was stupid buying something on release day, fell for the hype.
  
  From laptop play it is fun, but needs work, play movement seems to jump and fast, that's as best 
 I can explain it. The ship movement is smooth but people are just moving around in a very un human 
 like way! Easy to shoot someone accidentally as they pop in front of you.
  
  I still have hopes for it after patching. But this trend is really annoying where the release is 
 really the beta and months later the real release is what is really out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutlawPrime
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  unfortunately being a jedi is only available at certain times in certain battles. I'm also very 
 disappointed in the AI. the enemy is always aiming at me and my allies provide little or no support. 
 i liked the space battles but it seemed like that feature was added as an afterthought. The graphics 
 were also far from impressive, the character models were nice and most movements looked natural 
 but everyone was carrying the same weapons with different effects and some classes were far better 
 or worse than others *cough* (Dark troopers suck) *cough* over all i think this game was a poor but 
 playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrapped69
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing for a good 3 hours, I am thoroughly disapointed. Not much different than the first, 
 a finicky engine, and jerky controls are only a few of the issues with this game. Far in front 
 is that the title generally feels rushed and therefore lacking. Personally, I haven't stuck to 
 one server for any considerable amount of time. With combat games like BF2, why even bother with 
 Battlefront?
  
  Well there are a couple reasons. Fan boys will love this. Many maps, many classes, re-live the 
 battles from across a huge span of the Star Wars Universe. Hero classes are fun, but most play 
 like regular troops. The fighter x fighter combat system is renovated for a more enjoyable play, 
 but after playing with a joystick the controls were tight, but they did not play friendly with 
 my saitek st290.
  
  All in all, none to impressed even though I was a huge fan of the first Battlefront. More of the 
 same, and the 64 player on the pc has not helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpick_21
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  Perhaps if I had played battlefront 2 before Battlefield 2 I would not be so disappointed with 
 the game. The great thing about battlefield is the online gameplay and the ability to earn medals, 
 badges and a rank. These seem to be missing from Battlefront 2, but it goes beyond that. The levels 
 do not offer the same kind of cover associated with large scale battles. Playing on Genosis, you 
 are stuck on a desert world with little cover. Throw Jedi into the mix and you have a few overly 
 powerful characters that can really effect the battle.
  
  One nice new feature is the space battles. Flying out of one ship, dog fighting for a bit, and 
 then flying into the hanger of an enemy ship to plant some explosives was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront has clearly listened to it's fans, for developers Pademic have provided all 
 Star Wars Fans with the equipment to actually live the battles. The original was a hit or miss 
 game for many people, some loved the game and others hated it. I for one truely loved the action 
 it provided, Fans will be happy to know that they have took the approach of 'If it isn't broke 
 don't fix it' which works well.
  
  Pademic have added new maps from Star Wars Episode Three plus some cool maps from the original 
 films, most of the maps are great fun with the best being Geonosis which featured in the original. 
 The new vehcles are a blast to control and keep the pace of the game as frantic as ever! One of 
 the games biggest features is Space Battles which are fun although it won't blow you away, for 
 me at least this game still seems more suited to land battles but Space is enjoyable. Then I come 
 to the games best features, the Jedi. I must say that when i heard that Pademic were adding Jedi 
 I had my doubts how they would handle but they are easily the most exciting aspect of the game, 
 in truth a Jedi can change a battle if they are controled by a skilled player though even beginners 
 and cause madness in a battle. Most of the hero's in the game are great fun to control, especially 
 Obi Wan, Yoda, Luke Skywalker and Mace Windu to name a few. Both Boba and Jango Fett are surprising 
 strong even though they are not jedi.
  
  The game still has it's problems though, the multiplayer can be very laggy at times but not to 
 laggy so you have no fun. You won't survive playing this game without TeamKilling someone as player 
 and A. I walk in front of your firing line and i had a slight problem configurating my controls.
 
  
  But this game will be loved even with problems, the original one was too. Some have already suggested 
 that this game should have been an expansion pack and I agree. It would have been better suited, 
 But its still a fantastic game thats as addictive as the first if not more.
  
  Well Done Pademic!
  SaitanMar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfadedsteve
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefront 2 is a fun game for a short while, but will never be as dynamic as BF2. The sound of 
 this game is awesome with a capital A! The gameplay is straightforward if you are familiar with 
 the 1st game and or team based first person shooters. The graphics arent top tier but then again 
 the game wasnt supposed to be revolutionary. The bottom line here, is if you are looking for a 
 fun fps/3rd person shooter set in the Star Wars era you will be stoked. If you are a gamer who 
 doesnt care about Star Wars, and wants more realism/ better gameplay get BF2 hands down. In the 
 long run we the consumer want games that will have awesome multiplayer that has lasting appeal, 
 and unfortunately this game doesnt have it! BF2 will get the community attention it deserves, 
 this game wont. Don't get me wrong, those who are fans of the genre will enjoy this game I have 
 no doubt. Although the quirky Star Wars themes do get old after awhile and you will then wish you 
 got a more serious game like BF2. Therefore BF2 is a better choice all round in all categories 
 except sound and for relatively the same price. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemineye1969
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm playing the single player, and I've only put in a few hours on this but I really like how they're 
 bridging the gap between Episode III and the Original Trilogy with some new Expanded Universe tales 
 with the action. The action on the missions so far has been varied and sometimes challenging, without 
 being too insanely difficult for an occasional gamer like myself.
  
  The multiplayer is great so far... I enjoy the chaos of online play but I wish people (people? 
 face it: it's 98 percent males between the ages of 13-43) out there would work as teams more often. 
 Great stuff so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfaGERM02
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has great additions compared to the first, including the new space battles and new units 
 available. The sound is mixed into the game amazingly well. As the music goes into Duel of Fates 
 or Anikan's Dark Deeds, the intensity sky rockets not just because you are hearing actually music 
 from the movies, but it getts you trying to accomplish actions that would just be really cool to 
 go along with the sound. The graphics are well polished from the previous version. The detail is 
 good with each unit and the explosions cause dust to fly up and then running into battle makes 
 it all worth it. Gameplay is pretty good. I would have liked to see a little more moves or control 
 with the jedi but it still plays like the original which is why I bought it in the first place.
 
  
  Some of the points that didn't make the game more enjoyable were some of the animations of the 
 creatures in the levels. Sometimes it is really jerky and just looks like if the actions were smoother, 
 it would have made the arc-something (legged creature which tryied to kill obi-wan in episode 2) 
 much more terrifiying in the campaign mode. Also, A HUGE disapointment is the fact that online, 
 this game could be as good as Battlefield 2, however, the lag is such a problem that going online 
 and playing on a large scale is not as fun as just playing with some friends around the house. 
 It seemed like this game was rushed to just come out at the same time as episode 3 and i think 
 if they hammered out the little details that it would have been one of the best games of the year.
 
  
  Overall, this is still worth buying and a great game to add to the ol' collection, especially is 
 you liked the first one and/or you are a star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalFramist
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I thought the first battlefront was ok since there were historical battles of Star Wars. But this 
 game really stands on it's own as a good classic game that will never be forgotten. They imprcved 
 a lot from the original and I think being able to use a Jedi is a really exciting feature. The 
 gameplay runs really smooth. ALthough you REALLY need atleast a DSL connection to play this game 
 online. If you didn't buy this game to play online then I don't know why you bought it for. The 
 story goes with a movie but it's really cool because you get to hear more of the story of Star 
 Wars that the movies don't show you. The graphics look pretty good considering the maps are huge 
 and the many maps this game has. ANd the sounds of the lzers sound authentic just like in the movies. 
 And the lightsaber sounds get really exciting. But I think the most exciting thing to watch is 
 too jedis fight in close range combat in the dark. You just stand and watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude14159
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Well the games is good. The graphics are pretty good. The space battles in my opinion could have 
 been done a little better. The galatic conquest has been made more of a challenge. I just want 
 what the first offered. None of the credits or buying units. Yes it adds depth to the game but 
 too complicated. well like i said it is a great game if you didn't play the first one. i enjoy 
 playing it, but i wouldn't have spent 50 bucks if i knew what i knew now. aw well not the first 
 time i wasted money. (sorry first review) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The shots in BF seemed a lot more solid, and now... it's just "bleh" And even WALKING in BF1 felt 
 more solid than this. The battle part? Again, in BF1 the battle felt, (yes, once again,) more solid. 
 It actually felt like you were IN the battle in BF1, but in BF2, it just seems like a whole big 
 shooting spree, and you're not really in the battle.
  
  And, they don't even tell you about "points" in the instruction booklet. Yes, there is points, 
 I don't know what the heck they are for, but they're there. I think it is to unlock characters 
 in the battle. Yes, you have to unlock some of them .  by gettting a certain number of points in 
 the battle, then DIE, and pick that character... . . I'm sure in the tutorial there is a thing 
 about points, but it was too boring
  
  I really dislike the map. It's in the top corner, and not as detailed as the first games map. In 
 the first game, it was pretty big, and told you were everything was, even the enemies. Now, not 
 even the enemies are on screen.
  
  And, It's hard to tell who is who. I sometimes end up killing my own men, because everybody is 
 in just one big thing of shooting, it's hard to tell. And, most of the levels are dark. That just 
 makes it even more hard.
  
  Playing as a Jedi is nice, but it seems sort of cheap, and not of the "battlefront" ways. A jedi 
 could kill someone in one or two shots, but they die just as easily as normal units. And with Jedi, 
 like I said before, it's even harder to tell, because they don't even put that blue or red thing 
 to tell you if it's friendly or an enemy when you're using your lightsaber. And for the not "battlefront" 
 ways; well, battlefront is supposed to be just one measly unit in an army vs army of a total of 
 400 units! Being a jedi kind of takes the fun out of that. Your no longer one unit, but a hero, 
 that sort of commands the units.
  
  Now BF2 is more of a Halo-type shooter, and not a war shooter where 200 different units are shooting 
 at once.
  
  The space battles are good, but a little hard; I got the hang of it.
  
  Conclusion, BF2 is a good game, but a different feel. If anybody is dissapointed with BF2, it is 
 either because they just hate that type of game, just think it's plain bad, or, my reason, is dissappointed 
 because it takes the whole concept of BF1 and breaks it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravine1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Here's the short of it. better Ai. space is cool. graphiccs okay. jedi akward (press attack once 
 get 100 strikes) . Need nore multiplayer and Bespin needs TO BE IN IT!!!!!!! bascally a great game 
 but not totally hardcore The levels you should check out
  
  Hoth
  Kasyk (new and improved)
  Polis Mossa
  Mustafar
  All space battles (they rock)
  death star 
 (inside it!!!)
  
  There is one more thing you should know before you play the game. They cut Geonosis out of it (sort 
 of) You can only play it as a training level and they cut mpost of the vehicles out of it. in general 
 this should be an expansion pack
  
  but it still  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_Elite_Pilot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  "We of the 501st had trained for years to win the fight that would end this war, but nothing could 
 truelly prepare us for the true battle . . ."
  
  This game takes everything Battlefront 1 was and explodes it, improves it and refines it all in 
 one fell swoop.
  
  EXPLOSION- new space fights, new game modes and new weapons, vehicles and soldier classes . . . 
 NEW NEW NEW
  
  Improves- Gameplay seems more fluid now than it was in BF I. and the Jedi are vastly improved (not 
 only because they're playable now) but they can be killed, unlike in BF I were they were invincible.
 
  
  Refines- The graphics in this game are absoultely beutiful. from explosions to blaster beams and 
 lightsabers to a lumbering AT-AT walker on Hoth. Characters look 3x times better than they did 
 in BF I.
  
  The gameplay is fast paced, addictive and above all else FUN. oh and its easy to just pick up and 
 start the battles too.
  
  As stated earlier, the graphics are gorgeous. not as good as say FarCry, but still much improved 
 over the First Battlefront.
  
  Sound- Blasters and lightsabers sound FX are perfect as is John Williams original scores. all is 
 in perfect crystal clear quality
  
  Value- totally worth the $50 bucks . . . especially if you have XB-Live
  
  Reviewers Tilt- 
 well i'll give you fair warning im a total Star Wars Nut since the days of the flight sim TIE Fighter. 
 there have been prolly only about 2 SW games i didnt like (not counting the last two expansions 
 for Galaxies) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun373
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first Battlefront game on account of the fact I did not have a decent PC at 
 the time so this is my first foray into "The best selling SW game of all time."
  
  I ran out and bought the game, and subsequently the EP3 DVD, and I am very impressed with the game 
 since the last SW game I bought was EP3 for Xbox. I have a middle-high end graphics card and the 
 game looks fine with no FPS drops, character models look good, lighting effects are cool. It's 
 a very fun and addictive experience overall. It is definately not as finished as it's big brother 
 Battlefield 2 by EA, it is mising voip, I couldn't find any squad options, the commands are next 
 to useless, so more or less the game degrades into a team based FFA. I have yet to play the space 
 campaigns yet but I plan on doing that later today. The default controls are a little bit awkward 
 but a few minutes spent in the options menu will sort that right out. I found the hit detection 
 to be pretty good. Some of the weapons seem to have some power balance issues, and honestly the 
 blaster pistols should only be used in the most dire of circumstances or to let you blaster rifle 
 cool down. The vareity of maps are good. I found that it would take me a couple of deaths to mix 
 and match the best kit for the map. One downer was the special forces units, not the hero classes 
 because I haven't been able to unlock those yet. Things like the wookies, bothans, jet troopers, 
 dark troopers, etc. Some of them are incredibely powerful and some are incredibly useless. For 
 instance the dark trooper has a gun that I couldn't use to save my life, but the clone trooper 
 with the chain gun is amazingly powerful once his gun warms up and starts shooting, that is a nice 
 touch too chain guns have to spin a few times like real ones before they shoot.
  
  Overall the game does have some rough edges, some things are missing that would be nice like a 
 better squad interface and maybe some VoIP like Battlefield 2, but the game is just so much fun 
 for me that I can over look said issues with ease and I will be playing this for a while to come.
 
  
  Hope you found this review useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shad0wG0d
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So I buy this game believing all the hype. Well I shouldn't have.. Don't get me wrong, the game 
 is pretty cool, but the hype was just so high I expected a lot more.
  
  Whats great about this game is obvious, so I will jump straight to my complaints.. Single player 
 is fun and had a great story, but the AI (especially the friendly AI) is terrible. You will find 
 yourself doing pretty much all the work in space battles and on land battles. So you might find 
 it pretty much impossible to win certain space battles later on in the single player campaign. 
 That may be the reason for the "Bypass Space mission" option you get when a space mission comes 
 up...
  
  Obviously fanboys will hate this review, but thoughs who have played it and actually looked outside 
 of the box while playing the game will probably agree with me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinitytx
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  PC ver has been graphically dumbed down along with everything else. Visually it's woeful compared 
 to SWBF 1. First single player level has a skydome that would embarass the most junior of CG artists, 
 what the hell? PCs have had a PSX 1 version of low poly characters ported to it. I can see the 
 increase of the number of enemies being the reason but when that number of glitchy animated rushed 
 engine models zoom about it does nothing (for me) but blight the first impressions I'm sad to say 
 I'm not going to fire it up anytime soon to see it through to the end.
  
  Don't know how it will look at on my kids Xbox but after lookin at this I wouldn't recommend it. 
 How on earth can someone give this a 10 for graphics?
  
  C'mon Lucasarts, you've probably got the biggest franchise possible in your hands and everything 
 from the interface, ingame look and gameplay SCREAM rush job. Give pandemic the heaveho or expand 
 their budget, either way you've just soiled the recently improving track record of Starwars games 
 in my opinion.
  
  In my eyes this is Lucasarts's own 'Tomb Raider - Angel Of Darkness'.
  I got that same sinking feeling about that franchise as I got with this.
  
  Sad but true
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_ferret
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  I love Star Wars: Battlefront. 
  
  The first Battlefront was great. Wonderful gameplay, sound, it was one of the very few games I 
 never get bored of, but keep playing, daily. Star Wars Battlefront II is exactly the same for me, 
 mainly because it's Battlefront with more stuff.
  
  New features include playable heroes from the movies, space battles and new maps. This is why it 
 feels like an expansion: its just Battlefront with more stuff. The hero feature is great, and in 
 SP you can always be playing as a hero if you want. They're not unbalanced, you can take them down 
 easily enough, and playing with them is fun but not something you would want to do all the time. 
 
  
  The space battles are even better than the hero feature. You can use fancy maneuvers, and play 
 them how you want - dog fight, where the fancy maneuvers really come in handy, bomb the enemy's 
 capital ship, defend your own team's capital ship, or take a squad of marines right into the enemy 
 hangar and fight until you can destroy it from the inside.
  
  The new maps are great, and with only one map per planet, you don't get bored easily. The most 
 notable new maps are Utapu, Felucia, and Mygeeto. Each of these maps have their respective heroes, 
 Obi Wan on Utapu, Aayla Secura on Felucia (some fanboys will be playing with only one hand) , and 
 Ki-Adi-Mundi on Mygeeto.
  
  The single player campaign is great and much, much less pitiful than the last. It follows the 501st 
 Legion of clones, who eventually get assigned as Darth Vader's personal legion, nicknamed Vader's 
 Fist. Some of the places you visit in the campaign are Kashyyyk, Coruscant: Space (the battle of 
 Coruscant) and, later on, the Jedi Temple on Coruscant to execute Order 66, and yes, the hero on 
 this map is Anakin.
  
  If you hated Battlefront, don't buy this. If you liked it, you'll love this, and if you're interested 
 in Battlefront II, buy the original from a bargain bin and see what you think - in short: if you 
 liked Battlefront, you'll like this more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landroid
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  
  As much as i want to give this game a great review, I just can't. Sure it's fun to play, but you 
 will feel like it could've been so much more.
  
  Gameplay: Fast, yes. Fun, yes. But, I feel like they could have put so many other attributes into 
 the gameplay. One example would be squads, that would make a HUGE difference on strategy and would 
 force more teamwork. Controls are a little sketchy. AI is pretty bad in Single Player. Some of 
 the maps are great, some are not, just with any game like this.
  
  Graphics: This is where Battlefront falls short, I have a 6800GT and I must say that the graphics 
 are "uninspired". Not saying they are horrible, but I feel that they are more geared for playability 
 rather than eye candy, which is fine. But I KNOW that Lucasarts is more capable than this effort. 
 Animations are quite choppy as well.
  
  Sound: Your standard fix of John Williams and such. No complaints here.
  
  Space Combat: If 
 you are looking for the next TIE fighter or X-Wing, you better look elsewhere. It is quite fun 
 and they did a nice job, but arcade style settings are not my fortay. It is one scenario, two flagships 
 duke it out. I was hoping for more variety, since this is the reason i bought this game.
  
  All in All I would recommend this to any star wars fan, and any fan of the original Battlefront. 
 If you are looking for great space combat, this is a good choice, but i've seen & played better.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longbough
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  If you liked SWBF then youll love SWBF 2. 
  
  But if you hated SWBF then there is nothing about SWBF 2 that's going to change your mind.
  
 
  I happen to love this game. The graphics arent of the caliber of Quake 4 or Doom 3 but thats 
 not what makes this game so special. FPS like Quake 4 are about walking tanks with tons of armor 
 and nuclear weapons  SWBF is about being a grunt in the field  not unlike Battlefield 2  where 
 you dive for cover from grenade which will inflict instant death instead of just a loss of health 
 or shields. The vulnerability of being a foot soldier in the field adds to the excitement in battle. 
 On top of it all  its Star Wars!
  
  I was a bit concerned that the addition of Jedi would unbalance the game, but they dont seem to 
 be overpowered. The earlier games levels are polished and improved graphically and technically. 
 The addition of space battles is nicely executed  and adds a new dimension to the game overall.
 
  
  If theres any real weakness its the single player game which, like in SWBF, is nothing to get 
 excited about. Its really all about the multiplayer mode which is, by all counts, even better 
 than SWBF. 
  
  This game isn't for everybody ... but, then again, what game is? For those of us old enough to 
 remember being blown away after seeing the first Star Wars film in the theaters  then this game 
 is THE Star Wars game youve been waiting for  buy it now! On the other hand, if you grew up only 
 knowing Star Wars as a franchise and prefer your games with graphics of HL2 or Quake 4, or if you 
 dont have a good internet (or LAN) connection then save your money for something else.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens8us
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  I was into the marketing hype like everyone else, but became disappointed after 20 minutes of loading 
 time. Was it the DVD copy or my DVD driver? After setting up my controller settings, the screen 
 kept moving to the left slightly. That NEVER happened with the first game! (I use a Playstation 
 2 controller/ ELECOM USB peripheral) . The graphics are alright, but nothing too spectacular (I 
 have a Radeon 9500) ; my friend's CD-copy on a higher Nvidia card looked SLIGHTLY better. The game 
 was rushed with too many bugs. Lucas Arts had better be working the patches! They should have just 
 continued the original game with downloadable upgrades/patches..... or even expansion disks like 
 the Battlefield 1942 series. Let's all hope that their upcoming 'Empire at War' doesn't turn out 
 to be another 'Rebellion'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmatrix
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Highly recommended to at least play this game once.
  Graphics is nice, game runs perfectly on old high-end videocards. Massive multiplayer games with 
 pvp and also single player battles against droid army. Gives u the feeling like u really are into 
 the movie sequence.
  War in open space is quite good. Enough of this crap when unknow soldiers save the world. This 
 game actually makes you feel as this war really tooks place. Similar to Battlefield when u also 
 can spawn and fight, spawn as another member and fight ahead. As the guy who is dead will never 
 come back. So u just take a role of another unit.
  Perfect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikewrencher
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Lets get the problems over with first: there are quite a few bugs in the game at time of release, 
 which is unfortunately becoming a trend in the gaming world (with the exception of WoW and Galaxies, 
 everything I've installed in the past 4 months hasn't worked right the first time) . Depending on 
 the video card, the graphics can be great or lousy. Some of the textures are pretty sad looking, 
 and the character models look dated, but laser and fire effects are really nice, and the ambient 
 lighting is pretty good. The controls are a bit strange, especially for space, but any fan of Freelancer 
 should pick them up quickly. They have removed the prone position from the game, which most people 
 moan about, but since the game has a MUCH faster pace then the first, I say its not that much of 
 a loss. Lying prone would be an easy way to get shot, especially since the enemy snipers are pretty 
 good about picking off their targets. Hero's are another interesting add. You don't get very long 
 with them, but it would greatly unbalance the game if they were on the field for too long. The 
 sound is fantastic, taking advantage of all the new Advanced HD tech.
  
  Bottom line: It ain't the first one. The graphics look rushed, there are bugs, and the controls 
 take getting used to. But it has fast gameplay, more kits, a pretty good single player, and space 
 combat. Its enjoyable, if not groundbreaking. Its enough to tide you over until Empire at War comes 
 out. And if this isn't a game for you, well.... I'll see you in Galaxies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed on the lack of improvements this game offered to the original. The graphics 
 are the same, except for a few new special effects. The level layouts are pretty bland. 
  
  Again, a problem with the first game that continued with this one is that it doesn't feel like 
 you are doing much damage to th enemy when you shoot them. 
  
  They should have started from scratch, but instead they just used the same graphics and gameplay 
 engine. The space battles are uneventful. There is no excitement and feeling of speed.
  
  The music is good, but that is all John Williams. 
  
  The game is just too similar to the original 
 one. It would be a great expansion pack though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickazzmark
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is getting many mixed reviews, but me, im a star wars fan, and i ackonwledge the time 
 put into the game, and it seems so. New maps, characters, and the online game play has been improved 
 snice SW BF 1 (doesnt have the lag problem) what i liked most about the game is that you are able 
 to play as a jedi knight, which is really cool! well this game that can intreset anyone who is 
 looking for a good shooter. What would have been a great feature would have been to have a bigger 
 selection of jedi knights, maybe a map editor. Hardcore Star Wars fans will find this a great game 
 and play it for many hours off or online. If your a casual gamer, you will find that this is a 
 game you can pop into your system and play for a few hours and enjoy yourself. I recommended this 
 game to everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  SWBF2 is definatly an awesome game. It is better then the first one by far and they fixed the problems 
 from the first one. The fact that you can be a Jedi is awesome and the air battles are way better 
 then its original. The graphics are better then the 1st and the gameplay is definatly solid. The 
 game is a little bit longer then the first and the levels are a lot funner. A must have game for 
 any starwars fan. Starwars Battlefront II will not dissapoint you. This is definatly a game you 
 should pick up and is well worth the cost of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I can't say I'm too impressed at this point.
  
  This game is dated. It's completely stale and in fact, the game itself looks and feels no different 
 than the previous. I was at least expecting the developer to put a bit more polish and ramp up 
 the gameplay considering they claim the previous was the #1 selling Star Wars title.
  
  Apparently they kept the dollars in the coffers and cheaped out on this effort.
  I seriously 
 recommend borrowing a copy or saving your hard earned money. This is simply a grab at a few bucks 
 by Lucas and they don't deserve your hard earned dollars for such a weak effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPopo66613
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Here's my go.
  
  BF2 is pretty lack luster... first of all the detail it should of had wasn't there, it just feels 
 rushed and could have been put into an expansion if Pandemic really cared... The whole model for 
 the CIS pistol, shotgun AND Bulldog rocket launcher look the same thing is just horrific... It 
 really grinds my gears (lol) that the devs were too lazy to put actually different weapon models 
 instead of having COMPLETELY different guns the same exact figure... Yeah I understand why the 
 Radiation, Grenade and mortar launcher (which is just a fancy way of saying grenade because theres 
 no real difference) look the same because they're all the same form of ammunition... But seriosly... 
 JANGO FETTS PISTOL (Which is crud) looks EXACTLY like a CIS pistol, shotgun and bulldog rocket 
 launcher!?!?
  
  The next thing it seems so confined now with tiny maps like polis massa... in BF1 there were HUGE 
 maps like dune sea, mos eisley is no different and they really screwed some maps up like geonosis 
 for example is just and ONLY a training level... it was one of the biggest battles in the movies 
 and I thin kthey shoulda just stuck with that instead of removing the geo beak fighters, the republic 
 gunships and only having one ATTE... Also they comepletely horrified it by removing bombers in 
 ground maps.. OMG!!! that was the fun in BF1, avoiding the bombers and taking them out before they 
 get you... I suppose that means there are no such things as AA turrets in BF2 completely on ground 
 levels now. MOST IMPORTANTLY, I understand why they took out rhen var (crappy map imho) but its 
 also not even in the movies... BUT WHY BESPIN, plat forms was IMHO THE MOSE INTENSE MAP IN BF1, 
 awesome infatry battles, and AIR battles... it was great.. and unlike rhen var IT WAS ACTUALLY 
 IN THE MOVIES... not platforms but u can see them in the remastered trilogy kinda... (in the background) 
 even cloud city was removed, ALSO another great map for sniping and infantry combat... and that 
 WAS in the movies...
  
  So much for "We are only adding to BF1" - qoute from some lying dev.
  
  Heroes are pretty much 
 a joke, especially yoda and grievous ( ive noticed most with them) is that when you press attack 
 your person doesnt stop... like you press it once and yodas all flipping around slashing away eventually 
 hitting a teammate in the tight corridors when you only needed one slash for the damn droids... 
 Anakin and Mace look AWFUL... and the little details like different stances or fighting style compared 
 to anakin, ki, and obi kinda dooku are the same stance and style... and also the brutes in the 
 jedi temple (staff wielders) and regular jedi follow the same stance as well... when they block 
 it looks so repetitive... idono just me nitpicking but the little details like those devs should 
 and could have put in...
  
  The engineer class is terrible joke... its allready goldy with its sniper shotgun yet they chose 
 to give it one health and ammo packs, detpack AND the ability to walk over mines without getting 
 killed... wtf?
  
  The AI is no better, still easy as crud... lot of AI they coulda gotten tips from even the CSS 
 bots are better... literally speaking the bots just run past eachother, turn around shoot and then 
 get shot in the back... they ARE SO WACK... first of all your running straight into them guns a 
 blazing and wazaaam... you dont take a single hit... then your zooming past either sprinting, rolling 
 or jetpacking and they headshot you in midair... also if you get too close the engineers never 
 miss and the Anti tank switch to pistol at some times and fire at the tank... they dont even lock 
 on if they use the gun...
  
  All in all they should have just kept to their word and added to BF1 instead of making so many 
 bogus changes...
  
  Give it a 6.5-7/10... its still pretty fun.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfrogue13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  From the first level in the campaign you can tell that Lucasarts got it right this time. If the 
 first was the best selling Star Wars game ever they're going to have to slap a formerly on the 
 cover. The first Battlefront was way too flashy, nothing seemed real (as real as Star Wars could 
 be) , there was nothing to it that made it better or even equal to 1942 with the Galactic Conquest 
 mod. Battlefront 2 however seems more realistic, the graphics are flashy but not over-done, no 
 over sized lasers coming out of the gun, much larger scale (seems like an actual ground battle 
 to Star Wars than 32 vs 32 like the first. Also comes the introduction of XL mode in instant action 
 that pits as many bots that the computer can render against you and your forces. Online is lackluster 
 do to lag issues, but the intuitive SP campaign is amazing, unlike its prequel and Battlefield 
 style SP campaigns, Battlefront2 has objective based missions, not just hold all the flags till 
 you win. A must buy for Star Wars fans and FPS's with a few bucks to spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrassington
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Basically BF2 is just like BF1. They just added in a few new units, few new weapons, new worlds, 
 heroes and space combat.
  
  The new units are cool, mix it up a little, but overall it's the same game you played before. New 
 worlds are amazing to look at and that along with the new gameplay modes makes it a good buy.
 
  
  Heroes are cool but some will be disappointed with the controls, or lack thereof. When you first 
 get to be yoda and bounce off the walls it's quite a rush.
  
  Space combat I can't say too much about, other than it looks wicked, feels like you're in the middle 
 of a huge space battle, controls are wierd - game keeps crashing to desktop while playing a space 
 map. 
  
  And for anyone wondering, the heroes vs. villians map is Mos Eisley in the "assault" game mode.
 
  
  And lasers! I disliked the slow shot, wait for recharge and then shoot again feel of the at-at 
 and at-st etc... and it's back in this game, but does recharge a little faster. That and the flying 
 rockets from the at-st are cool modification.
  
  Overall a fun game, don't expect too much in the way of differences over the first game. Definetely 
 worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionbr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Unique! After trying SW BF 1 i couldn't imagine that they could make something way better! Excellent 
 gameplay, nice graphics (they could made it better, it's somewhat simmilar with SWBFI, not way 
 nicer) , excellent new features (but user interface still needs a redesign) . Game is nice but lacks 
 of improvements on multiplayer. Games are way too short and constant lag is present, even using 
 a nice pc, good internet connection.
  I'd consider it a nice game, one of the best Star Wars games but if you're a RTS fun choose Quake 
 IV, HL2 or if you want a multiplayer like this get UT or Battlefield, they are games way better 
 than SWFII if you look for real shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nec0Machina
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  With this game being a sequel, I assumed that it would be at least as good as Battlefront 1... I 
 assumed wrong. This game has "rush to release simultaneously with Episode 3 DVD" written all over 
 it. The character models and textures are crap, although some of the ships in the space battles 
 look decent - not great, but decent. This game looks worse than Battlefront 1 IMO, even on the 
 PC. For example, play the training mission and look up at the sky. If you look straight up, you'll 
 see a bunch of ugly seams where the sky textures dont mesh right. There is also an extremely noticable 
 part of the sky where one texture ends and another begins in an abrupt line with light sunny sky 
 on one side and dark cloudy sky right next to it. The space battles that they added are the best 
 part of the game and can be somewhat fun, and the jedi characters they added are ok but do not 
 add any "fun factor" to the game. Everything else about the game was a large step in the wrong 
 direction from Battlefield 1. You can no longer lay prone. The graphics seems unpolished and rushed. 
 The controls for the vehicles, especially the spaceships, are horrendous. The entire game just 
 looks and feels wrong. What I wouldn't give to have a Battlefront game with quality on par with 
 Battlefield 2! Please Lucasarts, give up on game development and let a competent developer make 
 some decent Star Wars games for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront 2 had a few major draw backs... 1. Land battles, WAY OVERDONE....... 2. you can only 
 be a jedi/sith for 2 min or less. and 3 I doubt that a clone would be running around in Gothic 
 Red armor and a cloak carrying a MINI GUN!!!! and the over all order system was "F***ed up", you 
 look at someone and tap Y or some Dpad button, No only that but you would think that the AI in 
 space battles would think to follow the objectives too, but no they fly around shooting at random 
 things. 
  
  
  So just rent this, OK? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  controls are awful. removed everything cool and fun about the first game and replaced it with complete 
 crap! playing as a hero is fun but not enough to save it. can no longer dodge left or right as 
 infantry can'y go prone either. vehicles and starfighters have crappy evasive commands that always 
 slam you into the ground removed first person cockpits from the game and put in a crappy nose camera 
 view. flying or driving with the mouse and keyboard combo is impossible now. removed pilot class 
 so now flying a snow speeder looks dumb cause the pilot class is restricted to space.
  
  I'm not writing this cause I can't be 1337 or anything like that this game just totally sucks first 
 one is way better and only 19.99 now. not to mention the lock up glitch in the campaign for the 
 first space battle as well as verious other glitches like speeders that don't have the pilot or 
 gunner visible. . total failure I'd rather subject myself to hours upon hours of crappy star wars 
 galaixes gameplay than this. waste of your money.
  
  for the last time lucasarts stop rushing games to meet crappy release dates of some movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkrauth
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I like Starwars. The plot, games, and movies are really quite good. But, when 
 the first Battlefront came out, i felt it was a shame to the series. Now, Battlefront 2 is out, 
 and i have to say, although i have only played the demo, I can tell it is going to be just like 
 the first one. A short campaign, only a few additions which weren't really great (The space battles 
 and Jedi and Sith fighting are just "there". ) and some some gameplay issues really have let me 
 down for what I thought was going to be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  OH... MY.., GOD....
  This game is, at last, what every SW fans want, and everyone, SW fans or not should have this one.
 
  The moment I saw the intro on the training mission, I knew it was gonna be AT LEAST as good as 
 the 1st one (which I didnt find very satisfying to say the least, didnt like it that much) , but 
 Battlefront II... my god... for me its like a dream come true, and for everyone that is wondering 
 about the graphics. Let me explain every aspect of the game:
  
  Graphics: AMAZING, all crisp and clear, if you played the beta, let me tell you THE FULL VERSION 
 has better effects and textures, you will see. Way, waaaaaaaaaaaay better. You will know what Im 
 talking about when you play the first level of the story mode.
  
  Sound: INCREDIBLE envolving sound, with all of the classic john williams tunes, as well as the 
 new ones, excellent fx sounds, and special sound effects, you will know when you hear this beast 
 of a game. Incredibly polished and pristine sounds.
  
  Gameplay: This is where it truly shines. The whole gameplay experience has been tweaked. I dont 
 know if I have gotten MUCH, MUCH better since the first Battlefront (I have, but that is not the 
 point) , but the character you command is no longer a wimpy whineass like on the first one. It was 
 normal to die four or five times if youre average, and more than 10 times if you were bad at eclectic 
 shooting, but in BATTLEFRONT II, your character is a badass, every class you control is more resistent 
 to blasts, and this makes the experience much better, much less frustrating (or not frustrating 
 at all) and waaay more enjoyable. 
  DONT GET ME WRONG, BF II is not easier than the first one, its just better and the gameplay is 
 more refined and balanced, which every friggin star wars vehicle you ever dreamt, and then some, 
 which they all handle magnificently (if you correctly adjust the movement sensitivity on the options 
 menu according to your hand) .
  
  Also, the game's interface is simplistic but effective and functional, and the STORY MODE is amazingly 
 envolving, with smart missions that keep you interested and gives you the feeling like youre actually 
 winning a war and doing something useful and critical for your faction.
  
  And here is the cherry on top, and at the same time, the dessert, or christmas present: 
  HEROES 
 
  My god, heroes are what its all about. If you felt a sense of power when handling a hero (Jedi 
 or not) on the beta test, then multiply that feeling by 100, because you WILL FEEL as if youre 
 Obi Wan, or Ki-Adi-Mundi, Mace Windu, or the very great YODA. Their moves are smooth and extremely 
 well animated, with makes you a killing machine virtually unstoppable (if you are good enough) . 
 Plus, when a hero enters, and everything previously to that, is very well put into context and 
 you dont feel like you got a random hero that just goes "oh, I saw laser blasts and just came in 
 to whoop some CSI droids asses". The hero is placed so that it is the pinnacle, the climax of the 
 battle at hand.
  
  All in all, I had high expectations for Battlefront II, and even so, this game has certainly surprised 
 me and surpassed all of my dreams. This is, and probably will be for a LOOOOOONG time the best 
 Star Wars game ever conceived. In my opinion, SW BF 2 brings shame to every other third person 
 action game out there, including its predecessor.
  Enjoy this masterpiece and MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU --- 
  Malcolm "THE LEGEND" Sohm
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
