-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Episode I: Racer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/starwarsepisode1racer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 836 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Futuristic Racing
Date:     Apr 30, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has a little Star Wars flair to add to its appeal, but the pure racing action alone is enough 
 to make this game a rewarding experience. 

 The Force is strong with Racer, which succeeds as both a racing game and a Star Wars game. There 
 really isn't a lot of competition for Star Wars: Episode I: Racer on either front. The driving 
 genre hasn't had a lot of hits in the past few months, and the only other Star Wars: Episode I 
 game is the disappointing Phantom Menace. But even if Racer had to compete with a host of other 
 good titles for your interest, you'd still want to head over to Tatooine and suit up for the Boonta 
 Eve classic (that's Star Wars talk for getting in gear for some pod racing) . Racer is a fast and 
 fun racing game, one that evokes memories of the PlayStation hits Wipeout and Wipeout XL. It has 
 a little Star Wars flair to add to its appeal, but the pure racing action alone is enough to make 
 this game a rewarding experience.  

 Racer's best feature is its speed. The tracks streak by at a quick pace, especially in tunnels, 
 canyons, and corridors. The illusion of zooming through circuitous levels at 500-plus miles per 
 hour is conveyed quite successfully. It's a sensation that I haven't felt since playing Wipeout 
 on the PlayStation, and I think it's this similar evocation of speed that made me like this game 
 initially. Then I discovered other things about the game that reinforced my positive opinion of 
 Racer. I like that there is an appreciable difficulty curve in the game. The beginning amateur 
 circuit is quite easy, and you'll feel really good about yourself as you race to the number one 
 position in race after race. However, once you move up to the semipro and then pro circuits, you'll 
 find that the other racers are more aggressive, the tracks much more treacherous, and the races 
 just plain harder. Take it up a notch to the invitationals, and you'll notice the racers always 
 taking the shortcuts and really banging into you and leaving you in the dust.  

 I also like the upgrade and parts-buying aspect. If you continue to win races, you earn money that 
 you can use to upgrade your pod. You can improve turning, braking, acceleration, speed, and several 
 other areas of your vehicle. Or, if you don't have enough money, you can go to Watto's junk pile 
 and scrounge up some parts at a heavily discounted price. You're able to choose from a handful 
 of pod racers in the beginning of the game, and more will open up for you as you win new races. 
 I stuck with Anakin most of the way, but there are over a dozen racers from which to choose. They 
 all have different ratings for handling, speed, and other statistics, but I didn't notice much 
 appreciable difference between the pods.  

 I was pleased to find that not only were there eight different worlds to race on, but that each 
 world offered a different track for each circuit. Thus, you'll race on the ice world of Ando Prime 
 three times, one per circuit, but each track will be different enough to constitute a totally new 
 challenge. The graphics for the game are good overall, although the trails left when racing through 
 snow, water, or dust, seem awfully blocky and unfinished. Some levels look particularly good, such 
 as the antigrav mining tunnels on the prison planet Oovo IV and the underwater cities of Aquilaris. 
 Others, like the ghost colony of Ord Ibanna, could have been better realized (the fact that I couldn't 
 fly through this track's netting to plummet to my death from the floating city really bothered 
 me) .  

 I would have to say the sound is decent, although I hated every time the race commentators cried, 
 "It's a new lap record!" It made even less sense when I was in tenth position. How can I make a 
 lap record and lose the race? Anakin's "I won! I won!" exclamation was grating at times, but I 
 liked the angry cries of the aliens when I passed them, as well as their smug taunts when they 
 passed me. Watto humming the Mos Eisley cantina ditty and Anakin humming the Imperial March were 
 also nice touches.  

 But all is not well on the pod-racing circuit. As good a game as Racer is, it suffers from a few 
 flaws. First, the minimap is bad. The entire graphic for the track map looks like some blurry port 
 from a console. The track is shown as a blocky dotted line, and the competing pods are so hard 
 to discern because they are the same size and nearly the same color as the dots that make up the 
 track. The poor map exacerbates the second problem I have with the game: confusing track layout. 
 Like I said earlier, I like pretty much all the tracks. They are colorful and make for some exciting 
 and windy racing action. However, some of them are also damn confusing to race. Sometimes you can't 
 tell which way you are supposed to go, either because the path blends too closely into the surrounding 
 terrain, or there are no markings pointing you in the right direction, or certain graphic elements 
 look like pathways and turn out to be dead-ends. The track map hardly helps because it doesn't 
 show enough of the track. The third issue I have with the game is a request: Give us some weapons! 
 This game would have been excellent if we could drop some spikes, bombs, or grease trails behind 
 us to impede opponents. I understand that rockets and missiles wouldn't work because the pod racing 
 is based on the movie, but LucasArts could have squeezed in dynamic sabotage, such as throwing 
 garbage behind you or casting some grease bombs or spikes on the track. Once you unlock Sebulba 
 you can use his side-shooting flame jet, and that wasn't even in the movie, so I know the designers 
 could have tried to squeeze in a few more sabotage weapons.  

 Multiplayer gameplay is fun, because the game itself is fun, but without a way to add computer players 
 to multiplayer races, the game loses some of its appeal.   

 Overall, though, Racer offers good gameplay. Its sense of speed is great, especially when you are 
 whipping past corridors and canyons at 600mph. The graphics for the most part look good; the tracks 
 are plentiful, varied, and interesting; and the racing experience is plain fun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game when I was a kid and being really disappointed because all you could 
 do was race and you couldn't walk around Tatooine.
  
  
  
  That's all I really remember about the game when I was a kid and when I played it for the N64. 
 But, since my N64 is currently in the possession of my dad who lives in Florida, I recently went 
 out and bought the PC version of this game and decided to give it another go, just in time for 
 Retro Revival Week.
  
  So what do I think about this game in the present day? Wellit's not too bad.
  
  The game starts 
 out promising. You got a bunch of different racers to choose from when you first start. I just 
 went with Anakin because he had the best stats.
  
  The initial races are pretty fun. There are several different planets you can race on, and there 
 are four different tournaments in the tournament mode, so there are four different tracks for each 
 of the planets. No matter what, every race in which you participate in is based off of a three 
 lap system. Additionally, each lap can last from one minute to up to three and half.
  
  The tournament mode can get pretty fun until you get to the semi-pro's. You can't choose your level 
 of difficulty in Racer, and if your pod racer isn't up to date with all of the best parts, you 
 can really take a beating in most races. Going 600+ MPH doesn't really help either.
  
  Since it's past midnight and I want to go to bed, here's a handy dandy list of some of the complaints 
 I had with Racer:
  
  1. Your pod racer can't take a whole lot of damage before it explodes, which is understandableexcept 
 for the fact that most race tracks have very small enclosures without a lot of space for maneuvering 
 and there are some near impossible tight turns that you have to make. And did I mention yet that 
 you're going 600+ MPH?!
  2. Your pod racer can randomly explode for no reason.
  3. Some environmental hazards are extremely stupid. There's one where an earthquake breaks away 
 the race track while you're going over it. What the crap? How are you supposed to know that happens 
 and how are you supposed to not die at that part?
  4. There's no tutorial and the manual doesn't help. The pod racer controls take awhile to get used 
 to.
  5. Three and a half minute long laps are ridiculous.
  
  And to end this review, I'll leave you with a story. There was this one race in the Galactic Tournament 
 that I couldn't beat. Each lap lasted aboutyou guessed it, three and a half minutes. I did this 
 race twice and lost both times. I tried it again one last time before I would give up, and finally! 
 I'm just about to win!
  
  And then my keyboard fails.
  
  And I crash into a wall.
  
  And I lose.
  
  
  
  I almost threw my keyboard. Almost. It did warrant a "Son of a 
 *****!" however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesuperpill
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  I just had a crazy urge to bring out this game again and I remembered how addictive it was. Great 
 classic! The sound gets very repetitive and becomes annoying after playing a few races but I am 
 usually so focused on not crashing into a wall when going over 900 mph I tend to tune it out. This 
 game has really good graphics for being so old and it still appealing to the eye. The pods are 
 designed well coming straight out of the movie. Tatooine is also designed well as it directly reflects 
 the movie's racetrack design. All in all, very fun and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirrelik
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Ive had this game for ages and ages and it still packs a good old punch of fun! There are loads 
 of cool tracks and there are variations of different tracks as well. Every time you beat a racer 
 on his own track youll get his pod racer so theres also loads of pods you can get and then there 
 is a shop with lots of parts you can buy with the money win which upgrade you pod and you can buy 
 pit droids as well.... COOL! You can do time trials and after completing the game you get mirror 
 mode which isnt bad..... just weird. Not the best racer and not the worst but still pretty good its 
 just a shame the graphics fell back as well as the handling (which is too responsive) but a good 
 game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgodalming
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  The Phantom Menace gave birth to a whole line of questionable games on several different consoles, 
 but Lucasarts struck gold with Episode I Racer for the PC. There have been racing games for basically 
 as long as there have been video arcades, but very few games have ever managed to capture the sense 
 of sheer speed in Racer. The default setup starts you off racing in Anakin Skywalkers blue and 
 white striped pod from the film. Like other racers and kart games, there are four circuits to 
 race, each boasting several tracks on different planets. The tracks and circuits grow appropriately 
 more difficult as you advance through the game.
  
  Every race features a favored winner, and its not you. However, when you win a race, you unlock 
 the pod of whichever character you bested. You can go back and race any track at any time, but 
 you can only unlock a new pod during your first race on a track. The pods are certainly variedfor 
 example, some favor speed over maneuverabilitybut as you play, you can upgrade many different 
 parts of your pod with new expensive parts, or parts from the local junkyard. These latter have 
 the tendency to quit working in the middle of the race, however.
  Some of the later tracks are especially frustrating, as your opponents will always find the shortcuts 
 and some of them are really tough to navigate. The good news is that the game controls give you 
 all the ammunition you will need if you learn how to use it. In addition to the typical speed boost, 
 you can slide your pod sideways while still going forward, allowing you to shoot off instantly 
 in another direction without crashing into a wall on a sharp turn. Your pod also handles like a 
 jet off certain jumpspulling back keeps you in the air, and banking forward sends you immediately 
 to the ground.
  
  I have a feeling that Episode I Racer, like the other licensed TPM games, didnt have a huge budget. 
 It is a simple game that was made very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  This is a real blast. The number of pods you can win is awesome, the amount of upgrades available, 
 is awsome, and the graphics for this game are off the chart!!!! The pods run smoothly, the surroundings 
 move smoothly and the sound is decent and realistic. And you get to hear them insult other racers 
 in like 50 different languages. It was great, you will enjoy it. Once you buy the highest speed 
 upgrade, your sailing. No one can beat ya, but you have to play alot of races first. AS well as 
 speed, turning is an extreme importance. But i'll let you work on that. All in all this is my favourite 
 PC game out there, and it's a very great achievment for lucasarts. They should be proud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I often buy games for the PC, then realize they suck and buy it for the console. This is one of 
 those cases. Shaky PC controls make it morth worthwile to buy this for N64. It is a kind of "Wipeout" 
 sort of futuristic racing game, except in a Star Wars package. The Star Wars aspect makes it worth 
 owning. The graphics are good, there are plenty of courses and characters including the ultra annoying 
 Anakin, and Sebulba. This game is pretty entertaining, and is probably better than episode 1 itself. 
 Plus jar jar doesnt appear, and what really more can you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great sense of speed; addicting; lots of races, pods, and options
  BAD: All pods feel generally the same, with the exception of upgrades made to them; little replayability; 
 very easy
  
  Star Wars: Episode I: Pod Racer is a fun and fast game that's good for instant gratification. However, 
 replayability is limited as after you get through all races the first time, there's not much more 
 content to be had.
  
  As soon as I popped in the game for the first time, I was hooked. The game was addictive and had 
 a great sense of speed. The courses are interesting and most of the individual pods are fun to 
 use. To pass a race, you must place in the top three, and you're offered a variety of choices as 
 to who you race as, the settings for the race, and upgrades to your pod (as your pod can get damaged 
 with time and you can upgrade them between races) . There are many courses to race through, but 
 you must progress through them one-by-one and place in the top three to advance to the next one.
 
  
  However, once you win all of the races (some of which are hard, many of which are very easy) , replayability 
 falls sharply. There are no difficulty levels, no bonus tracks, no bonus racers, etc, and while 
 there are plenty of options to choose from, none of them really increase replayability. While each 
 pod has varying starting stats, controlling each one feels fairly similar, depending on how upgraded 
 they are. However, while single player replayability is limited, multiplayer may be different. 
 I never did have a chance to play it though.
  
  The graphics were very good for the day, and still look decent today (except for the character 
 models) . The sound is generally excellent. Music only kicks in on the menus, but it's Duel of the 
 Fates, and everybody loves that song. Some of the taunts and lines some of the racers say can get 
 repetitive and annoying, however, but the sounds of the pods, the pods blowing up, and other general 
 game sounds are excellent.
  
  So while the game may be fun and have a great sense of speed, with lots of options to upgrade your 
 pod and lots of races to choose from, the lack of difficult levels to choose from and the fact 
 that most of the races are very easy detracts from the replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordblade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I must say, I really didn't expect much of this game at first though I am a big fan of the Star 
 Wars series. The idea of no lightsabers or force powers just wasn't right. Then, I started playing 
 and finally saw the light. Though the graphics aren't the best, the gameplay is incredible. The 
 excitement of playing with pod racers was amazing. A whole new way of seeing the other side of 
 racing games. Another thing is that you can do is upgrade the vehicle you want, with around 6 areas 
 in wich you can better by trading parts. To see you little Anakin putting dust behind for the other 
 pods to eat is the kind of feeling that makes your heart give a little "yohoo". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waflerevolution
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode 1 wasnt the brightest star in the Star Wars universe and most games that came 
 out based on it flopped horribly, luckily this game has almost nothing to do with the movie.
  
  First up, the in game music is very nice. Its entirely made up of the Star Wars movie soundtracks 
 with a few new John Williams music for the game. In summation, there is nothing wrong with the 
 music unless you hate Star Wars.
  
  Next on my agenda is to discuss the sound effects. For the most part the sound effects are good, 
 working against that the sound effects are ripped from the movies so the voice-overs are repetitive 
 and annoying. In summation, other then the voice-overs the sound is great.
  
  Now on to the graphics Though they are trying really hard they are not very good. Actually the 
 sometimes get in the way of good Gameplay. They consist of mostly 3D rendered people, vehicles 
 and objects. Unfortunately most of the track and background is 2D or poorly rendered causing glitches 
 and unwanted crashes and off track accidents as well as getting stuck to the point of needing to 
 race restart. In summation, the graphics are ok but not great.
  
  Now for the Gameplay. Here is the main reason to buy and/or play this game. The game plays easily 
 enough, may be a little hard to get used to but once there you should be fine. You have the ability 
 to zoom forward at blinding speeds (sometimes into graphics that havent loaded yet) you can pull 
 slight strafe left or right, you can turbo boost and control the pitch angle during jumps. Most 
 of the menus in the game all take place in a Tattooine-esc bar. The shop menu on the other hand 
 takes place in the shop Anikin was once enslaved in by Watto (who has the most repetitive and obnoxious 
 dialog in the game) and in his junkyard. (watch for the occasional cameo of other episode 1 characters 
 in the menu areas) More on the gameplay later.
  
  Lastly, the Gameplay modes.
  The Tournament mode is the story mode of this game. You put in your name/initials and can have 
 multiple save files with new/different names. Then you pick your pod/character, each have individual 
 stats. There are 23 racers in all and 25 tracks that each of them have a mirror track unlockables 
 after beating the whole game once.
  At the tournament menu you may choose from
  Start Race  starts the scheduled race
  Inspect Vehicle  lets you take a look at your pod from 
 any and every angle
  Vehical Upgrades  view the status of your upgraded parts and pit droids
  Buy Parts  go to Wattos 
 shop to look around
  Junkyard  go to Wattos junkyard to look around
  Change Vehicle  switch out your pod for another (parts switch too)
  Options
  Music  turn 
 the music up or down
  Sound  turn the sound effects up or down
  Audio  mono or stereo
  Lens Flairs  on or off
  Resolution  turn to hi res or low res
  
  The races can be played 
 by your ability choice
  Winner takes all  the winner gets the whole pot
  Skilled  the winner gets a lot the second place takes a good amount 3rd and 4th get very little
 
  Fair  splits up the winnings, 1st gets 800 second gets 700 third gets 600 and forth gets 100
 
  
  Once you beat the tournament mode you get a very long ending credits sequence that you cant skip. 
 Not really worth the effort you have to put in.
  
  Free Play Mode  pick a track play it by your rules with the pods and parts you unlocked in tournament
 
  
  Time Attack  same as free play mode but geared towards beating times.
  
  Finally back to the Gameplay, controls and replay value.
  The Gameplay itself (annoyances aside) 
 is fun and fast paced albeit a little tough and since there is no multiplayer there is little 
 to no replay value. And can easily get boring.
  
  The controls are on the sketchy side you can alter them to whatever you wish but controlling a 
 pod racer with a keyboard isnt an easy task
  
  Overall a good game for Star Wars fanatics and futuristic racing game fans but not a long lasting 
 or wide range appeal sort of game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthywill
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode 1 Racer I gotta say is awsome. The controls are easy to learn and it has something 
 for everybody in it I bought this game about two years ago and I still play it often well anyway 
 down to my opinions on the specs of this game. The graphics are not the greatest they are old style 
 3D in other words not as smooth. The sound is good I don't feel like I'm playing an old gameboy 
 color game. the controls are like all old Lucasart star wars games so people who have played games 
 like battle naboo or rogue squadron will have no problem with the controls. I had some issues with 
 the multi-player function it doesn't really work that well because you can't tweek your pod or 
 as they say it upgrade it so that was a bit disapointing but other than that this is a really good 
 game that has something for everyone in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  Again a Star wars game, this time a racegame based on the podraces in Episode 1. After naming your 
 character and choosing your pod+driver, you can buy your first upgrades and start the race right 
 away. You must be at least fourth to do the next race, and depending on when you cross the finish 
 (first, second...) you get some cash. You can buy new upgrades, but some of them will break down 
 and you have to replace them. There are 25 races and approximately 30 pods. The gameplay is nice, 
 you can attach a joypad and race without the keyboard. Graphicly it isn't that bad, but there are 
 some things that could be done better. There isn't much difference between the tracks, if you get 
 a same planet as before, the track is a little bit expended. So I say its a 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harvester_0009
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  This a game for people who wish they could go out and podrace as subulba and anakin. This game 
 has many different races. You can go even to malastare and tatooine and and over ten other planets. 
 It is easy to control. You can find many different short cuts and even smash people into walls. 
 Though you go very fast you can crash very easily. As you win more races you buy more parts more 
 watto too make your pod better. If your pod gets damaged you can repair it. I recomend this game 
 to all gamers who like to race. Happy racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  
  Star Wars: Episode 1 Racer for the Nintendo 64 is a great game that offers the player the high 
 intensity and excitement of an actual podrace. Anyone who enjoys racing or Star Wars ought to give 
 this game a try.
  
  The gameplay is great, with multiple courses to complete as well as the ability to upgrade your 
 podracer between races. The courses are huge, and offer some crazy jumps and turns that will keep 
 you on the edge of your seat. The races also offer prizes, and the prize money can be altered to 
 certain degrees like winner-takes-all, etc. You can also select your character to take through 
 the maingame and you will recognize the faces as they appear from the movie. Overall the gameplay 
 is wonderful.
  
  The controls are great, too. Since there are many hairpin turns and tight spaces to squeeze through, 
 one will have to have quick fingers to avoid wrecking and being put behind the pack.
  
  Star Wars: Episode 1 Racer for the Nintendo 64 is an example of a game that seldom appears as a 
 good game adapted from a movie. This game was not slapped together, it was given time that paid 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Sheer, exhilarating, adrenaline-pumping SPEED: that basically sums up the feeling of this game. 
 I'm sure you've seen the podracing sequence in the film, and maybe marveled at how exciting it 
 must be to actually sit in the driver's seat of one of those contraptions. Well, now you can. The 
 game doesn't look or sound anywhere near as good as the movie does, but the graphics and audio 
 do a pretty decent job of representing various worlds in the Star Wars universe and, of course, 
 evoking the sense of speed.
  
  There are a large number of tracks which you unlock as you go, though most of them are variations 
 of several basic models. They are different enough, fortunately, to remain interesting and challenging. 
 I found it fairly easy much of the way to place first all the time (with some pre-race practice) , 
 but near the end, the difficulty ramped up pretty quickly and I started finding my opponents on 
 my heels or zooming ahead all the time. The very speed with which turns and obstacles hit you forces 
 you to be on your toes all the time if you want to make a near-perfect run (which is crucial in 
 the most difficult races) . So racing in this game takes a good deal of concentration and reflexes, 
 but my, is it exciting. One learns, after a while, when is the best time to boost the engines (which 
 really makes a difference) and how to take less damage after going airborne. The upgrading aspect 
 is also cool, and it's satisfying to see the specs on my pod go zooming up every time I win some 
 prize money and go shopping.
  
  Overall: fun and exciting racing action, definitely worth a try! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
