-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 3D
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starwarsroguesquadron3d/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 698 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Factor 5
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 2, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you enjoy a good shooter, you should give Rogue Squadron a try. 

 The Rebel Alliance at last has a glimmer of hope. They have just destroyed the Death Star and found 
 new allies in Luke Skywalker and Han Solo. Things might finally be looking up for the freedom fighters 
 of Star Wars, but there is no time to rest on the accomplishments of the past. The Empire remains 
 a powerful adversary that could easily crush the Alliance if it chose to bring its full might to 
 bear. The ragtag fleet that is the Rebellion must still try to establish itself and build a power 
 base sufficient to challenge the Emperor. And to do that, it will need to rely on the skills of 
 the legendary Rogue Squadron.  

 Rogue Squadron is a good game, albeit a simple one. This isn't X-Wing or TIE Fighter; it's an arcade 
 action game, with floating power-ups, extra lives, and densely populated worlds that exist purely 
 for your shooting enjoyment. Rogue Squadron owes its existence to last year's Shadows of the Empire, 
 an N64 and PC game that was basically a medley of different arcade games. The most popular levels 
 were the Hoth levels, which were basically arcade flight combat over the snowy hills of Hoth. You 
 piloted a snowspeeder, battling Imperial probe droids, AT-ST walkers, and AT-ATs. Rogue Squadron 
 plays like those early Hoth levels from Shadows of the Empire but on a much larger scale. Instead 
 of one craft - the snowspeeder - you can now pilot five, plus a few bonus ships. Instead of the 
 one environment - Hoth - you now visit dozens, from the deserts of Tatooine to the watery world 
 of Mon Calamari. Throughout it all, you pilot one lone craft, with two wingmen at your side, battling 
 a horde of Imperial aircraft and ground troops, fulfilling objectives that will harm the Empire 
 and benefit the fledgling Rebel Alliance.  

 Rogue Squadron takes place six months after the destruction of the Death Star in Star Wars. Before 
 Luke became a Jedi, he continued to hone his natural piloting skills, and with the help of Wedge 
 Antilles, formed the elite Rebel starfighter group Rogue Squadron. As the aces of the Alliance, 
 Luke and cohorts must engage in a variety of military operations, and that includes everything 
 from escort missions to search and destroy to rescue missions.  

 There are 16 regular levels to the game, divided into four chapters, as well as a few bonus stages. 
 The levels vary in size, from large to huge. The Hoth level in Shadows of the Empire was fairly 
 small, and these levels are at least four to six times bigger, with many more world objects as 
 well. Hoth was a flat and barren world, but the Tatooine level, for instance, is populated by homesteads, 
 a herd of Bantha, and the port of Mos Eisley. The Kile II military installation is covered with 
 various gun emplacements, barracks, garrisons, and construction yards. The clouds of Taloraan are 
 filled with floating buildings and a giant cloud city, a la Bespin. The different environments 
 you'll encounter in Rogue Squadron include desert, snow, jungle, mountain, urban, lake, snow, volcanic 
 underground, swirling atmospheric clouds, and ocean. Some of the planets encompassed by these environments 
 are Tatooine, Kile II, Kessel, Barkesh, Fest, Taloraan, Mon Calamari, Corellia, and Sullust, These 
 planets have all been cataloged in the various Star Wars comics and novels and should be familiar 
 to many Star Wars fans.  

 Mission objectives in each of the levels are fairly simple. In Tatooine, you have to destroy all 
 Imperial probe droids and keep casualties to a minimum. In the next mission, on Barkesh, you have 
 to escort a Rebel convoy to a shuttle landing area, battling attacks from Imperial walkers and 
 TIE bombers. Missions never get too complex, although later missions have more-involved mission 
 goals. In the Prisons of Kessel, for example, you have to escort General Madine's shuttle to the 
 main prison complex, disable the shield generators, and then protect his shuttle as he makes his 
 rounds at the other prison facilities, all while battling a swarm of probe droids, TIE interceptors 
 and fighters, AT-ATs, walkers, storm troopers, and speeder bikes. Some missions tend to get tedious, 
 especially when you can't find your next mission objective or are just flying around looking for 
 things to kill, but for the most part, missions move along fairly well. I do wish the radar pointer 
 to your objective was a simple arrow, rather than a cone, but that's a minor grievance.  

 The game's graphics are outstanding, with beautiful gameworlds and detailed ships and vehicles. 
 The special effects and lighting are impressive. Dust clouds plume from below your ship when you 
 fly too close to the ground, water splashes up when you fire your lasers into lakes, damaged droids 
 tumble end over end into the ground and then explode into shards. Some of the worlds are very beautiful, 
 especially the swirling clouds of Taloraan and the ocean surfaces of Mon Calamari. As for performance, 
 even when dozens of troopers, guns, aircraft, and buildings jam a screen, there is no slow down. 
 The AT-ATs always looked like they were just moving in place, but apart from that, the animation 
 on the vehicles was good. The sprite-based troopers and soldiers didn't look too good close up, 
 but when you're zipping by at high speeds and high altitudes, you won't really notice.  

 The sound for Rogue Squadron is not as obviously impressive as the graphics, but it shouldn't be 
 dismissed. The familiar score of Star Wars echoes through the chapter briefings and levels, and 
 the whines of TIE fighter engines and the tell-tale sounds of blaster fire bring these Star Wars 
 worlds to life. I did find the voice-overs a little jarring - the characters didn't sound like 
 Luke or Han, but that's because I've grown up hearing their voices, so anything less than the original 
 is bound to disappoint.  

 Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer support in Rogue Squadron, although you will want to make 
 multiple passes at this game thanks to the secret craft and levels. Rogue Squadron's reward system 
 makes it worthwhile to replay missions, which you can do at any time. Basically, you can finish 
 a mission at four levels. You can complete a level with no medal or finish it with a bronze, silver, 
 or gold medal. A mission debriefing shows you your completion time, kills, saves, accuracy, and 
 any bonuses collected. You can beat the game without any medals, but you won't advance in rank. 
 More importantly, winning those medals will open up the game's secrets.  

 Playing Rogue Squadron is a snap, because the action is straightforward and fun. There is always 
 something to kill and clear mission objectives for you to follow. Don't go into this expecting 
 a revolutionary space sim on the level of Descent: Freespace or TIE Fighter. There is a reason 
 why GameSpot puts this game in the action genre - it's an arcade game. This isn't Wing Commander 
 or Independence War, but if you enjoy a good shooter, you should give Rogue Squadron a try. The 
 Alliance could always use a few good pilots.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 3D is the PC version of Star Wars: Rogue Squadron on the N64. The story 
 of the game is set between episodes four and five, although one mission is set after episode six. 
 It starts when Luke Skywalker and Wedge Antilles take a morning run through Mos Eisley, but they 
 see Imperial Probe droids, later Mos Eisley is being bombarded by TIE Bombers. After that Luke 
 and Wedge save the wretched hive of scum and villany.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has great Star Wars environments. Classic Star Wars ships. 
 Great voice acting. Improved graphics from the N64 version.
  
  What I didn't like about this version of Rogue Squadron is that it still has the minor glitches 
 from the N64 game. The controls are a pain to learn.
  
  Overall, Star Wars: Rogue Squadron on the PC is still one of the best Star Wars titles, but the 
 controls could take a while if you've played the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was well class for 1998 and I have completed like 50 times. I nearly got all the unlockables 
 and It was so much fun when I was a kid. The graphics looked great to me then and even now I can 
 remember how amazing they were for there time and I remember no clipping or jaggys of frame rate 
 hitches. Back then I had great computer hardware. I liked the various planets and the funny ATST 
 cheat, (chicken) . Use speed boost on the ATST and it looks so funny. This game is and old school 
 classic and we shouldn't forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the best flying game i have played, it has a whole bunch of things that make it a 
 superb game and the best thing about it is that its star wars! you play out as a pilot for rogue 
 squadron and you always fight in the air (there no ground fighting here) but it is very immersive 
 and takes you right in the action of A New Hope - Return Of The Jedi
  
  the graphics are also very good for a game of 1998 honestly the graphics look like a game that 
 was made in 2002. if your looking to get the best excperiance play it with a joystick and it really 
 makes the gameplay much better then using the keyboard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  
  The Rebel Alliance has won the Battle of Yavin, as Luke Skywalker, with the help of Wedge Antilles, 
 has blown up the Death Star. But there is little time to celebrate, for the mighty Empire is gathering 
 its strength for a determined, all-out assault on the Rebel forcesTo save the Rebel Alliance from 
 this Imperial onslaught, Luke Skywalker and Wedge Antilles assembled Rogue Squadron, a group of 
 twelve of the most highly-skilled, battle-tested starfighter pilots in the Alliance. With the skill 
 and knowledge to fly the variety of craft in the Alliance fleet, the versatile Rogue Squadron is 
 always counted on for the most difficult and challenging missions. With the Empire threatening 
 New Republic planets and bases all over the galaxy, the courage and ability of Rogue Squadron will 
 be sorely tested.
  In Rogue Squadron, your missions will take place during the time period between Star Wars: A New 
 Hope and The Empire Strikes Back. Your superior officer, General Rieekan, will brief you on your 
 mission objectives and advise you on tactics that will help you defeat your Imperial opposition. 
 Wedge Antilles and other Rogue Squadron members will be your wingmen on your missions, which will 
 range from rescue and reconnaissance to search-and-destroyand more. Youll take on the Empire 
 in air-to-air dogfights and air-to-ground combat over the far-flung planets of the Star Wars universe. 
 As you improve your skills, youll be able to pilot more advanced craft, fire more powerful wea 
 pons, and fly more challenging missions. In this struggle between the forces of freedom and the 
 forces of darkness, your skill and daring will make all the difference!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first borrowed rogue squadron i thought that it would be another one of those Star Wars 
 games where everyone and thing for that matter, appears as a block of pixels. I was wrong. The 
 graphics are way ahead of its time and the gameplay is unique. You get to play on unforgettable 
 worlds like hoth and corrileia on missions that are different each time you play them. 
  
  You get to pilot the screeching tie fighter and the classic x-wing in order to complete your tasks. 
 Or you can pilot the snowspeeder with the tow cables in order to take down the towering at-at walkers 
 and blast them to smitherines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Based on the novel and comic book series by the same name, Rogue Squadron follows the adventures 
 of a daring group of pilots led by Luke Skywalker and (later on) Wedge Antilles. In Rogue, players 
 take on the role of Luke Skywalker (and Wedge in the last mission) and set out to fight the evil 
 Empire in more than 15 missions in familiar and new Star Wars locations. 
  
  The battles all take place in extensive 3D worlds on planetary surfaces (there are no space battles) 
 ranging from the hot sands of Tatooine to the spice mines of Kessel and even the oceans of the 
 Mon Calamari. There are 15 regular missions, plus a few hidden ones: 
  
  Tatooine: Luke's desert homeworld. 
  Barkhesh: A neutral world with hi-tech settlements. Excort 
 a convoy. 
  Chorax: Protect a downed shuttle and shoot down lots of TIEs. 
  Corellia: Evolved city-planet. Officer Madine defects to the Rebellion. Home of Han Solo (who has 
 a cameo) . 
  Gerrard V: Beautiful planet being looted. The most annoying level in the game. 
  Loronar: Imperial 
 Shipyards on Loronar's Jade Moon. Gorgeous night level with lots of low-flying. 
  Balmorra: Industrial world with Imperial Weapons Factories. Speeder mission. 
  Kile II: Ex Rogue 
 Squadron station. Take out an Imperial Spaceport. 
  Kessel: Spice mines and Imperial prison. 
  Taloraan: Cloud city, like Bespin. No planetary surface 
 in sight, so it's a bit more vertical than the other missions. 
  Fest: A Hoth-like snow planet. Lots of walkers. 
  Chandrila: Agricultural planet. Home to Mon 
 Mothma. 
  Sullust: Volcanic planet. Home of Nien Numb. Bombing runs. 
  Thyrerra: Forest-planet, much like Endor. Save the bacta. 
  Mon Calamari: Water world. Home of 
 Admiral Ackbar. World Devastators.
  The gameplay is very similar to Shadows of the Empire. You steer your craft with the analog stick 
 from a default third-person viewpoint, you can roll with the R-Button, shoot your primary weapon 
 with B, speed up and slow down with A and Z, and use the C buttons to switch your firing mode, 
 close the wings on the X-Wing, fire the tow cable on the Snowspeeder, drop cluster bombs in the 
 V-Wing and so on. The first missions are still rather simple. Get rid of some probe droids and 
 take out TIE fighters, but not much in the ways of mission objectives. It gets a bit tougher later 
 on, with multiple tasks and the necessity to protect certain installations/crafts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Taking the Star Wars formula and mix it with some fighter jet simulation equals a good game. You 
 are (most of the time) Luke Skywalker, hero of the Battle of Yavin, the Rebel Alliance and leader 
 of Rouge Squadron. You carry out various flight missions for the Rebels against the Imperial Empire. 
 The main missions take place in between episode four and five. Playing this game on a keyboard 
 is unbelievably easy to control but there are a few bits and bobs that put your ship off course. 
 The graphics are good unless you slow down too much and notice the cracks in the woodwork. The 
 Star Wars sound are all there, the music could have a bit of an improvement though. There is a 
 good amount of levels to play and a few to unlock but nothing to keep you going to long. This game 
 lets you feel what it was like to be in the cockpit of a x-Wing and take control of most situation 
 and it has some of the amazing traits of the film, taking down an AT-AT with a snowspeeder is satisfactory 
 all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  star wars battlefront, rogue squadron 2, clone wars, reveng of the sith, and many other star wars 
 games were based off this shooter. this game was popular back then, so popular that they decided 
 to make more games. if this game didnt exist neither would any of the later ones. sadly this game 
 is unappreciated since it is old and many ppl dont understand the importance of this single game. 
 rogue squadron was a milestone in gaming history and started the revolution of the star wars shooters. 
 buy a peice of history today at a cheap price at computer game stores because in many years it 
 will be EXTREMELY rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shotfire20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game kept me on the edge of my seat and made me feel like I was was riding the X-wing'
  
  I also loved the voice acting in it and the plot/story. If you like Star Wars at all then get 
 this game! Sure its kinda of an old game and the graphics aren't great but its worth what I paid 
 for it. I love how you need certain Ships for certain missions and how you gain respect by your 
 fellow fighters as you go along. And about you fellow fighters.. They dont do much but they seem 
 you help a little bit and its also cool to see someone has got your back. My personal ship was 
 the 'Y-Wing' I loved how you can drop bombs with that ship! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chozojedi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Rogue Squadron. A game that first came out on the Nintendo 64. I never played it, but 
 from what I saw, it looked pretty good for a game of it's time. Now, enter Rogue Squadron 3D, a 
 near-direct PC port of the game. While there were some shortcomings, the game nonetheless has an 
 overall appeal, and can be a rather enjoyable and rewarding experience.
  
  Taking place shortly after the destruction of the Death Star, you play as Luke Skywalker, who has 
 formed the famous Rogue Squadron. Over the course of 12+ levels, you will travel from star system 
 to star system, taking on the Empire in your quest to restore the Old Republic. Your missions will 
 take you from Tatooine to Corellia, from Thyferra to Sullust, and from the Hoth-like world Fest, 
 to the Bespin-esque cloud city of Taloraan.
  
  While games like X-Wing Alliance, TIE Fighter and Wing Commander provided a very realistic interface, 
 the required combination of a mouse, joystick and the FULL keyboard make the controls a little 
 difficult to remember for the casual gamer. Rogue Squadron is a nice break from this line of gaming. 
 Gamepads, joysticks, mice AND the keyboard are all supported, and can be used in any combination, 
 but you can choose to set the controls to accomadate only one of them - though I REALLY don't recommend 
 the use of a mouse in this game.
  
  While the graphics are very dull (bland textures and VERY low polygon count) , they don't distract 
 from the gameplay, which is very responsive. The controls are tight, and the ship is very responsive 
 to all of your commands. Unlike X-Wing Alliance, there are no controls for angling shield rotation 
 or setting weapon strength. You do fly with Wing men, but you can't control them, nor are they 
 really useful. Once in a while they'll get lucky and take out a stray TIE Fighter, but don't count 
 on them.
  
  Conversely, the enemy AI tends to be a lot smarter. AT-STs will pummel your shields if you're not 
 careful, AT-ATs will wipe out your snowspeeder in a couple blasts if you go against them head-on, 
 and TIE Interceptor will come around on your six, taking out your shields before you have a chance 
 to get clear.
  
  You start the game with the option of flying the X-Wing on Tatooine. As you finish each mission, 
 you unlock other missions. Also, based on your performance, you can earn medals which allow you 
 to refly missions with different craft. There are also four bonus ships (one of them downloadable 
 from the Rogue Squadron website) , as well as three bonus levels.
  
  Sound effects are very good, including the rush of the X-Wing's engines, the Falcon's quad-guns, 
 the explosions, and the scream of the TIE fighter's twin ion engines. The music is a reworked version 
 of the original soundtrack, which is done very well. 
  
  Rogue Squadron 3D is a very exjoyable game. While the story is not the best Star Wars tale, nor 
 are the graphics anything to write home about (the game came out about five or six years ago) , 
 and while there is no multiplayer mode, the gameplay mechanics, the difficulty level and the pace 
 of the game make it an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2004 2:56 am PT
Review:  .. universe. Star Wars: Rogue Sqadron is very arcade like, but is still a lot of fun. The games 
 graphics were really good when the game first came out, they are outdate now though.
  
  The sounds are good. Making it sound like your actually in the Star Wars universe. The levels have 
 a decent amount of detail in them making the game look really good.
  
  The AI isn't all that great, but i guess it was good for it's day. Some missions can get fairly 
 hard while others are very easy. 
  
  Overall it's a fun game, set in the Star Wars universe. It may be very arcade like, but thats not 
 always a bad thing. This game is no where up to the greatness of X-Wing Alliance. But is worth 
 getting if your wanting something different, but still with the same setting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
