-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek Bridge Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/startrekbridgecommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 941 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Feb 27, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Totally Games has managed to accurately translate the slow-paced tactical battles of the Star Trek 
 universe into an interesting game. 

 For more than a decade, Larry Holland and the team of developers at Totally Games have consistently 
 released acclaimed simulations. After releasing a trio of critically and commercially successful 
 World War II combat flight sims, Totally Games abandoned realistic simulations and opted to produce 
 the X-Wing and TIE Fighter Star Wars sims for LucasArts. Given its history and expert handling 
 of the Star Wars license, Totally Games was a natural choice to produce a space sim based on science 
 fiction's other famous franchise, Star Trek. While some gamers cynically believed that the slow-paced 
 capital-ship battles of the Star Trek universe could never be effectively translated into an enjoyable 
 space sim, Totally Games has convincingly disproved those beliefs in its latest effort. Despite 
 its short length and a few other problems, Star Trek Bridge Commander is an innovative, entertaining 
 simulation that adapts its licensed subject material in a manner that should satisfy even the franchise's 
 most zealous fans.           Bridge Commander combines tactical ship combat and adventure elements. 
    

  Bridge Commander isn't the first space sim set in the Star Trek universe, but it is undoubtedly 
 the best one. Previously released games such as Starfleet Academy and Klingon Academy just supplied 
 ammunition to those who believed that the nature of combat in the Star Trek universe couldn't be 
 translated into an interesting game. The Star Trek universe minimizes the role of small fighter 
 craft and focuses on large, durable starships, and yet vessels in previous Star Trek sims handled 
 like fighters instead of like more-formidable craft. The Academy games inappropriately tried to 
 pigeonhole the fast-paced dogfights of conventional space sims like X-Wing and Wing Commander into 
 games based upon the Star Trek universe. And although Totally Games helped to fashion many of those 
 conventions through its work on the X-Wing games, it has avoided making the same mistakes made 
 by the creators of those earlier Star Trek space sims. In Bridge Commander, battles are slow-paced 
 tactical contests in which success doesn't depend upon quickly lining up targets for your ship's 
 forward guns. Combat perfectly resembles the battles depicted in the various TV series and in movies 
 like  Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan .   

  Totally Games did make some gameplay compromises in order to permit Bridge Commander's battles 
 to be so similar to those in the Star Trek movies and series. As you'd expect given their immense 
 size, ships change directions sluggishly, but generally movement also just doesn't seem to flow 
 smoothly, and it's sometimes inordinately difficult to close range or effectively outmaneuver even 
 slower vessels. While there are computer-controlled assists available to let you better intercept 
 targets, it still seems as though the developers were so determined to prevent battles from devolving 
 into turning chases that they artificially crippled your ability to track and circle enemies. Even 
 if that's the case, those compromises were worthwhile, since they make these Star Trek vessels 
 feel like large naval ships instead of fighter planes.   

  All space sims to date have been primarily focused on combat, and that tradition continues with 
 Bridge Commander since the game is essentially a linear series of combat missions. However, unlike 
 other space sims, Bridge Commander occasionally throws in noncombat solutions to confrontations 
 and requires you to spend a significant amount of time doing activities that are ancillary or unrelated 
 to the game's battles. Bridge Commander casts you in the role of a nameless, faceless, and voiceless 
 commander of a couple of the Federation's most powerful starships shortly after the end of the 
 Dominion War depicted in  Star Trek: Deep Space Nine . Set entirely within an inhospitable region 
 of space called the Maelstrom, Bridge Commander has a detailed storyline that involves investigating 
 the cause of a mysterious supernova and uncovering the involvement of the region's Cardassian, 
 Klingon, Ferengi, and Romulan inhabitants.           You can play the entire game from the captain's 
 perspective.    

  Bridge Commander consistently requires you to interactively advance the story by investigating 
 events and discussing events with various nonplayer characters. There isn't a lot of depth to those 
 interactions, and the apparent ability you are granted to influence events or nonlinearly explore 
 the region is illusory, but the noncombat portions of Bridge Commander are sufficiently engaging 
 to make it seem almost as much an adventure game as it is a space sim. It also seems appropriate 
 that the game isn't entirely focused on combat, given Star Trek's emphasis on exploration and the 
 Federation's peaceful intentions.   

  Presumably to make you personally identify with your character, your character is nondescript and 
 never even speaks in the game, but each of your bridge crew members is given a colorful personality. 
 Missions seamlessly blend into each other, and during the course of missions your crew will discuss 
 events among themselves and provide you with appropriate advice and direction. Star Trek mainstays 
 Commander Data and Captain Picard both make appearances in the game, voiced by their real-life 
 alter egos, Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner. Consistent with its inclusion of adventure game elements, 
 Bridge Commander lets you play the entire single-player game from the perspective of the captain's 
 chair on the bridge. You can use the mouse to look around at the other crew members and to bring 
 up command menus at each crew member's station, or you can just rely on hotkeys to immediately 
 bring up those menus. Playing from the captain's perspective definitely offers an unusual simulation 
 experience, since you'll be entirely reliant on the skills of your computer-controlled crew to 
 maneuver your ship and effectively target opponents. When played from that perspective, the game 
 seems uniquely suited for voice-recognition control software such as Microsoft's Game Voice and 
 Game Commander 2, and Totally Games had the foresight to include custom-made profiles for use with 
 these.    

 While solely commanding from the bridge is a viable option, as the AI is just adept enough to get 
 the job done without more direct guidance, the game is considerably easier if you take advantage 
 of the tactical, behind-your-ship perspective that is also available. From that perspective you 
 can still issue commands from any of the bridge stations, but you can also directly control your 
 ship's maneuvering and aim its weapons. Perhaps hoping to avoid the commercial curse infecting 
 recent joystick games, Bridge Commander doesn't even include an option to play the game using a 
 joystick. Instead, you control your ship in the tactical perspective using the keyboard commands 
 typically used by first-person shooters, while relying upon the mouse to aim and fire weapons. 
 The tactical control scheme works well, and the game is easier to play from that perspective, which 
 is also the only viewpoint offered in the multiplayer version of the game.           Your crew 
 members do a good job of following orders.    

  Combat is definitely tactical, although it's repetitive since there are only a handful of enemy 
 types and each ship essentially has only one beam weapon and one set of missile weapons. Since 
 ship shields are very powerful, battles take a long time to resolve, and you'll have to be diligent 
 about focusing your weaponry on previously damaged enemy shields in order to inflict meaningful 
 damage. Targeting subsystems is also very important, since you can defang even formidable opponents 
 by destroying their weapon systems, and it's difficult to prevent target ships from fleeing unless 
 you first take out their warp drives. Maneuvering your ship is important both to ensure that your 
 craft's strongest shields are absorbing the brunt of enemy attacks and to be able to bring fully 
 charged phaser banks into range. You can also control the sequence in which damaged systems are 
 repaired, and you are required to shift your ship's allocation of power in response to changing 
 needs. Totally Games did an excellent job at ensuring both that there is a lot of tactical depth 
 to the gameplay and that the control scheme is relatively simple to manage once you acquire some 
 familiarity with it.   

  Graphics and sound effects are both excellent in Bridge Commander, effectively re-creating the 
 sights and sounds of the Star Trek universe. There are a variety of graphical options to tune that 
 allow the game to play smoothly even on lower-end machines meeting the game's requirements, although 
 there are some glitches with the current Nvidia card drivers that cause occasional problems. The 
 game suffers from a significant memory leak, which may be related to the Nvidia driver problems, 
 that results in performance gradually degrading after playing for a couple of hours until you reboot 
 the game. A variety of graphical resolutions up to 1600x1200 are supported, and unlike in many 
 games that support such high resolutions, the interface readouts have been customized to ensure 
 that they are still easily readable regardless of resolution. Area-specific damage is modeled, 
 letting you occasionally, although infrequently, take significant pieces out of enemy ships, which 
 looks great. Unfortunately, the damage-modeling system wasn't ported to the multiplayer version 
 of the game. The characters have digital face textures, so recognizable characters in the game 
 like Data and Picard look as you'd expect. Characters' lips move out of sync with their dialogue, 
 though, which looks pretty goofy unless you're a devoted fan of Japanese monster movies.       
     This is the first Star Trek sim to truly capture the feel of the series.    

  The game's campaign is relatively brief, which significantly affects the game's longevity since 
 the linear nature of the missions offers limited replayability. The game's multiplayer options 
 do little to add replayability, although they do give you the opportunity to pilot a greater variety 
 of ships. Multiplayer battles are straightforward single deathmatches, team deathmatches, or simplistic 
 base-defense battles, and the multiplayer code is so flaky that it regularly causes crashes. Also, 
 the single-player campaign's linearity can frequently cause some frustration, since failing to 
 complete a mission goal will usually require you to repeat the mission. You can never directly 
 choose to save the game, and although the game automatically saves itself after each mission, it's 
 tedious to replay missions since many of them are very lengthy. Since each battle usually takes 
 at least five minutes, and missions are often broken into several encounters, you'll occasionally 
 have to replay lengthy sequences just to try to accomplish a goal that previously eluded you. The 
 game should have either automatically saved after each encounter or given you the option of saving 
 during a mission by returning to your starbase. You can, at least, return to your base during missions 
 to repair damage from previous encounters. With a couple of notable exceptions, the individual 
 missions are also not very difficult on the default difficulty level. None of the missions are 
 as difficult, or as puzzle-oriented, as some of the more notoriously challenging missions in Totally 
 Games' X-Wing games.   

  While its short duration and limited replayability may prevent it from enjoying a sustained life 
 on your computer's hard drive, Bridge Commander is the first Star Trek space sim that actually 
 feels like it's set in the Star Trek universe. Totally Games has managed to accurately translate 
 the slow-paced tactical battles of the Star Trek universe into an interesting game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fherre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game, thanks to mod comunity, is now morre great that when was release in 2002. This probes 
 the great job made by his creators that give us no only one game but a plataform to customize it 
 in every way posible: graphics, funtionality, etc. Now we have every crew and ships from every 
 series and films (a true star trek legacy) , a diversity of maps to travel, even now we can really 
 travel in the trek galaxy thanks the excelent mod Galaxy Charts. Also we have the first funtional 
 wormhole, travels engines like slipstream. This is the way that a great game must follow: go where 
 no game has gone before, in this case making a game mod friendly so it can be vigent 7 years after 
 its release. Of course, again this is posible thanks to making a game that let portrait the trek 
 experience as commander of a trek ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Chris
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Star Trek: Bridge Commander is a game that has amazing graphics, an excellent story line and contains 
 hours of enjoyment. The game is a delightful mix of a simulation, action and arcade game that makes 
 the game cost every penny.
  
  As I am writing this the game is over six years old, yet the graphic still uphold with more recent 
 games even exceeding a few, this is mainly due to the beauty and caring detail placed into each 
 and every ship. 
  
  The story line is as with most games the detail that puts it down or makes it a great success. 
 With Star Trek: Bridge Commander I find it is a breath of fresh air, compared to other games that 
 has one purpose to get from A to B whilst destroying the enemies. The story flows and fits in perfectly 
 with the TV series "Canon" and in my opinion enhancing it in many places.
  
  The playability is incredible, you can both take control of the ship by yourself and fly it manually 
 or you can sit back in the captains chair and order your bridge crew to do so. The player interface 
 itself is simple yet effective, designed like from the series the buttons you press could make 
 the difference of destroying a ship or simply disabling it.
  
  In conclusion I believe this game is a true masterpiece and worth nearly any amount of money, the 
 only obvious letdown to the game is the lack of playable ships in "Quick Battle" mode. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I never played anything like it. The graphics aren't the best in the world 
 but they are pretty damn good. Playing this game is the same as actually being in space. You command 
 your crew telling each one exactly what to do. The space battles are great and sometimes can be 
 very challenging. There are times throughout the game when you are fighting along side friendly 
 vessels and you can tell them what to do as well. This adds a bit of strategy to the game.
  
  Whats nice is that some actions you take now affect something later on. For example if you 
 are in one system and you don't destroy the enemy fleet they could reapear later in another system. 
 This game is definitely worth playing on Captain difficulty (the same as medium difficulty) . It 
 is a bit challenging but all the missions are doable.
  
  I highly recommend this game to everyone who loves Star Trek or simply wants to pilot their own 
 ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  It just amazes me that the number of people who don't like this game don't like it because you 
 can't control what the ship does and have to rely on bridge crew only- completley oblivious to 
 the fact that you can see the outside of your ship and control any funtion even helm from there 
 and play it like legacy but with mre realistic phasers and torpedos. THe grpahics arfe aweful by 
 todays standards but you have to remember when it came out...
  The only down side to this game is the Commander. I want to kill her so bad everytime- I just wish 
 you could pull a phaser on her otehr than that and that its fun. the phasers the quantum torps 
 are much more balanced then they were in legacy. You can actually shot Toprs from almost any angle 
 and they will miss occaionally, you can target subsystems, you can leave the ship a crippled wreck 
 but not destroy it and tractor into a planet. It's just good old fashion fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, ambitious and addictive to play if you are a fan of Star Trek. Even if you 
 are not a fan of it it's still a good space sim to play 
  
  It's very interactive you have 5 main crew members on the ship you can give orders too and it works 
 out very easily, you also have full control of your ship for combat or manoeuvring in a fully 3D 
 space environment or you can have attacks and piloting automated while you deal with ship repairs. 
 The AI is intelligent enough to try and keep itself alive when fighting; it fully uses the 3D environment 
 and targets your ships key systems and aims for your ships weakspots in shields or systems. You 
 can also collide with other ships which can be handy in desperate times 
  
  The graphics are dated by today's standard but the ships are still nicely detailed and show some 
 nice battle damage in those close and intense fights. The space environments are also rich and 
 detailed but the character models for the crew I felt could have looked a little better
  
  Even though this is an old game it has had masses of mods for it one of the best mods I've seen 
 is the Kobayashi Maru 1.0 mod it adds a good 2GB of extras to the game like new ships, new tactics, 
 Ai changes, better ship models plus more
  http://kobmaru. de/index. php? show=88
  
  So overall a Great game and one that feel like Star Trek. It is very in-depth and detailed in what 
 you can do leaving you with many tactics to try out and there are plenty of user mods around to 
 improve it even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Few Star Trek fans would not have dreamed of captaining a starship of their own  making the tough 
 moral and ethical decisions, balancing the Prime Directive against doing the right thing in the 
 specific circumstances, managing your crew, exploring the final frontier with new surprises every 
 day... Bridge Commander seemed to offer the perfect opportunity for this - You are the captain. 
 Instead, it offers all the freedom and originality of a rail shooter.
  
  There is no crew management. There are a few set officers, a few randoms who swap in on occasion, 
 and that's it. Despite the game's claims to the contrary, there are few thought-provoking decisions. 
 You have little freedom  report to Starfleet, get objectives, go out, complete objectives, return 
 to Starfleet. There is little need to even think  your crew actually ask you for the order you 
 have to give in each case! It often feels as if the game is playing itself, just asking for a token 
 input from the player on occasion. Indeed, you can simply tell your officers to handle combat themselves, 
 and thus contribute absolutely nothing at all. Even if you do try to handle itself, you are let 
 down by some baffling issues. Sparks are flying and your ship is leaking some sort of liquid  
 you must be taking internal hits, right? Well, no, that happens whenever you take hits, regardless 
 of how easily your shields handled it. Want to protect a weak shield against the barrage you're 
 taking? You aren't told which shield is being hit. Want to strengthen a particular shield to suit 
 your angle of attack? Can't do that at all. Suddenly can't fire your forward phasers? Apparently 
 they were destroyed at some point, though you were never advised of that. So many Star Trek games 
 have done it better, including the ancient Final Unity which didn't even have a focus on combat.
 
  
  The voice acting is unremarkable  not as terrible as in many games, but far from anything memorable 
 and inspiring. Graphically, the game is disappointing. The space environment is far less impressive 
 than that of Klingon Academy from several years ago, and the explosions are particularly terrible 
  a ball of flame, then the ship disappears. Wing Commander was doing that over a decade ago, and 
 there's no excuse for it in a 2002 game.
  
  Mission design is unimpressive. As noted, there is little requirement for any thought from the 
 player. You are guided through every step. Several missions are quite annoying, such as one where 
 you must disable a station then board it. Your useless crew generally blow it up or get themselves 
 blown up, so it's up to you to handle it. Unfortunately, even the most careful shooting sees a 
 lot of hull damage, but it's possible to avoid destroying it. Of course, then three ships turn 
 up and blow it up anyway, long before you have a chance to draw them all off. There's a difference 
 between a challenge, and something that makes you uninstall the game in frustration.
  
  Then again, with all the other flaws in the game, most would have deleted it long before then. 
 The game may have some value when heavily modded or as a multiplayer game, but out of the box, 
 it is a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game a couple years ago, and was skeptical at first. Went through the 
 campaign the first time and had no idea what i was doing. Suprisingly beat the game but it took 
 forever. Then I got the gamespy player and started playing multiplayer, learing that you hae to 
 fly the thing, and it became additcing and so much fun. I join a team called the Red Squadrons 
 in the process too. It became the sole game i played for about 7 months. They started bringing 
 different versino of the game, like 1.10, 1.3b, and 1.3c, which included new ships and upgraded 
 weapons and sounds for all craft. It really became a battle royale type of game. The only hitch 
 was you had to install different files of the game to accompany the different version types. The 
 easy part was in gamespy you could change what .exe file was used to launch the game from gamespy. 
 After awhile I started playing single player again when there was no one around and using the upgraded 
 sutff, it made it alot more fun and your allies were alot more dependable. The gameplay was better 
 in multiplayer, huge dogfights and multiple ways to attack and different stratgies for each ship, 
 which kept you guessing. Overall, this game truly stepped up the Star Trek name, i just wish they 
 would have made another one of this game, and stepped up the graphics. Like is the Movie Nemesis, 
 make the shields looks like they are wrapped right around the ship so they are harder to drain 
 then rather being like a circle, oval, etc. around it. Good Job Guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striker1942
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up Star Trek-Bridge Commander at the store, I didn't have high hopes for it. After 
 I played Legacy, my mind was set that NO Star Trek games (or Star Wars, but that's something else) 
 could ever be very good. I told myself that I would not leave the store with it. Naturally, I walked 
 out being the not-so-proud owner of Bridge Commander.
  
  The first thing I tried was the campaign. I was expecting a brute, no-tutorial campaign. In reality, 
 the first mission was very helpful, and one of the best aspects of the game. The campaign itself 
 is pretty interesting, and will keep you playing. However, the quick match ability makes the game 
 much better. The ability to play a battle that could take 3 minutes, or half an hour (happened 
 to me once) , is extraordiary. But the best part of the game is the mods that are so abundant (especially 
 The Beginning mod) . They add a new layer to the game, which gives it incredible repayability.
 
  
  The only problem with the game is the cost. The game is out of print, and a new one on Ebay costs 
 about $80. The used ones go for about $30. $80 for a video game (a PC one) is a lot of money to 
 pay. My copy was one of the last in the store. Good luck finding one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChakatBlackstar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay, most of you Star Trek fans know that there are only a handful of good Star Trek games. But 
 there is always an exception to the rule, and this is one of them. This game is one of the best 
 Star Trek games I've ever played. Put enough of the obvious, you want to know about the gameplay 
 right?
  
  You play as the faceless, nameless captain of a Star Fleet ship in a territory known as the Maelstrom. 
 An unclaimed piece of space where you have to try and protect federation intrests without losing 
 your ship. As the story progresses you have to deal with a number of situations that you could 
 easily see happening in the show. And what's more, you can give just about every normal order you 
 would expect out of a captain. You can take a back seat in the captian's chair on the bridge and 
 let your crew do the busy work or with the press of your space bar you can control the ship from 
 a third person view. In some ways the combat is more realistic in the game then in the show, and 
 at harder levels it requires a quick assesment and intelligent tactics just like a real captain.
 
  
  The interface is also well designed, for example the tacticle screen showing the status of the 
 targeted enemy and their subsystems, shows weapon and shilds status and general damage of your 
 own ship.
  
  If it's not here you can find it at bcfiles. com where you can download mods for just about anything 
 you can think of for this game, except for Orion Slave girls that is. Just about any ship, weapons, 
 graphics enhancements, enhanced power control, even near total conversion and upgrade with the 
 Kobayashi Maru, are available to turn this game into what it would be if made today. However the 
 downside to the mods is that the multiplayer feature will only let you play against people with 
 the exaxt same mods. Luckly packages like the Kobayashi Maru pack make this easier with univeral 
 modding.
  
  Final assesment: a must have for any trekkie, as well as any normal gamer looking for a unique 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAW666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Most Star Trek games rated form bad to good, this isn't one of them. This is a great that sometimes 
 that you wish there was more. The game should be added on with better graphic and more of the continue 
 adventures of the U. S. S. Sovereign. I hope that Totally Games decide to make a sequel to this game. 
 Also on note, the controls are easy to master and not so hard learning curve and there is no question 
 that the game is fun. My favorite part is the end but I won't spoil it for you, but can tell you 
 it involve sending a ship into a sun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Bridge Commander is one of the first games I have ever had the privilege to play on PC. 
 As a Star Trek fan it is only normal for excitement to appear when a new star trek game is realised 
 but this game in my view out ranks all others. It is the sort of game that never gets old with 
 all sorts of great aspects to it.
  
  Star Trek Bridge Commander gives you the opportunity to fully interact with your crew of bridge 
 officers that take charge of each station. You have the ability to let them do the work or you 
 can take over the job yourself. Each crewmember has there own strengths and weaknesses, which make 
 the game even more realistic. The posts, which will be filled by your officers on the bridge, are 
 helm, tactical, engineering, science, first officers area and second officers area. Each one 
 of these posts has distinctive and useful functions.
  You have the ability to control the ship in two ways. You can use the spacebar and the keys to 
 manually fly and fight enemies with the ship or you can issue orders to the officers from the bridge 
 to do these commands. This allows you to play the game in two different perspectives.
  
  The storyline, which comes with, the game is gripping and keeps you in your seat throughout the 
 game itself. You get to fight with Ferengi, Romulands, Kessok, Cardasians and Klingons. Each races 
 has there own personality and tactics not to mention variations in the ships. You will find that 
 most of the time you will be allied with the Klingons who will aid you in fighting the war against 
 the Kessok and the cardasians. You will have the choice of whether or not to engage in battle and 
 when the timing is right to retreat. Each new mission has its won twists and turns and is introduduces 
 slowly in order to get the player familiar with the role of being a Starfleet captain.
  
  You will meet famous characters of star trek on your journey such as Captain Picard and Commander 
 data that will help you to complete your missions throughout the game. Admiral Lou will also become 
 a big feature throughout the game and will show you new assignments and reward and punish you for 
 your efforts.
  
  Once engages in battle your ship will receive structural damage and in bridge mode the ship will 
 rock and bang when hit with torpedoes. You have the ability to perform evasive manoeuvres and go 
 into tactical mode switching through green, yellow and red alert to suit the given situation.
 
  
  There has however been a few stet backs with this game. For example the popularity in the past 
 six months has decrease by over half and to be honest the game is now being viewed as rather old 
 due to the release of Starship Command II. There are also some errors in the game such as the fact 
 that you get voice over lapping which can cause problems in the game is you are trying to listen 
 to important information. The sounds of the weapons should be upgraded to fit what they sound like 
 in the movies and series but thanks to bcfiles. com you can now ad new torpedo and phaser sounds 
 to make them sound far more realistic.
  
  You have the ability to brush up on your fighting skills with the quick battle and multiplayer 
 mode where you can engage straight into battle either with the computer or with real people. The 
 multiplayer mode can be run either from the game itself or by gamespy but either way has become 
 more challenging. In the past six months the multiplayer mode has gone down and now it is hard 
 to find more than a handful of games at any one time.
  
  I like this game and I will always like this game down to the pure fact that it is some realistic 
 and reminds me of what pressures you would be under to be a Starfleet captain. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone but in my opinion star trek fans would get more out of this game than anyone 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I like the starship action. And I love the background and the combat did I just say that. Star 
 trek bridge commander is very hard to find, this program is a little bit rare. But I had to go 
 to Amazon. com in order to get it, but this program is a little expensive this costed me 55.70$ 
 half of a hundred can you believe that?. This game is the best star trek game of all time I mean 
 that. I like battling the Klingon's and the Cardasions. The cardasion war ships is such a easy 
 target but let me give you some advice the Romulans are very hard to destroy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boku14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is a near perfect star trek game. though the stock game is kinda, well lacking. but all 
 you have to do is go to a mod site like  and you will find well 
 over a 1000 ships/mods. from the borg, to even ships from other sci-fi shows/games. with mods that 
 makes this game amazing to play. with a fun storyline and multiplayer. and even a mode that lets 
 you make anything happen. from X-wings attacking shuttles, to the borg blowing away hataks. this 
 game has enough add-ons to keep you play for the next 10 years, atleast! the only thing wrong I 
 can find with this game, is the fact that you can't buy it. nearly no one sells it. the only place 
 I found it being sold, was on sites like ebay. if you are lucky enough to even see it being sold, 
 BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Well it seems that one after another Star Trek games have come along and failed. The games just 
 dont recieve enough support and are rushed through development and when the final product is released 
 it is unimpressive. Luckily for Star Trek fans Bridge Commander and the Armada seris of games is 
 a step in the right direction for the future of Star Trek games. 
  
  The Story:
  
  In Star Trek: Bridge Commander you are a commander of a galaxy class federation starship (the USS. 
 Dauntless) when a disaster in the solar system causes the sun to go nova, destroying all federation 
 presence (including a shuttle which is carrying your captain) and damages your ship heavily. After 
 this incident you are put in command of the USS. Dauntless and are charged with the task of investigating 
 the "accident" which destroyed the sun. 
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  Bidge Commander undertook the task to provide a simulation of star ship control from the captain's 
 chair but also to alow you free reign over specific combat actions. In a sense there are two ways 
 to control your ship but can become one. The first method of control is directing your crew members 
 to carry them out for you. The developers achieved this by giving you a first person perspective 
 from the captain's chair. You look around and may select 1 of 5 bridge officers, Engineering, Science, 
 Tactical, Helm, and your first officer. You may play the game from this perspective and watch the 
 action from the view screen.... but... you may want to press the space bar and take the second approach 
 to control in Bridge Commander. When you do this the camera is set to a third person view outside 
 of your ship following your target but always focusing on your ship. Myself I find the controls 
 to be masterful (when i make a few adjustments) . This view provides a near cinematic view of everything 
 around you and can be most impressive.
  
  Single Player: 
  
  The single player part of Bridge Commander is.. well solid. It allows you to explore all the maps 
 in the initial installation and all the options within your ship. That combined with a decent storyline 
 and resonable voice acting creates a great experience.
  
  Quickbattle:
  
  A great feature in Bridge Commander is Quickbattle. This allows you to add any ship from the game 
 into a scenario and make any combination of objects friend or foe. This is where you will spend 
 most of you time and with the additions of the Kobayashimaru mod and others it will keep you playing 
 the game.
  
  The Graphics:
  
  The graphics in Bridge Commander are a pleasant surprise. You can tell that the developers put 
 alot of work into the ship models and your surroundings and with a couple of suggestions in the 
 MODS section of my review you can greatly increase them to bring them to the year 2006. Even if 
 you do not modify the game the graphics are great and still competative for 2005 year games. The 
 only let down is the inside of the bridge. The models for the crew members are not the greatest 
 and sometimes the view screen has its problems but these are things that do not matter if you are 
 into the 3rd person type of gameplay.
  
  The Sounds:
  
  Well the sounds are not the greatest part of the game but they are not one of its fauts either. 
 As you would think the game has an array of "Star Trek" sound effects, from phaser fire to quantem 
 torpedoes everything sounds fine. The only let down is the music. Dont get me wrong it sounds nice 
 for the frst 25-30 hours but it gets a little annoying after that lol. But seriously the sounds 
 in Bridge Commander are solid and i have few complaints.
  
  Mods:
  
  Although the game is impressive it still is 4 years behind the times. Luckily for us until the 
 next slew of Star Trek games are released we have an excellent Mod base. Many people have dedicated 
 hours into creating new and beutiful ship models and backgrounds. I really am impressed wth how 
 the Kobayashimaru Mod looks and runs. This mod adds dozens of ships into the game, upgrades old 
 ones to look beautiful and adds many menu options within the ships to create a very fun experience. 
 If I were to suggest any Mod it would be the Kobayashimaru Mod at Fileplanet.
  
  When it comes down to it I belive that this game is a step in the right direction for the Star 
 Trek fanchise and I cannot wait for more!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coroner62
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The best Star Trek game ever made I wish that they made a part 2 I loved the interfaces and camera 
 views and great story line. (Revolutionary)
  The Graphics were really good. Some ships had more detail that others though. The Capitan's interface 
 from the tactical view was the best along with the camera modes. The stations were not consistent 
 with the T. V. shows. And the Tactical officer's AI could have been a lot better if so I would have 
 played more from the bridge view. But the 1 thing that I didn't like about the game was the fact 
 that anytime your haled by other vessels or do anything important or tha involved interaction with 
 the storyline or AI the 1st officer always did all the talking you got to do NONE at all. Would 
 have been better if it had more accurate phaser placement and arcs on the ships. I really love 
 the Akira Class starship. But this game goes to show that if they put there mind to it they and 
 put some real time into it. can come up with a really good star trek game. The Best I've ever seen 
 and I still play it to this day. If you don't have it, get it you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeVIP
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Bridge Commander is an amazing game that I have been playing since the day I got it (2004-2005) . 
 I read about it in a magazine from 2001 
  (I think) and could not wait playing it. 
  
  The story is a little short but the gameplay and graphics are great. 
  And you can always play 
 Quikbattle (Skirmish) or Multiplayer if you finished the story. Plus there are tons of ships, modifications 
 and maps available on the internet  which makes the game 
 a lot more fun. It still looks and plays amazing even though the game is a bit old.
  
  
  Definitely worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Lets be clear on this from the very start: I adore Star Trek. Deep Space Nine was rubbish, but 
 the original series and Next Generation were great. So obviously, Im bound to be ever so slightly 
 biased in favour of any game that gets released about it. However, I can honestly say that Star 
 Trek: Bridge Commander is a really great game just so long as you are into Star Trek, or anything 
 in anyway sci-fi space related.
  
  Star Trek: Bridge Commander really is a tactical shooter at heart. The main plot is that you were 
 the unnamed First Officer aboard the USS Dauntless, patrolling the Vesuvi System (sounds strangely 
 like Vesuvius doesnt it?) in the Maelstrom region of space. I say were because you get promoted 
 to Captain as old Captain Wright gets killed when the Vesuvi star mysteriously explodes during 
 the introduction. From then on, it is a race to discover why the Vesuvi star exploded, whether 
 it was an accident, and who was behind it. The game lets you control two starships during the main 
 campaign; The USS Dauntless, which is a Galaxy Class, and the USS Sovereign, the prototype Sovereign 
 Class. Controlling these ships is relatively easy, thanks to the assistance of the crew. Simply 
 click on whatever crewmember you desire, and choose from a drop-down menu a series of orders, such 
 as increase speed, attack vessel, or warp to a different sector. In game, there are two views from 
 which the game can be played. A tactical external view, where you see the ship from the outside 
 as it flys majestically around, and a bridge view, where you are glued solidly into the Captains 
 chair, but can at least pan around to look at the crewmembers, and can see what is going on outside 
 through the viewscreen.
  
  Most of the missions follow a very similar structure; go in, scan the area, meet the bad guys, 
 shoot and destroy the bad guys and then return to the Starbase. While this can become a little 
 repetitive, there is some variety in these missions, such as where stealth will be required to 
 succeed, or you may have to hold off an attack before the reinforcements can arrive. The plot is 
 very strong, and you do feel some attachment to many of the characters you meet along the way. 
 The game is also quite long, and will require at least several sittings to get through the campaign. 
 Battles are extremely fun, and the ships all seem to have accurate, or at least realistic sense 
 of speed, strength and power. You wouldnt expect a huge spaceship to turn corners abruptly, but 
 instead they turn like blue whales. AI is normally very competent at dealing your attacks, and 
 friendly AI can be ordered to attack specific targets. In multiplayer and Quickbattle modes, you 
 can also play as ships from Klingon, Cardassian, Federation and Romulan fleets (no Borg unfortunately) 
 although you must keep the Galaxy or Sovereign bridges.
  
  The major drawback of Bridge Commander is the graphics. With all the settings maxed out, the external 
 shots of the spaceships looks pretty impressive and majestic. However, whenever any damage is sustained, 
 all you get is a generic damage texture, which looks rather silly and terribly unrealistic. All 
 explosions look just like bits of smoke ballooning out of nowhere. Never attempt to crash into 
 a planet, as you will be able to approach without any problem before suddenly hitting the surface 
 of the sphere and dying instantly. The damage on the bridge is little better. The screens do flicker 
 nicely, sparks fly, and air vents will burst, but none of it lasts very long or makes it feel like 
 the ship is taking serious damage. Furthermore, additional useless crew members on the Sovereign 
 bridge may be thrown over by a torpedo hit, and then never get up, instead lying prone, face up 
 on the floor. The character models themselves are also very bad, and there really isnt any lip 
 syncing whatsoever.
  
  Thankfully, sound is quite good. The music is suitably Star Trekesque, and the character voices 
 include those of Patrick Stewart as Picard and Brent Spiner as Data, though the role of Picard 
 is very minor within the game. They all get a great variety of dialogue to play around with, though 
 I would have loved to have seen more. The genuinely only annoying character is that of your First 
 Officer, Commander Saffi Larsen, who is universally despised by all players of this game, constantly 
 reminding you of your mission objectives, or what Starfleet protocols you are breaking. Just listen 
 once to her voice and you will understand exactly what I mean. While it was meant to assist in 
 remembering what you were supposed to be doing, you are supposed to be in charge here, being the 
 captain, and should not be bossed around by your executive.
  
  At the moment, this is still the best Star Trek action game there is. That fact was set to change 
 with the release of Star Trek: Legacy, which should have really been the successor of Bridge Commander. 
 However, thanks to the abject failure of Legacy on the PC on all counts, Bridge Commander is still 
 the pinnacle of Star Trek gaming, and worth checking out if you love this genre. The gameplay is 
 exceedingly fun and engrossing on many levels. Just be prepared to overlook the mediocre graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game on release day in 1998 I found everything that I wanted in a Star Trek 
 sim game that others have tried and failed to provide... it was more polished and ambitous than 
 both Starfleet academy and Klingon academy... both those games made the ships no more than large 
 fighters that could solve any problem with phasers and photon torps.
  
  This game was hyped as having great graphics and accurate ship models... not true... all the ships 
 looked rushed and at the worst, incorrect... I forgave this fault because the combat system was 
 improved over the last two games and that I was able to fight as the soveriegn class and galaxy 
 against cardie ships and such.
  
  The ship selection was terrible out of the box... only a few ships for each race and none of them 
 looked very good at all... the addition of the Kessok (who the heck are they??) was even worse... I 
 play Star Trek games to see the enemies I know... not half attempts at shoehorning stupid races 
 to suit a need in the plot.
  
  The controls are great and require little time to get used to... I tend to gravitate more to the 
 exterior view to fight because allowing the crew to fight for me is the worse idea ever... they 
 do a okay job... but not good enough to trust at all... the enemy AI is okay... sometimes not aggresive 
 enough and no matter how high you set the difficulty, you will still see them fire blind at nothing 
 while moving into a arc to hit you... not that great but not a big deal.
  
  After many years the mod community has polished the heck out of this game... the efforts of the 
 mod teams at BCfiles have made this game good where the dev team failed... now there are hundreds 
 of ships to add to the game and new scripts that allow you to do many things that the devs said 
 would not be possible at all... you can now walk around the bridge and launch shuttles... you can 
 even seperate the galaxy class ship and others using the multivector assault mode... I have added 
 over a gig of mods to the game and it barely resembles the half attempt that came out of the box.
 
  
  This game is hard to find now... you can fetch it for as high as $80 if you look... if you are a 
 Star Trek fan and have a good computer to run all the demanding mods... than this game is worth 
 the price and effort to aquire.
  
  I will rate this game as it exists now... because you really have no need to play the stock version 
 anyway.
  
  Buy it if you are a Trek gamer... if you are not... well I doubt you are reading this anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boris1701
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  When I originally bought this game in 2000 I played through the story and messed around a bit in 
 quick battle with a rather large feeling of disapointment as to how un-fufilling the game seemed. 
 With all the hype i was expecting a game that pushed the limits of star trek gaming, but instead 
 I got what seemed like a half finished beta version of which obveosly it was not.
  
  However since 2000 I have been exploring different types of modding for games including bridge 
 commander. And most recently with the release of the "Bridge Commander Bridge Plugin" and the "BCS 
 The Beginning," I find a vast improvement on the game.
  
  Bridge Plugin offers a more realistic bridge experience whilst adding many bridges to the game 
 (as of yet only two bridges are avalible for the plugin but many more are on the way.) 
  
  BCS The Beginning adds all those tricks and impressive stunts we 've seen our favourite crews pull 
 off; such as trasnporting torpedos to enemy vessels and targeting plasma streams leading to a massive 
 firework of an explosion.
  
  I recomend to any star trek fan vist www. bcfiles. com and have a good long look around.
  
  BCS 
 Link: http://bridgecommander. filefront. com/file/BCS_The_Beginning;59227
  
  Bridge Plugin: 
  http://bridgecommander. filefront. com/file/3rd_Era_Bridge_Plugin_Video;49030 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Bridge Commander perfectly captures what it is like to command the USS Dauntless and 
 Sovereign. With one downside. First Officer Saffi. She is a total nitwit who takes over in any 
 situation despite you being the captain on one of the best ships in the Maelstrom. 
  
  Gameplay is excellent as players get to become captain or even pilot the ship through ravaged systems 
 such as Vesuvi and the memorable space station Star Base 12. The missions are all different and 
 can be annoying when you run out of quantums. But defects aside you get to chase after all new 
 technology and civilisations in order to complete your objectives.
  
  To be honest the developers could have spent more time at looking a facial expressions as whenever 
 someone finishes speaking they look like they have a bad case of constipation. The lips don't move 
 to the words and look like they were just thrown in as a two minute extra. 
  
  Piloting the ships can be pretty annoying when you crash it to ships and planets but when you have 
 got past that stage it is quite easy. the controls all fall to hand and the graphics can still 
 compete against the games of 2006 today. You even have to choice to go to red alert and set phasers 
 to kill as your decisions will ensure the future of the Maelstrom and the surrounding area.
  
  Personally I think that there isn't enough freedom in what you want to do as your actions are 
 based in space. The closesed you are ever going to get to a planet is if you crash in to one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  In tackling the Star Trek universe, Totally Games brought much of their design philosophy from 
 the LucasArts "X-Wing" series to shape the gameplay. Although much fun can be had, the experience 
 is far from fulfilling. If anything, "Bridge Commander" exposes the fact that too much personal 
 choice is needed to really capture the feeling of sitting in the big chair.
  
  * Gameplay: Weve all seen how hard it is to command a ship and crew in any Star Trek episode, 
 and the amount of responsibility is enormous. To be fair, there is simply no way Totally Games 
 was ever going to come close. They could have designed this game giving every possible choice to 
 the player, and it still wouldnt have been much fun. Why? Because making the hard choices isnt 
 something everyone can do or even knows how to do. Thats why starship captains arent recruits 
 out of the Academy. Theyve got decades of experience sitting in all the other chairs on the bridge 
 before they ever get offered center stage. So it really comes as no surprise that almost every 
 important decision in the game is hand-fed to you, either by suggesting it to death (Captain, 
 we should rendezvous with the Khitomer.) , or outright done for you, such as your science officer 
 scanning objects without your consent. In fact, while the silence of your character allows any 
 player to slip into the role, it also serves to make you feel like what you are, a background character 
 who has no business speaking up about anything, because you know less than anyone else on the bridge! 
 The game is therefore limiting in many aspects. For example, in diplomacy, once or twice you may 
 have a conversation with some hot-headed Romulan or Cardassian, and what actions you choose can 
 decide a particular outcome. But diplomacy this aint. You cant offer something else they may 
 want, perform a secret scan to uncover something they are hiding, use a poker face to hide something 
 yourself, or any of a dozen scenarios seen in a dozen episodes of the show. Its basically shoot 
 or dont shoot. With repairs, Totally Games carried over their R2D2 droid repair feature from X-Wing; 
 you get three teams who can repair three areas of the ship. Great. What happens when my Hull is 
 at %12, and Ive got two other teams repairing the tractor beam and Port warp nacelle! Youd think 
 you could assign all three to one in a pinch, but, youd be wrong. Speaking of repairs, there are 
 times in between missions that you can head to Starbase 12 for repairs, except they let you do 
 it when you really shouldnt, like when other Federation ships are dying in some system, and at 
 the same time, deny you the ability to run like blazes when you are about to die and desperately 
 need repairs. When the Cheng reports Microfractures are forming in the hull!, its time to get 
 the hell out of there! Dont kill me and end the mission. A better design would be for me to accept 
 the consequences as any captain would have to, and let ME decide if I can live with it and move 
 on or reload the mission. In tactical scenarios, the tactical officer never takes advantage of 
 the weaknesses reported by the science officer. Thats left for you, to undermine his role and 
 operate tactical yourself. If I wanted to dogfight with other ships, I wouldnt be playing a game 
 called Bridge Commander. Im supposed to be the captain! Where are my lists of tactical maneuvers 
 handed down by my mentors that no one on the bridge has ever heard of? Also, the only outcome of 
 a battle is destruction. Disable is left for missions that require it. You cant hail a ship about 
 to be destroyed and gain some bonus by offering them mercy. They dont hail you and beg for their 
 lives! You cant disable and tow a ship back in to Starbase 12 and be commended on capturing live 
 prisoners. Ironically, many of these kind of side choices WERE offered in the older X-Wing games 
 by the same company. On saving, the game decides when it should save, not you, and some of those 
 moments when youve just been in a big firefight and want to save can get hairy if the game doesnt 
 decide to. Even then, a save is not a blessing. Just before Episode 7 there is a lengthy, huge 
 fight. If you just manage to make it through, tough, because the game will save your ship that 
 way, and send you through the next gauntlet, damaged and all.
  
  On a brighter side, the scripts are well-written, and all the characters on the bridge are fleshed 
 out well enough to feel like you know them. While there are no one-on-one moments where you can 
 talk to crew members personally, they do have cutscenes for each of them, where they talk into 
 their personal logs, mostly about you, the new captain. Encounters with other Federation ships 
 give you a chance to talk to their captains. Listening to the crew banter with each other keeps 
 the bridge feeling alive. Science missions make for nice breather moments, when you dont feel 
 the need to be a captain. Overall, the experience of being on the bridge has a certain feeling 
 of adventure to it.
  
  * Graphics: There isnt much to look at on the bridges themselves, even though both of them are 
 modeled just like on the show and movies. Once you get tired of staring at the expressionless faces 
 of the crew, youll more than likely be switching to an exterior camera, preferring to gaze at 
 the possibilities of endless space rather than the back of another polygonal chair. The menus of 
 course follow the LCARS standard, and the weapon effects are very accurate. Torpedoes sparkle and 
 phasers sizzle as they strike their targets. Smoke puffs leave trails from damaged portions, and 
 fireballs flame out from fractured decks. On the bridge itself, sparks fly, smoke shoots in all 
 directions, and the camera shakes. Very impressive.
  
  * Sound: I was pleased with the way the soundtrack and mission music captured the feel of the TV 
 shows. Not another retread, but a fully original orchestration using many of the same instruments. 
 When torpedoes hit your ship, you feel it. When you launch them, they zing out the launch doors. 
 Every sound effect you would expect to hear on the show is recreated faithfully, even the tractor 
 beam. The voice work is exceptionally well done, and the inclusion of Patrick Stewart and Brent 
 Spiner was a real pleasure.
  
  * Value: There is a huge multiplayer community that takes advantage of Bridge Commanders multiplayer 
 capabilities, even this far after the game has been out. There are also a fair amount of mods, 
 including ships that didnt even come with the game. The single-player campaign may offer some 
 people an interest in replay, but I felt I could do all that was possible the first time around, 
 and some of those mission I dont ever want to see again.
  
  * Tilt: A big fan of the shows, I consider myself a born-again Star Trek fan, having been awakened 
 by the goodness that was TNG. The only other Star Trek games Ive played were Elite Force and Borg. 
 Ive always been very strict about what I thought Id like in a ST game, so I passed on many of 
 them. This one comes close, and Id like to see this approach given another chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Bridge Commander rewards the Star Trek fans with a intereging atmosphere which is set 
 with in this game.
  
  You get apparences from Patrick Stewert (Picard) and Brent Spiner (Data) . Although these two are 
 in the game as a fan I did miss not seeing the rest of the TNG crew. As the enterprise does make 
 an appearance.
  
  The game sets you as the captain of a ship which you was the 1st officer of. The ships Captain 
 was killed after a sun went Super Nova. 
  
  You take command at the head of the investigation into the cause of that super nova. 
  
  The 
 story line is compelling and it leaves you wanting more and frustrated and excited in all the right 
 places. However I feel the game could of allowed more freedom. One are particaly where Data goes 
 down onto a planet, we get ambushed by a flotila of Cadassian ships. The makes you leave the system 
 although it is possible to defeat all those ships by jumping to another planet in the sytem and 
 repair then return to the original system. Makeing the retrival of Commander Data possible. However 
 the game doesn't allow this. 
  
  This game some what mirrors Star trek Armada at least in context. As parts of the game reminded 
 me of those games. Although made by another company I'm sure it certainnly influanced the making 
 of this game.
  
  It's a rewarding experiance to play, cripping storyline and the voices of Patrick Stewart and Brent 
 Spiner (which I'm surprised they didn't mention on the Offical Gamespot review) bolsters the strength 
 of this game. Although this game is becoming rather old now. It still has me returning to it months 
 after I've completed.
  
  I want to be different with the scoring as I am a Trekkie. I'm gonna give this game a high value 
 rating cause it certainly a must have for all Trekkies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_of_Borg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game has great gameplay, even more so when you through in some mods. The graphics are good, 
 could use some work in the damage texture department, but otherwise good. The games sound is average, 
 nothing spectacular, but most of the music fits. Stability could have been better, but then what 
 can you expect from a game written in python. Modders love this game because they can do almost 
 anything with it. Four years after its release, I still probably spend two or three hours a week 
 playing this game. I love this game, but like all games, it has its shortcomes. If this game was 
 much better, it would desirve a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_bLooD
Rating: 2.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was all the talk back in the day, I've play the game once in bit that's just it....
 
  
  Gameplay- Unless your looking for larges grand scale battle heck don't bother some of the mission 
 are either steathly or just go in a beam data down... or even shoot 2 cardies ships up... I hate 
 the Staffie I hope she'd die but that was a let down too.
  
  GRaphics- A complete let down, when you take damage you see grey smoke some form yout Hall, when 
 your hull is being burned threw it doesn't look real! it like grey smoke.... the faces were sick 
 looking, there eyes didn't blink too often which made Brex look like a blue zombie form hell.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Burn2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  I love Star Trek The Next Generation! i cant get enough of it, so obviously i had to get bridge 
 commander! one downside to this game however, is that it does not work with my touchscreen moniter, 
 i waas looking foward to that! despite this i played on, and got addicted! hoping to complete it 
 soon :) ! i just wish i could select the science officer without selecting the 1st officer about 
 7 times first!!!! the game poses many challenges from the cardassians, who incidently, crumble 
 under the superiority of the soverign, i just wish i could use the enterprise! oh well, maybe later 
 in the game?..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Learning from the intro at the beginning, the Captain just died and I, the first Officer will be 
 promoted to take his place. Now I have been thrown into the Captains chair and I must learn why 
 the sun blew up destroying the system along with my old friend.
  
  Being stuck on the bridge the whole entire time of the game and the view from the stellar angle 
 is less than impressive. The graphics are good, but not that good. They havent been totally smoothed 
 out, with some glitches popping up now and then. But my new First Officer, she is perky, nice body 
 too. But its like that with every other game. Going through the story and meeting all the different 
 ships is okay but the game lacks depth.
  
  Characters lack in substance and my crew are rather bland. This leaves only the storyline and that 
 is not too bad, with scanning areas of space to look for clues that end up engaging in space battles. 
 The number of species is limited too with just a few that seem very basic.
  
  I played the game on the different difficulty levels and First Officer and Captain are basically 
 the same with the Admiral throwing it a lot harder ships and I couldnt be bothered to complete 
 it on that. But I did complete the game to a certain satisfaction.
  
  The standard Star Trek sounds and music and game length pretty standard. No wait, game length is 
 fairly short. About 5 to 6 hours worth of play I think. Which I managed to completed in less than 
 a short week.
  
  So I did enjoy the story and game for a while and value was great because I got the game for free. 
 But my fun is done and back on the shelf it goes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Star Trek Bridge Commander, in what some would define as one of the best of the entire 
 Star Trek genre, is a fairly ingeious and beautiful game, with a compelling storyline, graphics 
 and gameplay. In keeping with the Star Trek universe, you must fly around known space, and solve 
 a deadly situation before it escalates. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Star Trek Bridge Commander has been fairly well defined in the game. 
 Played from a first person standpoint ( even though you remain in your Captains chair thru 100% 
 of the game ) , you see and play the game thru the eyes of the Captain, and must issue orders to 
 your Bridge crew. You have 5 Bridge officers at your disposal to take your commands. Your Executive 
 Officer ( 1st officer ) , who keeps track of the missions, sets the ships alert status and keeps 
 you reminded of the tasks which need to be completed. Your tactical officer who you can issue orders 
 to target objects and ships, and fire on them with your weapons. Your conn officer, who you can 
 have hail ships, set courses to systems and planets, and pilot the ship. Your science officer who 
 can scan nearby space for anything, and lastly your Cheif Engineer who can control the repairs 
 ( if you need them ) and manage the power levels of the ship. In addition to this, you also have 
 a secondary view which is of the outside of your ship, which also allows you to manually pilot 
 your ship with the coresponding shortcut keys. The game is mostly all point and click to issue 
 commands to the officers, and the games objectives are pretty much straight forward. There is only 
 once or twice in the game when you actually need to make a decision on your own ( which one of 
 those times could lead you to a game over, if you chose wrongly ) . The game itself isnt fairly 
 long, but the storyline is fairly enjoyable. Also included is a multiplayer mode, which allows 
 you to fight against other ships in several types of matches, like UFP vs others, Free for all 
 matches, or "Defend the Starbase", which can be fairly fun at times.
  
  Story: The story is as such: Some time after the Dominion war, you are the first officer of a Galaxy 
 class starship, the U. S. S. Dauntless. Your Captain is killed in a supernova explosion of the Vesuvi 
 star, and you are promoted to the Captain of the vessel. A short while later, proof surfaces that 
 the supernova was not naturally occuring, something, or someone, had purposely caused the star 
 to explode. After some snooping around, you are given command of the U. S. S. Sovereign, the prototype 
 for the Sovereign class starship, and are given the task of finding out who caused the supernova 
 to occur. ( Heres a hint, Cardassians and a new alien race never seen in the ST Universe before 
 ) .
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are amazingly well done at times, but there are some problems. 
 On occasion, some of the characters faces have been distorted ( When Picard shows up, his face 
 was stripped with the color of his uniform and commbadge o_O ) , and the characters mouths dont 
 move in the same rate as there speaking, but overall the graphics are very stunning. The detail 
 around the Bridge and on the differant Starships is beautiful and accurate.. to a point. When you 
 blow up an area of an enemy ship, the inside, tho damaged, should not look like the equivilant 
 of gravel, but i suppose going into THAT much detail would have been silly for this type of game, 
 wouldnt have hurt tho. As for sounds, the sounds are very well done and accurate to the tv series. 
 The weapons sounds and explosions all sound realistic, and the addition of having Brent Spiner 
 actually lend his voice to the game for Data's parts is a nice addition to the game. I would comment 
 on Picards voice, but unless i remember correctly, they faked his voice.. so.. meh
  
  Replayability: The game does have some replayability. Since the storyline doesnt change, and can 
 be completed fairly quickly, it would only take 3-4 plays thru to get tired of it, but the MP mode 
 is fairly engaging and entertaining, whether it be against other people or computer opponents, 
 so the game has much replay value if only for its MP mode.
  
  Final Recommendation: Although the game does has a few drawbacks, STBC is clearly a fairly well 
 built game, that can keep any gamer happy. The well drawn storyline can keep your average trekkie 
 happy and entertained, and even if you hate the entire Star Trek Universe, the multiplayer mode 
 is very fun and entertaining.. theres just something about flying around in gigantic ships, blowing 
 each other up thats just fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
