-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starsiege Tribes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starsiegetribes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 582 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Dynamix
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Starsiege: Tribes is an ambitious game that successfully delivers a rich and addictive multiplayer 
 gaming experience. 

 Any time a game is designed strictly for online play, that game's developer is taking a serious 
 risk when bringing the game to market. After all, there are still plenty of gamers who prefer single-player 
 titles. So in order for a multiplayer-only title to be successful, it must provide that elegant 
 combination of great gameplay, painless online connectivity, and speedy performance to ensure its 
 popularity and success. Starsiege: Tribes from Dynamix and Sierra comes awfully close to striking 
 that perfect balance, and, although performance can be a problem, the game manages to provide one 
 of the more memorable and addictive online gaming experiences yet.  

 Set in the universe formerly known as EarthSiege, Tribes is a first-person, squad-based action game 
 in which you take part in team battles against one or more rival clans. Game variants include the 
 obligatory deathmatch mode, along with capture the flag and a slew of other challenging game types: 
 Defend and destroy requires you to guard your base while taking out your enemy's, capture and hold 
 is like CTF except that you must grab and defend specific spots on the map, and find and retrieve 
 is basically a big scavenger hunt with heavy weapons. Of the roughly 200 Tribes servers online 
 at the time of this review, at least 75 percent were running CTF games, with defend and destroy 
 being the second most popular choice.  

 Gameplay is very similar to multiplayer mode in NovaLogic's Delta Force but with far better visuals 
 and many more options for customizing your weapons loadout. The game features nearly 40 maps, each 
 of which is a wonderfully rendered landscape with rolling hills and plenty of big, open spaces. 
 As in Delta Force, a great deal of combat takes place at extreme ranges, but thanks to the superb 
 3D graphics engine, you can more easily make out your targets in Tribes. Also, the action moves 
 effortlessly into and out of the various base structures scattered on each map. The indoor-outdoor 
 transitions in Tribes are quite seamless, which makes the overall combat experience that much more 
 immersive.  

 You have the choice of light, medium, or heavy armor, each of which can accommodate a varying set 
 of weapons and equipment. Players in heavy armor, for example, are the only ones who can carry 
 heavy mortars (which are incredibly powerful and good for taking out base defenses from afar) . 
 Light-armored players, on the other hand, are the only ones capable of wielding the deadly (and 
 oh so wonderful) sniper rifle in combat.  

 The weapons in Tribes are decent, with a few energy weapons, a slick gun the fires explosive discs, 
 a short-range Gatling gun, and a trusty grenade launcher. The sniper rifle is the only "instant 
 effect" gun in the bunch, as each of the other weapons fires a relatively slow projectile. This 
 can make the game's long-distance combat rather difficult, as you must aim very carefully and learn 
 to anticipate your target's moves - jumping madly into a free-for-all Quake II-style fray is usually 
 a recipe for disaster in Tribes. The game lacks any sort of close-combat melee weapon, which was 
 a bit disappointing.  

 You can also carry a variety of other equipment, such as gun turrets, which are typically set up 
 to automatically defend your base and your flag, and repair kits, which are always helpful for 
 fixing damaged consoles and energy stations. Different types of consoles allow you to change your 
 armor and weapons configurations, get a quick reload, or summon up a transport aircraft to fly. 
 Like the armor variants, there are three types of aircraft in Tribes: scout, medium, and heavy. 
 The larger craft can carry other players, making them useful for long-range mass attacks. The single-player 
 scout craft, on the other hand, is quite speedy and has the ability to fire explosive rockets. 
 Energy stations keep the aircraft and other types of consoles operational and are the key to survival 
 in Tribes - take out an enemy's energy source, and they will be hard-pressed to mount a viable 
 defense. One other type of station, the command console, allows you to view the battle from an 
 overhead map. You can even issue orders and assign targets to other players from here (of course, 
 it's up to them whether or not they follow your directives) .   

 Getting into a game of Tribes is about as painless a process as I've seen in any online game. After 
 choosing to "play game" and "join multiplayer game" from the main menu, Tribes pulls up a list 
 of all available servers currently registered with the master Tribes server. Each server is pinged 
 and checked for number of players, type of game, and game map being used. Connection quality is 
 rated using a red, yellow, or green icon. When you see a server you like, you click on it and hit 
 the "join game" button. The process is extremely quick and intuitive.  

 Once you're connected to a server, your results will most certainly vary. I rarely encountered any 
 significant lag at any "green" server I joined, but the chat line in every game I played was littered 
 with lag complaints from other players. I saw many players get stuck and drop from the game entirely, 
 as well. On only one server did I have any lockups or dropped connections, and there it seemed 
 to be a problem with that specific server's stability.  

 Playing Tribes can be pretty intimidating at first, as the game's meager single-player training 
 missions do little to prepare you for the online carnage of a multiplayer battle. Also, despite 
 the game's team structure, there are still plenty of freelancers in each game, running about with 
 their own agenda and little regard for teamwork or joint objectives. And when a loose group of 
 freelance hotshots runs into a well-organized team, the results are always the same: Complete and 
 utter humiliation for the solo artists.  

 Tribes could stand to be improved in a few areas, notably in the matter of the weapons consoles. 
 Currently, these stations almost always have long lines of players waiting for access. You can 
 urge other players to hurry up with a prerecorded voice command, which rarely has any effect, or 
 take advantage of the game's "favorites" feature to preset five custom weapons loadouts and speed 
 up your own time at the weapons console. Perhaps if you could begin a mission - and respawn - with 
 one of your favorite loadouts already in place, the console-glut problem would ease up a bit. You 
 would then only have to visit the console for repairs and to change loadouts for a specific purpose 
 (such as picking up a turret for deployment) .  

 Also, the game could really benefit from more and better training missions. Firing each gun a few 
 times does little to teach the intricacies of aiming a mortar, for example. And the Terra Nova 
 style keyboard command layout takes quite a bit of getting used to, especially when used in combination 
 with the jetpack (for which the game offers little guidance) . One way to handle this deficiency 
 would be to include a skirmish mode, so that you could at least get in a little practice before 
 running smack into a team of seasoned veterans online. You can learn quickly in a multiplayer game, 
 but you can also get wiped out repeatedly without ever getting the chance to see or learn from 
 your opponent - and that's not going to keep new players coming back.  

 Finally, the game really needs to handle scores and statistics a little better. After a mission 
 is completed, you get about ten seconds to call up the scores and see how you and your team fared. 
 Unfortunately, the score window is too small and offers too little information - which is gone 
 in a few seconds anyway, as the game automatically launches a new mission after the previous one 
 is completed. First off, Tribes should present the stats in a larger, easier-to-read window. Secondly, 
 Dynamix really should consider tracking assists or some similar stat. As it stands, the only player 
 who gets credit for a kill is the one who gets in the final shot - never mind the sniper who took 
 the bad guy down to 1-percent health to begin with. Lastly, why not save a player's accumulated 
 stats locally? Kills, games won, flags captured: It may be a team game, but I kind of like to know 
 when I've killed my 100th victim online.  

 In light of the game's outstanding gameplay, however, each of these criticisms is a minor point 
 at best. Looking at the game as a whole, there's no denying that Starsiege: Tribes is an ambitious 
 game that successfully delivers a rich and addictive multiplayer gaming experience. Any team-minded 
 action fan will love this game, and I suspect that more than a few freelance types will also.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rgcloyd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Absolutely the best on-line multi-player fps experience ever!! Nothing even comes close and its 
 free for download. http://www. fileplanet. com/140246/140000/fileinfo/Starsiege:-Tribes- (Free-Game)
 
  
  This game had been played for over ten years on-line. A testament to ingenuity of the developers. 
 This is the grand daddy of on-line multi-player fps games.
  
  Tribes 1 is so much better than Tribes 2, Tribes vengeance or any other fps shooter out there.
 
  The elite renegades server/mod is the best gaming experience in the tribes universe. The game-play 
 is the most balanced and fun.
  Its a shame that Universal-Vivendi has abandoned all of their servers for tribes and tribes 2. 
 Sierra and Sierra online were the best gaming software companies ever!! Both tribes and tribes 
 2 have been released by the publisher for freedownload to celebrate the release of tribes vengeance 
 (which was quite a disappointment to tribes fans) . Be sure to download them both.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Tribes is an all multi player game and no campaign. It is fun and the multi player is huge. Up 
 to 64 players can play. Tribes take place in the future with all these strange weapons, vehicles, 
 utilities, and jet packs. There inventory stations where you can choose your gun and equipment 
 like a plasma rifle, chain gun, shield pack, and repair pack. There vehicles are all air based 
 like scout flyers or transports. Three problems with the game is the weapons just have ammo no 
 clips, but you can reload them at an ammo station. The graphics are pretty bad with the characters 
 having no design, and some games can be laggy. Most of all there's no single player. The multi 
 player modes can be customized like death match, capture the flag, and more. You can also destroy 
 turrents, stations, or generators to cripple the enemy. Overall the game is awesome and if you 
 like playing with others online than I definently recommend this game for you to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Tribes is killing me. Life expectancy on these worlds is about five minutes or less. Jetpacks add 
 a twist to your averagel team vs team venue. Aiming becomes difficult when you have to adjust for 
 your momentum, not to mention your enemies. The game uses scrpts for user tuning (new huds, voice 
 commands, and more) , making it a tweakers paradise. Some people hate the game for that, calling it 
 a 'cheaters' game.
  The game was originally made to have a 'commander' for each side. This person would stand at the 
 commanders station and give orders (defending or attacking certain objectives, deploying turrets 
 or sensors at specific locations using an area map) to teammates. Unfortunately, few stand as commander, and 
 fewer obey. This makes the game an unorganized free for all., but stll fun (i would have given Tribes 
 a 9.0) . The game even has craft to fly.
  
  40 people playing teams is great fun. To this day, you'll find hundreds still playing on the tribes 
 servers. I'll allways have tribes to fall back on.
  
  I'm 'misfire' .i'll see ya online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-GamerBot-Xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Tribes is an all multi player game and no campaign. It is fun and the multi player is huge. Up 
 to 64 players can play. Tribes take place in the future with all these strange weapons, vehicles, 
 utilities, and jet packs. There inventory stations where you can choose your gun and equipment 
 like a plasma rifle, chain gun, shield pack, and repair pack. There vehicles are all air based 
 like scout flyers or transports. Three problems with the game is the weapons just have ammo no 
 clips, but you can reload them at an ammo station. The graphics are pretty bad with the characters 
 having no design, and some games can be laggy. Most of all there's no single player. The multi 
 player modes can be customized like death match, capture the flag, and more. You can also destroy 
 turrents, stations, or generators to cripple the enemy. Overall the game is awesome and if you 
 like playing with others online than I definently recommend this game for you to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Halo has nothing on Starsiege Tribes in terms of online playability, as this is the game that any 
 online gamer, no matter who you are or what you like, should give a shot in playing.
  
  Even after nearly ten years and in many ways years ahead of it's time, Starsiege Tribes remains 
 the absolute best first person online shooter even after the hyped Halo 3 has come out. The sheer 
 amount of customization in terms of both characters, voices, and creating your own modifications 
 to play online was astounding for its time, and still surpasses anything today despite the newer 
 technology and higher expectations that many ungrateful gamers come to expect out of game developement 
 companies.
  
  Even Starsiege Tribes flaws were brilliant, as the infamous Ski bug was vastly exploited by all 
 veterans and then implemented as an official feature in later titles when it became more about 
 just being fun other than being cheap and getting the capture flag to your base faster than any 
 vehicle was able. The game was just absolutely brilliant, and able to hold hundreds of players 
 at once using one's own internet connection as a port, which was in itself an ingenious idea that 
 allowed an unprecendented amount of people to play with each other at once; eat that Xboxlive and 
 every other next gen console and game out there.
  
  In addition, the bug were you could set mines in the air was also widely used and accepted as a 
 tactic that many people used either just to fool around or to set traps that others would unwhittedly 
 fly into with their jet packs or just walk into a field of death from which there was no escape.
 
  
  Computer games have always been decades ahead of consoles in terms of technology and fads, what 
 they are experiencing now is something that computer gamers had been and gone through nearly ten 
 years ago; as time and technology is improving you are seeing the gap close slightly as consoles 
 are becoming more impressive and cheap, but overall being held back by an ungrateful, impatient 
 community of players which accounts for many failures of what could have been great games.
  
  Now that this game is free to download, there pretty much is no reason to give it a shot other 
 than having a family, a life, a dog, or going to work and/or college. Starsiege Tribes is addicting, 
 much more so than even the infamous World of Warcraft, and will have you playing for years and 
 years without rest trying to become victorious with your friends or newly acquired comrades in 
 battle.
  
  The implementation of premade voice emotes, insults, cuss words, commands, and other things was 
 in itself ahead of itself as well; back when such things as team speak were not even thought of 
 or perhaps even widely known, the simple two or three clicks of a button would display a voice 
 command that your entire team could hear, or an insult that your opposing enemies will make you 
 regret. This was all without the immature Twelve year olds and their talking, as these sounds were 
 premade and appropriate while sending your message across.
  
  Tactics and team work were so necessary in this game that it puts games like Halo to Shame; team 
 work is always necessary in these types of game, but the sheer amount of things that you were able 
 to do as a team is one huge difference between the two games, and Tribes just outshines halo in 
 every aspect except graphics, being made many many years prior to the thought of there even being 
 a game called Halo.
  
  Destroying Generators, Command Posts, Base defenses, setting mines in enemy bases, setting up air 
 strikes, capturing critical locations, obliterating vehicle posts, invetory stations, solar panels, 
 manually controling base or field weapons systems from a command station (and thus also spying 
 on any tresspassers) , and the implemented voice coordination system are all just superbs.
  
  Heck, if a group of old school Starsiege Tribes players were to play Halo as a team, give them 
 a few weeks and they'd be slaughtering absolutely any premade team they face. Team work, timing, 
 coordination, weapon range, and aiming are all inscribed in their blood, and they use actions instead 
 of words when bragging about their skills.
  
  So strap on your jetpacks, grab your favorite weapons with ammo, equip a health pack to your belt, 
 wearing that energy pack on the back of your jetpack, secure those mines and gernades in your armor, 
 and head out to conquer your enemies like a pack of wolves starving for victory.
  
  Victory through skill and team work has never been so sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game was so sick back in the late 90's!
  I mean all the maps were customizable, all the characters, weapons, tools its just crazy!
  
 
  The best part when a host mods a game you dont have to download patches or add-ons you automatically 
 jump into the game.
  
  The graphics were clean for its time and they looked awesome for a first real 3-D shooter.
  
 
  What made this game so hard was everything was so well balanced esp the weapons, forts, characters 
 and vehicles. getting used to the controls was not easy this game definately has a steep learning 
 curve.
  
  ive never seen a game to this date where you can add force fields, doors, turrets, vehicle stations, 
 recharge stations, remote control conputers, sky bases
  
  Sick game, lots of replay value and hella fun.
  
  One thing that annoyed me was no Voice support 
 but its an early online title so ill let that slide :p typing did get annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Well, it's good for a 1998 game. 
 
  Sound: It's ok. The explosions sound fine and the weapons are also pretty cool sounding. 
 
  Gameplay: This is where the game really shines. Very smooth gameplay and an addictive online multiplayer. 
 
  Lasting appeal: I would probably gave the lasting appeal a 9.5. Very addictive.
  
  The only 
 bad thing about this game is there is no single player ( I think there isn't) . There are actually 
 people still playing this and it's really fun. There are some mods also that will lengthen this 
 game's life .It's free, so why not check it out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigsawcode
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  In it's time Starseige Tribes was one of my favorite games. There were a lot of fun features like 
 the weapons and the jet-pack. The team based action was addictive and required everyone to work 
 together such as repair, snipe, assault etc. Tribes 2 and the other following were never as fun 
 as the original. There were also many mods for Starseige Tribes as well. I remember Insomniac being 
 one of my favorites and there were always new maps being released. Imagine a great FPS Sci-Fi before 
 Halo and you get Tribes. Although now days it is outdated, but I do miss the fun times I had playing 
 it with family and friends.
  This WAS definitely a game worth playing in its day. I mean just think I was playing this 8 years 
 ago! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhysGamma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game straight up fun. I played this game on a crappy dell, without a graphics card, and on 
 an AOL DIAL UP connection. (and still owned...)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very fast-paced and addicting gameplay. No other game comes close to this game in terms of gameplay. 
 Easily the high point of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It came out in '98. if you HAD to find a fault in tribes, it would be the graphics. It doesn't 
 have the best, but it doesn't have the worst either. (I had the graphics settings on low , so I 
 can't really say too much on this category.)
  
  Sound:
  
  Very believable laser and explosion sounds. Very funny voices for the players. Shazbot!
  
  
 Value:
  
  Value? It's friggin free! Can't beat that!
  
  If you are a PC FPS fan you should own this game. If you already own it, good. If you don't, stop 
 reading and go download it. It's FREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I only heard about this game on a union forum post a week ago, i cant believe i never knew about 
 it, for 1998 this is simply incredible, origional, fun, addictive, years ahead of its time.
  
  This game is essentially a futuristic sci-fi FPS (with jet packs!) and some weird and wonderful 
 weapons, great extensive maps (and plenty of them) , oh and its completely free! GAMEPLAY - you 
 have to play it to believe it, difficult at first and will take quite a bit of getting used to 
 but there are some reasonably decent training missions but they wont prepare you for online play 
 at all. The gameplay works on a very simple basis, every charater has a jet pack, there are several 
 differnt armour classes and corresponding weapons to choose from, then throw in a fairly large 
 map featuring (usually) two fortresses. Most games are capture the flag, but there are others such 
 as team deathmatch. Almost every server uses mods (but you dont have to have them downloaded to 
 play them) this adds infinate replayability to the games, no two will ever be exactly the same, 
 new weapons (including a much needed close combat weapon) , vehicles (yes theres vehicles) and may 
 other little modifications. Overall the gameplay (imo) is as close to perfect as an online fps 
 can get.
  
  GRAPHICS - now even though the game was released in 1998, the graphics dont compare with the likes 
 of half-life which was released around the same time, theyre very pixelated, and the textures are 
 pretty rough (explosions are pretty bad) , however the lighting in the game is very good, (some 
 maps are set at night) , the graphis were good for 1998 but not great, personally i dont care how 
 bad a games graphics are, everything else makes up for it. PLEASE DONT JUDGE THIS GAME (OR ANY 
 OTHER FOR THAT MATTER) BY ITS GRAPHICS.
  
  SOUND - very good, even by todays standards it's still very respectable, from the soud of the disc 
 spinning in the spin-fusor to hearing muffled gunshots in the background.
  
  VALUE - ITS FREE! there is a saying you get what you pay for well this game defies that saying!
 
  
  Seriously, do try this this game, you have nothing to lose. If you are a fan of half-life, doom, 
 quake, unreal tounament, or any of the old FPS arcade classics then you will enjoy this game, especially 
 if youre playing it with friends.
  
  download patches from http://www. fileplanet. com, 1.11 is the most commonly used one (download the 
 1.8-1.11)
  
  i hope this review was in any way helpful, have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a free download now: get it, patch it, and play. as old as it is there are still usually 
 100+ people playing
  
  an amazing game with an amazing sequel. This came out in 1998 so the only thing showing some age 
 are the graphics. I mean come on, this thing worked with glide and all my old voodoo cards, yea 
 it was back then.
  
  The gameplay is still everything it used to be. Be warned though, everyone playing at this point 
 is a vet, so new players logging on just expect to be a bullet sponge for awhile. After a few days 
 of being fragbait you will have your epiphany and see how truly amazing and addictive the game 
 is.
  
  This game aupports 128 players. out of the box it has team and global chats, rapid key voice commands, 
 command maps, vehicles, different classes all of which have customizable loadouts, and multiple 
 gameplay types.
  
  best of all: the tribes community has released all types of mods, scripts, voice packs, and skins 
 to enhance your multiplayer experience.
  
  go get it, do the training mission to get the hang of the jetpack without someone chaining you 
 to shreds, then go online and ski and disc yourself into a stupor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitcher812
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  I don't know what made me buy this game in the first place. I do that alot buy a game just to do 
 it. But here I was installing a game that sounded totaly wicked. Large online gameplay and free. 
 Then I ran through the sime step by step how to play me and was amazed at the graphics.
  The setup of the game was easy I even enjoyed the learnign the scripting to expand your setup to 
 allow taunts from southpark to Lenny K. for flying. What a dream this game was. As all ways I really 
 enjoyed the setup of the different types of Armors your chr could equipt and the pros and cons 
 to them.
  Map size sometimes could be a pain as if you got lost on your way to the other teams site you might 
 have to 86 yourself to get back to base, but this did not happen to much.
  Overall I still have to give this game one of my highest rankings well designed and thoughtout 
 from the word install. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AirHendrix-
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  wayy back when I used to play this, I never played Online: I only played the training for like 
 2 days and took it back cause I never had Broadband back then. Now, its different. Of course, with 
 time: Your skill decreases after never playing FPS in so many years but even the pros at it have 
 to admit that Starsiege Tribes is a hard game to master indeed. From learning about the Disk Launcher 
 to Motar, to tell everyone the truth: You will need alot o training. Try practicing shots on walls 
 and such, etc, to get you ready for the real enemy lol. I suck to this day at the game still but 
 kinda own at ET. Isn't that an oxy-moron? Well, if you have alot of patience+ and old computer 
 or even better :) , then Starsiege Tribes is the perfect game for you hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  When I bought TRIBES I did not know what I was getting into. Myself and a couple of friends bought 
 our copies on the day it was released in stores. Although I installed the game I was not that much 
 interested in playing it. We simply wanted a game that we could all link up on and play together. 
 After about a week my friends called me up and told me about how wonderful the game was. I loaded 
 it one evening after work and started playing. I have never looked back. This game was simply without 
 any doubt, the most impressive revolutionary game that I had ever played. The game play was so 
 addictive that to this day it still hold my interest and a spot on my hard drive.
  
  The game play can be described in so many ways because it is so indepth. Tactics and strategy actually 
 mean something here. The players are given huge manps with really cool bases to play from. The 
 thrill one gets when they first capture a flag and barely make it out of the enemy base. The feeling 
 of finally capping a flag is so powerful that it was one of the best highs in my life. Better then 
 even sex at the time. (But that is a differant story all together now.)
  
  TRIBES was revolutionary from the server screen up. No other game ever made to date, including 
 TRIBES II, has been as addictively fun as this game has been. Dynamix nailed this jewel without 
 question. TRIBES should be recgonized as one of the most revolutionary games of our time. It was 
 just down right fun to play. The mods made it even better. 
  
  In all of the years since it release I can honestly say I have logged well over a 1,000 hours playing 
 it. The Graphics for its time were the best, the sound was awsome, and game play was off the scale. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zogtar2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Well Starseige Tribes is an excellent game, though it may have quite a few years behind it now. 
 The game is still a fun experience to play, and i enjoy it. I have never removed the game from 
 my computer since i first installed it in 99. The game play is astounding it feels like playing 
 a game in fast forward. There is quite an array of weapons to choose from, and since the game has 
 many mods now there is many more. So if you like a game with lots of action, and you have a want 
 for online play hardcore style, i suggest this game or another from the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlayerX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Until a few months ago the only Tribes game I new about was Tribes: Vengence. But then I download 
 this freebie on Gamespot and now have 80 hours of playtime logged on Xfire! This game is hard but 
 addictive. Its a frist person shooter that relies more on strategy than the traditional run and 
 gun gameplay. The players online are usual bunch of idiots constantly typing NOOB whenever they 
 get a kill, but you can disable chat on certain players which is a nice feature. The graphics look 
 dated but it doesnt really bother me. You use the map to order around your teammates but they usually 
 never listen. It took me a long time to figure out everything in the game works but its so addictive 
 I didnt mind playing it longer. The best parts about the game though are the jetpack and the ability 
 to place turrents and sheilds everywhere its cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canxp5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. You play against many different people in the world. Some people are experts 
 and some are beginners so there isnt a real difficulty in this game which makes it fun. But the 
 game is still hard to get use to. But I think this game is great for any kinds of people. This game 
 also has a builder server for those who like building stuff and not just that u can also host your 
 own server (Game or/and Builder) . I recommend this game to everyone (if u have a fast internet connecton 
 only) .Slow internet connection (dial up) makes this game slow for you and the others who are playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxpimp18
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Even by todays very step standards set by games like Half Life 2, BF2, and F. E. A. R., this is still 
 a great game! There is a lot of fun to be had, and best of all its FREE! Yes, thats right, completely 
 free! Now, while the graphics and sound might not be all that great, the gameplay is still a very 
 fun experience. The weapons are varied, the game makes use of a class system, and the maps are 
 good. It does take a while to get used to, but once you do, you'll be just like a regular ol' pro. 
 This game has TONS of Value, since its free and you can play in indefinetly! Go download it now, 
 you will definetly not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paco2244
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I see that some recent reviews have been telling yall this game is worth and go pick it up and 
 most stores still sell it. To save you guys a couple of bucks... this is game is FREE to download 
 here on gamespot.... just fyi for some of you who don't know. 
  
  now i have 100 words now i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 
 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 
 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i 
 have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsnow i have 100 wordsv 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Tribes is a great multiplayer game. This game offers no legitimate single player mode, so if you 
 don't have permanent internet access; it's not a good idea for you. 
  
  Tribes includes several weapons; blaster, plasma gun, chain gun, disc launcher, grenade launcher, 
 Laser Rifle, ELF gun, and mortar launcher. IN addition, you can carry normal throwing grenades 
 and deployable mines. Theres also one fighting vehicle and two transport vehicles. What separates 
 it from other games of the type is the jetpack, which gives you limited flight ability. In a public 
 multiplayer server, youll typically have 12 people on each team fighting in one of many forms 
 of play; Capture the flag, find and retrieve, capture and hold to name a few. Each map is noticeably 
 different from other maps. 
  
  The biggest set back to this game is the multiplayer option only. If you dont have enough online 
 time to get good at this game, youll often find yourself frustrated. Furthermore, if you have 
 a dial-up connection or otherwise bad ping, youre going to have a much more difficult getting 
 good with some of the weapons; chain gun and laser rifle to name a few. 
  
  The graphics for Tribes are a little shaking. The body of the character is in fact not always the 
 size of the displayed body, which is at times chunky looking. The textures look good, in glide 
 video at least. Its easy enough to find players as they get an arrow over their head when in range, 
 though there are a few ways to block the arrow for a while via objects in the game. 
  
  Tribes is a team game, first and foremost. Unless youre extremely good, youre not going to be 
 able to carry a team that fights among itself. The last thing you want to do is fight with your 
 own team rather than the other team. 
  
  Sound: The sound effects are very good, there are ten default voices, five male, five female that 
 come with the game. You can download hundreds of other sound packs, voices, and quick chat scripts. 
 The only music for the game is whatever CD you happen to have in your drive. 
  9/10 
  
  Graphics: As mentioned before, a bit limited, but overall it looks very good besides extreme close-ups 
 on other players. 
  9/10 
  
  Game Play: Scripts and various other help programs can be downloaded to make certain tasks easier. 
 The game itself can be customized for what key you would like to have control which action. You 
 can invert your mouse too if you like. Once you learn how to become very mobile; via skiing and 
 taking routes, youve already conquered the hardest part of the game. 
  
  10/10 
  
  Replay value- Since theres not plot outside of the instruction manual, which was a good story 
 premise, Id say theres a high replay value. The fact that online players adapt early and often 
 keeps all gamers on a constant increase of skill. 
  9/10 
  
  This game can still be bought at most any computer game store, the price is down fewer than twenty 
 dollars too, its a really good investment and I hope that youd pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  Tribes is an online only FPS that takes you away from the small corridors of most FPSs nowadays 
 and into large maps with open fields of battle. The game is old but still holds its own against 
 the games of today. Of course the graphics and sound are a bit dated, but Tribes surely makes up 
 for that by being completely free. For the release of the new Tribes: Vengeance, the developers 
 have released Tribes completely free for download at File Planet. 
  
  As I said, the graphics and sound are a bit dated. They are still acceptable and don't detract 
 from the game. Now, with that, it also means the system specs are not as high and will be able 
 to run on most moderate systems. For the most part, the maps are rather plain. A lot of open land 
 with only hills and a few paths here and there is about all you'll see on some maps. Some maps 
 are very well detailed though, with ruins or snow, yet still allow the sense of freedom and all 
 around fun. In short, the graphics and maps are a mixed bag but at least come out to be acceptable. 
 
  
  I've said it a lot so far and I mean it. The game is very open and can sometimes get you lost if 
 you don't know where you're going. Luckily there's a map showing where you, your allies, your enemies, 
 and just about everything else on the map, are. Maps are fairly large and would take quite a bit 
 of time to traverse except for the fact there's a few easier ways to travel. One, though not often 
 used, are pads that will launch you in a certain direction for quite a bit of distance. Another 
 are three vehicles you can use to fly around. Another is the fact you are equipped with a jetpack 
 from the beginning. You can fly around as long as you still have energy left, which refills fairly 
 quick. It's a bit difficult to get used to, but it is one of the major elements of the game and 
 one you'll need to get used to in order to do good. 
  
  Tribes depends a lot more on accuracy than on dodging. Leading targets and using splash damage 
 to your advantage are a must. Spotting the enemy and eliminating him as fast as possible, even 
 though it seems obvious, is critical. If you don't spot that sniper, you're dead, simple as that. 
 These elements make Tribes a fast action game even though it's a bit more strategy than most. 
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone with even a bit of interest in First Person Shooters. With 
 a fair bit of strategy and action, mixed in with many unique features, Tribes will surely give 
 you a new experience. If you're into playing games online and are into free games, you can find 
 it on FilePlanet! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
