-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/kotor2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Big, open-ended quest.
 Plenty of replay value.
 Entertaining combat.
 Tons of solid voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lackluster graphics.
 Similar to the first game, sometimes to a fault.
 Occasionally unbalanced combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 9,637 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Obsidian
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 8, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No other game since Knights of the Old Republic has managed to deliver this excellent style of role-playing. 
 

  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic wasn't just the best role-playing game of 2003. It was one 
 of the best things to happen to Star Wars in years. Knights of the Old Republic impressively succeeded 
 on several counts: It delivered a memorable and open-ended story featuring lots of excellent voice 
 acting, an entertaining strategic combat system, and a lengthy, highly replayable quest. Now all 
 those good traits -- as well as the game's few shortcomings -- are back once again in Knights of the 
 Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. The sequel is clearly aimed at fans of the original, since it's 
 a very similar game whose storyline picks up not long after the first one left off. Given that 
 The Sith Lords arrives only about a year after its predecessor, it's remarkable that the game's 
 quest is every bit as big and complex as the original's. On the other hand, some unsightly technical 
 issues and a general feeling of dj vu will probably prevent you from feeling as strongly about 
 The Sith Lords as you did or still do about the first game. Nevertheless, it's hard to fault The 
 Sith Lords for following in the footsteps of the original so faithfully.  

          Prepare for another journey of self-discovery and major consequence in The Sith Lords. 
     

  Like its predecessor, The Sith Lords takes place thousands of years before any of the Star Wars 
 movies and is focused on some of the formative struggles between the Jedi and their power-hungry 
 counterparts, the Sith. In the first game, you eventually discovered your Jedi powers, as well 
 as your mysterious past. This time, you play as a different character that begins the adventure 
 as a Jedi -- but your knowledge of the character's past, the character's Force powers, and even the 
 character's lightsaber are all missing. A journey of self-discovery awaits, and as you pick up 
 the pieces of your character's past and discover the reasons for his or her exile from the Jedi 
 order, your path will lead you to the few Jedi who survived the catastrophic events that took place 
 at the conclusion of the original game.  

  In your search for them, you'll once again visit the remnants of the Jedi enclave on Dantooine. 
 You'll take sides in a political struggle on Onderon between a queen and a general in her army, 
 and you'll search through the lush jungles of its moon, Dxun. You'll also see some ancient Sith 
 burial grounds on Korriban, and more. The story of The Sith Lords turns out to be quite intriguing 
 most of the way through, thanks to some enigmatic and complex characters and a few exciting episodes 
 you'll experience along the way. However, a fairly terse resolution and some occasionally strange 
 leaps of logic near the end are mildly disappointing, especially given how much exposition there 
 is leading up to the climactic confrontations that occur. But the course of the adventure (which 
 should take you 30 to 40 hours each time through) is rewarding enough as it is, and the story is 
 ultimately about as good as that of the original, and is therefore one of the new game's main attractions. 

  At the heart of Star Wars has always been a traditional struggle of good versus evil, but the franchise 
 is at its best when its conflicts are a little more sophisticated. Much like Knights of the Old 
 Republic before it, The Sith Lords does a great job of making you feel like your actions can have 
 real consequences, one way or another. You'll constantly be faced with good or evil options in 
 your discourse with the game's many characters, and the story pans out differently no matter what 
 you decide. Better yet, the decision making isn't always so cut-and-dried. For instance, one of 
 your companions, a mysterious old Jedi named Kreia, might chastise you for doing what you felt 
 was certainly the right thing. Kreia makes a convincing point, causing you to second-guess yourself: 
 Sometimes, people must learn life's hard lessons firsthand, and helping them out of a bind at these 
 critical moments may not be what's ultimately best for them. The Sith Lords' morally ambiguous 
 storyline has a number of poignant moments along these lines, and since much depends on the decisions 
 you make and the traveling companions you take with you, there will be plenty left to see after 
 you've finished the game for the first time. It also has some nice throwbacks to the original story, 
 most notably in the form of several returning characters whom you'll probably appreciate seeing 
 (and hearing) again.  

          This will be a very familiar experience for Knights of the Old Republic fans, but a completely 
 new story and some new gameplay twists help keep it fresh.     

  From a gameplay standpoint, The Sith Lords doesn't make many changes to the formula established 
 by Knights of the Old Republic. Apart from the numerous superficial similarities between the two, 
 the new game turns out to be roughly as long and as challenging as the first, and it too begins 
 with a few linear sequences before later opening up, allowing you to visit key locations in any 
 order. As before, the gameplay fundamentally consists of three different elements: running from 
 place to place across relatively flat, typically corridor-like environments; interacting with the 
 game's huge cast of characters by choosing from multiple dialogue options (some of which are determined 
 by your character's particular abilities) ; and doing battle with various types of enemies. The 
 latter two aspects of play are once again far more interesting than all the running around, which 
 can occasionally get a little tedious when you're required to travel back and forth between the 
 same areas, especially when they're separated by loading screens. Meanwhile, the controls and interface 
 are virtually identical to those of the first game, so you'll once again typically travel with 
 two companions, who will gain experience levels at the same rate as your main character. And the 
 underlying role-playing system is basically the same as before, too, so if you wanted to create 
 a character with the same skills and proficiencies you had in Knights of the Old Republic, you 
 certainly could. The Sith Lords even features variations on the same turret-shooting, swoop-racing, 
 and gambling minigames as its predecessor.     

  Despite the overarching similarities, you'll spot a few new twists this time around. You'll find 
 some new weapons, armor, and items on your journey, and the game's cast of characters (including 
 those who'll become your traveling companions) is almost completely original. The Sith Lords also 
 features some new feats and Force powers that your character can learn, and thanks to the new prestige 
 classes, you'll be even stronger at the end of this game than you were at the end of the original. 
 The prestige classes are extensions of the three Jedi classes introduced in Knights of the Old 
 Republic, allowing you to further specialize in lightsaber combat, Force powers, or a well-rounded 
 combination of the two. For good measure, both light and dark versions of the prestige classes 
 are available and have slightly different abilities accordingly. They're a nice addition to the 
 game, although they don't really cause you to rethink your strategy or anything.  

          You'll meet some intriguing new characters, as well as some old ones you'll fondly remember. 
     

  There's some added depth in The Sith Lords in the ability to either create various useful items 
 in labs or upgrade virtually all your existing equipment to make it more powerful, but you won't 
 feel the need to take advantage of these systems very often since you'll be finding so much new 
 stuff everywhere you go. Another new system involves the ability to gain or lose influence with 
 your traveling companions depending on whether you tell them what they want to hear. Your influence 
 will largely determine whether your allies will loosen their lips (or the equivalent) with regard 
 to some of the most important aspects of their pasts. It's pretty subtle and basically not that 
 different from how Knights of the Old Republic would let you try to persuade certain characters 
 into telling you what you wanted to know, but it helps flesh out your relationships with your party 
 members a bit more. Also, once you regain your lightsaber -- which takes a surprisingly long time, 
 but there's a good sense of payoff as a result -- you'll learn a variety of different fighting forms 
 with the weapon, each suited to a different type of combat situation. These are good in theory 
 but don't have a particularly noticeable effect in practice.  

  You'll once again be able to veer toward the light or dark side of the Force as you make good or 
 evil decisions. It's usually pretty obvious which is which. Compassionate or humble responses will 
 move you toward the light side, while arrogant or angry responses will move you toward the dark 
 side. Either way, you'll gain experience points by solving quests, so both methods are rewarding. 
 Of course, you'll experience some different conversations and different confrontations depending 
 on which side you choose. And since many Force powers are light-inclined or dark-inclined, you 
 may gradually gain an affinity for one set of powers, letting you use them more efficiently. For 
 this reason, The Sith Lords entices you to at least be consistent in your choice of good or evil 
 responses, though you can go through the game flip-flopping between the two if you prefer. Your 
 alignment will probably also help you decide which of your companions to take with you into the 
 field, since some of them will naturally favor one type of behavior over the other. They'll follow 
 you regardless, but they might complain if you continually act in a manner that's inconsistent 
 with their sensibilities -- which may be to your liking, depending on how you wish to play.  

          Watching how the quests pan out depending on whether you choose a good or evil approach 
 is one of the best parts of the game.     

  So The Sith Lords is structurally very similar to the original game, but there's a notable exception. 
 At certain points in the adventure, the action will shift its focus away from your main character 
 to his or her companions. This tends to work well from a storytelling standpoint, but it also means 
 that you no longer have control over the strongest character on your team, so you'll suddenly need 
 to make do with some relatively weaker combatants. Since it's tempting to quickly "autolevel" your 
 companions throughout the game, rather than take the time to wisely spend the skill points and 
 choose the new feats and Force powers you get as you level up (which you'll definitely want to 
 do with your main character) , it's possible that by the time you stumble into these sequences, 
 your companions will feel woefully unprepared for them. Only by taking advantage of some cheap 
 tricks in the combat system -- for example, by putting an obstacle in between ourselves and some 
 sword-wielding opponents and then blasting away with ranged weapons while our enemies tried in 
 vain to reach us -- were we able to get past some of these bits.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (320 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Da_Nameless_One
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  It's the 11 of April of 2009 and I still haven't found a better game. 
  
  KOTOR2 delivers an experience not very diferent from the first one but builds on it. Back when 
 i played it, I hadn't played through the first, and I found the storyline to be a bit too focused 
 on the past KOTOR, but when a friend loaned me the first KOTOR i totally got why it had to be so.
 
  
  Graphics are almost the same as the old KOTOR, but you don't play KOTOR for the graphics, you play 
 it for the storyline. In KOTOR2 you really feel like you own the story, like you make a difference, 
 and there are a million ways to play the game. I just regret the game's ending is the same for 
 both jedi and sith are the same.
  
  The combat mechanics are the same as ever with a few new force powers and a new revamped class 
 system but you will hardly notice it.
  
  The first KOTOR has the biggest plot twist I've seen in a game (I wont say what it is) , and although 
 the second game doesn't have a plot twist that just blows you away, you still get a real kick from 
 the small choices you have to make.
  
  Overall, I'd say the KOTOR franchise totally revolutionized what i seek in a game. I no longer 
 see what is there. I see what could have been. This often leads to disapointment when playing other 
 games, but KOTOR2 never ceased to ameze me, because it gave exactly what i wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azoth-Akanian
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a very fun game, but there are still a few flaws in it.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 5/5
  
  The gameplay is essentially the same as in the first, but there are a few extra goodies that have 
 been added. For instance, you are now able to create certain items, and there are now more skills 
 you can use, like the famous Battle Meditation, which Bastila Shan from the first game was famous 
 for.
  
  GRAPHICS: 5/5
  
  The graphics are exactly the same as in the first, but that doesn't matter. The eye-candy in this 
 game is still superb.
  
  MUSIC/SOUND: 3/5
  
  The music in this game always seems to be so depressing, which is good for the setting, but still. 
 There could have been some happier music in this. The voice acting also needed a bit of work, too.
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY: 5/5
  
  The replayability in Sith Lords is better than in the original, in my opinion. There are classes 
 you can choose when you reach a certain level, depending on your alignment, which makes for a bit 
 more replayability.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  
  This game may not be as good as the first, but I still recommend you find a copy and at least rent 
 it, if you'll get it for XBox. It is very fun, and there is much to do and places to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radman2117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 2:54 am PT
Review:  Hi my name is Radman2117 and this is my review of Star Wars Knight Of The Old Republic 2 The Sith 
 Lords. Star wars Knights Of The Old Republic 2 The Sith Lords is a great sequell to the first game, It 
 Stars a new customizable character the Exile, and new planets to explore in the Star Wars Galaxy. In 
 this game there are new battle features includeing lightsaber Forms which can come in handing depending 
 on the situation e. g. mix and match, also there is new interaction features with other characters 
 in your party where you gain influence and can earn their trust or lose it.
  
  Strong points of this game is its new planets battle and interaction features and very interesting 
 new cast of party members and replay value.
  
  Weak points are its glitches but are fixable with official patches.
  
  Overall I give this 
 game a 9/10 I love it and I reccomend it to all star wars fans and rpg fans it is awsum and most 
 definately worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realguitarhero5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was too long. I played it forever and I have still not finished it. On some planets you 
 will find that there is no way out and walkthroughs are an almost inevitable part of gameplay. 
 It had a huge array of clothing and weapons, but it is rarely fun to use them since they all pretty 
 much do the same thing except for lightsabers. O. K., you're probably thinking, "Why did you give 
 it an 8.0?" I did because of the sheer addictive quality of it and the time that it took Lucasarts. 
 I though it was good, but you have to get 25% of the way through the story to get into the "I have 
 to play it" phase, which is actually a good thing in this. If you enjoy RPGs then this is THE GAME 
 you cannot pass this up. There's very detailed conversations and lots of thinking involved, not 
 what I was looking for 2 years ago when I bought this, but I kind of like it now. If you want a 
 combat game, search elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorlau
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 has some minor new features. You can break-down items and create your own upgrades. This 
 feature adds complexity to the game but does little to make it more fun. The user-interface is 
 improved. However, some of the supposed AI functions like  don't 
 work very well. The Jedi lightsabre techniques are not very useful until the final maps of the 
 game. The main characters are never developed. In the first game, the characters were more interesting 
 and the last Sith enemy was a challenging but fair battle. The Sith masters in KOTOR 2 have a lot 
 of potential, but nothing is really learned about their past. Also, they die early on, so that 
 the last boss fight is a drag. It feels like work, not fun. Overall, this game is fun at first 
 but gets dull towards the end. I'm actually upset that I spent all that time in the first half 
 of the game to be rewarded with a disappointing finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiiLak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  Game Play: 9/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Story: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Game Play:
  
  The Sith Lords is pretty much the same in terms of game play, as KOTOR I was. 
 You pause the game when an enemy is faced, choose the action you want to use and defeat the enemy. 
 Before all those crazy moves can be done, the game wants you to create a character. There are three 
 classes total (Jedi Guardian, Jedi Sentinel, Jedi Consular) . You can be both female or male so 
 the choice is yours. When I played the first time I chose the Sentinel because he is most balanced 
 in terms of Force and Combat. Choose the character's Portrait and his name, then start playing. 
 Also the party members are different. First there is a teacher, who teaches you the connection 
 of the Force (Beware of her) , a Handmaiden (woman, who knows combat well) , a slick talking spaceman 
 named Atton (he pilots the famous Ebon Hawk) and many more. Most of the characters, with high influence 
 can be turned into Jedi Knights or Sith.
  
  My favorite game play part are the choices players can make. But beware, each of your action will 
 bring you a result. The Dark Side is the evil part of the game and the Light Side the good one. 
 
  Some example of choices:
  Light Side - A man believes he has a terrible disease, heal him.
  Dark Side - There is a man 
 abused by two mercenaries, don't show no interest in helping him.
  
  The Player's character gains experience, you gain certain amount, then you get a level. By this 
 you can upgrade several skills. Make force powers more effective, improve Persuade or Force Persuade, 
 upgrade new Feats such as Armor, better weapon accuracy and more. 
  
  Game's missions are called Quests and believe there are many of them. Each planet has it's own 
 set of main quests and side quests what you can do. Quests are quite easy and aren't difficult 
 even for the new players.
  
  Your Party members have a important role in the character's improvement. When you take Dark side 
 way, they follow you. I reccomend getting High Influence with all of them. Most can be Jedi, but 
 everyone has a special story behind them. So talk to them anytime when you have the chance. They 
 will aid you always and their influence increases by certain deeds, some of them love the Dark 
 Side. 
  
  In the games weapon side is really good. You have the basic Jedi Lightsaber, my favorite weapon 
 in the whole. I suggest using melee weapons because they are more effective. Give plasters to you 
 Party Members. You also have various outfits, some you can buy or kill enemies and get their stuff.
 
  
  Since I like to talk much about Lightsabers, I write a little bit more. Lightsabers have many colors 
 (Silver, green, blue, yellow, red and so on) . Colors are crystals, which go inside Lightsabers 
 and gives them the desired color. Other instruments gives damage bonus, Lightsaber length, Lightsaber 
 accuracy. Lightsaber are divided into three types, you can hold different Lightsabers in two hands 
 or a Staffsaber. Also beware you're enemies have lightsabers too and they don't hesitate to use 
 them. In the game you also face many Sith Lords. Darth Nihilus, Darth Sion, Darth Malak (hologram 
 from the past) and the last Sith Lord is up to you to discover. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Graphics in the game were great in 2005, but they're still nice in my eyes. Character details look 
 good and the environments even better. Lightsaber lightning is an great effect too. Characters 
 lip sync was well in place. 
  
  Story:
  
  It's practically the strongest part of the KOTOR saga. This time you're in the shoes of an Exile 
 (a Jedi, who is kicked out from the council and the connection to the Force is cut away) . You meet 
 a woman named Kreia, who helps you throughout the game and helps restore the connection to the 
 Force. Planets you visit are Dantooine (home of the Jedi) , Korriban (Sith Lords planet) and many 
 more. The story has many twist and turns, I suggest to reveal all the party members pasts, it's 
 really interesting, even I didn't get all of their history.
  
  Sound:
  
  On the audio side the game just rocks. The good old Star Wars themes are there, John Williams rules. 
 Characters have excellent voice over and they performed really well. Blaster sounds, Lightsabers, 
 its all very realistic. 
  
  Overall:
  
  I played the game on my laptop, what had Intel card and the game ran well with the recent patches. 
 I love it from top to bottom and I still enjoy it. It's meant for all SW fans or just for players 
 looking for a good time. I hope you like my review. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Lucius
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE this game. Its my favorate game I've ever owned. I bought it at a Target when i was bored, 
 not knowing anything about the game. Now, I cant stopped playing it. I've logged over 100 hours 
 on both PC and Xbox version and i found that i like PC the best.
  
  Kotor II starts 4 years after Kotor I. At the time the Jedi are all but extinct, killed by the 
 Sith. The galaxy is war-torn and the Republic has all but been destroyed. Only one Jedi remains, 
 you. Stripped of your powers and your lightsaber you must trek the galaxy to uncover your past 
 and find any remaining Jedi. Joined by your allies, you must forge your path and save the Galaxy, 
 or hold it by its throat. And this time, your choices affect everyone around you.
  
  Although the story is superb, many glitches and key parts were cut from the game. That and the 
 few glitches in the Graphics lower the game to an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  This Game is AWESOME!!!. After finishing KOTOR on my Uncles Xbox i just had to play the Sequal. 
 The Fact that it was produced by a different Studio discouraged me a little till i played it. AWESOME!!!
 
  
  The Story takes up several years sfter the first. The Original Sith Empire was destroyed yet from 
 its ashes, like a cocaroach, it rebuilt itself under the Sith Lords Nihilus and his Apprentice 
 Darth Sion. The Jedi at this time are in Full Retreat, Froced into Hiding by the Sith's Crusade 
 to destroy the Order in the First Jedi Purge. You take the place of the Exile, Years befor in the 
 first War you lead a Battle Against Mandalorian Raiders against the Councils Orders. Once exiled, 
 your powers were stript from you and your Memory Erased. But the effects were not Permament. Over 
 the Games campaign you Gain Memories and Powers. You will be helped by Foes defeated and sworn 
 to your service as well as old Friends. Its up to you to Save the Jedi Order... Again.
  
  The one thing lacking in the Game are the Graphics. For a game released several years after its 
 predessesor, its a little out-dated visually. That however is its only real flaw. The Story, as 
 in its Prequal is excellent and complicated to the last detail and will keep you playing over and 
 over to learn more secrets and take differnt paths that alter the story and its outcome making 
 its replay value SKY HIGH.
  
  The game is a must play for any Fan of the Star Wars universe as its characters, locations and 
 events further the complexity of the films and make the Star Wars that much more interesting. Its 
 a Total 9.5 if not 10 with some graphics touch-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre_saren
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  STAR WARS KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC, is the best game i have ever played in my life, developed 
 by the best company, BIOWARE. the graphics, the music, the story... everything is perfect in KOTOR 
 1.
  then i saw this KOTOR 2 and i thought that being a sequel, then it would be better. but it is a 
 total deception. if you have played KOTOR 1 you definitely don't have to play this game, it just 
 ruins the experience you have about kotor.
  the story totally sucks... nothing compared to the first part.
  the visuals that we all loved 
 in the first KOTOR, in the sith lords are very dissapointing, they don't have any details.
  
  KOTOR 1 is a piece of art. obviously, this game was not developed by the same company, that 
 is why it sucks.
  
  but you can still enjoy of the experience of KOTOR, every RPG developed by bioware are so incredible, 
 just take a look at MASS EFFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Well as the sequel to the original KOTOR (which was fantastic) people were expecting alot from 
 this game, and for the most part they got what they wanted, though it wasn't as good as the original. 
 The game continues with a great and often darker storyline which is very well done. The game also 
 adds the ability to influence your teammates in your adventures in order to get them to like you 
 or, well not, and this allows you to shape your teammates sometimes into jedi and at the same time 
 you may also get to know them better. The graphics in this game aren't much different from the 
 original KOTOR besides maybe in the lighting (alot of the areas in the game look very dark) . The 
 characters in this game can be compared to alot of the characters from the original (according 
 to their importance in the game) for example, Atton can be compared to Carth, and Krea to Bastila. 
 Once again the sidequests in this game make up a very big part of the game to the point that the 
 game wouldn't be complete without them. KOTOR2 also allows for more weapon and armor customization 
 compared to the original. So really this game is awesome but not as good as the first, but you 
 should definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kronos20
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Entire planets were removed, the ending seems worse than a white board pilot idea, bugs caused 
 the game to be non-functional for a long time, missing plots and missions that are still referenced, 
 and an overwhelmingly massive feeling of a rushed product. This game is a follow on to one of my 
 favorite games of all time and was so bad, I have serious doubts as to whether or not I will ever 
 purchase an Obsidian published game again... this level of carelessness can not be overlooked.
 
  
  On the positive side, reaching very high levels and becoming a very powerful jedi/sith is amusing, 
 especially when wading through tons of adversaries. The amazing immersion achieved in the first 
 KOTOR is completely shattered by the apparent rush to get the game out of the gate. It is at least 
 playable now due to official patches and several fans are trying to add back in the deleted content. 
 This could have been an amazing game if it spent a little longer in development, instead it has 
 earned a spot in the hall of fame of biggest disappointments ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which was released back in 2003 on the Xbox and later the 
 PC, was so successful and gained so much popularity within the Star Wars and RPG universe that 
 a sequel just had to come about. BioWare, the original developers, stepped down and Obsidian came 
 into the picture, receiving a little help at the beginning from BioWare. Our wishes were answered 
 for a sequel though, and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II came into works. Entitled, 'The 
 Sith Lords', the game aimed to base itself on the original and introduce new aspects that will 
 make the game more enjoyable than the original. Was this actually achieved? Find out in my review 
 of Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND
  Now as there's not a lot to write about in the graphics and sound department, I will wrap these 
 up in two separate sections. Starting with the graphics. If you have played the original KOTOR 
 game you will most definitely notice that the graphics are identical to its predecessor. KOTORII 
 features new planets to visit and all of these look up to, if not better, than the original. In 
 my personal opinion it seems like the graphics have been slightly improved, but not by a great 
 detail. One notable graphical improvement is the accessories your party can have, such as robes, 
 belts, etc. The original game's Jedi and Dark Jedi robes weren't that special (and to be honest, 
 I found myself placing Dark Jedi robes on Jedi) , but that is not the case with KOTORII. The new 
 Jedi robes are excellent and range from Padawan, Knight and Master. It's just awesome seeing your 
 Jedi, lightsaber in hand, running around with a slick Jedi robe on, which look almost identical 
 to the Jedi robes in the movies. Some may complain about the graphics, due to as KOTORII is a sequel, 
 they would expect the graphics to be improved.
  
  Saying this there are still some areas where the game will look superior than the original. For 
 example, one area places you on a ship, and when you look out into space, you can see a planet 
 below and a space battle taking place, something which was never witnessed in the original. No 
 matter how much they have improved, of course, with all PC games, the quality of your video card 
 depends on the final result.
  
  Onto the sound -- and again, there isn't really that much difference (hence why I combined the 
 graphics and sound into one section) . The voice acting has been done very strongly, and with all 
 new characters for you to choose from, it just gets better and better than the original with each 
 voice fitting the character perfectly. Sadly, as with the first game, alien languages are generally 
 repeated and repeated and you will get very bored of it soon enough. Quite disappointing that they 
 didn't fix this problem with all the complaints they received about it for the first KOTOR. Music 
 wise, there are noticeably more generic Star Wars music which some people may like and some people 
 may dislike. Jeremy Soule's created music is still included, but not as much as in the original.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  KOTORII: The Sith Lords' developers, Obsidian, were provided with the same engine that BioWare 
 used to create the original, which means that the Gameplay is almost identical to that of the first 
 game. However, there are many new additions to the gameplay in Sith Lords. As always, you start 
 off the game by creating your own personal character; his/her appearance, skills, etc. More noticeably 
 is the fact that instead of choosing from Soldier and Guardian from the original, you can now actually 
 choose full Jedi classes, such as Guardian, Sentinel and Consular. After that, you get placed into 
 the game and you're on way for yet another KOTOR adventure.
  
  Due to the Gameplay being exactly the same, the level-up system which is pretty much essential 
 in role-playing games is still intact. Gaining a top level proves difficult, and then each time 
 you gain a level you have to upgrade your skills. Being a Jedi, it doesn't mean you will walk around 
 with a lightsaber in hand all the time. If an enemy is, say, 30ft away, it would be wise to pull 
 out a good blaster and shoot the enemy, unless you want to play it cool and charge with your lightsaber, 
 which I found myself doing quite frequently. While we're on the topic of lightsabers, you may find 
 it quite difficult before you actually acquire one. You have to gather a colour, two crystals, 
 an emitter, a power pack and finally, a lens. It seems pretty hefty, and it could prove tricky, 
 but with the help of fellow party members you will soon get used to the process and build multiple 
 lightsabers after this. With a wide variety of lightsaber crystals to choose from, too, you will 
 never get bored creating lightsabers.
  
  Being an RPG game, it is no surprise that the game has an upgrades system, just like the original. 
 In KOTORII this is vastly improved, though. What you can do now is create and breakdown items, 
 or collect chemicals in order to generate useful items such as medpacks which at some point in 
 the game, you will desperately need. Then there's the option to upgrade weapons and armor which 
 will definitely prove essential in combat. What I noticed most was the weapons and armor for droids 
 such as TM-44 and HK-47. Droids now have exclusive weapons and armor just for them, which means 
 your droids can now have more deadly laser attacks rather than carrying a simple blaster like the 
 original KOTOR.
  
  A welcome addition for me at least, is the new influence system. Say for example if you talk like 
 a Sith to a Jedi Master, you will lose your affection to them and they will respond to you differently 
 in the future. Depending on the options you choose and the dialogue you speak, characters will 
 respond to you in a different matter. As you progress in the game you will notice that they dislike 
 you or respect you, and so on. If you respond in a poor way, you will generally miss out on certain 
 sidequests and not learn much about the backstory of that character as he/she will not want to 
 talk about it with you. The Gameplay is basically the same as the original, but with some cool 
 new additions, and that's why the game is so greatly effective.
  
  STORY
  It's set five years after the events of KOTOR, so it's highly recommended that you play the original 
 before picking this up, as you will not understand the crucial plot and get confused. I won't say 
 anything because it will be hard to unless I unleash some KOTOR spoilers, which I will not do. 
 However, in KOTORII, the Sith have ruthlessly hunted the Jedi Order to the edge of extinction and 
 only one Jedi Knight remains -- you. You can help the Jedi fight its course or give in and fall 
 to the darkside. Just like its predecessor, you will be drawn into the plot and enjoy it so much.
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY
  Well it's pretty much like the original in which when you complete it with one side (either light 
 or dark) , you should replay it with another side to get different cutscenes and the alternate ending. 
 Sadly after you've beaten it with both sides you'll find it hard to replay the game again, unleash 
 you're a really ravid fan of the game.
  
  ----------------------------------
  
  Although not as strong as the original, in my eyes at least, Knights of the Old Republic II: The 
 Sith Lords is a worthy sequel and one that is essential if you have played through the original 
 game because it fills many plot holes and also opens up a few for a further addition to the KOTOR 
 series. All in all, if you enjoyed its predecessor, it is highly recommended that you pick up TSL 
 now and enjoy it. There's a few flaws here and there, but with some gameplay additions, it's a 
 very strong game.
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr17x
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  First let me just say I love the first Kotor. Maybe that is why I'm so disappointed by this one. 
 I wanted to play this game to keep me entertained until the kotor mmo is released. 
  
  Here are the things I hated about the game:
  1. Buggy: It does not ruin the game but it is really 
 annoying.
  
  2. Recycling: There is not a single time I went "wow this is a really cool thing that was not in 
 the original". Most of the time I felt "wow is there anything new here other than the characters?"
 
  
  3. Too similar: This might be just me because I played the first Kotor almost 10 times [good, normal, 
 evil, male, female, and a bunch of other classes] , but the story and the side missions parallel 
 the first tooooo much. The side missions of thugs picking on somebody, the guy in debt with the 
 exchange. Even the main story is too similar for comfort, "I lost my memory and everybody likes 
 me and wants to travel with me on the same ship I always have".
  
  4. Lame story and abrupt end: Most user reviews say that the story is good but I disagree. The 
 only moment I cared about what was happening was when I reunited with a certain group of people 
 to have a chat [I'm trying not to spoil the thin story] . The ending was uninspiring and does not 
 allow me to continue the story after the main storyline ends.
  
  Here is what I actually liked:
  1. HK-47, yep the assassin droid is can be unlocked as a side 
 mission. Through most of the game this was the only thing that motivated me to travel to these 
 different planet to collect parts.
  
  2. Nope that's it, just HK-47.
  
  Conclusion: I would really want to know what everyone finds in this game that I don't. Maybe I 
 overlooked something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I really want to mention that nothing in this creation has crippled an Rpg spice nor it's core.
 
  I mean that even these futuristic attributes did not spoil the "old school" style - it's almost 
 the same, as before, but new.
  It has convenient interface, good graphics, voiced characters & NpCs', entangling story and... 
 beautiful women (LoL) .
  There is "Create your own accessories" function; pause function; pair of mini-games (quite entertaining) .
 
  Many races each voiced specifically, traveling and map exploring are easy and fun, also consequences 
 of force abilities used in dialogues both hilarious and encouraging.
  There's noticeable lack in BOSSes and challenge though, plus a few strange, but avoidable bugs.
 
  Well, there's a lot to say, but the one, who did not even tried it out, i doubt will understand 
 me even a little.
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatheloke
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Buy it. The rest is just stuff describing the game. Don't read what I think, just buy the game.
 
  
  
  
  Combat - 9/10
  Its fun, rewarding, dozens of force powers availible. It can get easy, at times though, to the 
 point you think you are cheating.
  
  
  Quests - 10/10
  Reward well, contribute to the plot, or just plain fun. You get unique items from this.
  
  
 Upgrade item system - 10/10
  Build weapons, customize them, make armours, scrap armours, what more couldya want!?
  
  Parties 
 - 10/10
  You assemble a little team of people you work with in your ship. First of all, two of the girls 
 are hot. And there's a princess leia costume in this game. Anyways, you coperate with your party, 
 you can control them, or they can work by themselves. They can do everything you can do, basically. 
 You level them up and everything!
  
  Leveling up - 9/10
  Just great. Not best, but great.
  
  Plot - 10/10
  Can change depending on your choices. Suspenseful, 
 hard to predict.
  
  AI - 8/10
  Your party members are smart. Some monsters and npcs, just don't work right. There are frequent 
 graphical glitches or times when an NPC just doesn't work right. They are like masterminds with 
 2% of their brain missing.
  
  Choices - 10/10
  Control everything. Light or dark, etc.
  
  
  Other:
  Has voice acting, good sound effects.
  Good on slow computers, sweet on gaming 
 rigs.
  Easy to mod, find mods for it. You can change like everything in the game b/c the developers left 
 the back door open.
  Patches for glitches.
  Great for people who even hate star wars, this has NOTHING to do with the movies.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Tic-Tac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  I'm giving this game 9.5 because I feel sorry for it. Obsidian really wanted an outstanding sequel 
 to Knights of The Old Republic, but LucasArts rushed its release. As such, the game is not complete, 
 leading to several plot-holes and a really messed up ending. But don't blame Obsidian, people. 
 They wanted to give us a great KoTOR experience, and I firmly believe that the finished product 
 would have been superior to the first. The new characters are really great, Kreia is the most memorable 
 SW villain IMHO. Atton is a cool guy who doesn't cry around like Carth from the first game. I seriously 
 think that the party is way better here overall. The new influence-system is very good, and most 
 of your allies can be trained in the ways of the Force. The story is amazing, much more unique 
 then the story of the original KoTOR. The new Sith Lords are actually cool (unlike Malak, I could 
 never take that guy seriously :D) . HK-47 is funny as always. The Prestige Class is a very good 
 idea, you can officially become a Sith Lord in this game (I creamed myself at that very moment 
 :D) . At the first 3/4 of the game it's perfect, but later at the end you can definitely notice 
 the fact that the Dark Side servants at LucasArts forced Obsidian to rush the game. At the end 
 the story makes no sense (the Ebon Hawk is destroyed, but later it picks you up to save your butt 
 from an exploding planet that isn't supposed to explode...) . Yet there are so many little improvements 
 that I can't help but think that the folks at Obsidian really put themselves there to make a great 
 Star Wars game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-avatar
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, The one thing that makes this stupid little game awesome is its story, You get hooked on it. A 
 couple of twist in it and stuff, But its still a great game, The amount of weapons and armor they 
 have in the game awesome, You can craft your own lightsabers vist new planets, Side quest and everything. The 
 best part of the game is the way you can go, Light side or Dark side. There are thousands of things 
 you can do to go to the dark side and the light side, Fight for whats right or fight for... something 
 evil, Either way your going to end up fighing the evil dude. Well even though your proberly not going 
 to read this review, Thanks for reading, Oh crap, This one is to short.660 right now, I guess im going 
 to keep on. Anyway, Another thing that made the game wroth playing is the Planets, Theres a bunch 
 of planets you can go to, Thousands of side quest or something. Even though there is proberly less 
 than 100 quest im just saying thousands.  _ ,Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xdra
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the first installment of this game. It was a fun and interesting new way to 
 role-play and interact with characters. 
  
  This game develops on every aspect of the first game which is amazing. Such as your influence and 
 charisma can affect whether the people become good/evil or possible Jedi like you. The only new 
 development which I felt a bit let down with is the fact that your alignment can change very quickly. 
 Instead of building up to become almost heavenly or immensely evil throughout the game you can 
 become heavenly or evil within three conversations. Also the looks of the new characters are rather 
 disappointing but it definitely shouldn't stop you from playing.
  
  The story is just as intriguing as the first one often referring to your previous character from 
 the first game. Some NPC's refer to your character as a man or a woman. Its a bit confusing.. the 
 NPC's should have really just said they couldn't remember what gender your character was.
  
  Otherwise.. don't expect this game to end on a high note. I was rather let down by it ending 
 the way it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr666evil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  You know you are in love with this game when
  
  1. You have dreams of duels with the hand maiden :) ) .
  2. You start hearing Kriea in your head.
 
  3. You get goose bumps when you meet Revan.
  4. You start calling random people meat bags.
  5. You wish there was no Vista in the game. 
 
  
  Having played Kotor 2 before Kotor 1 , I must say that I love this game more than the original. 
 The storyline has a lot of depth and intrigue though the developers should have spent a little 
 more time in ironing out some of the jagged edges. But it no way diminishes the game which is pure 
 genius considering the fact that it is a sequel to a great game. The Star Wars world is very immersive 
 and the characters grow on you and the choices you make are never easy. The action is awesome even 
 though you don't actively partake in it. Increasing your attributes and acquiring new force abilities 
 is a lot of fun. On the negative side , playing Dark side is lame as you come across more like 
 a clown than some one evil and is not subtle at all and to top it all the developers botched the 
 dark side ending (Have to admit that some of the dark side responses are hilarious) .
  
  Bottom line is that every Star wars fan must play the Kotor series as personally I feel it has 
 more depth than the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNightblaze
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  the entire game is amazing it bests the first in every single way even the graphics are still bearable 
 the story is one of the most immersive i have ever played it by far has the best alignment system 
 of any i have ever played the characters are interesting and believable the items many complex 
 and change everytime that you play the game the entire game stays true to the star wars universe 
 it touches upon parts that have never been seen before and planets that have only been mentioned 
 in passing this is something that i believe makes the game as good as it is, i frankly am tired 
 of people complaining about this allways wanting the things from the movies get over it and have 
 a little damn originality.
  
  it simply enters an entire new stage of star wars and it could frankly have een a movie rather 
 than a game in my eyes so far its the game of the decade **** halo 3 its just that good
  
  anyway simply amazing and they better make a third 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic II is the sequel to the acclaimed Star Wars-based RPG from Bioware. 
 This time the reins are handed over to Obsidian Entertainment, creators of Neverwinter Nights 2 
 and featuring many of the same developers as the now-defunct Black Isle Studios. Unlike the first 
 game, KotOR II was more-or-less simultaneously released on Xbox and PC in early 2005.
  
  For a game released a mere 18 months after its predecessor, it is not surprising that on the surface 
 little appears to have changed between KotOR and KotOR II. In fact, a cursory glance at a pair 
 of screenshots would yield precious few differences; indeed even several hours of play would not 
 convince one that we were playing a different game. The game mechanics, graphical engine, interface, 
 controls... these are all more-or-less the same. Gameplay is still very much focused on travel 
 and exploration; talking to the natives and blasting, slicing or Force-choking your way through 
 any foes which dare stand in your way.
  
  The gameplay mechanics and character building system are based on a variation of the D20 system, 
 most famously used in 3rd edition D&D. This allows each character to have set stats in each of 
 six attributes (strength, constitution, dexterity, intelligence, wisdom and charisma) , levels in 
 several non-combat skill areas such as computer use or demolitions and a selection of combat related 
 feats that enable different weapons and skills to be used. The combination of these attributes, 
 skills and feats enables an almost limitless range of character types to be created, although they 
 are loosely grouped into a small number of generic classes. So whether you are planning on playing 
 a brutal melee fighter, a Han Solo scoundrel or a master of diplomacy, there is opportunity enough 
 to make it so. In addition, Jedi characters can also choose from a wide range of Force powers  
 light, dark and neutral  that may differ in effectiveness depending how naughty or nice you have 
 been during your travels. For instance, light-side Jedi will suffer penalties when attempting to 
 use a power such as Force Lightning.
  
  Combat can be somewhat slow and quite methodical, rewarding good strategy and a cool head, yet 
 it never drags and KotOR II manages to retain an action-packed feel throughout. Combat is determined 
 on a purely statistical basis  your chance to hit, the damage you do and whether you can survive 
 or not are all reliant on your character's stats  yet all those boring dice rolls and whatnot 
 are kept strictly behind the scenes, allowing your attention to be focused on your characters and 
 what is often a beautiful ballet of combat mastery on screen. Swords and lightsabers, blaster pistols 
 and bowcasters, grenades and mines, a dazzling array of force powers and fighting styles  all 
 do their part to suck you into this colourful and deadly universe.
  
  It's not all about blasting your way through, however. Most RPGs reward exploration and alternative 
 methods to duking it out in combat and KotOR II is no exception. Throughout the course of the game 
 you will have the opportunity to explore cities and wilderness, deal with everyone from beggars 
 and thieves to generals and Jedi masters, solve countless side-quests, talk your way in to and 
 out of all sorts of trouble and even gamble away your hard-scrounged cash on Pazaak, the Star Wars 
 equivalent of Blackjack.
  
  Yes, it's all extremely familiar to players of the original KotOR. These are all aspects of the 
 original KotOR that were done very well. If it ain't broke well, you get the picture. But, despite 
 the rampant similarities, Obsidian have made countless subtle changes to and improvements over 
 the first game. A longer and more intriguing plot, better character development, more options for 
 character and equipment customisation and an increased effect of your choices on gameplay and story 
 progression.
  
  In many ways, KotOR II is actually a better game than its predecessor. However, a fully realised 
 sequel should progress in all areas, and this is where most of KotOR II's faults lie. As necessitated 
 by the short development cycle, KotOR II is not the lightyears-ahead sequel many fans of the first 
 game would have hoped for. Instead, I prefer to look at it as a companion piece to the original 
 KotOR, the two titles as separate halves of the same game.
  
  Although the Star Wars universe is the perfect action setting it is always a refreshing change 
 to see a game with a slightly more measured approach enter the fray. KotOR II delivers nicely; 
 just like the first game we are given a deep, intriguing role-playing experience in a world that 
 has so much mythos just crying out to be explored by a game.
  
  Again set 4000 years before a certain blond brat picked up a lightsaber (thus allowing as much 
 poetic license as possible) the story is connected to the plot of the first KotOR. However, you 
 do not reprise the role of Revan, the protagonist of that game. Rather you play the role of The 
 Exile  an outcast from the Jedi Order attempting to re-establish a connection with the Force, 
 all the while trying to stop the Sith from taking over the galaxy and helping  or hindering  
 the Republic in creating peace and order. You are able to travel to a reasonable handful of worlds 
 in-game, each vividly detailed and unique although it must be said that none are as memorable as 
 the worlds from the first KotOR. Aiding you in your journey are a wonderfully vibrant cast of characters, 
 with some familiar faces returning (do not fret, HK-47 fans) and some new blood too. The development 
 of these non-player characters tends towards the morally ambiguous; indeed your choices throughout 
 the game not only directly influence your character and whether he or she leans towards light or 
 dark, but also influence the direction of your companions too.
  
  On to the technical side of things, although there are slight improvements in some graphical areas, 
 for the most part not much has changed. KotOR II features the same Bioware Odyssey engine as the 
 first KotOR, itself based upon Bioware's previous Aurora engine (powering Neverwinter Nights, amongst 
 others) and even back in 2005 it was starting to show its age. Textures, models and environments 
 are detailed enough and genuinely stunning in places but overall are not a patch on even slightly 
 more recent games. I shall also take this opportunity to make a brief note on system requirements. 
 When the KotOR games were initially released they were notorious system-hogs; and while nobody 
 should have problems running the game on a modern system I still found areas of severe slow-down 
 evident on some maps  this is running on a high-end machine  which points to a general lack of 
 optimisation. Throw in a couple of critical bugs here and there and it is obvious KotOR II could 
 have benefited from a little longer in development.
  
  Now, if there's one thing a Star Wars game must do in order to be considered great, it is to achieve 
 high marks in the audio category. Thankfully, KotOR II shines. From that famous opening theme to 
 the instantly recognisable sounds of specific weapons and ships, everything is exactly how we hear 
 it in our heads. That hum  the one we made when we took up sticks as children and play-acted Luke 
 and Vader's duel  is there. The original musical score fits pleasantly with the licensed Star 
 Wars music, getting the overall theme down to a tee. Voice acting is also top-notch with some names 
 returning from the first game  but no Jennifer Hale, unfortunately  and some great additions, 
 including Grey DeLisle, Kelly Hu and theatre legend Sara Kestelman.
  
  Overall, despite being slightly disappointing as a sequel, KotOR II remains an excellent game in 
 its own right and one that should be in any gamer's collection. Star Wars fanatics and RPG nuts 
 will love it; nobody else should dismiss it either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackc2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  I've seen many great star wars games. Battlefront, jedi knight, clone wars, rogue squadron. But 
 the one that beat them all, was the legendary KOTOR. Kights Of the old republic was one the best 
 pc games I had ever played, untill now! And It's called KOTOR 2!
  
  You are a jedi knight, one of last apparently. You're on a ship that is about to blow up in any 
 second soon. And the only thing that can save you is a small utility droid. Well thats the beginning 
 of your journey, andit is truly fantastic, but it gets even better from there.
  
  KOTOR 2's gameplay runs smoothly without a hint of a bug or glitch. The fighting mechanics consist 
 up of tactical battling, that the computer does for you. But don't be put off by that, just think 
 final fantasy tactics.
  
  Like I said, knights of the old republic 2 is an RPG. So you get all the usual RPG perks like creating 
 your character, making your own choices, choosing whether to be good or bad, and weapon customization. 
 Basicaly the game world revolves around you.
  
  Graphics and audio: KOTOR 2's graphics are reasonably good for a pc game, and even better with 
 a good graphics card. Creatures and environments are well detailed, and foiliage and trees are 
 lush and realistic. Audio in the game, is again only acceptable, but the lightsabers sound realistic.
 
  
  But most of all in kotor 2, your going to have fun, whether your slicing the heck out of a rancor, 
 or persuading darth sion to darth (yes you heard me, persuading) . I'm giving this game a 9.5 out 
 of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 2 (KotOR 2) is an absolute beauty. It has been designed well, 
 story thought out well and there are also great additions to abilities to which made the first 
 one great. KotOR 2 has no multiplayer, which does no harm to the game because it has such great 
 single player action and quests. First off, you choose you character and when you have levelled 
 up to a point you get the chance to change to a more prestige class (Jedi or Sith specific) .
  
  The game has the fantastic feature of being able to build specific parts for weapons (without 
 actually finding them like in the first one) . You can also break down expensive pieces of equipment 
 which have become no use to you which give you lots of spare parts to make new upgrades. The game 
 is able to keep you entertained and you can also influence the path of your party. You can fight 
 so many enemies, start fights, avoid fights and the actual action sequences are great. Plus, the 
 cut scenes provide valuable insight to the story and really bring the characters to life. 
  
  KotOR 2 has a great range of levels and some you get to re-visit from the first game. There 
 is great puzzles and mathematic questions to try and figure out to get even more secrets. The game, 
 like most Star Wars games if not all, has a great sound track as well as newly made music not heard 
 in the movies. It has great areas and background and also has fantastic characters which you fight, 
 help and/or just chat with. The only draw back of the game is that the loading zones can be close 
 together, the game isn't as long as other RPG's and there were a lot of glitches and errors. But 
 even with all that, the game is still one of the top RPG experiences of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediXMan7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Great. One of my favorite games (Star Wars or otherwise) .
  
  The story is pretty interesting. The characters are interesting and each has a shadowed past which 
 you, the player, can learn about (or not, it's your choice) . However, unlike in the first game, 
 you can train your "companions" (or party members as they are called) in the ways of the Force 
 (except for the Droids, and one other character) . Like in the first game, you have many choices. 
 Do good things (help someone from being attacked, giving money to a poor man, set free a slave, 
 etc.) and you get Light Side points. Do bad things (attacking a person yourself, stealing the little 
 a poor man has, or setting free a slave just to be enslaved by you, etc.) and you get Dark Side 
 points. This was in the first game and it has reappeared in the sequel. 
  
  The combat is even better with more Force powers and more feats. And, one of the cool new features, 
 is once you reach a certain level, you can upgrade from one of the starting classes (Jedi Guardian, 
 Jedi Consular, Jedi Sentinel) to a Prestige Class (list of new Prestige Classes, as well as their 
 Dark Side equal) :
  
  Jedi Master / Sith Lord  Relies on Force Powers
  Jedi Weapons Master / Sith Marauder  Relies on raw strength and power
  Jedi Watchman / Sith 
 Assassin  Relies on swift, quick maneuvers
  
  Now, I bet you're wondering where the bad stuff comes, and the reason why this wasn't as good as 
 the first KOTOR. Well, here it comes:
  
  The game was filled with plot holes. So many times a quest is started, or info on how to start 
 a new quest, or being told something would come, and it never does. So many things don't fit in 
 with the story and a few times you'll find yourself thinking "Did I miss something?"
  
  No it isn't because BioWare didn't make this game. If anything, Obsidian might (MIGHT, it's very 
 close) even have done better than BioWare. No, the fault does not lie with Obsidian. It lies with 
 LucasArts. LucasArts told Obsidian to make the game by a certain date so it would come out in time 
 for the Christmas rush. But Obsidian wasn't ready. They had many things planned at the start and 
 didn't have time to finish them. And, if you did research (and learned what was cut out) then you 
 would find that this game might just have been better than the first game. If LucasArts didn't 
 make them release it before it was ready, this game would have probably been better.
  
  Still, this is a great game. Not as good as the first, but still very good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Buy. This. Game. It is, by far, the best game I have ever played in my entire lifw (next to KotOR 
 I) . 10 out of 10 in every single department. If I could give it the magical score of 11, it gets 
 a 12.
  
  Audio Department - Authentic sounds from all weapons, vehicles, ambience, and music, dialogue, 
 and other SFX will have you so immersed in the world of Star Wars that if you closed your eyes, 
 you could practically imagine the Star Wars galaxy around you.
  
  Gameplay - The. Most. Solid. Story. And. Gameplay. Ever. Created. EVER! 'Nuff said.
  
  Everything 
 else - If you don't love it, there's something wrong with you.
  
  If you don't believe me, ask my 60 + completed saved games, totalling over 600 hours. I would spend 
 eternity playing this game to every single outcome possible - oh, wait, it was so good that I already 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalem01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Obsidian had their work cut out for them when they made KoTOR 2. Luckily they pulled it off, although 
 a lot of it seems taken straight from KoTOR 1. Thats not a bad thing either.
  
  As a whole the experience is a bit less memorable than that of KoTOR 1. The story is good, its 
 just not great. And the characters are fun, they're just not as memorable or iconic. Some are easy 
 to forget while others have little or no growth once you get them. None of it really takes away 
 from the experience, it just leaves you wanting a bit more. By the end of the game you'll be happy 
 with both aspects, even if it does feel like you're playing KoTOR 1 at times.
  
  However Obsidian did try to make the game stand out a bit. A lot of the new features are great 
 ideas that just weren't pulled off quite right, and of course others were quite decent. Crafting 
 items, for example, doesn't feel necessary most of the game as you'll get everything you need off 
 corpses or from containers. However the new lightsaber crafting options (As well as having there 
 be far fewer lightsabers) make your hero feel that much more unique as they allow you to toss in 
 new colors such as white, and even eventually give you a unique gem that gives you bonuses based 
 on if you're Light, Dark, or Gray aligned.
  
  One of the more disappointing new features was the influence system, which felt rushed and shallow. 
 In theory its a great idea, however in practice they didn't seem to spend enough time making a 
 system that really went in depth with it. At times it feels like you're missing out on bits of 
 the story because you decided to roleplay rather than go out of your way to tell everyone exactly 
 what they want to hear. Maybe with some tweaking this feature could see a comeback.
  
  All in all KoTOR 2 was a great experience. A lot of the same isn't a bad thing with this game, 
 and the new features are interesting if a bit off mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happybara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  "Like its predecessor, The Sith Lords takes place thousands of years before any of the Star Wars 
 movies and is focused on some of the formative struggles between the Jedi and their power-hungry 
 counterparts, the Sith. In the first game, you eventually discovered your Jedi powers, as well 
 as your mysterious past. This time, you play as a different character that begins the adventure 
 as a Jedi -- but your knowledge of the character's past, the character's Force powers, and even the 
 character's lightsaber are all missing. A journey of self-discovery awaits, and as you pick up 
 the pieces of your character's past and discover the reasons for his or her exile from the Jedi 
 order, your path will lead you to the few Jedi who survived the catastrophic events that took place 
 at the conclusion of the original game. 
  
  In your search for them, you'll once again visit the remnants of the Jedi enclave on Dantooine. 
 You'll take sides in a political struggle on Onderon between a queen and a general in her army, 
 and you'll search through the lush jungles of its moon, Dxun. You'll also see some ancient Sith 
 burial grounds on Korriban, and more. The story of The Sith Lords turns out to be quite intriguing 
 most of the way through, thanks to some enigmatic and complex characters and a few exciting episodes 
 you'll experience along the way. However, a fairly terse resolution and some occasionally strange 
 leaps of logic near the end are mildly disappointing, especially given how much exposition there 
 is leading up to the climactic confrontations that occur. But the course of the adventure (which 
 should take you 30 to 40 hours each time through) is rewarding enough as it is, and the story is 
 ultimately about as good as that of the original, and is therefore one of the new game's main attractions." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timotiherb333
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2, like KOTOR 1, puts you in the shoes of a guy who, in KOTOR 1, becomes a jedi. However 
 in KOTOR 2 you start off as a jedi, allowing you to build up your powers quickly. Like KOTOR 1, 
 the sequel has OK graphics, but there are a few areas in KOTOR 2 that look like they were really 
 rushed. Similarly, there are quite a few glitches with the speech that made it seem like the game 
 was rushed in production. 
  
  The interface and basic gameplay is the same In KOTOR 2 as it was in the first, with a couple of 
 small exeptions. The Jedi classes reamin the same, being Consular, Guardian and Sentinel, But KOTOR 
 2 adds a cool feature once you get to level 16, where you can become a prestige class. These change 
 based on your alignment, but there is basically a follow-up class for each of the starting class, 
 eg. Jedi Guardian to either Sith Maruader if dark side or Jedi Weapon Master if light side, but 
 you do not have to use these, in fact it can be quite fun to cross a Jedi Consular with a Jedi 
 Weaponmaster. This adds a new level of detail onto the game, as all of these prestige classes have 
 special abilities. 
  
  Like KOTOR 1, you travel with a party of goofy people. In KOTOR 2, you have Kreia, a sort of old 
 woman equivalent to Bastila in the first KOTOR. You meet a strange assortment of peopel along your 
 travels, who you can influence to turn to the light side or dark side, and you can transform many 
 into jedi or sith. 
  
  Overall, the game has many good things about it, and it is a worthy sequel to the first. The graphical 
 and speech errors do little to affect the gameplay, however there isn't that much to add to it 
 either apart from the new classes and some new force powers and items. The game is worth buying, 
 especially if you have played and enjoyed the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the old Republic 2 (or kotor2) starts out some years after the events of the first game. 
 You play as a new character who's knowledge of who he or she is, is lost again like in the first 
 game. So you must find out who you are and what your place in the game will be.
  
  I started playing the kotor games for the first time last year. Had a blast with kotor 1, a wonderful 
 game. Bought the sequel and went strait to it after the first game. 
  
  In kotor 2, you start in an abandoned mining station (or you can start in the ebon hawk ship as 
 a tutorial to the game) The abandoned mining station really threw me off this game. I know the 
 graphics engine in the kotor games are a little dated, but I was fine with kotor 1. Some effects 
 and some of the worlds in kotor 1 looked great even to this day, and the fights with lightsabers 
 looked very impressive. But I think kotor 2 suffered from a quick development because the level 
 design in kotor 2 is very bland and boring to look at. And one of the strengths in kotor 1 was 
 also the thrill of exploring new exciting worlds and places.
  
  And that pretty much carried on through the entire time in kotor 2, bland looking levels and some 
 small bugs with conversations. So they need to take some more time to make these games, because 
 it differently lacked the polish and care of the original.
  
  Plus, in kotor 2 you sometimes got to control some of your party members trough some small adventures, 
 and for me, that wasn't very fun, because I mostly just want to focus on my main character and 
 then focus on my party members, but I don't want to play em :)
  
  What I mostly liked about kotor 2 was the ability to change your party members side. If you wanted 
 to go down the dark side and you had a light side character a long for the ride, then your actions 
 could change them to be on your side. Other then that the game also had a lot of new fun force 
 powers, cool jedi/sith robes and other new fun toys to play with.
  
  The story was also pretty good this time around, although I still prefer the story in the first 
 one. In kotor 1 you search for maps on different planets that will lead you to your final destination. 
 In kotor 2, you are looking for surviving Jedi's on different worlds. And that's as much as I'll 
 write about the story, the rest you need to play for you to find out :)
  
  In the end I had a good experience with kotor 2, I just think it suffered from being a too fast 
 sequel so there wasn't that many changes, plus a quick development time, so the endings and other 
 things in the game wasn't as flushed out as it could have been, if more time had been spent on 
 it.
  
  + Great story
  + Fun new force powers
  +Great characters once again
  + Being able to turn your party members to the dark or light side
  
  -Bland level design
 
  -Having to control your party members at certain times in the game
  -The Endings aren't as epic as in kotor 1
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Kotor 1 is one of my favorite game of all time. The music, the graphic, the quest, the story and 
 the gameplay were all perfect. Kotor 2 is just a bad rehash of that with a weak story.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is exactly the same found in kotor 1. They added some jedi stance 
 and some new element like a second class, nothing important. The story is ok, nothing that will 
 break your mind though unlike the first one. The end is a big deception and can be predicted after 
 the first hour of playtime unless you are blind, deaf or just stupid. Overrall the story feel rushed. 
 The game also feel the mystery that made kotor 1 so great to play again and again. 6/10
  
  Sound: The voice actor are good, although you will notice that 20% of the voice is just a rehash 
 of the voice found inside kotor 1, especially the extraterrestrial voice. The music is good, again 
 I am not sure, but I think it's pretty much the same thing of kotor 1. 8/10
  
  graphic: Mixed bag. Some planet look really nice, but the big majority are rushed and/or a rehash 
 of what you could find in kotor 1 and god they are not interesting to go in. Dantouine especially, 
 they claim you can find some great loot in the sublevel, but it's just a stupid lie. Everything 
 in this game is gray and depressing, unlike kotor 1. The last "planet" you will visit is probably 
 the most dullest place I ever see into a game. Everything here is ugly and repetitive. 6/10
  
  value: well you can find the game for less than 20$ now, so it's probably worth it if you loved 
 kotor 1, don't expect something on the same level. You can probably pass the game with 90%+ of 
 the quest in 20-25 hours. You will probably want to do both side, een though I feel it would be 
 a complete waste of time since the end is the same. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_WHEE_x
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is by far the best star wars game i have ever played, and maybe even the best RPG. The game 
 offers what I think to be the 4 mian attributes of a role playing experience perfectly. Choice, 
 custimization, story, and uniquness. the amount of choice in this game is overwelming. you can 
 pretty much do what ever you want. You can custimize your character so well that its up to you 
 if your character can kill the main boss at level 7, or struggle to kill the 1st one at level 20. 
 The story is the best i've ever seen (other than tales of symphonia) and there is no game ive ever 
 seen that is like this combat system at all, but 4 this game its perfect. I have had this game 
 4 about 3 years, but I still play it at least 5 hours every week. It's just that awesome. I actually 
 have this game minimized right now. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickey6
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** 
 **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** 
 **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** 
 THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** 
 **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** 
 **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** 
 THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** 
 **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** 
 **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** ****THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** ****THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** ****THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** 
 **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** 
 **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE 
 **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** THE **** **** **** **** **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  this was a descent sequel. I actually thought it could be better, though. I didn't play very much 
 of it, though. I thought the game play was good. some of the parts in the game were pretty confusing 
 at times. the graphics were decent, too. the voice acting was alright. it was also good because 
 you get to customize your character in various new ways. like skin color and race, etc. since I 
 didn't get very far in the game, I'd say that what I played of it was pretty decent and the producers 
 of the game were at least trying. even though the first installment was better, this was still 
 a good game to play. it was enjoying for me. but I recommend you should rent it first. so I don't 
 think this game is meant for everyone to have. just my thoughts. I hope SOMEONE found this review 
 somewhat helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundmanlou20
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Great game play, but what the heck were the developers thinking when creating the ending??? This 
 game has one of the crappiest endings that I've ever seen. I loved the advancements from Knights 
 of the Old Republic that let you customize your light saber with additional enhancements, and, 
 after gaining a sufficient number of levels, allow new character force abilities , such as force 
 crush, that are revealed when one of the 6 paths (3 light side, 3 dark side) is chosen. That being 
 said, did anyone really think that after spending two days of straight playing the game would end 
 so abruptly? That you would lose all of the main characters and then be left to fight the easy 
 to defeat "bosses"??? Needless to say, even after being exposed to the game's "less than perfect" 
 ending, I couldn't resist playing it a second, a third, and even a fourth time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  All Star Wars Games was designed to be button bashing, simple, fun and instant action. But when 
 I came accross this, I was amazed. The menu looks nice but createing a decent character, skills 
 and stats Just took forever. I like the cinematics though, the story seems pretty interesting and 
 there are sort of mini games like races but When i got to the combat there was a lot of options 
 to choose from and everything depended on you're skills. This is like Final Fantasy, one of the 
 greatest role playing games and Oblivion Merged together, it was just far too complicated to play. 
 I couldent get the hang of it but hey, its a not bad game once you get use to it. Overall I quite 
 enjoyed it but certainly it just wasnt my type and would not go further with these types. The storyline 
 was deep, fantastic voices and great special effects but this was just not the type fo Star wars' 
 game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zram84
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR II is by far one of the funnest ways to explore the star wars universe. It offers everything 
 an RPGer loves. An evolving leveling system, a great storyline, useful AI and usable classes, and 
 a variety of weapon types and armor. At first I was dubious when I learned that they model their 
 leveling system off of the D & D system. I personally am not a fan of D & D leveling for computer 
 games, because I feel that it's clunky, superflous, and over-complicated. However, I enjoyed how 
 Bioware used a dumbed-down version so D & D idiots such as myself didn't have to go and look up 
 what some dice-rolling action does. I found the storyline absolutely amazing. I really enjoyed 
 how the hero must explore a stars wars universe where what's right and wrong isn't obvious. It's 
 a universe full of shades of grey. Though you may choose a path that signifies your intentions 
 in this universe many force sensitives do not act what their sides dictate. Jedis are clouded by 
 emotions and Siths become great mentors. All in All I give this game top marks and recommend any 
 person who loves star wars and enjoys RPG to pick up a light saber and immerse themselves in the 
 Universe of Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Everything seems hardly different from the first version of Kotor at first glance. The interface 
 and control are much the same. You still use scrolling menus to assign actions in combat and your 
 party may includes at most 3 characters. The Hawk acts like your main base through out the adventures 
 and the inventory is shared between all members of your party. The game start off with few linear 
 quests before opening up allowing you to travel several planets in whichever order you like. The 
 character skills and attributes totally resembles first Kotor. Only few force powers are added 
 but they don't make much difference in your tactics. And so Star War fans will have the feeling 
 of playing another chapter of the same game, and this is really as good as the original.
  
  Only after a while will we recognize the additions The Sith Lord makes to its game play. First 
 thing is you can gain or lost influence with your companions. So your actions towards them are 
 counted and seems to affects their attitudes a lot. Though they will accompany you no matter what 
 you do, gaining influence is quite satisfying since it will make your companions help you to unlock 
 some special power that you can't gain otherwise. I really appreciate this point since it makes 
 interaction in the game more lively. The second change in the game play is that you can break. 
 create and enchant items, making the more powerful. To create a great item, not only do you have 
 to find good parts but your specific skills have to be high enough. You can also make your party 
 member create or enchant for you. Since each character has several strong skills so it become interesting 
 to discover what they can do at their best. 
  
  One more worthy point is that in some part of the game your main character is disabled and you 
 are forced to control a certain member of your party. If you are unprepared, you will feel it hard 
 because normally you will let your companions auto level up rather than wisely choosing skills 
 for them. But this change is quite attractive since it allows you to discover more about every 
 combat styles in the game and making the story line more thrilling. 
  
  The Sith Lord not only make changes in the game play but its story also make some different feeling 
 from the first version. The main topic of the game is still the struggle between light and dark 
 side inside a Jedi. But here, the border separating 2 sides is sometimes unrecognizable. The old 
 Jedi following you from the beginning of the game seems to judge everything from another view point 
 and keep making you wonder about your decision during the game. She is also the last boss you have 
 to fight. In making such thrilling story the developer give players a hope of resolving the question 
 about dark or light side. But finally you can't find the answer in the end of the game. That's 
 somehow disapointing but other factors of the story are still ok and nearly as good as the original.
 
  
  To conclude, I must say Kotor II is a worthy RPG which has everything Star War fans expect. I would 
 recognize you to buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  In this installment, there are more items, weapons, forces powers, and choices. But this time, 
 what you do doesn't really matter to your partry. This time around, what you do influences them, 
 changes there looks and how much they like you.
  
  The game takes place five years after the original KOTOR, and revolves quite a bit around the Mandalorian 
 Wars, which your character from KOTOR also played a big role in. Much like the first, KOTOR II 
 starts you off in some far off place, in danger of enemy, with no real memory of why you are there. 
 
  Old planets are brought back, with some new ones replacing others. 
  
  The goal this time is to bring back the Jedi Council members. Once again, the Jedi are being hunted 
 to extinction (will they ever learn?) . And a mysterious Sith Lord has appeared, causing mayhem. 
 And only you and your party know what's going on. 
  
  GOOD  More choices and missioons; party members don't contradict you about every move you make; 
 more equipment and force powers; another great storyline; more lightsabers
  
  BAD  Some of the best locales, like Tantooine, aren't present in this game; Jedi keep getting hunted 
 down towards obliteration 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  About two years back, i kept hearing about this game, Star wars knights of the old republic. so, 
 finally, i got it for christmas, and played it. i had a great time and one of the best in RPG history 
 for me. i had heard good things about the sequel, and then i tried it. The first level of kotor2 
 has to be the most boring i have ever played, and the story was not interesting at all. why do 
 i care about some stupid miners and their little screw up at a mining base? Why should i care?
 
  The gameplay in kotor2 stays true mostly to all of kotor. you can still use jedi powers, use the 
 pause time gameplay, and control mulitple chracters etc etc. the gameplay is nothing new, but i 
 dont blame obsidian for that, kotor had good gameplay, so why not keep it eh? the thing i cant 
 get over is the graphics. THEY ARE PITIFUL. kotor looked good for its time, with shiny lightsabers 
 and big areas. but in kotor2, when i walk into something as simple as smoke, the framewrate dips 
 substantially, and i have a pretty good PC. 
  i really didnt think this game lives up to its first one, and i would not recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTs2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This one's definitely a must for all who love RPGs and Star Wars. I'll start from a few negative 
 points as commended by most of those who have played the game: Once again you start as someone who 
 have lost all his Jedi powers, a concept similar to the first KOTOR and secondly the ending is not 
 that great. In my opinion this 2 points are not enough to mar this magnificent game. The story is 
 fascinating as one expects, the sounds great and the graphics really cool managing to remind you're 
 in Star Wars' universe. Again lots of hours to spend and some very nice improvements. First of all 
 KOTOR 2 introduces the influence system seeing in NWN 2 as well. Your actions and your behavior 
 towards your companions influences and leads them to the Light or Dark Side. Furthermore some of 
 them can be trained to Jedis later in the game. There's also a bigger level cap and there's the 
 addition of the prestige classes. I won't say play it cause i know you've already done that. The 
 only thing i have to say is: I WANT KOTOR 3 AND I WANT IT NOW!!!!!!! (pleaaase) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLuv2game23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this game up, my expectations were less than high. In fact, I honestly just wanted 
 a game on my P. C. so I could spend less time on the internet. But what I fell into by buying this 
 game was a wonderous world that does justice to the Star Wars Franchice, unlike other recent items 
 *cough* Episode 1,2,3, *cough*. The story shines the most in this adventure, emmersing you into 
 a deep world in chaos. The combat is remenicent to old RPG's, but with a twist. The game is not 
 turnbased, but does thrive on menus for combat and is very deep and involving, but still has no 
 learning curve, so that by the time you reach later levels and have more skills, you are adapted 
 to the combat system. Leveling up can be a immersive and involving as you want it to be, as you 
 can customize everything about your characters fighting, as well as other skills like persausion 
 and charisma. Or you can just have the computer level your party up by itself, but its more fun 
 to have control over your characters. Your party consists of three members at any given moment, 
 which you can choose and switch as you please. I have only 2 problems with this game. One is the 
 frame rate, which can get choppy on the higher graphic settings, and that although I like the combat, 
 I would've prefered a more action feel, almost like FF12. But I loved this game, and if you choose 
 to purchase it you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of Bioware and the first KOTOR, I went into KOTOR II with admittedly large expectations, 
 judging from the franchise, Obsidian's reputation and the generally sterling reviews. But a huge 
 surprise to me -- this is a review of the first 10 hours of KOTOR II: The Sith Lords because, honestly, 
 I couldn't bring myself to play any more without the urge to strangle myself with my keyboard cord.
 
  
  The most glaring pain here is the pacing. Obsidian clearly designed a deliberately SLOOOOOW game 
 to allow you, the main character, the time and space to really experience your environments, build 
 relationships, explore lengthy conversation trees and immerse yourself in the game lore through 
 archival security camera footage and database recordings. The recordings themselves are an interesting 
 storytelling technique used much more effectively in System Shock II and Bioshock ... mainly because 
 the stories of those two games in actually interesting, whereas KOTOR II's backstory is both dull 
 and overly drawn out. Boring and brief is one thing; unfortunately here Obsidian's early story 
 is boring and long as hell.
  
  You'll spend over 4 hours in the starter level, an abandoned freighter with a slightly convoluted 
 plot line that neither grabs your attention nor lets you get through it quickly. Soon after, you'll 
 experience your first "city" -- and I use that word loosely as this is one of the most barren cities 
 you'll ever see in a RPG. Whereas the environments in KOTOR weren't packed either, they didn't 
 feel as generically barren and fake as the environments you see in KOTOR II.
  
  I actually quit playing before my character ever acquired a light saber or meaningful Jedi powers, 
 but reportedly it takes over 12 HOURS of gameplay before Obsidian allows you this most basic level 
 of "fun". Non-Jedi combat is exceedingly dull and uninspired, and because the game doesn't support 
 widescreen resolutions, you'll be playing in Windowed mode with assorted mouse lagginess and misalignment 
 with menus and slowdown after battles where your character will stall for up to 10 seconds before 
 you're able to loot anything or move at all.
  
  If KOTOR II was some show-stopper in the graphics department, this might be understandable -- even 
 for a 3-year-old game ... but the reality is the game looked like crap when it came out and it 
 looks even worse now.
  
  When it's all said and done, if you've played and enjoyed Bioware's KOTOR as much as I did, do 
 yourself a favor and pretend the franchise ended with that game. This game is only worth it for 
 die-hard completionists with a high tolerance for clunky gameplay and snail-like plot progression. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaz14
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the old Republic, the name of the first really immersive Star Wars RPG I have 
 ever come across has spawned this sequel. Made by OBSIDIAN this time around rather than Bioware 
 this game has stayed just as good, if not better.
  
  Flying around in the Ebon Hawk yet again, this time you find yourself as the last Jedi in the galaxy, 
 needless to say the Sith are right on your tail, yet again surrounded by your trusted crew you 
 go to save the galaxy from impending doom.
  
  This sequel takes you to many new places on your travels and some old places, the most notable 
 would be Korriban, the homeworld of the Sith, making its way in as, i think, to be the best new 
 planetary addition would be that of Onderon and its moon Dxun, here you find out more about the 
 Mandalorians and meet an old face.
  
  Anyway moving into the game itself, the graphics are about as good as the last one, which were 
 rather so-so but still not that bad for when it came out, I suppose thats a good thing as it hasn't 
 got any worse! The gameplay has had a massive overhaul since the original KOTOR, with more than 
 enough new force powers and abilities to shake a stick at, it has massive replayability value, 
 where you can mix and match skills to create the best Light Sided OR Dark Sided character you can 
 dream of. However the combat system has remained quite the same, a turn based real-time fight in 
 where you select your best attack or force power in a struggle to take down the enemy.
  
  However any good game has its flaws, and this game has quite a few, on release there were quite 
 a few glitches as OBSIDIAN had to speed up development to reach the Christmas release time however 
 since then these glitches have been fixed also unfortunately this lead to quite a bit of content 
 being cut out of the game entirely, with only a few hints and clues of what may also of happened, 
 yet they managed to make it still a full and active game throughout.
  
  This game ranks well up there with the RPG world in my opinion, mainly because its an actual GOOD 
 Star Wars RPG, but also it brings you into a world filled with lightsaber wielding maniacs, which 
 can't be a bad thing, can it? Overall OBSIDIAN did well with this, lets just see what will happen 
 if another sequel is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoNsTeR-GaMeR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I don't care if your not even a star wars movie fan. You will love this game. This smokes every 
 other star wars game ever made, even though I still think battlefront and battlefront 2 are great 
 games. This is easily one of the best RPG game out there with Oblivion, Mass Effect, and Final 
 Fantasy. You basically are a guy or a girl who used to be a jedi but got his memory cleaned. You 
 end up on a ship and you have to get out. It seems boring in the beginning, but the plot thickens. 
 You fight droids, siths, jedis, and all sorts of creatures. Your decisions make you go to the dark 
 side, or the light side. You get a squad of two other people. For example, if someone asks for 
 money and you give them some credits, you will gain lightside points. If you decide to kill them, 
 you gain dark side points. As you turn to the dark side, if you do, your face becomes darker and 
 grayer with cracks and scars on it. This game is simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonaldo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  In the year of 2003, BioWare released on of the most immersive games ever made. Star Wars Knights 
 of the Old Republic surprised the world by demostrating a superb cast of characters, an engaging 
 storyline and high prodoction values. And the truth is that The Sith Lords takes advantage of those 
 qualities.
  
  Lets get one thing clear: The Sith Lords isnt better than the original. Althought, its quaIities 
 are remarkable.
  
  You start the game as an outcast jedi, exiled since the Jedi Civil War. With no conection to the 
 force, the exile wanders around the space until the fate meets him. Basicly, your main task is 
 to gather the last jedi to face a bigger evil that you can imagine. 
  
  As you can imagine, you will meet many characters during the game, and some of them will join your 
 party. When it come to the story, we cant deny its potencial. All of the caracters in your party 
 have a lot of charisma and personality, interesting backgrounds and even hidden secrets. For example, 
 the first character you meet in the game, Kreia, is one of the most intringuing personages ever 
 made in a videogame. All of this because of the excelence of the dialogues and vocal work.
  
  On a global point of view, the storyline is one of Obsidians best, and longest as well, considering 
 the number of side quests. Althought, we must refer that the story feels a bit rushed in the ending 
 part.
  
  As I said before, the gameplay is very similar to the original one, and, because of that, the fans 
 wont have any problems at all. The combat is practically identic, but it seems a bit more unbalenced. 
 The most relevant innovation is, no doubt, the influence system. This system is related to your 
 relation with other characters of the party, wether they trust you or not. Your allingtment will 
 please or displease yor companions and, by that way, change your influence over them. This may 
 seem a bizzare addition, but it actually works out very good.
  
  During the adventure, expect visiting some places that youve seen before. Korriban and dantoine 
 are a reality, and some of the old characters and former companions as well. when it comes to nostaligy, 
 this is a near-perfection title.
  
  When it comes to the production values, this title wont impress. The graphics are to dated comparing 
 to other recent titles and the soundtrack is to similar to the first game. But there are good this 
 to notice as well. The animation work was improved, such as the level of detail. The voice work 
 keeps the quality of the original Knights of the Old republic, so you can expect a great audio 
 work. In the negative side, the loadings and bugs must also be refered.
  
  We have to admit that The Sith Lords does not have the same quality as the original game. It may 
 take advantage in the graphics and characters, but the gameplay is to familiar and the bugs are 
 to much. But dont think that this isnt a good game. Actualy its not: its a great game. And, belive 
 me, you shoudnt miss this instant classic, because if you liked the first the game, dont think 
 twice about buying this one.
  
  In the end, and besides its weak points, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 2: The Sith Lords 
 is one of the best RPGs ever made, featuring a great cast of characters and an engaging story. 
 I reccomend it to any RPG fan, or simply to those who would like to try something different from 
 the common FPS and RTS games. 
  
  The Sith Lords is an amazing game with Obsidians signature. And they did an excepcional work.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OVERALL
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  If the orginal had some failures, they only got worse.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Similar to the original game, wich is not a bad thing. Some unbalenced 
 combat.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Good sound track, but sometimes to familiar. Excellent voice acting.
  
  Longevity: 10/10
 
  
  Open-ended quest, a lot of replay value. Many side quest, but some are unfinished.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Amazing cast of characters. Superb dialogues. Immersive storyline.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeman59557
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  No joke this is my all time favorite games! I cant stop playing it! their are secrets that change 
 the game completely!!! you can play it 20 times and you still probably never beat it. the first 
 KOTOR made me like star wars alot ,now this game is even better. you need to buy it!!! PLEASE BUY 
 IT!!!!!!!!!!! ITS THE BEST GAME I EVER PLAYED!!!! i heard news on KOTOR3!!!!!!!! GET THAT TOO!!!! 
 also their is a restoration MOD just look it up on google or something Tell Team Gizka i sent you!!! 
 (their making this excellent mod to restore missing parts in the game and where Lucas arts left 
 off, ect.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogan4310
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. I haven't got this game yet but my mate has got it on Xbox. I really 
 do think this is one of the best Star Wars games ever released. The way you can choose what you 
 say and how you can manipulate the game to your preferences whether you go tho the dark or light 
 side of the force, the way you can choose which force powers you gain and use, and which skills 
 you get to use in the game.
  I really can't wait to get this game on PC but unfortunately i have to wait till christmas as my 
 relatons have bought it for me. I really cannot wait to have the power to control the game fully 
 instead of going over my mates house to play on it. I'll be up in my room on the PC night and day 
 when i get the game until i complete it on both sides of the force as they give you different parts 
 of the game you can do.
  I would recommend this game to any one who loves Star wars And especially if you love RPG games. I 
 would give this masterpiece of a game 10 out of 10 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster_limo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Here's a sequel to a fantastic game, not only a great game but the best Star Wars game i have ever 
 played, and it's high up on the list of my favourite role-playing games.
  
  I must admit, when I heard that Bioware was not developing the sequel I was apprehensive about 
 the outcome, but rest assured that Obsidian have not made any dramatic changes to the game. It 
 still looks and plays like the original and the story has become even more involving with twisting 
 plots. What was once a simple good or evil decision has now turned into a muddier affair. Your 
 actions are always being tested by your companions and how you interact with one companion can 
 affect the rest.
  
  This is a fantastic sequel and if you played the original campaign then you'll quickly get into 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Not often do I beat a game, and feel compelled to start a new game right away, before the credits 
 even finish rolling. This is a very special game.
  
  First note: Get the patch. I tried playing the first game patchless, and it was wrong. This game 
 has glitches, but at least you can get rid of some of them.
  
  Second note: Don't play this game for the ending! I sneezed and I missed the whole thing. Seriously, 
 the game is just going awesomely, but then the plot hits the dirt near the end.
  
  Following closely in the footsteps of KOTOR, this is a pretty good sequel. Again, you are given 
 a human character, and you get to chose whether to play and grow into a noble Jedi master, or a 
 murderous Sith lord. And, this is really cool, your team will bond into the same morality as you! 
 (Assuming you have a good repoir) , your ragtag team of space warriors will become evil (or good) 
 right alongside you. You can even train some of them to be jedi/sith, allthough a few teamates 
 are already there.
  
  The plot is pretty good, though there are a number of things I'd love to have explained better. 
 And, with all the cuts they made, there were a number of questions raised without any answers. 
 And sometimes, the characters randomly knew the bad guy's names without being told. And the final 
 boss battle is just goofy fun.
  
  Pros:
  -I still love the morale concept. Although, the system is flawed, because you can master evil/good 
 very easily, and I think they should've made it tougher.
  -Influence; a new aspect to the game, it's fun to guess what people want to hear.
  -This game 
 returns to two of the decimated planets from the previous game, but as far as the movies go I don't 
 recognize any of them. Still, nice to see Dantooine all shook up.
  -Combat system; I feel kind-of lazy, but I've gotten used to it. There's more challenge in difficult 
 mode.
  -Hey, now you have infared check-whose-evil powers! That's pretty damn cool.
  
  Cons:
  -It's still difficult to get a good look at your character/other characters. It's hard 
 to watch your character turn slowly evil if you can't see them too well.
  -This game suffers from 'too-many-characters' syndrome.
  -This game suffers from 'way-too-many-items' 
 syndrome. And, unfortunately, the sorting methods are less than stellar.
  
  Stuff that's fixed:
  -Outerspace suit; spaceman with the runs! Still, I think it's a MAJOR improvement.
 
  -Run; Oh Boy, the characters can run now! I can't explain how excellent this is.
  -Stuck teammates; no longer a problem, they'll just warp to the exit, no more 'Wait here for Bimmy 
 and Jimmy to catch up.'
  
  Stuff that's sort-of fixed:
  -The levels aren't as large and vacant as before. Some include warping, so you don't have to walk 
 back and forth through conquered areas.
  -They tried to give you a rotatable camera, but it's not very good.
  -It seems to be less of 
 a problem if you are controlling a second character and move to talk with someone.
  
  Stuff that's still broken:
  -Why are the characters always carrying their swords/guns/sabres? 
 I mean, would you? Would anyone?
  -Movie scenes are still very slow to load, even for the short ones.
  -Sometimes it's impossible 
 to bypass dialog/movie scenes, and sometimes you need to watch them 2, 3 times, depending on if 
 you screw up the decisions at the end or not.
  
  All-in-all, an awesome game, except the ending. I'd recommend it to RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfalco
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  not a great game but everything is great about the game except the story the story is long complecated 
 not involving and weird even compared to the first kotor this is like WoW but without the multi 
 player if u want a game like kotor then get the new game gamespot is advertising like crazy the 
 there is no good there is no evil only decisions that game will most likely be better then kotor 
 2 but if u really like kotor 1 then get kotor 2 i really subjest it aw dont u hate reviews the 
 wont let me submit it until i get 100 words man this is annoying um hm what else can i talk about 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba41025
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Hi My name is Lachlan. I think this game is awsome. OI would get this game if I wore you. I think 
 I will be a good game player at this. I havent started the game yet but I will start soon. I got 
 it on the 2/11/07. It was ab it late but I still should enjoy it. I think. I think you will be 
 as well. It is cool how you can make you own guy up and all that. I like that about that game. 
 Epcilally you choose you Lightsaber. I like that aswell. This by Lachlan. Thanks For Reading.
 
  p. s. Get This game. I have just finished the game and it was boring. I way think this game is gay 
 so is star wars. Dont get the game it is pretty boring. Spend ya money on somthing else like GTA 
 4. the best game in the world. Believe me dont get it. It isnt worth it. But if you love str wars. 
 I recomend it to you. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I can recognise that KOTOR II is a good game but for some reason I never got to finish the game 
 like I did KOTOR I in a week. I even got it on PC AND Xbox thinking that on a consol it would be 
 faster to get in but I never got far on both system. I'm putting the blame on the story that is 
 not evolving fast enough but it might just be that I'm too old and busy to pass another 40 hours 
 on a game. I love to play good RPG game but they get longer and longer and tell me what is the 
 point of beginning an RPG when you know you'll never have the time to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is an awesome game if you are a mega fan of the Star Wars 
 trilogy. The gameplay is awesome considering that there are many different types of controls to 
 help you maneuver through the battles with either just droids or Sith/Jedi. The Graphics is really 
 great there were some flaws to it but any other way the graphics are awesome. The story was awesome 
 and it was kept in place but at the beginning and at the end it just got off track for about half 
 an hour into the game. The sound is just awesome it fits into everything that goes on and there 
 wasn't much flaws to it. All the voices of the character voices were really good but most of the 
 times it didn't seem like it was in that part of time like when somethings jumps out it doesn't 
 seem like their scared when they scream. Overall I think Star Wars Knight of the Old Republic is 
 a game for every Star Wars fan out there and if your not a Star Wars fan I think you should get 
 it because I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 2 continues its role playing with style. The sequel offers 
 vast improvements over its predecessor, improved graphics, better game-play and much more style.
 
  
  Instead of its predecessor were you start as a normal character and grow to become a Jedi. At the 
 start you choose which Jedi you desire. Three classes are offered, Jedi Consular (Force Heavy Character) , 
 Jedi Guardian (Basically a Brute, excellent in Fighting) , and the Jedi Sentinel (A Mix of The Two) . 
 As you begin your Journey, you discover that you have no memory of where you are and you encounter 
 allies on the way to discover what happened. During your journey you will travel to many planets 
 and see many places that offer more history. What ever you do, your actions echo and change how 
 people treat you.
  
  The game offers something new, when your character is level 15 and reached certain level in your 
 Light Side, or Dark Side. At this point you are offered a way to choose a specialization of three. 
 A Jedi Master (Sith Lord) , Masters of the Force; Jedi Weapon Master (Sith Marauder) , excellent 
 in battle with Lightsabers; And Jedi Watchmen (Sith Assassin) the stealthiest of all with bonus 
 to Sneak attack. The game has improved graphics, the storyline, and skills used. It has improved 
 mechanics and new items which can be created. The only draw back I see is they rushed this game 
 to production and have left many empty quests which leave the gamer wonder why they never put it 
 in.
  But overall this is a great RPG game and I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesey_item
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I have never actually played the first KOTOR but adored jedi knights' 2 and 3 and the battlefronts, 
 Once I had run out of star wars games, I decided to get this one hoping it wouyld live up to the 
 reviews and satisfy me after the other wonderful star wars games I have played.
  I loaded up, no problems and the graphhics looked pretty good, even on my old system but i stepped 
 into a room with an enemy first time and it paused. I was like wt*??? The combat system turned 
 out to be like runescape!! a game (and I use the term game very loosely because games are supposed 
 to be fun) which I despise with a passion! If you are looking for a button mashing, fun game then 
 dont go for this one, Don't get me wrong, the graphics are good, the story may be a little cheesey 
 but I hate the combat in this game because it just breaks up the game and makes it unfun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  *Please note that this review is merely my opinion, and should be viewed as such. If you don't 
 agree with it, there is no need to get angry at me for having my own opinion. I respect everyone's 
 opinions, and never demand from people to agree with me*
  
  The first thing i noticed when i started playing this game is that it plays and looks exactly the 
 same as KOTOR 1, which didn't strike me as a bad thing since KOTOR was a game that didn't need 
 much fixing. That's not to say that some game-play elements were not improved over the first game. 
 A lot of thought was put on upgrading and creating items. The system is much more complex than 
 before. Throughout the game you will find many components and chemicals, which you can use to create 
 items. If that's not enough, you can also breakdown items you no longer need, and use the parts 
 of those items to create new items. Other improvements are improved UI, better inventory management, 
 many useful new feats, some not so useful and some useful new force powers, new combat animations, 
 bigger maps...
  
  It is worth noting that the game is just as easy (easier at the end) as the first game (at least 
 for experienced KOTOR players) , so i recommend downloading some mods that make the game harder 
 and more challenging. You can find them at http://www. lucasforums. com/forumdisplay. php? s=&amp; forumid=321
 
  
  The sound is ofcourse just as excellent as in the first game (LucasArts always manage to do a good 
 job with sound) , but the music is, IMO, truly amazing. It fits perfectly into the game. .
  
  Anyway let's move to the most important part of the game: the storyline, which i enjoyed even 
 more than that of the first game, especially because it is quite different than the traditional 
 Star Wars story (which isn't to say there's anything wrong with them.. just that too much of the 
 same is never good) . It has far less connection to the storyline from the movies than any other 
 Star Wars game, but everything that you've grown to love in the movies is still here (sith, jedi, 
 force...) . It also goes a bit deeper (even deeper than the movies) in explaining what the Sith, 
 the Force, the Dark and the Light side are, which is a move that i respect. Some people might say 
 that only Lucas can explain more about these core Star Wars elements, but i happen to be open for 
 opinions from other people, and am glad that Avallone (the writer of KII) decided to share his 
 imagination with the rest of us. If he wouldn't, KII would end up as just another game with a traditional 
 SW story. One thing that should be said is that it is necessary to pay attention to the dialogue 
 of every NPC in the game (especially the party members dialogue) , and to stop thinking that you're 
 playing a game if you really want to understand and appreciate the story. People who don't want 
 to spend so much energy and time on a game will most likely not like the storyline or this game 
 at all. All the same, those who don't like games with mountains of dialogue will not like this 
 game at all, while those who like RPG's like PS might say that there isn't enough dialogue. I'm 
 inclined to agree with the latter, but then i remind myself that if this game had as much dialogue 
 as PS, it most likely wouldn't be voice acted, which would be a real shame, because the voice acting 
 in this game is excellent (party members are the most wonderfully voice acted) .
  
  The NPC's in the game are mostly very well written. A couple of them stand out as superbly written 
 (Kreia, HK-47, HK-50's, Atton, Sion...) , while some are pretty two-dimensional, but those are thankfully 
 rare. .
  
  *Spoiler warning*
  Also, a word about the Sith Lords in this game. I've seen a lot of people complaining that there 
 was not enough interaction with them, and that they were given little reason to stop them. Well, 
 i personally think that stopping them (or at least stopping Nihilus... Sion wasn't that much of 
 a threat, but he was still an interesting NPC... much more than Malak) was a lot more important 
 than stopping Malak in the first game (i actually made up my own little story for Malak to make 
 him a more interesting character) . It's true that there wasn't much interaction with Nihilus, but 
 the way i see it, it is only right. I mean he really didn't strike me as a very talkative guy. 
 Kreia (the best written NPC in any game since PS) really tells you everything you need to know 
 about him. He cares about nothing else, but to suck the life out of every person in the universe. 
 And he does that without using any weapons at all... just himself. Doesn't sound like a person 
 with much to say, does it? It would help if we learned more about Nihilus's origins, but it's not 
 too big of an issue to me, because i can make up my own story about his origins. Why was he a bigger 
 threat than Malak? Well, to put it simply, Malak just killed the bodies (the souls remained and 
 could become one with the force, as it is meant to be in Star Wars) , while Nihilus enslaved or 
 destroyed the souls, which is far worse than just killing the bodies, IMO. That's at least the 
 way i understand it.
  *End of spoilers*
  
  Another thing worth mentioning is that the game has a lot of cut content, which is because LucasArts 
 wanted the game out before Christmas, because people like to spend money during that time (and 
 also because they have the most time) . It is a sad thing, the greed... to sacrifice the quality 
 of the game because of the money. Guess what... i am positive the game would sell much more copies 
 if it was completed, because a good word spreads, as does a bad word. And besides, money means 
 **** it is the people that matter. In any case, because of the cut content the game's ending feels 
 unsatisfying and dry. And at the same time, it makes little sense. 40+ hours of deep storytelling, 
 you get a slap in the face at the end. I saved the game by making up my own ending, but many people 
 don't want to do that, and they have all the right not to. Thankfully, a group of good people that 
 call themselves Team Gizka is restoring most of the cut content from the game, including the ending 
 (which should, when the mod is out, feel a lot more satisfying) . You see, Obsidian was kind enough 
 to leave most of the sound files, scripts and unfinished modules in the game, hoping that someone 
 would restore them. That's at least what i like to believe... it's also possible that they were 
 just too lazy to remove those files, but judging from how much support NWN2 has gotten, i'm inclined 
 to believe the former.
  
  Thank you for reading (or at least clicking on Continue &gt;&gt; and scrolling down to the bottom) 
 and have fun in life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boondocks123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game when I first played it i really thought this game sucked, but once i figured out how 
 to do the cheats woh, this game really got good, ididnt almost every cheat and it was worth it, 
 WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW v WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
 WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOWWOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOWWOWWOWWOW WOWWOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
 tis is a reeaaly fun game once u get past the strategy fighting part so WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
 WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocko5820
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It's still good.
  To me I think it is a great game... it doesn't work on my computer so i play it on a another one.... 
 I wish it was a never ending game like galaxies or somethings like that. The charecters that i 
 can remember are (Atton (my pic) , Exile (your  
 but on 2 hes known has Mandalore) and i think thats it......
  So have fun playing it I know i did....... I won it!
  (P. s i dont know what that time spent playing 
 to date means)
  Plus you use the Ebon Hawk again!!!! (ppl that dont know what that is ..... PLAY KOTOR 1 first!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 faithfully follows in the step of KOTOR -1, which is quite possibly one of the best RPG 
 games of all time. You are once again thrust into the role of the savior of the galaxy. Get ready 
 for another journey of self discovery as you journey across multiple planets trying to regain your 
 lost heritage. The game faithfully follows the blueprints of the original KOTOR and for the most 
 part it does it well. The graphics are noticeably worse than the first game, but it doesn't take 
 you away from the action too much. The game does an excellent job of throwing a lot of enemies 
 at you but you will not find any of the boss battles challenging. In fact, unlike KOTOR 1, the 
 final boss battle is actually a little underwhelming and the other three major encounters are really 
 not challenging either. This is in part due to the fact that the level cap is much higher than 
 in the original game and you start of the game leveling up your character as a jedi unlike the 
 original KOTOR. In fact, at the later stages of the game you will find yourself blowing through 
 the enemy opposition with absolutely no challenge from them. If you are expecting a story like 
 the first one, you will be disappointed to know that although the story has it moments, it certainly 
 not as good as the first one. However, this game is enormous and it easily eclipses the first one 
 in terms of scale and re-playability. Your experience will be much different if you play the game 
 with the opposite sex the second time around and there is a good chance that you will find all 
 the goodies packed into this game if you don't play it multiple times. Overall the game does a 
 very good job of introducing you to new content like lighsaber forms and quite a lot of new powers. 
 It also keeps the core game play intact and the music is very fitting, as it fits the game storyline, 
 which in case you did not know is set some years after the original KOTOR. The republic now stands 
 at the brink of complete collapse and the sith have slid into a state of civil war. If you have 
 played the first KOTOR you will see some of the characters return even if they only appear for 
 a short time. Without giving away too much, it lets you know what has happened of Revan since the 
 events of the first game ( light and dark side, which ever you choose) ... who is quite possibly the 
 best star wars video game character ever. In fact after playing this game, you will feel that it 
 sets up the story for a possible KOTOR 3. Overall this is a very solid game and if you liked the 
 first game you will find this entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I think perhaps the story wasn't quite as developed as the first KOTOR, and I did find myself confused 
 at times. Still, the whole - level up your Force powers, create your own lightsaber, sway your 
 allies to the light or dark side. Just fun. I actually played through this game a second time as 
 a dark side Jedi, which I almost never do. Graphics looked on the same level as the first KOTOR, 
 don't expect any great visual leaps. Still, the first one was great, and this one' s great too. 
 Definitely a must play for RPG and Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic was praised as an amazing RPG with a great story line and gameplay, 
 allowing you to be both light and dark. KOTOR II expands alittle on gameplay and customization. 
 However, does little if not destroys the original story. The character interactions are as good 
 as ever, the graphics make a few small improvements (i must admit, the jedi robes look really cool) 
 but in the end its basically the same game but with no real motivation throughout the story. The 
 antagonist is somewhat undefined. and the ending left a feeling as if you were playing the game, 
 then it just shot credits at you for no reason. Many of the characters felt as if they didn't belong 
 in the starwars universe, and lots of the worlds, story ideas, and plot changes really didn't fit.
 
  
  But despite those faults, the gameplay did improve by giving us more options and force powers. 
 A new adition to battling is having different styles or (martial arts) that one can use and master. 
 The lightsaber customization is also a huge improvement upon the last game. Compared to the last 
 game, KOTOR II provides much less character development and side stories. (HK-47 is still as hilarious 
 as ever but u get him so late in the game it doesn't matter) Overall the characters seem less interesting. 
 As i stated earlier the story is crap, the storyline might as well be: Im a jedi so lets go to 
 different worlds and mess around and kill things while people are hunting us. (over exagerated)
 
  
  But as i try to give a unbiased review. It was still an enjoyable game, i did play through a few 
 times and found gameplay as enough of a reason to give it a 8.0. It didn't suck, its just nothing 
 compared to the original. So if you loved the original, you'll like this one too, its just that 
 your not going to like the story line. If you have never played the original and are thinking about 
 this one........... please get the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Hi again its me, CHAZMISTAR. Now, if you've read my previous three reviews on The Legend of Zelda: 
 Ocarina of Time, Splinter Cell Pandora Tommorow and Guitar Hero you'd know my reviews are usually 
 almost 100% positive. Although this time I might have to rate this game under 10 (!) . This game 
 was well thought out storyline-wise, however, the graphics are not completely up to standard for 
 2005. The combat system, is, to put it bluntly,  thats it, crubbish. 
 The sound sometimes screws up, so i gave it a quite low score. The characters, howver are imaginative 
 equivalents of Star Wars characters, i. e. Atton is very much like Han Solo, and the player is a 
 lot like Luke Skywalker. Well, ive had my say. Tell me what you think by agreeing or disagreeing 
 with m y review. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  It's the sequel to one of the, if not, the, greatest Star Wars based game.
  
  Generally speaking, this is more of the same, so most of my comments in the review of the original 
 game apply here.
  
  But here's a basic rundown for the sequel specifically.
  
  Graphics: They are OK, not bad, not great, but they do the job. I suppose the only real problem 
 I have here is with how plain the environments look at times, which is odd, because the original 
 didn't look this plain.
  
  Sound: great sound effects, pretty good voice. It's star wars, so ya, it's good stuff
  
  Story: 
 This is a good story for a sequel and ties in loosely with the original (the original had a story 
 more worthy of the franchise that the actual later movies!) . The story isn't as good as the original, 
 and in some ways feels a bit like a rip off, but it's still decent. The main problem I have with 
 the story is that it isn't told in such a compelling way and the mystery they were aiming for serves 
 to just obscure the story, not make it more interesting.
  
  I did find that the story starts of kind of slow, and follows the exact same format as the first 
 game, which seemed a little cheap to me.
  
  The characters I found were for the most part very irrelevant. I mean the extra characters. Many 
 of them were pretty useless or gratuitous add ons for fans of the original, but didn't play really 
 that important of a role. Still, the story is pretty decent and better than most games out there.
 
  
  Value: It's worth playing through the game twice probably, but the consequences of choosing good 
 vs evil are not a severe in the sequel as in the original, which I find a bit odd. The biggest 
 problem I have with this game is that it feels like a cash-in on Bioware's original game. Many 
 of the assets are the same, in fact, it feels more like KOTOR 1.5 than a true sequel. But that's 
 not all that bad, the first game was really great, so mimicking it is a safe way to extend the 
 fun. And this was a really fun game. If you're a fan of the original, then you'll want this game, 
 no question. It does add to the original story, and anticipates KOTOR 3, which from my understanding 
 is being developped by Bioware, thankfully.
  
  Hopefully the force powers are developped a bit more. I didn't think the additions to the sequel 
 added much to the game. But they are still really fun to use.
  
  Worth buying? Yep, without a doubt. Especially given how cheap this game is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_Ray
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Good graphics, expecialy with all settings turned up to max. Nice textures with fairly deep detail, 
 often very open enviroments filled with allot of life or allot of enemys. Some enviroments feel 
 a bit sparce but that was not that often at all. Character interaction between the player and NPC's 
 can some times take up large amounts of time, but is usualy necc. to ensure all of the story has 
 been filled in. Tbh i havnt even played the 1st game of this series, hopefully will have it in 
 my collection soon and from what i have read from reviews it seems even better than this follow 
 up.
  
  This game has just as basic combat system as Guild Wars imo. Run in. Stand on the spot. Hit. Hit. 
 Kill. Next enemy plz... (pure borax for any1 not down with this kind of RPG grind)
  
  Having said that kiling enemys is fun in KOTOR 2, especially with two lightsabers. They drop like 
 fly's. Appart from this pure ownage with an upgraded flash-light there isnt much else to this game. 
 Yer, u hav to collect parts and components to upgrade weapons and armor but its not neccesary to 
 ensure u can compleate the game...
  
  All in all, fun for the RPG'er and most Star Wars fans, basic for every1 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007Genious
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II is the greatest of the series so far, and I hope that 
 they continue their good work. The multi-option game play allows more freedom as to things not 
 just in light and dark side, but with influence on other characters. One of the greatest and coolest 
 things about it is how you choose your allies based on your decisions and conversation choices. 
 New light saber colors and crystals truly give you a way to come in touch with your personality. 
 New Force powers such as Force Body, Drain Force, Battle Meditation, and Force Crush can devastate 
 your enemies in more powerful and spectacular ways. New feats including Stealth Run and Shield 
 Breaker allow you to fight or sneak how you want to. The plot is straightforward, and if you gain 
 enough influence with one of your characters, you can train them in the ways of the Force. All 
 in all, it was GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I have always enjoyed Star Wars games but I lost intrest in kotor 1 half way 
 through. It just didn't thrill me. Kotor 2 kept my attention and I completed it wanting more. The 
 story was superior and I think that was the key. I recommend this game to any Star Wars fan.
  
  The story kept my attention. The graphics were good with smooth animations and some nice force 
 effects. The game never felt unbeatable and kept a good pace so you didn't run into a dull chapter. 
 It was not too short either as I knew it was also on the Xbox. It didn't feel consolish though 
 or lacking. Kotor 2 had some nice attention to different force styles, saber styles and you can 
 focus on a character you would become in the Star Wars universe.
  
  Gameplay is almost identical to the original Kotor, so fans will immediately know all about but 
 has enough differences to keep hard core fans of the original very happy until completion of both 
 light and dark side jedi progression. The fighting is point and click based with the player choosing 
 skills or feats gained via level ups, these fights happen in real-time or psuedo real-time by allowing 
 the pause the fight and pre-select your combat choices before resuming, this works very well especially 
 in later levels where you'll be facing many opponents.
  
  There was one show stopping bug where a diologe would not trigger. I found a fix but it is not 
 an offical patch. I was surprised they never fixed this though as it is not a little bug but a 
 game stopping one as you can not move forward. Anyone having trouble with this game best do a google 
 search to find the unoffical patch. It happens in the handmaidens area where you will be stuck 
 without the fix. This was the only negative aspect I saw in this game but it is a big one!
  
  note; this is one of my older reviews, a bug fix may have fixed the above problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeram
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games on PC! It really great cuz you get to make your own character 
 and then you can choose a side the dark or the ligth then you get to get level ups and more and 
 more Powers. dont forget you can choose what kind of lightsabor you want a double or a single! But 
 it will be a while till you get a lightsabor but when you dont have a one you will have guns and 
 swords. so if i were you i would definitely get this game! And it will keep you happy for a while 
 it sure will!
  
  
  -Princeram strikes again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalescott
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  For a sequal this is one of the Best games i have played in a long while. The graphics, sound, 
 and overall gameplay are right on par with the original KOTOR. Simply said, this game is great, 
 although there were a lot of bugs. Just do not try to play it on VISTA or it will give you a major 
 headache. This is the only thing holding it back from being better than the original. If not for 
 the VISTA problems, this game would have a great replay value. I mean getting to go dark or light 
 side and pulling your party along for the ride is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clor0x
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is a series of movies that are supposed to be fun, imaginative, exciting, especially 
 with its THX 5.1 Reccomendations on the DVDs! Most games are able to capture this fun, Republic 
 Commando was a great game, Battlefront 2 is an easy alternative to Battlefield 2, The Jedi Knight 
 series from the beginning of following Kyle Kattarn have been extremely great games. There are 
 however some bad Star Wars games, recently I would say the KOTOR series, and the Empires at War 
 game.
  
  The reason as to why I don't like KOTOR is because instead of making it a vast open RPG, We're 
 playing it like I'm playing Final Fantasy which is a great game, but Star Wars doesn't fit that 
 style. If this game was something like Elder Scrolls Oblivion or S. T. A. L. K. E. R's RPG System where 
 fighting is freely done, not by a turn based system, then this game would be a hit with ANYBODY! 
 The problem is this game's combat system simply isnt fun to play. And I get angered if my person 
 doesn't use his Bacta Healing Pack before its the other people's turn because then he is dead, 
 and I am outnumbered.
  
  The game itself is open, and I like the environment, but as I said before, what you do mostly is 
 combat and that is where this game falls short on.
  
  Star Wars should make you feel like you're in the movie, and they do, alongside most of their recent 
 games, however this game simply does not, I don't feel like I'm fighting with a fool named Roth, 
 I don't feel like I'm killing a Sith Lord, I don't feel like playing this game anymore
  
  And trust me, I've played this game alot, just to try to finish it, but right now this is just 
 punishment and I've stopped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebillord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  i think kotor 2 is really good but if you play it more than once it gets easyer so thats why it 
 should have been diffrent every time and it stinks you cant jump i mean come on exept for the ability 
 you cant jump and not to meantion like all most every other star wars game YOU NEVER START OFF 
 WiTH A LIGHTSABER
  geezzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz that stinks but one way or another the games great and you should just get 
 the demo first for the people who dont own it welllllllllllllllllllllllllll ebillord syaing good 
 day to you and let you kill every one who does not worship you FOR GOD SAKES ARGGGGGGGGGGGGGgg 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PacoTaco
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: The story is very engaging, although a tad cliche. It helps to have played the prequel 
 (KOTOR) , but it is not a necessity. Great variations in characters, interesting development choices 
 and chances to alter the storyline, good sound/voice work. The Bad: Graphics are quite dated even 
 by 2005 standards. Feels a bit confining. Battles can be extremely easy... or nigh impossible.
 
  
  The Jaw-dropping: Game crashed every hour or two even after patching. On two different machines. 
 Various minor glitches/bugs remained. AI characters seem hell-bent on dying sometimes.
  
  The story of KOTOR II gives so much promise, if only the technical aspects would have lived up 
 to that promise, this would be an instant classic. As it is, KOTOR II is a very good game with 
 a gripping story that will surely keep any Star Wars fan playing despite the annoying bugs, crashes 
 and some very questionable AI. I was impressed with most of the voice actors and especially that 
 in KOTOR II you can treat Revan (from the previous game) as either gender so that if you played 
 the prequel, you won't suffer from having Revan suddenly shift genders when it comes to dialogue 
 about the past. T
  
  The characters are, as a whole, fairly developed in terms of their backgrounds and ambitions. Their 
 reactions to you will differ based on your gender and alignment and conversation choices as well 
 as your actions in the game. Amoral characters will appreciate a brutal, unsympathetic approach 
 to dialogue and actions, whereas light-sided characters will prefer negotiation and mercy. Either 
 way, you can turn any character in your party to the dark or light completely by manipulation. 
 Except Kreia, your mentor throughout.
  
  Choosing to be light or dark side based is merely a matter of selecting the most aggressive action/conversation 
 option versus the least. There is not much of a gray area, although you can balance your choices 
 to stay neutral (equally light and dark side of the force oriented) . There is not much benefit 
 to this, as going completely light or dark gives you a hefty bonus, and makes casting force spells 
 of that nature far easier. Your alignment will eventually affect even your appearance.
  
  The graphics in KOTOR II are quite bland compared to other games of 2005 and even several years 
 earlier, but they are passable and do a fair job imitating a star wars environment. Some of the 
 boss battles, and even regular battles can be very difficult. Your AI controlled comrades have 
 a tendency to expose themselves too much and get cut down. On the other hand, with the right effort 
 and force power choices, you can cut down multiple enemies with a few casts of force push or lightning, 
 making many battles quite fast and pointless.
  
  KOTOR II feels like it was rushed to market. The game crashed routinely even on two different computers, 
 after patching. Graphics glitches made walls disappear at times and once I even clipped into the 
 environment and had to restart. The game feels kind of confining for an RPG in terms of your environment. 
 There are environmental walls around most of the areas you visit and there's also very little reason 
 to backtrack to previous locations. This results in a linear path without deviation or side quests. 
 The game can be totally different on replay thanks to alignment choices, but it would have been 
 nice to get more of a chance to explore the Old Republic. If you enjoyed KOTOR, or are a fan of 
 star wars or rpgs in general, this is a solid title worth checking out now that it is quite cheap. 
 Do not expect flashy graphics and be prepared as you may deal with some minor glitches or crashes, 
 but I assure you it is worth the time and energy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bhemont
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, when I first heard about Star Wars Knights of The old Republic I knew it was going 
 to be great game, I read about it in some Swedish gaming magazine a couple of years ago and thought 
 it would be a great idea to present the Star Wars universe in to RPG world. As a semi Star Wars 
 fan I was intrigued that it didn't take place at same time as the movies did, so they had a lot 
 more to go on, and could add a lot more things that we haven't seen in the Star Wars before, such 
 as places, more Jedi's and so on.
  
  The downside to the games is the lack of speed, I'm a huge fan of RPG turn based combat, and they 
 made it almost right, but it was still bit lacking at some point. The story was great, it made 
 me want to play the game several times, even though it didn't offer the same replay value as the 
 previous game did. I was a bit disappointed with the ending, and I won't be spoiling it here so 
 I'll leave you to figure it out. The story, characters, sound and gameplay still made up for the 
 lack of open ended material. I loved the music, it made me feel like I was in the Star Wars universe, 
 with the lazer bullets flying above your head, explosives blowing up around you and Jedi's throwing 
 their sabers at your direction and you would be blocking the bullets at amazing speed running to 
 one enemy and to another. The actors actually did a if not a truly amazing job, the characters 
 became alive and as you interact with the key characters you little by little start to believe. 
 Although after you've played through the game several times you'll notice after interacting with 
 different type of NPC that it's the same voice actor, although it doesn't truly matter because 
 the key characters make up for it at some point. When you're in the Star Wars universe you expect 
 it to be pretty big, actually you should be expecting to get lost or need a map, but not this time. 
 A lot of NPC's look exactly the same, the maps are kind of straight forward. The graphics are outdated, 
 and cut-scenes are like a disaster. If you're looking for an Action game then this might be a quite 
 disappointment for you. As a RPG all is forgiven, and being a casual/hardcore RP'er you should 
 have the imagination to make up for it somehow. The story is no way lacking anything, and they 
 really did a superb job writing it, unlike some Hollywood movies that are made just to display 
 cool graphics but got no story at all, Star Wars Knights ot The old Republic II actually offers 
 the exact opposite. You play as the exile of the Jedi order, you were one of few Jedi's that went 
 against the Jedi council and joined Revan and Malek in Sandalorian wars. As you progress you'll 
 learn a lot more about Revan and Malek, and also the background to your characters, what could 
 a RP'er ask for more? You can influence your characters, and one's you got them eating out of your 
 hands , you can actually affect them to join whichever side you're on, dark or light, and even 
 train them in the way of the force. Not only that, you have those great dialog option like in the 
 previous game, you can dominate some person mind and etc.
  
  There have been added few force powers, and the Jedi level cap has been raised, you no longer have 
 to spend levels in to scout/Rogue or warrior, you start off straight away as a Jedi. All in all, 
 it is definitely worth buying, but if you are a stranger to RPG, then you might want to rent before 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Personally I don't understand why people almost always say the first game or movie in a series 
 is always the best and the sequels will never fill their predecessor's shoes. That said, I think 
 this was just as good as the first game and one of the best games of all time. My only complaint 
 about it is the fact that it isn't longer. Don't get me wrong I don't think it's too short I just 
 wish it was longer and gave me 5000+ hours of gameplay. Other than that all I can say is I am waiting 
 very patiently for the 3rd game in this series and feel Lucas Arts is making a mistake by dragging 
 their feet with it. Hopefully KOTOR 3 will be announced in the very near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  The main reason I played Kotor 2 is not because I am a big Starwars fan or a devoted RPG gamer.
 
  I played this game mainly because, being a girl, I prefer playing games with a female lead and 
 there are not all that much games with woman protagonists these days.
  But Kotor2 had a lot more to offer than just the possibility to chose a female lead.
  I have 
 already played other StarWar games, so I wasn't totaly new to these series, but I find kotor 2 
 the best StarWars game I have played. Although is an older game, I was pleasantly surprised to 
 find it quite entertaining, with varied locations, interesting combats, the story was saticfactory 
 and you can replay this game times and again.
  The story is about the battle between Jedis and Siths, your character is a Jedi outcast. You have 
 lost your Force power as well as your lightsaber. You have to not only regain your light saber 
 but also find out the real reason you have been dismised from Jedi order. On your way, you will 
 travel
  to differnet destinations and face different people and puzzles and a lot of adventures. You can 
 be a good natured character, chosing actions which will help you gain the light side or do evil 
 which will make your dark side come out. I don't expect an older game to have the excellent graphics 
 we are used to these days, but even for an older game, the enviroments are rather monotonous. I 
 would have liked to see the locations with more attention to the details, rather than numerous 
 races talking in different languages.
  There is also a lot of running around like the ones in adventure gaming, it can get quite boring 
 after a while.
  You can have a varaity of weopons and armor, the most exiting the lightsaber, but I haven't really 
 noticed a big difference between this and that weopon. the workbenches are there so you can create 
 new items, but this seems to be rather shallow as you can buy, find, get almost anything during 
 the game. Something I found annoying in combats is that sometimes you can't get rid of some week 
 companions, even if you switch to solo mode. The fights are rather easy as you have a pause option 
 to stop in the middle of the action.
  I haven't finished the game yet, as you can go on and on, linger for months on this game, replay 
 it with a new character, dark side, light side and have this game on your side for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acole84
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Great game and tons of fun. Not quite as good as the first, but for a sequel it does well. The 
 game seems to have many problems with current mid-level computer builds, but if you've got a computer 
 that doesn't surpass the recommended specs then you should have nothing to worry about. I was forced 
 to play the game without the movies and then catch up on those later between gaming sessions as 
 the movies were causing the text to fast forward and made me miss some important bits of dialogue.
 
  
  The new influence system for companions is very nice and makes the company you keep seem more important 
 than in the previous game. And the want to discover everything from every ally makes the replay 
 value all that much higher.
  
  All in all, not a significant improvement over the original in game play, and story is arguably 
 weaker. Worth picking up now, especially given it's low price for both PC and xbox after all these 
 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 29, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I've ever played. The interface is clumsy, the controls are counter-intuitive 
 and very ham-handed, and the character creation system is lousy.
  
  Additionally, this D&amp; D based combat system where combat consists of just left clicking on an 
 enemy and then sitting back and doing nothing while the computer announces hit for 8 points or 
 some other nonsense is ridiculous to the point of incompetence..... a combat system where each unit 
 TAKES TURNS ATTACKING??? Are we still in the 1980's playing D&amp; D?? This combat system may be 
 fine for certain people who like D&amp; D, but having it in a star wars game makes it unplayable.
 
  
  Boo. Waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quellious
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  Making a sequel for the '2003 game of the year' is no easy task. Obsidian approached this task 
 very seriously, and managed to create a very good game, which appeals to a wide crowd, regardless 
 if they are fans of Star Wars.
  
  You start the game with a little tutorial (not as the main character) , that leads to your character 
 awaking on a mining station, trying to figure out how did you get here and what's going on. This 
 quickly leads to a deep and engaging story line, where you will meet many interesting and memorable 
 characters, some of them will join you on your travels. Similar to the first game, most of the 
 things you say or do will determine your alignment between the 'light' and 'dark' side. This will 
 affect how other characters treat you, what powers you can use, and so on. A new addition to the 
 game is an influence system. You can raise or lower your influence with other party members (again, 
 based on what you say and do) . This can affect their alignment as well, and also could open up 
 new dialog options and even new quests.
  
  One of the main components of a good RPG is the character development system. KOTOR II lets you 
 improve in three areas: attributes (e. g. strength, wisdom) , skills (such as computers and demolitions) , 
 and force powers (which can be compared to spells in medieval-based games) . When you create your 
 character, you select a base class which determines your favorite skills and attributes. You then 
 raise them as you gain levels. you can also improve them by equipping items - some of them can 
 be upgraded to include even more bonuses.
  
  The battle system, although being real-time, is actually turned based behind the scenes. You can 
 pause at any moment and give orders to your party (even queue several actions for each character) . 
 The outcome is based on the character's skill, not the player's, they way a true RPG should be.
 
  
  The weakest point of KOTOR II is its graphics. Based on essentially the same engine as the first 
 game (with some minor improvements) , the game still looks pretty good - but not nearly as good 
 as other popular games released by then (such as Doom 3) . The cut scene videos looks poor due to 
 their low resolution, but this can be fixed by applying the 'graphic pack' released with the latest 
 patch.
  
  Sound-wise, this game is probably the best you can get. Every dialog is accompanied by a professional, 
 believable voice-over, and the Star-Wars-based music and sound affects adds a lot to the immersion. 
 Heck, I keep taking out my light-saber just to hear that awesome sound evey Star Wars fan adores.
 
  Perhaps the only caveat is that the non-human voice-overs are composed of short, repetitive loops 
 that can get somewhat annoying after a while.
  
  I mentioned the game was rushed to production. This is apparent due to the initial amount of bugs 
 (most fixed in the latest patch) , as well as the pretty short and disappointing ending, that leaves 
 you with many unanswered questions. There are also indications within the game files that a lot 
 of content was cut since the developers didn't manage to complete it in time. There is an unofficial 
 patch that attempts to restore most of the missing content - which I haven't checked out yet.
 
  
  To sum things up, 'Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords' got many things right, some 
 even better than the first game. Too bad it was rushed, otherwise it could have been the best RPG 
 released so far in the 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousincheeto
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 26, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I loved the fact the game was just like the first game but with some minor gameplay and graphic 
 improvements. I would love to see another game come out to finisah the trilogy, or start a new 
 story after the fall of the empire. It is a waste not to have another because there is still so 
 much they could do with the timeline 4000 years before the rise of the empire. The story was great 
 I loved it from the start with the darker horror story look on the mining outpost to the end were 
 the hero has to faxce his past demons by himself, I wish there were a little more to the side quests. 
 Anyway I will keep the game around for many years and break it out every now and then to tear up 
 the jedi order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFan1990
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is, hands down, one of the best RPG's ever released on the Xbox and would take first 
 place if it weren't for the equally-amazing first in the series.
  Some may even argue the KotOR games being among the best RPG's ever. You start the game off as 
 an astromech droid (think R2-D2, if you don't know what that is picture a trashcan with a flashlight 
 sitting on top and wheels underneath) . Everyone in the ship (including your character) has been 
 either killed or rendered unconscious and you must use all available tools to land at a nearby 
 mining colony, while listening to a computerized voice teach you the basics of play. Unlike the 
 previous game you are a Exiled Jedi right off the bat, though you can't use the force, have no 
 lightsaber, hell, you're even naked. But all comes in time young padawan. The control scheme is 
 very straight froward. And the game has little pop-ups that point out how the fighting goes as 
 you progress through the first area. The battle system, by default does not require much input 
 from you, except the player you are currently controlling. Though despite the combat being relatively 
 simple, that simplicity can get a lot scarier during huge fights where 2 seconds and one of your 
 characters is almost dead and you have to react FAST to save them. There aren't too many notable 
 graphical upgrades since the previous game. The Jedi robes all flow nicely in this game, there's 
 better facial expressions and some better CG movies but nothing that will make you have a hard 
 time going back to the first game simply because of graphics. There are however many other improvements. 
 There are more feats, some of which make you think (why the **** didn't they put that in the first 
 one?) There are easily twice the number of robes and armour suits. As well as new armor robes which 
 give you an armor rating and allow the use of force power at the same time. There's a new system 
 of fighting styles for lightsaber wielding characters. They vary in strengths and weaknesses. There's 
 one that's good against Jedi but bad for blaster fire, one that's good against blasters but sucks 
 for force powers, and so on. One of the most noticeable additions, is that you, with enough influence 
 and meeting certain pre-requests, can teach any non-droid party members (save for the Wookie if 
 you have him) to be Jedi. And you can do this to as many as you have. Unfortunately those playing 
 on the Dark Side will have Hanharr instead of Mira (Hanharr is a Wookie Mira is human) thus, one 
 less Jedi party member.
  
  The best part is, bosses will raise their own stats depending on what level you are. So if you 
 think cheating to be max level or grinding up to level 50 is going to help your in for a big surprise. 
 Not only will the bosses be able to take your 3000000 damage blows but they can turn around and 
 hit you right back for that much. And when you get that high of a level med-packs won't heal you 
 at all so you have to rely completely on force points.
  
  Beyond all that the story is well-rounded, the game play is solid and the game is relatively challenging. 
 There's a few puzzles here and there (none very hard) and quite a bit of optional side quests. 
 However the PC version has a few flaws. Graphic wise I think the higher resolutions make the game 
 much more vivid but little things like Atton not appearing for an entire (quite long) dialogue 
 scene (he's invisible) is a bit strange. Though they've since fixed most of the major bugs in a 
 patch you may still be a little weirded out by odd things like that.
  
  Overall this game receives a very generous rating by myself. And I highly recommend picking this 
 game up. If your a fan of Star Wars, RPG's or neither. Play it, don't hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Shinzui
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  ... for review I can say a lot same things as for first KOTOR, so I will describe just differencies. 
 At first there new skills a things to learn for our characters, some new interesting force powers 
 and better upgrade system. Upgrading items play a greater role than in first part, so now you can 
 double the power of your lightsaber a think about it's strength when you have two of them. The 
 next new and very interesting thing is possibility to make your own items (not lightsabers) and 
 item upgrades, which depends on your skills, but to have all skills high is really hard to achieve, 
 luckily your teammates are here for help. Next new thing is that you can trun some of your teamcharacters 
 to the Force users, which is really helpfull, even for the Force support skills. Another new addons 
 is selection of your fighting style with lightsaber - and that's really helpfull, because some 
 times you need to be good at blaster deflection and another time in the 'one to one' fight. Though 
 visually you don't see a lot of difference. Another new thing is influences with teammates, which 
 in (de) creases due to your actions. From graphic side, there are almost no differences compared 
 to first part, but that doesn't mean it's bad, on the opposite, it still looks good.
  ... so we can say it's upgraded first KOTOR with different characters, weapons and item, but also 
 with different story. Story is good, maybe better, but there is one thing I don't like - I find 
 the ending too easy (final bosses) and outro it's nonesaying. Maybe we will find more in next KOTOR (if 
 there will be one) , maybe not ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendragon613
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is an RPG (role-playing game) that is set in the Star Wars storyline about 4,000 years 
 before Star Wars: Episode I. One of the major aspects of this game that makes it so great is the 
 amazing storyline. It is very immersive and each character has a realistic and unique personality. 
 Also, you get some limited control over the storyline. Based on what actions you make in the game 
 your character will either move toward the dark or light side of the force. Each side has its own 
 pros and cons. Neither the dark side nor the light side has a clear advantage over the other, which 
 is great for people who want to roleplay as either a hero or a villain. Also the npcs (non-player 
 characters) in your party will react different ways to the actions you make. For example, one party 
 member might respect you helping a beggar while another will respect you for manipulating others 
 to do what you want. This game has a difficulty level you can set which is great for people who 
 are either beginners or advanced players. One bad thing about the game is that the plot ends in 
 a cliffhanger and leaves you with more questions than answers. 
  The graphics in this game are gorgeous when set to the highest quality. However, you will practically 
 need a supercomputer in order to do that. The sounds of the spaceships, blasters, and lightsabers 
 are movie quality and are sure to please Star Wars fans. There are a few minor glitches in the 
 game, like once in a while your character won't attack the target you want him/her to, but these 
 are rare and negligible. There is very little customization of your character's appearance (you 
 get to choose a gender and one of about 8 faces for each one) . However, you get to customize your 
 all of your character's in-combat and out-of-combat skills as well as their attributes (strength, 
 wisdom etc.) . The way the combat works is that you control one character while 2 npc party members 
 fight with you. The character you are controlling (which, for the majority of the game, is any 
 character in your party you choose) wields his/her default weapon and you control any special skills 
 he/she uses. The battle is fun and can get pretty intense at times. This game will also give you 
 about 40 hours of play-time for the first play-through and has lots of replay value. Compared to 
 the first KOTOR this game doesn't have as good of a plot but the battle system is way better so 
 it pretty much balances out. In conclusion, this game will definitely satisfy almost any gamer, 
 especially RPG and/or Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjake2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game apart from its first part, to have the player really chose a path that 
 is crafted from his actions. You can become a Jedi Master defender of the force or a Sith Lord 
 creators of destruction.
  
  You start off in a ship which you will find very familiar. You are drifting in to a very dangerous 
 asteroid field. The tutorial was nicely made since it makes you play a little droid that attempts 
 to save the situation while everyone else is out of it. You wake up in a medical facility on this 
 mining station built on the side of a asteroid. The main character has nothing to do with the character 
 in the first Kotor. Which infact doesn't matter since the story is so well told. Also it would 
 have been hard to start you as your Kotor character due to the fact of the outcome could have been 
 evil or good. This would have made ithard to try and make you roleplay good if your a sithlord. 
 But enough said. I can not describe this game since there is to much to cover. I have no words 
 more then WOW.
  
  Go buy this game and be prepared for over 40 hours of amazing gameplay.
  
  MrJake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsept11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  now what would you say if you could take all the greatest foods in the world.. and eat them, and 
 leave no food for anyone else, laughing as you wacthed them starve turing to cannibalism in desperate 
 attempts at survival, suckin at the very teat of humanity... a good game.. well worth owning, and 
 playing until your eyes bleed.
  
  a few techinical difficulties, but if you arent a poor bastard, it should be a good play, with 
 the minor glitches easy to look past
  
  ftw &gt; kotor 3?
  
  (no but seriously, wth is kotor 3.. if no one makes it ill have to cry myself to sleep on the ride 
 to school and what not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I Can't Give Any Game Any Rateing Over A 5.0 No Matter How Fantastic It Is Or How Awsome The First 
 One Was (8.9-me) When It Is Un - Beatabul. Their Are Pages &amp; Pages &amp; Pages Of Errors On 
 Forms After Forms After Forms. The Biggest One, The One That Is Makeing Me Wright This Is When 
 You Travel To The Verry Last Level, The Game Freezes &amp; You Need To CTRL+ALT+DEL It.
  It Took Me A While, But After Reading A Few Complaints &amp; Fixes, I Figured Out A Way to Finally 
 Beat The Game. Share The Installation Directory, When You Load Your Game Up, Before You Exit The 
 Ship to Go To The Plannet. Delete The Temp File From Another Computer. Then You Can Beat The Game.
 
  
  ...... I Thought You Wern't Suppost To Wright Reviews On Games That You Have Not Completed? Apairently 
 80% Of People Who Own This Game Know EXACTLY What Im Talking About. Shame On You Obsidian For Shafting 
 All Us That Spent Money On Your Game &amp; Leaveing Us Out To Dry With Your Pitaful Tech Support 
 &amp; Forms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is precious to me, but it have fallen in an ambivalent state of mind for me, 
 and the reasons, I will now point out, but firstly, a game play description
  
  I haven`t indulged much effort in the first game, so I cannot be reasonable comparative, but it 
 matters not, because this review will be a will to sell to you this game.
  
  You firstly create your own character (which in my opinion could have been more optional, to perhaps 
 please your narcissism, or rightly doesn`t.... hehehe) But anyways, you freely choose your skills 
 and attributes, and of course you have chosen by now, which power thou wilt be in cahoots with, 
 but enough about that. The story throws you into mystery that you, must decipher, and is very cool 
 and now we are finished with the above and stuff he he... you get the picture
  
  The repeat value is actually, good, because reasons obvious... but i would still have to give it 
 7, which is fair enough for my consideration, because playing it one time around, a repeat would 
 perhaps be laden with a sense of chore
  
  The good: hmm, it delivers an atmosphere hardly comparative with few games (...) that I have experienced, 
 and a story which is strong enough to keep you on board the entire sweetness of the game, with 
 a smart and sophisticated depth. The game has descent scenery, as for the graphics` sake, and you 
 won`t actually notice any blemishes (it`s simplistic) , if so, it doesn`t really play a matter
  
  And so, the bad part, which is short, but destructive (?!) sadly. The game, is based must upon 
 dialog, which in most part is in alien talk, and I`ll tell you now, if you clock on enough hours, 
 it will burn into your frontal lobes eternally. Secondly which is a personal view, and you can 
 discard, and not take into account for the game as a consideration. But, it is the fact that you 
 don`t actually fight yourself, (click, click, click, if you get the idea) what you do is give your 
 jedi, (or sith) commands for what to do, and just basically watch the fight and so all the game 
 play is basically just talking and watching
  
  I haven`t given you, the reader a wholesome picture of the game, but i guess you could take in 
 to consideration other reviews for this. But anyways, the reason for this then is to point out 
 what i feel is not very cool about the game, and if the reasons for this will weigh upon you playing 
 it or not, my review has fulfilled it`s purpose But, anyways, don`t be alarmed, I personally vouch 
 for this games, as it is truly a work of mastery, even though it will fall in a ambivalent state 
 for me, for I had more hopes for the click` click` click` part of the whippin` but touch&eacute; 
 for me, perhaps I should have chosen another game to play and indulge in my clicking` ways (?!) 
 But for closing, this game is totally sweet, spite of all I have said to blemish it, (damnation 
 on me) but hey man, and sweet girls .... play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The prologue opens to a nearly disabled Ebon Hawk. The crew are all dead except for the Exile and 
 T3. If you finish the prologue, T3 will be a bit more experienced by your second time in the driver's 
 seat. Your hero character is dying, but saved by T3. The perturbed awakening from a kolto tank 
 is shattering enough if not for the fact that others in here are dead. The dead are everywhere 
 on this station (aka Peragus) .
  
  A woman dressed in Jedi Master styled robes lies dead in the morgue with other recently deceased 
 corpses.
  
  Find what you are looking for amongst the dead? she asks the Exile.
  You can enter minds, feign death, who are you? the Exile replies.
  
  These are often the extent 
 of intriguing conversations in the KOTOR universe. She knows of your Jedi past, your exile from 
 the Order, but even you cannot entirely remember the cause. You eventually meet your scoundrel-pilot, 
 Atton Rand, locked in a stasis cell, and so it seems not all are dead.
  
  The droids have overrun the outpost, a linear sequenced investigation reveals them as the occupants' 
 killers, but the orders for their deaths came from someone else. The occupants divided between 
 hiding you and giving you to the Exchange. Those that sought to hide you died, and those that were 
 eager to sell you off were betrayed by their source, a HK-50 assassin droid. His behavior is reminiscent 
 of HK-47, who is later found to be disabled aboard the Hawk. A prolonged stay inevitably leads 
 to a showdown between first the HK-50. After him, the Sith Assassins swarm the outpost, but are 
 cut down with ease as the Force as your ally proves invaluable again. The influence system becomes 
 clear by your actions/reactions, which is how more of the pasts behind current and later traveling 
 companions reveals itself.
  
  T3 was given a Leia-type message from Bastila (or Carth) in regards to Revan. He (or she) disappeared 
 four years ago after the Jedi Civil War ended to go into the Unknown Regions, for the real threat 
 facing the galaxy. Another secret is entangled with that one, which has ties to both you and Kreia.
 
  
  All the pieces begin to fall into place about the events leading up to Peragus. You came out Exile 
 because of Telos, the Restoration, etc. However, someone alerted the Sith to your return, and they 
 hit the Harbinger en route to its destination. You were taken off ship unconscious and away from 
 the fight. Harbinger like Peragus is littered with corpses and cloaked assassins.
  
  Kreia has a Kenobi-styled showdown with Sion who severs her hand in a Vader-like slice. She has 
 many lives, and returns to your side just as you flee the outpost for good. The escape is perilous, 
 but you get away as the asteroid field implosions incinerate the surrounding space. Sion also has 
 many lives as he survives the destruction of Peragus.
  
  Citadel Station and Telos will occupy the next arc of the journey. The Ithorians and Czerka will 
 respectively call upon your assistance. It is one of many steps further to the 'light' or the 'dark'. 
 After several rounds of finding corpses before me, I found it a welcome change, and sought to help 
 the Ithorians being that I'm inclined to do what needs to be done, what's best for Telos.
  
  Along the way, you will make allies and enemies depending on your allegiance. The Ithorians 
 give you the first piece for a new lightsaber as your previous, no longer yours, fell to the possession 
 of the Council. The Exchange sends its second of many bounty hunters to kill you, but he like the 
 droid fails that task. Your companions come to your aid, and after a time you finally head to the 
 surface.
  
  The Hawk was stolen, but it is found by your arrival at the praxeum in Telos' polar region. Atris 
 and her handmaidens are there as well. Your showdown with her sets the tone for your overall arc 
 after Telos. Your lending assistance to her will bring the other Councilors back into the fold. 
 Your hunt to take them down will set back the return of the Order and the Jedi. A pivotal choice 
 for the Exile, and I chose to resurrect the Order against the seemingly unstoppable Sith.
  
  Familiar worlds come back as you journey comes full circle. Dantooine is on the verge of conflict 
 between the settlement and the mercenaries. Onderon heads towards Civil War and Dxun conceals the 
 remnants of the Mandalorians. Korriban bears silent witness to collapse of Sith Unity after Revan's 
 passage. Nar Shaada shelters refugees, soldiers, mercenaries, bounty hunters, and crime lords. 
 Each world brings its own challenges, its own adversaries, but unexpected allies too. Who comes 
 first, the strangers around you or yourself? The choice like always is yours...
  
  It's not a perfect game, no game ever was, but the story offers more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  The story lacked a bit of excitement compared to the first one but the gameplay and graphics has 
 improved by leaps and bounds if only kotor1 had the same awesome new gameplay and graphics like 
 kotor2. The characters in this 2nd installment isn't much even the bad guys they seem to distant 
 and they aren't so much subplot to each character other than those characters that are part of 
 the story's plot. In the first installment there're tons of subplots and bonus missions that have 
 more substance than just doing them a favor. Kotor2 is still a good game with it's really impressive 
 gameplay i love how the developers have improved the game's technical stuff like how players choose 
 force powers and other improvements to their characters. In kotor1 the style in leveling up isn't 
 much exciting than kotor2 the powers and other leveling up choices are a bit dull and monotonous. 
 I hope they'd still maintain the gameplay if they ever plan to make a 3rd kotor i hope the story 
 will rock as much as the awesome gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  If you've played KOTOR then you can expect more of the same, theres not really any significant 
 new developments or improvements over the first game, They've even recycled alot of the original 
 environments (with cosmetic differences)
  
  Its not a bad thing to stick to a formula that works and I'm glad in a way that KOTOR2 feels so 
 much like the original, however what made the original shine was the compelling story line and 
 sadly the plot, if you can even call it that in KOTOR2 is thin at best, that massively detracts 
 from the gaming experiance.
  
  Still, if you played and enjoyed the first game then go right ahead and get the sequal, you will 
 enjoy it but there isn't as much replayability - the plot being so thin you may not even want to 
 bother playing it through both light and dark, something that was fairly enjoyable in the first 
 game.
  
  There are some minor additions to the game but they're pretty much superficial - including some 
 extra force powers and the new prestige classes - though the prestige classes really have little 
 impact on your character they do allow you to change your character type part way through the game. 
 Personally I think there are only two viable options which is to either focus on lightsaber combat 
 or force powers and the classes that best support that are the dark side's consular/sith lord for 
 force power focus and the light side's guardian/weapon master for light saber focus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpinca
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I think this game affects your mind, too... I'm just so happy - I was never imagine that I can destroy 
 the Dark Side . Superb game !!!
  Well, I can not resist to do it again, with other character, there are some things that I don't 
 understand - sometimes you think that your actions are so right, but finally you got just dark 
 side points... I read the walk-through, and there are some things, that I could't make in the same 
 order, at the final scene I was only at level 27, not 30, as they said, I had no grenades, medical 
 packs, it was a totally madness that I could defeat her... Anyway, it was a pleasure to finalize 
 my will. I tried other Star Wars games, too (Empire At War, Battlefront II, Lego SW2) , but this 
 game is the only one, that makes me to think before I start to make my actions... I just can say 
 that try it, even if you think that is not so interesting from the beginning - just start playing, on 
 the second planet you will find the meaning, and you will start to think a little more about what 
 you wanna to become, and how you can make it easier to you to reconnect yourself with the Force. 
 So, a great game for those, who likes this kind of RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezzixcountry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  For a sequel to KOTOR, this game is mildly entertaining and descent. Unlike the Xbox release of 
 the game, the PC version of the game actually has a decent opposition AI challenge. At the same 
 time of being an RPG, the game offers a control-your-army (more than just 3 party members) feel 
 to it at certain times in the game, such as when your on Onderon resolving the conflict between 
 Queen Talia and Master Valkar. This is also present during the time when the Darth Nihilus and 
 his army attack Telos. Additional temporary troops that could be in your party werent presented 
 in KOTOR1. Turret control is also present, and this can create variety in the gameplay and keep 
 the gameplay strong. The combat may be viewed as unbalanced at times, but this can actually put 
 you at a situation where you can use fighting tactics and strategy to gain the upperhand against 
 the Sith opposition. Carth Onasi is still in the game, however his purpose is to serve as the main 
 person powering the Republic and keeping everything consistent. The Sith Lords look very good graphically, 
 and you can obviously view personality traits about your opposition. There aren't too many negatives 
 about the game. You will have to download and follow the directions to get the Telos Academy Prison 
 Fix (After installing the 1.0b patch) , and the game's graphics engine could be slightly improved 
 graphically. And the game needed a few more days of work and programming, maybe 1 to 2 weeks or 
 so. You will also need to view the well-made strategy guide at http://www. gamebanshee. com http://www. team-gizka. org/downloads. html#fixes 
 For Knights Of The Old Republic III, the Republic should strengthen and they can make the game 
 into an even better combative RPG by including space battles between the Republic and the Sith. 
 Turret shooting can also occur in KOTOR III. A lightsaber should be gained earlier in the game. 
 Despite that the game was at 95% or so completion, it still proves to be lengthy and several hours 
 longer in game play than in KOTOR I. Hopefully the events of the last 5% or so of the game can 
 be put in for the beginning of a much needed Knights Of The Old Republic III to compensate for 
 the 1 to 2 weeks left needed of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Like its predecessor, The Sith Lords takes place thousands of years before any of the 
 Star Wars movies and is focused on some of the formative struggles between the Jedi and their power-hungry 
 counterparts, the Sith. In the second installmet of knights of the old republic you play as this 
 jedi who is knocked out and has to figger out who he/she is again. Accept it's a diffrent story 
 and diffrent person and with new charaters to copmany you. This time there is this a old secretive 
 jedi and this fighter pilot person and robot who you start out with. As you progress though out 
 the game you get experience points from fights and such, and the chooses you make sem to really 
 make a diffrence now since they can influence the people that your with. They would even quetion 
 the actions that you take an usually they make really good points about not doing something that 
 seems right. So if you have played the first Knights of the Old Republic then the gameplay is very 
 similer even though it was produced by a diffrent company though it may feel a little diffrent.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game have not really changed since the first game to me it looks 
 about the same. Also the cut scence look nice but there is not much improvement, but they are still 
 good and nice to look at.
  
  Sound: The sound is not bad, the voice acting is well done. The sound effects of the blasters and 
 the sound of the blades and light sabers sound like they should sound so I did not find anything 
 dissapointing to say about the sound.
  
  Value: The value of this game is good, you can play this game many times and take diffrent paths 
 and make diffrent chooses that would effect the people around you and the outcome of the situation. 
 All in all this is a good continuation though the story might not be as good as the first one it's 
 still fun to play and it has great replay value. I give this game 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  I believe that everyone played &amp; loved the first Knights of the Old Republic, so I'll get directlly 
 to the point. Althowgh in the same universe as the Star Wars movies or books, the Knights of the 
 Old Republic part is the besr in SW, mainly because events, amazingly well-done characters &amp; 
 a much much better story. The game is placed after the events in KOTOR. Darth Revan made his own 
 Sith Empire, but he misteriously disappeared. Where is he? Is he dead?
  What is the Galaxie's fate? Dark lords, such as Darth Nihilus &amp; Darth Sion treathen the universe. Kreia, the 
 weird old-sith lord is very well designed, like the other characters &amp; the very good relationship-making 
 between the party members. You'll see plakes you've seen in KOTOR, including the ship, The Ebon Hawk. The 
 gameplay is the same, superb AD&amp; D, but more complex, with more uptions, skills, classes, items &amp; 
 a nicer contibution of your decisions in the storyline. Because real time combat sucks! You can choose 
 your path, I recommend you to choose Dark, because it makes you stronger &amp; cooler,&amp; you can 
 use better Force-abilities. The graphics are not very good for the year 2005 &amp; they are almost 
 similar to the ones from KOTOR (2003) . They do not annoy, but a horrible designed polar lanscape was 
 worse than in NFS Porche Unleashed, from 2000! The sound is superb, from music to effects &amp; awesome 
 voice acting, especially Kreia's &amp; Nihilus's. The story is simply one of the best ever (2nd place 
 i'd say, first is Mafia) , with all it's events (The Battle of Malachor V is awesome) , characters &amp; 
 even conclusions (Kreia's expert in them) , along with a superb ending. You really feel now in Star 
 Wars, more than ever. I don't know why they don't make movies after the KOTORS... Why? But KOTOR 2 
 will remain the best RPG ever,&amp; the best Star Wars game in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakensou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It has a great story-line, multiple choices all across the game ( you can 
 totally control the outcome of the game ) , profits and losses based on your actions and force side 
 chosen.
  The graphics are good and the sound is nice.
  An RPG in the full sense of the word. But there's a major problem with it ( I think ) .
  In Kotor, 
 the battle mode was decided to be turn based. Because it was the first, this fact came out quite 
 nicely. It gave the game some distance from the Jedi Knight titles, wich was good at the time.
 
  But at the time the second title came out, it was kinda disapointin' to see that no change was 
 made in the way the battles progressed...
  I was actually waitin' for a battlin' upgrade so it would resemble Jedi Academy and Jedi OutCast... 
 I really loved those titles, and the pleasure fo hack and slashin' your enemies would have been 
 a mega plus in this title...
  In my humble opinion this was somewhat of a turn down, because the battle mode turns battles in 
 to a hard, long and extremely boring way on gainin' xp...
  But this is the only issue I found in the game.
  Obsidian did a great job on both Kotors. And 
 I hope they continue, or that their work is continued. I'd really like to see a new title in the 
 series. And in case it's becomin' hard to make somethin' new out of it, think about what has been 
 done and certainly you will find that there is still a few things that can be brought together 
 to make the perfect Jedi RPG... I think the Jedis really deserve it... plus they're the perfect 
 combination of Heroes, wouldn't you say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBlackrabbit88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  A great follow up to the 2003, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords just can't 
 get any better! With all new plot lines and missions KOTOR II is just plain amazing. Weapon include 
 swords, guns, grenades and Lightsabers! There also traps like mines. You can build your own party 
 of companions. But this time you can manipulate and control your companions (or slaves) , you can 
 gain influence and trust with them. Unlike the first game your companions don't have so much personality 
 and will. You can chose to follow the Light, with acts of kindness and charity, or turn to the 
 Dark Side with acts of cruelty and selfishness. Your appearance will change depending on your alignment 
 with the force, you will become wrinkled, gray and ugly if you turn to the Dark Sid or stay the 
 same if you chose the Light Side. As you travel from planet to planet you will encounter allies, 
 friends or enemies... The fate of the galaxy rests in your hands.
  
  By S and M 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 113Nightshot
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, with very good graphics, a good story, and plenty of areas to explore. A bad 
 thing is that you can't pick your race; you have to be human. Also, when checking the remains of 
 opponents you destroyed, there are hardly any (if any) items that really make you say Yessss! That's 
 the coolest item ever! There's the occasional exciting item, but there's no real dominant sword 
 or suit of armor, which is really too bad. Overall I would suggest buying it... it's fun to beat, 
 and I'm in the process of beating it a second time. It's not a waste of money, and I'd say beating 
 the game takes about 20-30 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calpalg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Knights of the Old Republic II? First, that if you've played the first game 
 then you will appreciate this a whole lot more. Second, the ending is somewhat disappointing. It's 
 a hell of a ride there, but you won't be able to help feeling a sort of anti climax.
  
  Firstly, the graphics are an improvement over KOTOR I, but not a massive one. Faces have more detail, 
 as do environments (slightly) and the animations are smoother (again, slightly) . However, the engine 
 now feels dated, and the character models are slightly unimpressive. Aside from aesthetics, the 
 glitches are if anything even more numerous than the last, with characters frequently getting stuck 
 on objects and similiar. The graphics are probably the weakest area of KOTOR II, but fortunately 
 there is more to it than that.
  
  For example, the sound is just as good as the first game. This means it's in essence, perfect. 
 The voice-overs are well acted and the scripting is quality. There is even more speech in this 
 game, due to the improved game length, and even more top quality dialogue has been crammed in. 
 On top of that, the environment sounds and battle noises to a good job in immersing you in the 
 game environment.
  
  Lessening this sense of immersion, however, are the oft-maligned glitches. As common as they are 
 in the graphics department, they are far worse when they, for example; crash you to your desktop 
 for no apparent reason. Or the sounds randomly disappears. Or a crucial door will not open, forcing 
 you to replay from when you last saved. It can get very frustrating if you do not download the 
 patch, and even then they are a persistent problem.
  
  That said, KOTOR II is every bit as good as its predecessor when it comes to gameplay and value, 
 with a few notable improvements. As in the last game, you make choices throughout the game, which 
 may affect the way you play it. In this game, some of the choices have even more profound effects 
 on the way you complete a certain area. These choices may also lead you towards the light side 
 or the dark side. This may lead you to be trained in one of the 'prestige classes', an improved 
 version of the Guardian, Sentinel or Consular. They have new powers and abilities, and crucially, 
 can be affected by your alignment. For example, if you were taking the light side path, you may 
 be trained as a Jedi Watchman, but if you were evil and took the dark side path, you could be trained 
 as a Sith Marauder. These light side/dark side choices also affect your 'influence' with your companions, 
 anoth new feature. Depending on their personalities, you can gain or lose influence with them if 
 you talk to them in a ceratin way, or make decisions they support or disagree with. It adds a certain 
 level of depth to the character development.
  
  Finally, the game is even longer than the last, with a full quest taking anything up to 40 hours, 
 along with the immense replay value.
  
  Overall, though the game is broken in certain key areas, it is still a quality package. You feel 
 that if the developers had had a couple more months to fine-tune it and sort out the ending, it 
 would even have exceeded its predecessor. As it is, this is not the case but KOTOR II is still 
 a great game, and thoroughly reccomendable to fans of Star Wars, RPGS, or both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 2 can be a great game if players hadn't played the first 
 game. Its story is well made especially the ending and the opening. Also, its number of new items 
 can be used well by players as since your character would be a Jedi Exile from the Jedi Council. 
 Even though with the new story and items, its graphics hasn't been improved at all and only a few 
 is improved at the game. The changes only done is that the portrait of the character has been move 
 to the right and the menu tools also has been changed but nothing else. It can be worth playing 
 it if you haven't played the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamegerdude0752
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR II is a excellent game! Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is one of 
 the best game sequels ever! It's just as fun as the first, and was highly appreciated! This game 
 is a great pleasure to play, and I've played it numerous times and still more to come! Although 
 different from the first, controls are perfect, and options/game-play are still superb! Dialog 
 is still amusing, and it's fun to influence characters or to manipulate them. Gaining or losing 
 influence with your characters is important this time round.
  
  There are amusing times when characters interact with each other and it's always enjoyable to sit 
 back and listen to them having a conversation, with you choosing the options.
  
  You can gain as many level-ups this time, and choose interesting feats/powers for the different 
 classes you are. Your Quest still brings you to many planets, and stabilize or destroy them is 
 in your hands. You still meet characters with many personalities, sometimes depending on your side 
 of the force. You are the exile.
  
  This game is definitely a must buy for any RPG lover, or any fan who loves the Star Wars franchise!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The first Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic was a great game and truely a masterpiece of work. 
 Never have I had such a blast playing an RPG. But it didn't feel like an RPG... it played so much 
 different.
  The story was great, the characters were great, the gameplay was fantastic and the world looked 
 beautiful. As I said, the game was a masterpiece.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 2- Sith Lords continues this perfection, but yet somehow 
 doesn't meet the same quality as the first game. KotOR2 is a great game, there's no doubt about 
 it, but it just doesn't seem to be as good as the first one. I can't put my finger on why exactly, 
 but something is just... different. Mainly, though, the ending is rather bad. The ending stops 
 abruptly without explaining much, leaving you wondering just what exactly happened. When I completed 
 the game and saw the ending I had to wonder if there was any more... I couldn't believe that was 
 the ending. But it was. After such a dramatic climax to the first KotOR the ending to KotOR2 was 
 just hard to believe.
  
  But despite the ending overall it's a great game. The levels are quite fun, the gameplay is just 
 as fun as the first, and overall everything but the ending is as good as the first KotOR. If you've 
 played the first KotOR you really need to pick up KotOR2. This is a game that really needs to be 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassus_Fett
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  First I should say that if you want to play this game to its fullest extent, you should first purchase 
 and play the original one. Now on with the review, first of all I liked the new twist of being 
 able to manipulate your teammates to the dark or light side. It made the game feel more realistic. 
 I also liked how the more favor you gained with a character, the more conversation options you 
 had with that person. The planets they picked for the game were okay, but i was hoping that they'd 
 of thrown in Tatooine. But overall it is one of the best games, and the best RPG Ive played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingyoto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game i great. ok for starters this game is loads of fun like a gallon of ice cream on a cheese 
 cake. no im not a fatty i just have a sweet tooth... ok im big boned but its mostly muscle. anyways 
 i digress this game packs a punch of RPG fun. this adventure will have you addicted. The story 
 involves you floating through space in an abondoned ship. you now have to make your desicion help 
 the good guys to fight the sith or become a sith and aim to rule the galaxy. if you get this game 
 you will not be disapointed i promise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Kotor 2 doesnt exactly capture the exitement that the original did however, it is difficult for 
 a game to match what kotor 1 did though kotor 2 comes impressively close to kotor 1's standards. 
 the graphics are not much diffrent from kotor 1 actually there not diffrent at all the gameplay 
 is basically the same. the story is pretty good although it gets confusing at times u do see some 
 of the characters of kotor 2 but very few and most of them you see just for some seconds. the 1 
 problem of the game is the massive amounts of bugs and not to metion the cut content
  
  overall this is a pretty solid sequel to the 2003 Game Of The Year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  KOTOR II is as you probably already know a roleplaying game set in the star wars universe, like 
 the original your character has suffered memory loss and as you play the game you gradually uncover 
 the truth and realise your character was jedi.
  
  KOTOR II does not differ much from the original KOTOR but it is still a great game, the dialogue 
 is good for the most part, there can be some variety in character types, sound is excellent along 
 with the music, gameplay is great and the graphics are ok too. As i mentioned it doesnt differ 
 much from KOTOR and this is no more plain to see than the graphical presentation of KOTOR II. Theyre 
 pretty much identical, this isnt a bad thing necessarily, afterall the graphics are secondary to 
 the gameplay which is done right in KOTOR II and the graphics are entirely acceptable.
  
  The sound is great as ive mentioned, the music is perfect for the star wars universe and once again 
 the voice overs are done very well too, i cant fault KOTOR II in the sound department.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is great, setting fantastic , its quite long too (20+ hours easy) which 
 is an acceptable length for an RPG i feel, also there is a fair bit of choice and consequence, 
 one of the main themes in the game is choice and consequence you can turn to the dark side through 
 your actions or go to the light, or maybe you just want to be in between. The choices are plain 
 to see through the dialogue, which is an extremely important part of any RPG, its not too wordy 
 but not a pathetic style of dialogue as say the elder scroll games.
  The combat in the game is done through what is purported to be a 'phased turn based' system were 
 you can input commands and eventually they'll be activated, so you have to 'wait your turn' but 
 this is rubbish, you can do nothing and the enemy wont have to 'wait your turn' and just keep attacking 
 you, all you do is inputting commands and eventually they'll be played out, there can be no turn 
 based combat unless the gameplay pauses to let you carry out your turn then the next person and 
 so on (such as Fallout) . Thats not to say the real time combat works badly in KOTOR I or KOTOR 
 II but it isnt fantastic either.
  Character creation and progression is done quite well, but its fairly limited (such as in say Baldurs 
 gate games) were you have a character class and go on from there, but there are many skills you 
 can improve dependant on your character type and 'feats' aswell which are either passive or actively 
 used such as the 'flurry' attack in combat or 'rapid shot' aswell.
  And eventually you'll become a Jedi and can even throw your lightsaber and choose to pick up many 
 different force powers to use - you can choose to use lightsided powers, universal ones (such as 
 force speed) or dark sided ones.
  
  The story in the game, I felt was better than the original KOTOR , although it uses the same 'lost 
 memory of the jedi i really was' you learn this quickly and the story does quickly change even 
 though that basic premise remains.
  Now i dont like giving away much of the story in reviews, but you have to find the last remnant 
 of the Jedi council (or kill them perhaps) , and find out why you are being chased and ultimately 
 deal with the Sith.
  And to do this you'll end up travelling to several worlds/moons/stations - the first being paragus, 
 then you can choose to go to the other worlds.
  Each world has its own problems , NPCs that need things done and characters that can join your 
 party each with there own background, quests and not all of them get along with other members on 
 the team either, and I feel that some of them are more memorable than in the original KOTOR and 
 in some other RPGs.
  Ontop of this there are also two 'mini games' swoop racing and the card game pazaak, the latter 
 being the better I felt.
  
  KOTOR II also felt much more 'dark' than the first KOTOR game and were your actions had a more 
 significant impact on the game than its predecessor, which is probably why I enjoyed KOTOR II more 
 than the first.
  
  My main complaint with KOTOR II is that, it seemed towards the last third of the game that Obsidian 
 (the developer of KOTOR II) was rushed to get the game finished, it truly is a brilliant game but 
 it goes down hill, some of the dialogue seems strange for example you can keep looping a conversation 
 around and it becomes straight forward to degenerating into a fight, some locations that you knew 
 from talking to some characters should have been in the game but were cut - the HK assassin droid 
 factory for example (of note a MOD team is working on finishing of the cut content) , some of the 
 cutscenes seemed sloppy - eg characters will be near an explosion then turn around get pushed back 
 then collapse, but mainly its that towards the end the game gets much more linear , the locations 
 seem extremely ugly and barren of texture details and it becomes all about combat, thankfully there 
 were NO respawning enemies as there were in the original KOTOR towards the end on the sith station/factory, 
 but it does devolve into combat, and not all the characters stories feel completed, another consequence 
 of it being rushed is that it didnt seem optimised well enough, the game will have bad frame rate 
 issues for seemingly no reason even on modern computers.
  And the ending is a BIG let down.
  
  Overall, definitely worth a purchase especially at the 
 price it is now, but if Obsidian hadnt been rushed, I felt that KOTOR II would have been even better, 
 a masterpiece instead of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  It's been five years since Revan disappeared, but now the Ebon Hawk comes out of hyperspace, all 
 this crewmembers seriously injured, the only one functional is a little droid. The little droid 
 and a highly broken HK-47 are the only original passengers of the ship, but for an unknown reason 
 your character is also there, as well as an old and misterious woman. You wake up later inside 
 a mining planet (where something VERY wrong seems to have happened) only to find out your memory 
 is somehow strange, you don't remeber anything at all, but you can use the Force. As soon as the 
 old lady wakes up (her name is Kreia) you find out you are an Exile, you were amongst the knights 
 who followed Revan and Malak, but somewhere something happened, and you lost everything. Now here 
 you are, and you're lkost and you need answers and the farther you dig the dirtier it seems to 
 get. Soon you find out you're being tracked down by dark side agents sent by a secret and extremely 
 powerful Sith Triunvirate. This group is formed by Darth Sion, Darth Treya and the creepy Darth 
 Nihilus. Also hunting you is the Republic per se, and thye only thing you know is that you must 
 find out the Jedis whom expelled you from the order and find out why they did that. But whatever 
 Nihilus is, he's powerful enough to keep Jedi masters at bay...
  Here you'll control the Exile, again you can't pic a non-human class (which is a drag) and the 
 selection is not large, the game however, has improved in many ways, the clothing design is now 
 much more variated for instance. The party system is the same one from before but I did find the 
 new characters far more interesting (the Handmaiden is a great example of that) . Unfortunately, 
 the story, compared to to the first game, is nothing short of disastrous, it's more than evident 
 that much of the story was cut: Darth Nihilus is obviously a main powerful evil creature, but you 
 get to destroy him with incredible ease and when you do that it's on a very badly explained battle, 
 he shows up once or twice during the game and then you fight him and that's it. Darth Sion's origins 
 are similarly, but still not as badly explained, Darth Treya does have a very higly elaborate plot 
 however. One of the best characters you'll find, in terms of background, are undoubtedly, yours 
 own, Hadmaiden, Mandalore and Kreia.
  The sound is, as usual, great. The gameplay remains the same, and is also wonderful.
  Fans of 
 Star Wars will love this game, so will the casual player. It's as big, if not bigger than Knights 
 of the Old Republic. The dark side/ light side system ramains the same; but this game shows a rather 
 interesting poinbt of view of things: ok, giving mony to a homeless is a light side things and 
 will give you light side points, but denying him the tip would be best. Why? You should always 
 think of the long term, that person will now always look for the easier way to get money, asking 
 for it, and might also become target for muggers, etc. Something interesting for the Star Wars 
 fans: at certain point at the game you'll be given the chance to ask Kreia about the future, asking 
 her about the future of the Mandalorians she'll say something like The shell of their armor covering 
 the shell of a man refering to Bobba Fett.
  Despite the problems that camne with the horrible cutting of the story, the game per se is more 
 pleasent than the first one. Anyone who plays it 'tioll the end will want at least another ride 
 to try a new character all the while wishing for a third game to come along. And believe me this 
 game has a major ending, something astouning that will make you want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic: The Sith Lords is one of the best game sequels ever! It's 
 just as fun as the first, and was highly appreciated! This game is a great pleasure to play, and 
 I've played it numerous times and still more to come! Although different from the first, controls 
 are perfect, and options/game-play are still superb! Dialog is still amusing, and it's fun to influence 
 characters or to manipulate them. Gaining or losing influence with your characters is important 
 this time round.
  
  There are amusing times when characters interact with each other and it's always enjoyable to sit 
 back and listen to them having a conversation, with you choosing the options.
  
  You can gain as many level-ups this time, and choose interesting feats/powers for the different 
 classes you are. Your Quest still brings you to many planets, and stabilize or destroy them is 
 in your hands. You still meet characters with many personalities, sometimes depending on your side 
 of the force. You are the exile.
  
  This game is a must-play! It is one of the BEST!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noname5555
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Sorry about the paragraphing which has been going wrong lately for some reason.
  
  I got this game a few weeks ago for &pound;10 and i can guarantee that you won't regret doing this 
 as well. I have been hooked on it since i got it and i believe it's one of the best games available 
 for the pc at the moment. Gameplay: This game lets you play as a Jedi, who has been exiled from 
 the jedi order for unknown reasons, and as you play through the game, you will encounter characters 
 who will help you uncover the secrets of your past. The characters that join you are all very interesting 
 and as the plot progresses, you will also learn more about them. I liked a hooded, old women called 
 Kreia most, as she has a very mysterious personality which slowly unfolds (i won't say what happens 
 though, as it may ruin the game for you)
  Another interesting feature is the good-evil system. If you do something good or helpful, you will 
 earn light side points or if you do bad things you will get dark side points. The points you earn 
 will drastically change how the plot moves so if you want to experience everything in the game, 
 you will have to play it at least twice. Your actions will also influence your followers. For example, 
 a character who likes you doing good will gain influence if you do something nice, which will allow 
 you to ask them more personal questions.
  The combat looks impressive and the weapons/armour/powers etc. are very varied and reasonably balanced. 
 Although after a while, the animations will get repetitive and boring. However, this game suffers 
 from quite bad lag which occurs in certain places through the game. This was annoying and I think 
 that this should have been resolved before the game was released. The camera often gets stuck in 
 cutscenes which is weird but this should not cause too much trouble through the game as it happens 
 very rarely. Finally, the game loads very often but it only takes about 2-3 seconds each time. 
 I would have liked to write more in this section but i want to stop this review getting too long. 
 Graphics: I think that this is the worst part of the game. The characters have little detail and 
 so does the environments around you. There could have been more objects in the scenery as well. 
 Although to be fair, this may have been sacrificed to allow the vast planets, objects and characters 
 you will encounter.
  Sound:
  Very good music which changes depending on where you are, for example-the music will be tense and 
 quick as you fight bosses or slow and calm as you roam safe areas. The Star Wars music is also 
 used which nobody can hate. The sounds of the blasters lightsabers, and other weapons are great 
 and help you feel like you're in the game. Value: The game lasts around 35-40hours ( I think) and 
 you will want to play it multiple times to experience the dark and light side routes (which are 
 very different) The value is great as this game can now be bought for &pound;5-&pound;10 if you 
 look around on the internet. Conclusion: If you like star wars and role playing games, then you 
 have to get this game, because, although it has flaws, it is a great game. Oh and remember to download 
 the patch as it sorts out many crashes/glitches which people used to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojocomeand
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  he problem I have with this style of combat is that I can't improvise. I'm stuck in a framework 
 that I can't break through. Maybe it's because I am still in school and I hate frameworks. Or that 
 that type of combat is although cute it's not very good. That is probebly the reason that it is 
 not so popular.
  I think combat in games should be more like Oblivion IV in the sence that it is not one type of 
 combat. All games should strive to be like *Drums...... DND!!!!! You know the old fashond type 
 where you actully use papers and peincels . Because if you think about it that type of game has 
 no bunderis. You can be good or evil even bouth at the same time. You are not stuck to one type 
 of plot. If you don't like the way somebody makes the plot you can make your owen. And it has the 
 best graphics there is. At a very fair price too.
  End conclosion think and do what you must and what you want I am just saying what I think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ietam_Revan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Alright so the first question is if I should buy the game . YES . If you played KOtor then a second 
 part of the game
  must be terrific . So the storyline is just a bit weird that's all but the game has some glitches 
 , only is you have a little problem with the computer . if you got a strong computer everything 
 is clean. The game has loads of new stuff
  combat . feats, INFLUENCE, powers , (some powers are very special that makes you fell closer to the 
 force ) .You have to play this game in all ways to become everything ,learn everything (you can 
 learn very much about star wars form the Kotor games)
  the only thing in this game is that you don't indirectly go searching for the big bad Sith Lord 
 !!! The sith lord searches you and you will combat 3 different sith lord (you beat a guy twice) 
 . And you will have a hell of a surprise (not like kotor :D but still
  a surprise ) besides that you can decide to become jedi Master or sith Lord it depends you have 
 3 special classes for light or dark
  side but you musthave lots of experience . your siths lords will be :Darth Nihilus (cool guy wipes 
 a planet: D,)
  and Darth Sion (i think he looks like Malak when the Star Forge exploded, only .. he has a mouth 
 but doesn't have an eye .. whatever )
  the last sith lord is a surpirse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampireSlayer92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  I've had this game since Augest, waiting for the drop price down to $19.99. Well this game deserves 
 the full price with the great upgrades that KOTOR did not bring us. This one not onlt has a new 
 story-line and a few new planets. The allies of you will fall with you to the dark side, or go 
 to the light side. This game is perfect b/c of its lengthy story that can be replayed and you will 
 always find something you missed before. The story is honestly a little more duller than the original, 
 but who cares! The gameplay plays the same as the orignal and the new items are a little bit better, 
 but then again a little letdown. Overall this is a great for anyone who enjoys picking there own 
 adventure and great for fans of the Star Wars universe. ( To people who haven't picked up SW: KOTOR, 
 the story may be a tad bit confusing with the whole talk of Revan and Malak, so pick that up.) 
 I give this game a 9.5 for being one of my fav. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic II : The Sith Lords is the sequel to game of the year Knights of the 
 Old Republic! This is a good game which was rushed out so Mr Lucas could add some more money to 
 his mansion of billions. It is obvious when after completing the game that certain stories were 
 left unfinished, ending was non existent and theres even evidence online that an entire planet 
 was left out!
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10
  
  A big change from the first game is the ability to choose 6 different classes, 3 from Jedi and 
 3 from Sith. The downside to this is the fact that when you are very powerful later on in the game, 
 these changes are hard to notice! You can still walk in a room and obliterate anything within 400miles 
 with the pointing of your index finger. It is still using the enjoyable turn based system and you 
 are able to control your allies, useful for a few situations but im almost certain you won't do 
 it if you don't need to. You gain light or dark side points depending on what you do. This may 
 also change your alignment with certain allies. Helping someone may give you light side points 
 but decrease your relationship with certain friends. You can train certain allies in the ways of 
 the force... another strange addition, it seems you only need to tell yourself you are a jedi in 
 this world and you will gain the power of force lightning. It is still an easy game when it comes 
 to your decision to be a Jedi or Sith, when it comes to decisions such as Kill the innocent or 
 Help the innocent, common sense will take over. It's just too easy! The basic story is almost the 
 same as the first, you CAN use the force but you have forgotten, you will go around certain planets 
 solving certain mysteries and completing quests, a lot of which are very good! GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  Again I have read other reviews on here and graphics has been given 9 or 10 out of 10... how 
 can that be? Not meaning to offend these people but you are allowed to tell the truth. The graphics 
 are average, the game will freeze, jump and they haven't improved much if anything since the first 
 game! Customising your characters appearance is limited (without going online) . SOUND 10/10
  
  Sound as usual is a strong point in most if not all Star Wars games. Lots of music from the 
 films and some new. It's always brilliant. The voice acting is very good, I have always thought 
 the series would be amazing as a film! Sound effects of sabers and other weapons is as realistic 
 as fake weapons can be.
  
  VALUE 9/10
  
  If you enjoyed the first game you should buy this! Even though the first is better, if you download 
 the patches and even customise using mods from the internet then you can make this game almost 
 as good as it had the potential to be! At the time of writing there is a restoration project underway 
 to add all the content that was left out... this is another reason to buy the game, we may have 
 a game that may surpass the original, maybe. There is some replay value, even though there are 
 different classes, you may only play through the game twice, Light and Dark.
  
  OVERALL 8.5/10
  
  I have completed this game many times. I do enjoy it, but it had a huge amount 
 of problems when released, which thankfully have been vastly reduced due to some dedicated people 
 online. With the aid of mods and patches, this game became a favourite. The story is strong, although 
 full of holes. This will probably leave you thinking about how amazing the game could have been 
 if a little extra time was spent making it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azerel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Kotor 2 is great fun a cool Rpg with a great story once you played this you would want Kotor 3 
 Out!
  I like the parts where you verse the sith lords they are amazing and great fun.
  But play this game WITHOUT CHEATS and you will see how fun the game is you will say this game if 
 real fun if you beat it but see how good it is when u rent it first this game is almost perfect.
 
  The Story is about you exiled from the Jedi Council you can either be good or evil.
  SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER!!!!!!!!!
  And If you want to be evil you take vengeance killing the Jedi 
 and becoming a sith yourself but if your good you can tell them to go to dantoine but later on 
 the Jedi Tell you that your exile is true and you are about to lose the force then a party member 
 of yours named kriea (who is actually a sith lord) she force pushes them and she saved you and 
 she kills the Jedi Masters.
  END OF SPOILER END OF SPOILER!!!!!
  I Suggest you should rent this game first then say whether this game is good or not remember to 
 get the game after you have tried it out!!!!
  This Game is near perfect for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  So in this game you play another unknown force sensitive hero that is in the epic struggle between 
 the Republic and the Sith Empire that takes place about 5 years after the events of the first game. 
 As far as the gameplay goes it has been improved since the first game as you have more options 
 as one of the 6 classes you can choose from (3 for the Jedi and 3 for the Sith side) .
  
  The graphics engine is pretty much the same used for the first game with some updates, but still 
 looks good for today's standards. The music is excellent as ever and the voice acting is good too, 
 however the characters aren't anywhere as memorable as the cast of the first game.
  
  The really unfortunate fact about this game is that it was obviously rushed to meet the holiday 
 season and you can tell just by many of the bugs (some even game breaking) that you come across. 
 Not only that, but in terms of story the last portion of the game felt unfinished and many side 
 stories were started, but never finished leaving you in the dark about the fate of certain characters. 
 It doesn't help either that the ending felt anticlimactic (both for light and dark ending) , so 
 you really don't feel the payoff as you should. As a matter of fact your left with all sorts of 
 questions, which hopefully will be explained in the next game. This was a problem for me because 
 unlike the first game, which I played 3-4 times because of it's awesome compelling story, I only 
 played each side once and that was it. It's disappointing that such a potentially great sequel 
 was led this route.
  
  Overall though it's still a fun game to play and Star Wars fans will definitely enjoy it. Just 
 don't expect it to surpass its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  KOTOR was an absolutely great game, giving players THE BEST Star Wars experience to date. KOTOR 
 2 had a hard act to follow and while it was developed by Obsidian, the game is still considered 
 to be one of the best Star Wars games ever. The prologue immediately refreshes players with the 
 buttons and menus but almost everything remains essentially the same. The graphics have been slightly 
 updated but not by much, which is not a problem since the game is still nice to look at. Sound 
 is the best here, with hours and hours of dialogue, with excellent sound effects that make you 
 believe that you're in a Star Wars movie. There are some new upgrades like the influence system 
 which isn't outlined as clearly but effects if your companions like you more or not basically. 
 The best thing about this game is that you battle THREE Sith Lords, instead of one in the first 
 game. The only complaints is that LucasArts shouldn't have rushed this game to meet deadlines due 
 to the many bugs and that the movie cutscenes seem kind of blurry (though this is fixed now) . Overall, 
 an excellent sequel to an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  this game is probably the best RPG game I ever played, at first when i saw the game i thought it 
 won't be as good as the first KOTOR but the story was longer the characters were more detailed, 
 your character had another prestige level, and the idea that you can acutely train another chachter 
 to be a jedi is great (that was one of the things i liked in the game) you really had a reason 
 to talk with your companions so you can turn them into to Jedi.
  the story was great and long, and the graphics of the game were flowing and sound as well.
  by 
 the way you can choose what on what difficult level yo want to play (i played on hard :-)
  
  to conclude the game was great and i had a good time while playing it.
  
  by matan malka 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imayellowfellow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 has improved alot of the concepts from the first KOTOR
  
  PRO'S
  
  -Gameplay
  (Force powers, influence, Feats, more crystals etc.) I especially like the influence system and 
 raised level cap. The influence gives you the chance to turn your characters to the light or dark 
 side (this is particularly humorous when u gain lots of influence with characters who are good 
 but you are evil, turning them evil as well. For instance Atton continously whines about how ur 
 becoming evil and draggin everyone with u but you can tell him to shut up lol) The raise level 
 cap gives u the chance to use more feats and force powers. -Sound
  The sound is still as terrific as ever, whenever you talk with ur characters you get to learn a 
 lot about their past in highly interesting convos. NPC convos are also enjoyable
  
  CON's
  -Graphics
  The graphics are basically the same as they were before (the graphics were 
 alrite the first time) . However, it leaves room for improvement
  -Story
  the story this time feels wayyyyyy to cliched. The first KOTOR had a story that gave a very fun 
 star warsy feel to it, however KOTOR 2 feels much like Jedi Academy (a star warsy plot but just 
 not exciting and much too dull)
  Also the planets from KOTOR 1 were much more enjoyable. The sith lords does feature some highlights 
 such as the assault u lead against Onderon and the dark jedi attempting to resurrect Freedom Nadd. 
 However much of the other planets feel very incomplete
  
  Overall KOTOR 2 is still a good game but leaves much to be desired in the story and graphics (i 
 relaly wish i could combine the story from KOTOR 1 and the gameplay from KOTOR 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic 2 is a great game. However, you might feel like you are playing Knights 
 of the Old Republic 1 with a different story and setting. This isn't really a bad thing since the 
 first game was pretty amazing, but I was hoping for a little bit more.
  Gameplay - I should be giving a 9 here, but there were some points in the game that I found to 
 be rather annoying. For example, why did they make the boss fights so easy in this game? In the 
 first game, Darth Malak was almost your equal and that made for a pretty epic fight. In this game, 
 I think I defeated all the bosses without dying once. This game basically throws a ridiculous amount 
 of enemies at you before the final fight, which consisted of a little too much hitting and running 
 (I think I leveled up 3 times in the last level alone) . The problem with this is that it makes 
 the final boss MUCH less epic. The other complaint I have has to do with some conversation and 
 triggering glitches. There were points when I could talk to something that was not supposed to 
 be there after I talked to it. Once I talked to it again, I could completely change my responses. 
 This is a minor thing, but it really took me out of the experience for awhile. It should be known 
 that Knights of the Old Republic 2 is really a great game. There are hours worth of side quests 
 and mini games that you can play. Card playing and swoop racing has returned! If you have played 
 the first, then you know what you are getting into. I think this game has the best character interaction 
 out of any RPG I have played so far. Kreia is one of the most unique characters I have ever seen 
 in a game. She is always playing both sides against each other and never lets her opinion go unnoticed. 
 You may dislike her for the first few hours, but you eventually learn to respect her since she 
 is such a power character in this game. I found the rivalry between all the droids you meet in 
 the game to be quite hilarious. Knights of the Old Republic has that very cheesy Star Wars humor 
 which anyone can really enjoy. I could write pages about enjoyable interactions with characters 
 in the game, but I do not have time for that right now. I just wanted to briefly state that you 
 are rewarded for exploring and making the best of every situation. The combat hasn't changed (which 
 means you will be doing A LOT of melee combat) .
  Graphics - Well.... they aren't bad, but they use the same exact engine as Knights of the Old Republic 
 1. Character interaction would have really stolen the show if the developers could use Source-like 
 emotions. In Gamespot's review, they complained about frame-rate issues, but I never experienced 
 any problems on a modest system (AMD 3500+, 2 gig ram, 7800GToc) . Do not be turned off by this 
 game because of the mediocre graphics, because you will miss out on a great experience.
  Sound - I do not even want to know how many hours of speech went into this game. There is just 
 as much as the first one, which is pretty impressive. All the acting is pretty good, especially 
 Kreia's. It is worth noting that if you hate the sound of light sabers, blasters, and Star Wars-like 
 music, stay away from this game.
  Value - An RPG without replay value is like beer without alcohol. You can easily play this game 
 twice with completely different story lines developing between characters. I just feel that the 
 technical issues may annoy some players.
  
  Great game, should not be missed if you enjoyed the first Knights of the Old Republic and/or any 
 great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khalid88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  This is totally superb action-rpg. The class system is quite amusing cause it allows you to play 
 different types of Sith or Jedi. Your ability to influence your companions by being nice to them 
 ie. talking them the way they like : Some like aggressive or destructive style and some like being 
 appraised a lot. You are even granted with ability to modify your own lightsaber with parts you 
 can either create or find from droid compounds to vast jungles. There are nice force and lightsaber 
 forms which gives some bonuses to your style of fighting. This reminds me of a bit old game called 
 Mistmare.
  
  There's also many interactions with npc-chars and the chars even have lipsync.
  
  In the end, 
 the game rocks ^^. The musics are maybe a bit dull but that is corrected with fancy graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  What I'm going to present you with is a pretty straight forward review of KOTOR 2 so bare with 
 me.
  
  Gameplay - Basically, if you've played the first Kotor then you're not going to be surprised by 
 The Sith Lord's gameplay. TSL basically follows the formula as close as possible but offers a few 
 little (but nice) twists. Like the influence gains and losses with your comrades. Unfortunately, 
 for those who played and enjoy KOTOR and were hoping the sequel was going to try lots of new things, 
 sorry. But if you enjoyed KOTOR and wanted more of the same then you'll feel right at home with 
 TLS.
  
  Graphics - TLS uses the same engine as the first KOTOR but with a few minor improvements here and 
 there. These graphics may have looked good back in 2003 but now in 2005, they're looking pretty 
 dated.
  
  Sound - Let me just get the music part out of the way here. It's great. It's basically the same 
 John William's like score from the first KOTOR. The voice acting on the other hand is hit or miss 
 this time around. Some characters are voiced great (Kreia, Atton, HK-47, Handmaiden, Viras) but 
 some of the others leave something to be desired (Bao-Dur, Mira)
  
  Replay Value - Like the first one, TLS provides a good amount of replay value for those wanting 
 to return after finishing the game. They're branching paths, different characters for different 
 alignments and genders. Basically all that jazz that made the first Kotor so replayable is intact.
 
  
  Technical Issues: Unfortunately, the PC version has some nasty bugs that hamper gameplay somewhat. 
 Sound issues like music skipping and entire sentences from characters being skipped as well. These 
 issues have yet to be fixed. And on more than one occasion, the game crashed on me. This was a 
 game that was obviously rushed out.
  
  Pros:
  -Same great gameplay from KOTOR
  -Solid voice acting for the most part
  -A good lengthy plot thats arguablely as good as the first 
 one
  -Great replay value
  
  Cons:
  -Same exact gameplay from KOTOR might turn away some
  -Graphics are dated now
  -Some bugs and 
 glitches that have yet to be patched (I recommend you save often and in multliple slots)
  -Has a very, very slow start
  
  To sum KOTOR 2 up: If you endlessly enjoyed the first KOTOR 
 and want basically more of the same of what that game offered then you'll more than likely enjoy 
 TLS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileymasta593
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 is a great game but it didnt appeal to me as the KOTOR 1 did. the first games storyline 
 was very understandable and had a few great twists. the second one was an overall good but it was 
 hard to understand until after you round up the Jedi masters. the graphics were very bad compared 
 to the first one. the only thing that 2 beats 1 on is the charecter interaction, whenever you enter 
 the ebon hawk some characters interact with each other, its fun to watch disciple and atton or 
 visas and handmaiden fight with each other, unlike 1 number 2 has a WAY longer story and the only 
 reason you play it is to find out what happened during the Mandalorian Wars, to fight that really 
 cool sith lord on the cover art that doesnt even talk right and you cant understand what he saying, 
 and to fight out your party's past. like Atton's deserting the sith, handmaidens mother, disciples 
 jedi connections, mira and hanharrs history, HK and T3's past, and bao-durs ties to the mandalorian 
 wars, overall this game wasnt as good as the first one and if you want to play PLEASE play the 
 first one first hence the number 1 it is a lot better and the difference between light and dark 
 is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartguy73
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game. My dad bought it for himself but gave it to me when he was finished, 
 and I had a blast. Despite the glitches that seemed to occur throughout. When I finished I bought 
 KOTOR and was suprised that it was a tad better. I rated KOTOR 9.4 and KOTOR2 9.1, both great ratings, 
 however. Like before, I was astounded by the sound quality, including the use of voice. The voice 
 talent was perfect for the image and personality of those around you, particularly Atton and Kreia. 
 I seemed to take Atton and Kreia with me on most of the planets, because I enjoyed their personality, 
 voice, and guidance the most. Although sometimes they got mad at me for doing what I certainly 
 thought was the moraly good thing to do. I just couldn't seem to please them! Something that bugged 
 me about this game was length of time it took to gain a lightsaber. Half the game, It took one 
 planet in KOTOR! And souldn't Kreia have a lightsaber from the start. Just a confused note that 
 lowered my rating. Another thought to ponder: at the begining of the game when you talk to Atton, 
 it clearly states that Darth Revan was a man. However, in the first game the player takes the role 
 of Revan, even if the player was female! That confused me. Anyway, though I did not see this game 
 as revolutionary, I had a great time playing and really couldn't put it down. It was freakin' awesome 
 and a credit to the Star Wars universe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet330
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  In a nut shell the game is a sci-fi RPG much like Fable in that you must make light or dark choices 
 that change that story line of the game constantly, but set in George Lucass Star Wars universe. 
 Game play for the most part is turn based combat and largely based off the D20 system better known 
 by Dungeons and Dragons players. This means that actual skill in dodging fire and a steady trigger 
 finger mean nothing here, it all happens by the cast of a die (or in this case, random number generation.) 
 That doesnt mean combat isnt exciting. Thankfully attacks are not as repetitive as say Runescape 
 and when you engage in combat you and your opponent exchange blows in various styles of fighting. 
 Occasionally you may throw in special feat moves that can make the battle go quicker through 
 power attacks and critical strikes.
  
  If you are a big RPG gamer you wont be disappointed either. With about 30 hours of game play depending 
 how fast you run through the levels, the story line and character development is extremely complex. 
 At anytime you may speak with characters in your party, with certain conversations giving you experience 
 and influence over them or items that they specialize in making. All of your companions join you 
 as you travel from planet to planet and become immersed in a tale of the Force and the Jedi Civil 
 War.
  
  Yes, right from the beginning of the game you are constantly reminded that you are the last of 
 the Jedi Order, survivor from the Jedi Civil Wars that destroyed the Jedi. All through the game 
 you may learn about your past and the mysteries of what happen to the thousands of Jedi during 
 the Mandalorien Wars and even more mysterious, Darth Revan. The main goal of the game however is 
 to escape the Sith who are mercilessly hunting down all Jedi everywhere, the last of the known 
 Sith Lords. Other game play features added since the first KOTOR is the item creation and upgrade 
 system. Each and every item has a component and chemical value, so you may construct your own items 
 by breaking down unneeded ones. Spare components can also be used to build any of the many upgrades, 
 upgrades that seem infinitely more compared to the 9 basic ones in the first game. Force powers 
 and feats were given a makeover too, with all new powers that can only be learned through certain 
 events in the game and in general more feats and powers to choose from.
  
  Fans of the first game will notice damage increases on weapons and hand to hand combat, as well 
 as the character influence system as explained earlier. Some choices are not as blatantly good 
 or evil as others, and even evil characters will not approve of evil actions if the reasoning behind 
 it does no agree to their own. The same goes for good characters, words seem to be more powerful 
 then the sword in this game and a well thought out conversation can provide far more experience 
 and powers then simply hacking and slashing through the game.
  
  Players will be entertained for a long time with this game whether you go light side or dark, either 
 way the cut scenes and dialogue is at times humorous, climatic, even sometimes emotional depending 
 how deep you get into the story. Movies are also thrown in periodically and if careful fans will 
 notice subtle references to characters from the first KOTOR. To completely beat the game most people 
 have to run through it several times as choices really do completely change the outcome of the 
 game. Fable fans, RPG gamers, and Sci-fi addicts will all treasure this addition to the Star Wars 
 universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctanalot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  The Storyline was a little too vague and boring for me, the gameplay also lacked innovation Rather 
 a let down after KotOR 1 Though the Character development in KotOR II i must admit is better than 
 its predecessor. the game could have done with a few more planets and areas to explore. After a 
 while the planet become too similar and vague eventually boring you though on the bright side it 
 is decent but does need improvement.
  
  ending....... disgusted me rather disgraceful really.
  
  I am hopeing they make an addition 
 to the 2 KotOR games because there is a lot of room for improvement in an already poular game could 
 bring good results! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamebaby_79
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Before I start ranting, this is a good and thoroughly enjoyable game. However, for something that 
 had the potential to be a real masterpiece, this game has far too many flaws, some of them seriously 
 annoying. First however, the cool stuff.
  
  Cool stuff:
  1. Levelling up and prestige classes: your PC can become a total Sith badass or a Jedi god, whichever 
 way you lean. In fact the PC becomes so strong that the battles in the later stages of the game, 
 even against the bosses, seem fairly easy. Not that I'm complaining.
  2. More Force powers: for both dark and light side. Need I say more?
  3. Lightsaber and force 
 forms: ability to learn different lightsaber and/or force forms. Each form adds/deducts points 
 to/from  making it better suited for some battle 
 situations and a bad choice for others. Might not seem like much, but these forms can make certain 
 battles easier if you choose them wisely.
  4. Influence system: by talking to your party members or acting in a way they approve of, you can 
 gain influence with them. The more influence you gain, the more they are in tune with your alignment 
 . There are almost always cool rewards for gaining either very high (or very low) influence with 
 your party members. These could be:
  a. training a party member to be a Jedi.
  b. monetary rewards
  c. significant increase in your attributes and/or skills.
  d. interesting 
 backstories.
  Although, I do wish that in some instances the PC wouldn't get all the possible influence with 
 a particular character by just talking enough with him/her. There should have been a mechanism 
 where you need to get some more XP before gaining influence; much like in KOTOR1 where you could 
 get NPC side quests by talking to them, but not all at one go.
  5. Lab stations/ work benches: ability to create/breakdown stuff. Not that it matters much since 
 you pick up most of the useful stuff on the way, but its good to have these around. 6. Organized 
 inventory: it was seriously annoying in KOTOR 1 to browse the numerous items you have in your inventory. 
 Mercifully, that problem has been rectified with a more organized inventory.
  
  Now the rants:
  1. Story and the climax: I understand that this was designed to be the 2nd part 
 of the trilogy (hopefully?) . So the story had to be open-ended. But open-ended and vague/senseless 
 are really not the same thing. There are some elements of the story which are entirely unexplained 
 and some which plainly dont make sense. Heck, a whole planet and its sidequests seem to be missing! 
 ******Spoiler ahead******
  As the most trivial example, how the Ebon Hawk manages to fly out off that abyss in the end is 
 a mystery to me. Especially when the video for one of the cutscenes prior to that is named Death 
 of the Ebon Hawk or something like that.
  ***End spoiler***
  The plot proceeds well upto a point and seems to be really building up to something, when, the 
 whole story falls apart at the end. The end credits roll up and you are like, huh?, what just happened 
 here? 
  2. Party member interaction: perhaps its just me, but I thought that interaction with the party 
 members, though more complex than in KOTOR 1, just didn't feel good enough. At the end of the game, 
 they are just people (or wookies if you will) accompanying you on your journey. You dont really 
 get to like any of them, except maybe HK47. But then we all loved him from KOTOR1, right? KOTOR 
 1 had a lot of likeable characters, Jolee, Canderous, Bastilla, Hk47 to name a few. Also, the random 
 conversations in KOTOR 1, between, say, Carth and Bastilla, Canderous and Bastilla, Jolee and Carth, 
 etc. though pointless had a certain charm to them. Nothing like that here.
  3. Dialogue trees: Quite a few dialogue trees seemed to loop on onto themselves leading to nowhere. 
 I hope this was by error, and not by design. Either way, it was quite annoying.
  4. Graphics: Minor point this, but I have to agree with the reviewer. KOTOR 1 looked far prettier 
 than KOTOR 2 on my system, whose specs, btw, exceeded the recommended requirements (not just the 
 minimum requirements) of both games. Sure, there are some nice effects like rain and snow at a 
 couple of places, but the game involved running about in dull colored corridors for most part. 
 5. NPC control: I was almost inclined to include this point in the cool stuff . But the way it 
 has been implemented made me think otherwise. What happens is that at a few points in the game, 
 you gain control of a party member other than your main PC. While this by itself is a neat idea, 
 you should at least be given a chance to equip the character adequately. Usually you keep your 
 best equipment for your PC, so when suddenly the control shifts to some other party member, you 
 find him/her underequipped. Oh you can manage to get through anyway, but it is annoying to control 
 an underequipped and underprepared character.
  
  I guess I would be willing to forgive all these blemishes if there is a KOTOR 3 that lives upto 
 expectations, and exceeds them. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmoroni
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR is a series that I've waited long to play. Being a fan os SW and also of RPG, I've always 
 expected a computer game that melded both genres. Well, I must say, it has been worth waiting. 
 KOTOR II is absolutelly amazing. The gameplay is simple, stil fun. Probably, that happens because 
 the engine has been designed to work both at PC and X-Box, but, due the existence of mouses in 
 every PC, it has been enhanced for this platform.
  
  Graphically the game is incredible. The textures, are beautifull, characters look extremelly real, 
 and the ambience fells incredible, even when at the zoomed dialogs. Of course, that has a price: 
 if you don't have a good graphic board (at least 64MB, put prefferably 128) , you will, most likely, 
 experience a lot of slow frameskip and other graphical issues, and will have to play at the lowest 
 quality (wich is still very good, truth to be told) . The biggest problems happens in foggy scenarios, 
 where there's lots of particles rendering. At that point you may have serious gameplay issues, 
 if you don't have a good graphic driver.
  
  The game music and ambience sound is, likewise, amazing. All the aliens speaking, the human voices 
 and the ambience sound are very well chosen and makes a great job bringing you into the SW world 
 and building the game atmosphere. Although, unlike moste RPG, there are no epic song's or other 
 theme songs of great notice (except for the obrigatory classical opening theme) . This helps a lot 
 to make you fell like you were really there (As, usually, you don't have a background music while 
 you're living) , but make some points of the game a bit boring (expecially while you're backtracking)
 
  
  Wich brings us to the game issues. The major issue is the above told: backtracking. In the game, 
 you'll nearly always have to backtrack a long way after complting a misson, and in many cases there 
 won't even be any new anemies to distract you. Also, you'll have to cross maps, searching for quests 
 or resolving then, and this may take a LOOOOOOONG time. Luckly, there are a few "teleporters" to 
 cross some maps, skiping then at all. Unfortunatelly, there are no "local" teleporters to thake 
 you from one point another in a map. Still, the game keeps a fast pace and is extremely fun to 
 play.
  
  There are other minor issues during the game. One is the low customization of your character. You 
 may chose sex, one from 3 classes and face only. Even though your clothing changes a lot, depending 
 on what you're wearing, and so does your general appearence, in case you go dark side, you will 
 always be human and can't control the changes. It would be much better if you could control that 
 somehow (maybe using a list of which characteristcs you would get when you went farther to one 
 of the sides of the force, or chosing your race) .
  
  Another issue, is that the middlegame is a bit to easy. The beggining of the game, and most of 
 the end have a ggreat difficulty. But in the middle, most enemies are ridicously easy (other than 
 the bosses and sub-bosses, wich can be really hard) . Also, the last boss of the game, depending 
 on how you built your character, may be awfully hard. Still this is something easyly overcome by 
 all the other game chacateristics.
  
  Getting over the technical analisys, the game storyline is amazing. Most characters are extremely 
 charismatics, making you feel somehow involved by the and theyr story. The story is like a greatly 
 written book. Information is given slowly over the story, creating an immense urge to discobvery 
 wht comes next. Also, all characters have their own plots, wich may only be discovered if they 
 trust you enough, and, as you hardly will be able to get the trust of all characters at one single 
 gameplay, you have a replay value extremely high (I'm playing for the 3rd time in a row, already) . 
 The game builds on you as you play, having lots of misteries and subquestsand getting overly addictive 
 as you play. Personaly, is the best game I've bought this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I knew I was gonna fight like a dirty chicken with Jedi powers from the start . Hmm,.. easy to level 
 up,... either way dark/light. Talking to ppl gets old fast, too fast, the ppl really have nothing 
 to say except to usher an okay story.
  'cept that on chick that has the "hots", on the ship. I think I liked it because it was hard to 
 kill me,... I was a mean bastard (skill wise) .
  I just cranked right through some main characters w/o a problem.
  I didn't find the duality of 
 the force a problem as in the first game.
  3 jedi sabers were the only real challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  If you like kotor than you will like this
  the graphics are ok and the sound is great the gameplay is almost the same in kotor 1.
  The bad 
 thing about is that there are some minor problem and the ending sucks.
  THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE 
 SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE 
 SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE 
 SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE 
 SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE 
 SUCKS! THE ENDING FOR THE DARKSIDE SUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  What a disappointing sequel to one of the best CRPGs. I simply don't know where to start.
  
  I'll start from the good things, because there is not much to choose from. The idea for the 
 story is great, one of the best I've seen in all Star Wars universe works. It could have been the 
 most captivating Star Wars saga ever made, but it is not.
  
  Sith Lords is techincally the same game as the first KotOR with a few enhancements that don't truly 
 warrant calling it KotOR2. The story isn't much of a sequel either. Concerning the technical part 
 of the game, all the good things that can be said for the first KotOR can also be said for KotOR2. 
 Some improved effects and new lightsaber colors and crystals as well as totally new implementation 
 of prestige classes, lightsaber forms and force techniques.
  
  The game starts in a great way and shows a lot of promise, but as you play on you will notice that 
 developers were more and more in a hurry as the game was closer to release. As you make progress 
 in the game, you will encounter more and more loose ends, gaping holes in the plot, broken quests 
 and dialogs and so on. The "turning point" which I will not reveal to those who haven't played 
 the game yet is probably an attempt to copy the similar part of the story from first KotOR. Unlike 
 the outstanding "turning point" in the saga about Darth Revan, the breaking part of the Sith Lords 
 story is totally pointless and makes no sense. After that, the game turns into complete nonsense. 
 The ending Sith Academy full of generic Sith turns into an easy hack and slash that would be more 
 fitting for a tutorial than the ending of the game. Final opponent, the greatest Sith Lord, is 
 really a piece of cake, and offers almost no challenge compared to first KotOR's Darth Malak. The 
 feeling of incompleteness is only deepened by cutscenes that are totally out of place and parts 
 of the game in which you control one of you companions that also make absolutely no sense.
  
  All in all, Sith Lords should never have been released. According to information from Obsidian, 
 the developer of the game, this disaster happened because Lucas Arts absolutely had to release 
 the game for Christmas sales. This is very believable since Lucas Arts probably never even intended 
 to continue the KotOR series and Sith Lords was an attempt to make some more profit from a series 
 they decided to abandon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, KOTOR II was a good role-playing game. I really enjoy the first KOTOR and this game was like 
 KOTOR I on roids, ie., higher leveling, better items, and more advanced skills. My overall rating 
 should turn out pretty good for KOTOR II and I did enjoy it. However, the story was a bit of a 
 mess. Anyway, this is a very popular and well-reviewed game in a great series. I'd just like to 
 point out some of the things I didn't care for, since gamespot ratings don't reflect plot/story 
 unless you include it in your reviewr's tilt.
  
  (Note: I've played the game once through with a light side focus)
  
  First, though, I will 
 point out a couple of positve aspects of this game I disagreed with the Gamespot reviewer, who 
 dogged the graphics. I did in fact think the graphics were better than KOTOR I. Granted, not by 
 leaps and bounds, but still the the graphics were very good. Also, some improvement were made to 
 the interface, although I'd still think it's a bit to much work to find new items in the inventory. 
 Another thing I liked was more focus on playing other characters in the team in solo situations. 
 So, what's the deal with the story. Let me just say that what begins as a very intriguing story, 
 jjust gets more convoluted as you go along. Kreia is one of the most annoying characters I've seen 
 in a game. I do understand her importance to the overall plot, but it just got old to me. The game 
 reminded me a bit of TLJ: Dreamfall in that it ended on a down note and cliff hanger style. At least 
 I think it did... I just found whole thing a bit confusing. As a light side player, I felt the game 
 was geared more for playing the darks side. All the while I'm enjoying the gameplay and role-playing 
 elements. Another thing that bothered me was character interaction with the team. It just didn't 
 flow and progress like it did in KOTOR I, with maybe the exception of Kreia. Several important 
 characters on the team have the same questions pop up throughout the game. Handmaiden and Visas 
 are prime examples. You may find that you will try to milk out new dialogue trees with the characters 
 to know avail. Overall I just didn't feel as involved in the story. And as for the player character 
 him/herself, I never felt like I knew who I was - it was all just a little too vague. Lastly, the 
 bugs have been mentioned ad nauseam on the site, but they're certainly there - even with all the 
 patches installed. I found the the game just doesn't perform well on the higher resolutons. I crashed 
 repeatedly.
  
  This seems more of a rant the review. However, I must make it clear that I did enjoy the game quite 
 a lot. I just felt sort of cheated in the end. I do recommend the game, but just be warned that 
 there are some frustrating aspects to it, especailly for fans of the first game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  This is still a fun game but not as good as KOTOR 1. This is because many points in the plot aren't 
 explained very well throughout the game leaving you to just make up your own ideas. Also the ending 
 of the game on both the light and dark sides are bad. Also it is harder to be on the dark side 
 because so many people will get annoyed with you and you will lose you influence over them. The 
 gameplay is ok but not as good as the first, the graphics are ok, the sounds are good. I would 
 reccomend people to buy this game because some people have still found it to be ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NimMroD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Star wars knights of the old republic one was an amazing game ... though the second one does not 
 have the same number of characters or the same intensity ... it tending to be more of a mind game 
 it was not a disapointing at all ... i was amazed and i enjoyed playing it greatly ... i found 
 it to be a easy game a very catching and quite surprising mostly at the end ... i was sad because 
 of the story ... but i was impresed at the skill with witch Obsidian managed to catch the player 
 in that coplicated web .... having the ability to chose the good and the bat things and being able 
 to gather such a large number of friends along the long road trully gives this game that something 
 that more and more games lack ... i can barely wait for the next one ... in the hope that will 
 be more long and more intricate .... this game impressed me through it game play ... and its storyline 
 .... i only play that obsidian makes a new one ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  Taking place 5 years after the Award Winning KoTOR I. You are the last of the Jedi [most have been 
 killed by Sith Assasians] who lost the force after the Mandalorian Wars and has no Past on the 
 badly damaged Ebon Hawk [Revan's Ship from KoTOR I] . And after the ship is repaired by T3M4 you 
 float into Peragus. and you ahve to escape while learning about Darth Sion and the HK-50 Droids. 
 And after learing that HK-50 killed all of the Miners on Peragus and escaping the Sith Soldiers 
 sent by Darth Sion and blowing up Peragus [you or the Sith] and being arrested on Telos [being 
 Restored after Malak's Bombardmant] , after you are released your ship is stolen and with the help 
 of your old Mechanic Bao- Dur you make it to where the ship was and get it back from one of the 
 Jedi Masters who Exiled you [Atris] and you learn where the Jedi Masters are hidden. You go to 
 NarShadda, Dantooine, Onderon and Korriban to find them and leaning secrets about your Past then 
 the Jedi are killed by Atris who is revealed to be Darth Traya [if you are a LSider] and then you 
 go to Telo's and kill darth Nihilus [Steals life, powerfull enough to kill planet] and redeem Atris 
 [turned to the Dark Side by Traya] , then you go to Malachor IV [final battle site of the Mandalorian 
 Wars] and kill wave after wave of Storm Beasts and Sith Soldiers and Dark Jedi] on your way to 
 kill Sion [Lord of Pain, cant be killed... unless you erode his will :) ] and stop Darth Traya's 
 plan of killing the Force.
  
  Gameplay
  
  It was mostly unchanged by new developer Obsidian but several nice new features were added. There 
 are Saber Forms [don't change much...] , Influencing NPC's [to learn about them] and being able 
 to make 5 characters into Jedi [as well as Visas Marr and Kreia] and several cool new powers. Sadly 
 the game was unfinished and that is very apparent in Malachor with the bad ending and by looking 
 in the files. Infact on TeamGiza. com you can find the Restoration Project which was built to restore 
 the cut content removed so Lucas Arts could gorge more money into its money covered tallons. There 
 are also several new weapons and saber colors which help the Gameplay. The game is also easier, 
 but that may of been due to knowing the orrigional game so well. Also instead of a 20 Level Max 
 there are 50 Levels and using a Guardian Weaponmaster Prestige Class I can make myself unstopable 
 in the game. Oh right they kept the old Jedi Classes and added Watchman, Master and Weaponmaster 
 [2 diffrent ones for Jedi or Sith] .
  
  Controls
  
  Same as orrigional Knights.
  
  Graphics
  
  They are nice but it is just Knights 1 and some levels were reused [Dantooine, 
 Koriban, Endar Spire] . Thought the Lips were done better.
  
  Sound
  
  The songs are much Darker than the old one, but it is a darker story. Everything sounds great but 
 the VA's arent done as well as before. But there was great Music.
  
  Replayability
  
  All of the quests and ways you can play the game make it even more Playable. Just like #1, but 
 the unfinishedness subtracts from it.
  
  Overall
  
  Even though it wasnt finished, the game was done in under a Year and that is impressive considering 
 the massive ammount of stuff in the game and the 4 Discs required to Install the game [like the 
 old one also even more stuff in it] , and was the best unfinished game I ever played. Good job Obsidian!
 
  
  Rent or Buy
  
  Buy it it is a great RPG Game, though it was Unfinished.
  
  Pros
  
  Great game, Great Story, Well done with a Year to make it, lots of new things to improve fun, 
 Higher Max level.
  
  Cons
  
  Unchanged Graphics engine, Unfinished, Sequel.. not as good, underlooked, too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominus_tecum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  There are the fanboys who give it ridiculous 9's and 10's, and then there are the grievers who 
 give it even more absurd 1's and 2's, but the fact is that KOTOR2 is more of the same from KOTOR. 
 So much so, it is more like an expansion pack, than a sequel. When the locations are not direct 
 copies of the originals (except made to look dilapidated) , the new locations look like cut-and-paste 
 from the others. Telos looks like Taris except it is orange-colored.
  
  Of course for twenty bucks it is worth it for another romp through the Star Wars universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevkh5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game brings back what was great about the original, but changes a few things for the better. 
 This time around the story is more involving and the conflict seems much more ominous than in the 
 first game. 
  
  The one problem that I had with KOTOR was that it felt like your hand was being held too much throughout 
 the game. The different planets also were too similar in their length and objectives. In KOTOR 
 II the quests and locations are greatly varied for the better.
  
  KOTOR II does have some problems like unimproved sound and graphics, but that's not too disappointing 
 since they still are very good. 
  
  If you haven't picked this game up yet, you definitely should. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GK-37
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The first game in this series was the first great RPG I played. It was so great to finaly have 
 a choice of what my character does and says. It was also great to go through the many hours of 
 gameplay and rewarding to make progress. The sidequests and extra content also allow for a nice 
 detour from a main storyline that can often be frustrating. This game was very simmilar except 
 it has things like the influence system that add depth to the gameplay. Many people have complained 
 about the ending and story gaps, but i don't realy mind those. Now, I must agree withh the reviewers 
 that the frame rate is really bad no matter what capabilities your computer has. Nevertheless, 
 this is still an increadible game with plenty of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobaFett2040
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  What began as a series with unlimited potential was destroyed in it's prime. Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic was a truly amazing game. Non-Linear gameplay, good sound and graphics, ease 
 of use, inventive combat, customizable weapons, upgrades, armor and more. Truely it was a marvelous 
 game. And then came it's sequal. Horrid programing, terrible gameplay, non-updated graphics, non-updated 
 sounds, a patch that introduces more bugs than the base install. Truly horrid. A player spends 
 more time saving and reloading one particular area just so it works right more than he does playing. 
 And the fact that Lucas Arts is no longer making updates tells us they are too embarised to fix 
 thier mistake. As if they just want to pretend it doesn't exist. Movies you can't skip also add 
 to the anoyance factor. Sometimes the game movies work sometimes they don't. Triggers only work 
 sometimes and not others. Truly a horendous work. Such a shame. This game almost validifies software 
 piracy. I regret paying my hard earned money for this. I feel like I was robbed. But of my money 
 and enjoyment. It's truly a sad end to a once great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezco
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Now then where to begin, KotOR 2 is just as good as the original, if not better, the story is very 
 good, but the original probably still has the edge in that area. It is a lot Darker and evil than 
 the original KotOR. Its graphics, as some people say, are worse than the first. But a solution 
 I have! If you look closely on options you will see that default makes the graphics quality 'low'. 
 All you have to do is change it to 'high' and it is probably better than the original. The music 
 is still fine, and sound is very realistic. What I liked it the new colour crystal in the game. 
 In the first KotOR there was only Blue, Green, Yellow, Red and Violet lightsabers. In the second 
 you can get, Blue, Green, Yellow, Red, Violet, Bronze (like orange) , Orange (basically redish orange 
 outside and yellow inside) , Silver (greyish) , Cyan (icey colour) and Viridian (pale greeney colour) . 
 Overall this game has has impressed me a lot, with a few unexpected twists and turns in the plot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenSpartan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  It was an great overall game that keps you guessing till the end but left you on a cliffhanger 
 withe you hero fling off into the other galaxy or beyond the regular one any way. She story was 
 not as gripping as the first but stilll showed the main character to walk the line or be a jedi 
 / sith lord. Still takes a while to get a lightsaber though. and it might pain some fans to see 
 the Ebon Hawk in such a crippled state. Some characters return with a vengence but others are only 
 cameo. silver sabers and all of the new up grade parts are potent. any true fan wil love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlee_1001
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of KOTOR, I purchased KOTOR II and was ready to be impressed, only to find I might 
 as well use the game for coasters on the coffee table. Dont get me wrong, this game had amazing 
 potential coming off the success of KOTOR, and maybe that is why they released the game prematurely. 
 I own several Bioware products and this is by far the worst. After slam dunks like the Baldurs 
 Gate collection, I cant believe that Bioware would let something like this hit shelves with their 
 name on it. 
  
  KOTOR II: The Sith Lords is plagued by shoddy game play, and an even worse storyline. I spent so 
 much time on tedious tasks in the first hours of game play that I could only play for about 20 
 minutes at a time before I had to retire and play a game that is worthy of my time. I cant believe 
 how many 10 ratings this game has gotten, because I think it only deserves about half that. Id 
 like to see the other games those people play, because damn, this game is horrible. 
  
  Unfortunately I would not recommend this game to anyone. I would point people towards the original 
 KOTOR, or maybe some of Biowares other work like Neverwinter Nights or Baldurs Gate. KOTOR II 
 just simply does not come even close to the bar that was set by its predecessor. This game is literally 
 coaster material. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireballx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The entire story is well thought up, and it is filled with excitement. The 
 graphics rock, the sound is excelent, the species are accurate with Star Wars EU, everything about 
 this game is good, I've had about 3 glitchs in over 100 hours of game time. This game is a must 
 have for any Star Wars fan, I don't know how this game could be better. Words don't describe it- 
 you just have to play it. It's awesome how you can customize your lightsaber so much, I mean, there 
 are about 20 colors (including tints) to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the first KOTOR and I have been waiting for this game for some time. I am now 
 about 1/4 the way through and I have to say this game is great. It has all the cool stuff from 
 the first one, except a lot of additional things that will enrich the gameplay. I could go into 
 every aspect of this game, however, if you liked the first one, then you will definitly enjoy this 
 game even more.
  I have not experienced any bugs or any issues w/ the game. I am running a AMD, w/ a 9600 ATI Card 
 (overclocked) , 1.5 GB of PC2100 RAM. 
  All I can say is buy this one. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars KOTOR II is an excellent continuation of the series. The previous KOTOR broke new ground 
 with Star Wars on the "choose-your-dialogue" action that determined if you're heading either towards 
 the Light or the Dark. It has also featured Lightsaber moves and Force powers that only a true 
 Star Wars geek would recognize and enjoy. The storyline is also very addictive as you are given 
 missions even those that have nothing to do with the overall story but gives you a taste of the 
 Star Wars Universe (such as the history of the Sand People) , or to just rack up points to gain 
 experience and strength (which I highly recommend) . The surprise of the previous story was breathless 
 (and would've made M. Night Shyamalan green with envy. BTW, will he do KOTOR III? Hey, it's a shot) . 
 
  
  KOTOR II is no different. Assuming that you played the previous series, there are new functions 
 and features that have been added to the game. For example, you can pick up spare parts to develop 
 chemical weapons and medicine, but it only depends on who is doing the building. If your character 
 has a good Constitution, then chances are, he/she will develop what you want. Otherwise, you have 
 to gain experience through battle to develop those abilities.
  
  The basic story of KOTOR II takes place 5 years after the original KOTOR. You are the only surviving 
 Jedi left from the Jedi Civil War only to have bounty hunters on your trail. From then on, your 
 job is to evade or defeat the bounty hunters, and find out who is paying these guys to kill or 
 capture you. That's when the story develops.
  
  The game play is no different from the original so if you played it, then there's almost no need 
 for a tutorial on how to play it. Since this is a sequel, you would have to read my review (coming 
 soon) on the previous game to see how it was played. This is a really fun game and the moral complexities 
 of your decision making are once again pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sith_slayer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  if you're a huge fan of the first game ( like me ) , then u might be ultimately dissappointed by 
 this one. The first game had it all, great gameplay, great story, great characters, diverse emvirons, 
 extreme longevity and a lotta other neat stuff. KOTOR 2 retains most of these, but to a lesser 
 degree. the story this time around aint so good, the characters arent all that clear. U really 
 dont feel every character has their own agenda or their own personal stories. And the humour offered 
 in this serving is well below the dry humour offered by ur "ferocious" assasin droid from KOTOR. 
 
  If ure a huge fan of the first game and are dying to get more, then u will like it. IF however 
 u r new to the series, its better to get the first to see how good RPGs can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  A incredibly satisfying sequel Kotor II is unique. It provides everything the previous game had 
 and more much more. The ability to make choices, can change the entire game and has a deep impact 
 on the other characters and your own character can either b pure good or very evil. U can make 
 your allies hate or love you through your actions of good or evil. It is a lot of fun to play out 
 all the possible consequences of ones actions. U can modify armour, blasters, lightsabers and melee 
 weapons. u'll be gng 2 familiar places like korriban, dantoonie, nar shadaa and more I cant wait 
 till the next Kotor three comes out on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR 2, as hard as it tries to improve itself to be better than the first, hasnt been successful 
 - not even close.
  it retains the same system of combat and exploration / interaction. the only changes noticable 
 are the increase in the number of weapons and spells available to you and the class mastery is 
 much more in depth. but all these aside, nothing much has improved.
  therefore it makes you feel like you're playing the first one all over again. which isnt a bad 
 thing except that the storyline is not as surprising nor as interesting as the first. after a while 
 you just want to lose the plot and rampage through the game.
  and having kept most things in place and not even making the game alot longer nor more challenging 
 has condemned it to being "just another sequel".
  however, it being alike to the first means you can expect the same lightsaber fun and the chance 
 to travel to the worlds similar to that of a star wars film. engaging in mulitple duels and meeting 
 a few over the top classes and characters. 
  all in all, a pleasing experience on its own. however if you have played the first, it will seem 
 to pale in comparison and leave you wondering what went wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usyagi_2004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I had played this game over a summer. First off it is a glitchy nightmare. Some time the sound 
 would cut out or the text would skip over. But I did like all the people and being able to make 
 them Jedi or fall in love with them. Okay story, not as good as KOTOR but alright. Liked changing 
 my face if I turned bad. Same combat system, which I personally liked. The graphics were fine. 
 I personally was disappointed with some of the the Sith but that is just me. But, I never completed 
 this game because the makers rushed the last level making it unstable glitch and hardly playable. 
 (Spoiler) Also they took my people away! (End Spoiler) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine1701
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I can remember playing the first Knights of the Old Republic before it gained clout as one of the 
 best roleplaying games and Star Wars games of all time. It was a truly wonderful and entertaining 
 experience. I went into its second installment after hearing of all of its glitch and bug problems 
 and how many saw it as an example of how Lucasarts tends to push deadline over quality. I was pleasantly 
 surprised that, despite its failings, it is a very cerebral game that focuses on the characters 
 and plot much moreso than anything else in it.
  
  Gameplay changed little over that of the first. One of the most notable features I noticed was 
 the switch weapons option, which I thought was a good addition not only for combat, but for those 
 who like the roleplaying aspect. Not many people walk populated areas and cantinas with swords 
 and cleavers drawn. Unfortunately the cut content and glitches show. I wasn't even able to finish 
 the swoop circuit because of an unpassable bug. Certain enemies would get stuck behind walls and 
 "forget" you were there, and if quests weren't done in a particular order, certain ones would stay 
 in your active log long after you know you completed them, not to mention it sometimes changed 
 the game. However, I was drawn in very much by the story. I found it so compelling that I was addicted 
 to finishing it and finding out how everything panned out no matter what bugs got in my way. It 
 is one of those stories that makes you think about things, not only in the Star Wars univers, but 
 our own.
  
  Combat was bi-polar. There were many extremes in the difficulty of enemies. This descrepency was 
 so much that you got used to slicing down soldiers with ease, then when a room of sith commandos 
 and dark jedi swarmed on you, you were killed fairly easily. Some parts of the game were easy to 
 the point where it was still fun and entertaining, but certain areas were difficult enough to make 
 you frustrated enough to punch the screen. 
  
  Graphics were very much the same as the original KotOR with some noticable improvements. Despite 
 it being behind times, it still manages to entertain. 
  
  I love the musical score that goes with the game. It is just as impacting as John Wiliams' Star 
 Wars soundtrack, and seperates it from Jeremy Soule's rendition in the first game. The evil tones 
 and even melancholy notes for light sided characters such as jedi and the exile depict a much darker 
 time than in the original.
  
  KotOR is flawed, and could be much more finished and polished than it is now, but it serves as 
 a fitting second act to the Knights of the Old Republic series. Its character driven and dark setting, 
 along with the pseudo cliff-hanger ending make it almost the equivalent of Empire Strikes Back 
 in the original Star Wars Trilogy. A stark contrast from the first game, as it compares to A New 
 Hope. I anxiously await the third installment to this series to shed new light on much of the plotlines 
 that have been left open by both the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztemplarz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  So, after several days of minimizing sleep and all those other superfluous normal functions (ie. 
 eating, going to the bathroom, etc) , I have finally beat this game. I'm not normally a sci-fi guy, 
 and don't really care much for the Star Wars movies- I'm more of a Lord of the RIngs/Gladiator 
 type of guy. That being said, I love RPGs (only thing I'll play) and I had heard only good things 
 about this game, so I decided that I would just have to see for myself- I was not disappointed. 
 This was an awesome, compelling game, where unlike many poorly designed RPGs, your characteristics 
 actually matter (another good example would be Fallout) - if you are unintelligent and uncharismatic, 
 then you simply won't get as many dialogue options, and will miss out on a lot of story and possible 
 quests/rewards. The fighting is pretty awesome, and it really makes a big difference who it is 
 that you decide to incorporate into your party when you adventure. The plot is great. I just think 
 it's too linear. You get to decide what you'll do in almost every situation, and the options are 
 numerous. What I mean, is that the environments are only concerned with you doing primary quest 
 things, with a pittance of side quests. It's no Morrowind, that's for sure. If this game allowed 
 you to just explore for the sake of exploring, that would be great, but it doesn't. Understandably, 
 if you were being chased by Sith assassins, then it's unlikely maybe that you would really be doing 
 anything besides trying to survive, and maybe that's why it's designed the way it is, but I think 
 it just loses a lot of value that way. On each "planet", you get an average of 3-4 areas to explore, 
 and the larger they get, the emptier they become. You find maybe 2-3 merchants per city, and that's 
 it. Most of the NPCs are boring and uninteresting. So this all translates to: awesome plot and 
 combat system, large degree of freedom, too small, too short. A great game, highly recommend it, 
 but still can't match up to Baldur's Gate 2, Fallout 2, or Morrowind. Fortunately, like all those 
 games, it has the potential to be redone infinitely, and hopefully they'll make the next one a 
 little bigger, because of Morrowind (and Oblivion) and Gothic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanis
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  If you loved KOTOR and all the other bioware games i urge to you to step aside of this thing.... 
 this game is just dreadful, it has the most annoying NPCs ever made they are terrible all of them! The 
 game is boring and have no story at all .... the entire thing is just a mess from the confuse and 
 weak storyline, the worst NPCs and dialogs ever made on the history of CRPGs to the low quality 
 cut scenes movies... not mentioning the weird and messed up end that will just make you think that 
 you should have believed in this review and spent your time doing something fun.
  
  The Obsidian guys even managed to somehow lower the graphic quality of the game.... i fear for 
 NeverWinter Nights 2 .... if they managed to do this to KOTOR I i wonder what they will do with 
 NWN 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeuty14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  A great sequel Kotor II is one of a kind. It provides everything the original had and builds upon 
 it. The ability to make choices that have a deep impact on the other characters and your own character 
 is extremely satisfying. One can make his allies hate or love you through your actions of good 
 or evil. It is a lot of fun to play out all the possible consequences of ones actions. I cant wait 
 till the next gen or star wars comes out on the ps3 im desperate for Kotor three to come out on 
 the ps3. 
  
  btw PS3 OWNS!!!! the xbox 360. Its not even a question of me being buyest. Its just so blatantly 
 obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  this game is better than the original, be good evil, influenceyour companions, kill people fight 
 sith, become a 2nd class. WHAT MORE COULD YOU WANT IN A STAR WARS GAME.
  
  
  IT HASE THE FORCE, BUILD A LIGHTSABER.. 
  
  TOUR COMPANIONS CHANGE WITH YOU, WHEN YOUR EVIL 
 YO LOOK EVIL.
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME ITS BRILLIANT.
  
  I HAVE NEVER EVER EVER PLAYED A GAME LIKE THIS
  
  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
 buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloooooooooo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok i'm not a huge star wars fan or movie game fan but this game is amazing!! The story is fantastic, 
 something completely different from the movie. You can choose everything you do, for example when 
 you have conversations with other people you can choose what you want to say to them. The decisions 
 you make in the game align you with either the dark side or the light side. Personally I think 
 dark side is better because some of the conversations are really funny. Anyways the graphics are 
 ok and the gameplay is awsome. The game can get challenging at times but that is what makes it 
 long lasting. If you are looking for a good long lasting game, try this one out you won't be dissppointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiv
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  i think that this game is the greatest rpg star wars game out there. (thats only me) .
  this game has great gameplay, pretty good graphics, sweet combos or moves you can do on enemies, 
 can customize weapons which is cool, go to the dark side or the good side (light) , and lots of 
 people to kill. yay.
  battling can be boring sometimes. in every battle you will pause, you pick you moves you are going 
 to use then you unpause it and you would mostly have a dead enemy unless hes stronger then you.
 
  This game is very fun, try it yourself cause you never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS - Gameplay 5.3/10 - Story 8/10 - Graphics 3.5/5 - Sound 1/5 - Effort/Innovation 
 1/5 - Presentation 2/5 - Overall 5/10 - Replay Value Very Low
  - Monetary Value $20
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (5.3/10)
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (7/10) + Options (8/10) + Fluidity (1/10) = Gameplay (16/30 or 5.3/10)
  
  Star Wars 
 Knights of the Old Republic II (hereby will be referred to as KOTOR2) , features the exact same 
 graphic engine and gameplay engine as KOTOR1 save a few additions here and there. Rather than write 
 a review of KOTOR1, what I will do is write about the new features in the following categories
 
  
  Combat : 7/10
  
  Like KOTOR1 the game is turn-based upon encounter and you can assign each character in your party 
 several tasks during combat in which they will perform them one after the other. Like the 1st game 
 you control 3 characters at a time and you basically have three types of characters, ranged (guns) , 
 melee (swords &amp; lightsabers) , and casters (or Jedi who can also double as melee or ranged as 
 well) .
  
  Combat is fluid, and fast although, like the 1st game, there really is no strategy required. 99% 
 of the enemies you can just hack and slash through by just clicking regular melee attacks. The 
 few time when you are severely outnumbered (8 or more enemies) , you will have to take a second 
 and organize your characters to make sure you arent overwhelmed but given the arsenal of area 
 effect force powers in this game, being outnumbered 8 to 3 yield the same strategy as being outnumbered 
 1000 to 1. The strategy is called Force Lightning and down goes all the enemies. If you don't 
 have that then the strategy becomes Force Stun. If not that then you can use Force Wave, or Horror, 
 or whatever other area effect force power you have as they all basically render whatever size enemy 
 battalion helpless so again its a no brainer.
  
  They did add a few new features to this game including Saber Forms, and Force Forms unfortunately, 
 as interesting as they seem, the game was so easy that they are never needed. And when I say never, 
 I mean you will probably never use them not even once at any time in the game.
  
  What does all this mean? The combat system is good, and fun to use but the enemy AI is bad (no 
 strategies needed) and the game is just too easy (but so was KOTOR1 save for the Malaks base if 
 you played it on difficult) . Even when set to difficult you will never find yourself breaking a 
 sweat on any enemy in this game therefore combat needs some refinement. 6 points from the KOTOR1 
 system, plus 1 point for the new additions = 7/10.
  
  Options : 8/10
  
  The game sports a good number of customization and character options like most RPGs. You can customize 
 weapons and armor, as well as dictate each characters statistics and abilities on level up. The 
 system is the same as KOTOR1 however they added 3 new master Jedi classes to both light and dark 
 force users, and they added more customization options to weapons and armor, and there are a few 
 new Jedi Powers and Feats thrown in here and there. I would have liked more class options and some 
 more powers and feats but at least they are progressing forward. I assume the next installment 
 will give us even more options and I look forward to that.
  
  Fluidity : 1/10
  
  Yuk what mess. This game was created by a different programming studio from the 1st KOTOR (Obsidian 
 rather than Bioware) , and they didnt do a good job. Most noticeably in gameplay, the game is severely 
 unbalanced and much too easy just as stated above in the combat section. Also, dialogs kept getting 
 cut off prematurely every now and then and a truckload of bugs in the quests and dialogs keeps 
 the audience from ever really getting into the game like we did in the 1st. There are several quests 
 that are broken and cannot be completed. Some other quests can break if certain events take place 
 before they are completed (yet they remain on the quest list) . There was one quest where I had 
 no idea what it was I was supposed to do and nothing in the journal nor any NPC dialog helped. 
 Dialog options don't disappear after quests or event take place in places where they obviously 
 should have been removed. Voices were shamefully dubbed over by different voice actors in some 
 scenes. The story is told in a very erratic manner and some scenes simply make no sense either 
 because they are played out of order or they do not set up the scenarios properly.
  
  There were several occasion of what seemed like missing cut scenes or game skipping. There were 
 a lot of instances of graphic bugs like annoying loops (like Attons pilot chair perverted incident) 
 and cut scenes where a Wookie chocked a character by grabbing the air above her head (no he wasnt 
 using the force) . There were also many areas where NPCs (namely enemies) got stuck (graphical 
 collisions I assume) where you could just fire at them while they stood there doing nothing.
  
  Also to add insult to injury, the game menus are even worse than the old game. Although this 
 is just a minor issue, you find yourself having to change menus too often to equip characters, 
 and to check items. Also, the lack of sort of options for items was extremely annoying and so was 
 the fact that you couldnt compare gear with character stats on the fly without switching menus 
 a few times.
  
  I tried and I mean I really tried to get into this game because the story was somewhat compelling, 
 but unfortunately there were just too many bugs and nuances, and the game was just too incoherent 
 at time to allow me to enjoy it fully. It really was a shame that it was not tested properly before 
 release. It felt very amateurish to me.
  
  Combat (7/10) + Options (8/10) + Fluidity (1/10) = Gameplay (16/30 or 5.3/10)
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY (8/10)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Despite 
 what some might say, the story was actually pretty good once you piece it together, and unfortunately 
 the game itself doesn't help you in that respect (you need to kind of figure it out on your own 
 without the games help) . Granted this was not as good as KOTOR1 but it was still better than the 
 average run of the mill RPG storyline. The main character is a Jedi exile. This game explores what 
 led to his/her exile status and delves into the Jedi Civil War that took place after KOTOR1. The 
 ideas were compelling and believable for this game and the Star Wars universe. In fact, between 
 KOTOR 1&amp;2 we could have had one hell of a movie rather than the shoddy prequels we had to endure 
 from George Lucas.
  
  Along the way you make friends and allies however the characterization (interaction) was not very 
 good with most of them. You also uncover some information about Revan from episode 1, and you see 
 what Bastilla and Karth are doing now depending on how you do certain things.
  
  The force is delved into much deeper in this game than in previous and you start getting a good 
 idea of what it really is in this game. The only bad part is given how its explained, the ideas 
 of having a light and dark side really don't make much sense anymore and it becomes obvious 
 that being neutral is really the true light side of the force as understood by good vs. evil. 
 It was interesting albeit not logical in context with the Star Wars that we know.
  
  Not as good as episode 1, but still above average.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS (3.5/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics 
 are exactly the same as episode 1 but with some bugs. Its rendered in 3D however the lack of good 
 vertical viewing control is annoying in some areas but not a big deal. All in all there is nothing 
 new to add from episode 1 so minus &frac12; point for not improving on the old game and for the 
 graphical bugs and stuck NPCs.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (1/5)
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Below average with some notable blunders. Voices sound appropriate for all the characters save 
 for a few banters made during combat, which seemed out of place for that specific character. There 
 were at least 3 situations where voices were dubbed over by different voice actors during cut scenes. 
 They are shamefully obvious to notice. There isnt any notable music nor is there any great abundance 
 of it anywhere in the game. Minus 1 point for the voice dubs otherwise same as KOTOR1.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (1/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Another 
 game that was let down by the programming team that tackled it. The bugs are numerous as stated 
 in the fluidity section. The graphics are screwy in some places and the voice acting is unacceptable. 
 There were spelling errors here and there (minor issue no penalty for it) . The story telling was 
 disorganized and at times made no sense. The quest system had problems and so did NPC dialog. New 
 features turned out to be useless (Force Forms) and the game was severely unbalanced.
  
  Pazaak makes another comeback in this game and was left unchanged save the addition of a few new 
 cards and like in the 1st KOTOR it remains boring, and worthless to play. I really don't understand 
 how anyone can find that card game fun or challenging but then again Im spoiled after all how 
 can you compare this game to Xenocards and all the card games from Final Fantasy. This was obviously 
 just thrown in there for bragging rights so they can say hey look we have a card game too,  
 just make sure not to play it because then youll realize how little effort we put into it. Ah 
 but I suppose that isnt Obsidians fault. That game was part of Biowares KOTOR1 game.
  
  Swoop racing is also back and it has also been completely unchanged and remains worthless and absolutely 
 boring. Man does this side game remind me of old 1st generation Nintendo games no wait 1st generation 
 Nintendo games were better than this.
  
  What all this means is the game was not improved upon from the 1st installment, and that it was 
 not tested properly and was released prematurely. I especially do not appreciate this fact since 
 I paid $38 for this unfinished/unpolished game but hey I will get even when I only pay $10 for 
 the next Obsidian or Lucas Arts game.
  
  The good is the addition of new features like more weapon/armor upgrades, new powers and feats 
 but this is very minor and really didnt take much innovation or effort to do. Im just glad they 
 didnt decide to screw around with most of the features from episode 1. +1 for not screwing up 
 old KOTOR1 features like how Xenosaga II screwed up Xenosaga I features (cough couldnt help Im 
 still fuming over how poorly made Xenosaga II was) .
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (2/5)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Nothing flashy. The PC version comes with just the game, manual, and keyboard layout card. The 
 manual explains most of the game fairly well, however it does not go into details about Feats, 
 and Powers as it did in KOTOR1. Also Force Forms arent explained nor described in the manual. 
 Very mediocre.
  
  There are very few FMVs (full motion video) in this game and they were short and uninteresting. 
 Also voice dubbing issues as well graphical bug made them even less interesting as you simply cannot 
 ignore those flaws.
  
  The main plotline was good however, the way it was told was puzzling and sometimes down right dreadful. 
 This is one of those games that should probably be remade one day with a better quality development 
 team.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (20.8/40 or 5.2/10 or 5/10 rounded)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Although the overall rating is only a 5 you may give it a 6 if you played the 1st KOTOR since it 
 makes references to Revan and old KOTOR characters here and there to add some interest to the story. 
 The game could have been a 7 if all bugs were fixed and story is told in a more rational manner. 
 The 5 represents a logical score based on the many facets of the game without my personal opinion 
 (relatively speaking) thrown in. From a video game logical/critical perspective this game is a 
 borderline failure (on the failing side) in almost every way.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  You can replay the game using a different character class, different sex, and different alignment 
 in order to see how things could have turned out differently but it just isnt worth the time. 
 There are mods for this game (as well as KOTOR1) but they are mostly amateurish (even more unbalanced 
 or down right broken) and there are too few to make them a notable feature. Modding still remains 
 mostly a Morrowind &amp; NWN phenomenon.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  How much is this game worth to me? Well the game can be finished in about 25 hours. The game adds 
 nothing worthwhile from the 1st game save a new story and the way it was present was not nearly 
 as good as KOTOR1. There is neither FMV nor any good sound track to listen to. Overall, wait till 
 it hits $20 before buying it new, and believe me it will hit that if not less very quickly due 
 to high production runs and low review scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  The first KOTOR was a smash hit. It did great when it came to sales and it was the biggest Star 
 Wars game of its time. When other Star Wars games, like Battlefront, took away some of its popularity, 
 LucasArts and Obsidian bring forth KOTOR II: The Sith Lords. The game starts you off in the battle-worn 
 Ebon Hawk. Your character lies in critical condition in the medical bay and there isn't any life, 
 besides a small T3 droid, left on board. After doing a few things in the prologue, the real game 
 begins. KOTOR II did a really good job to give out the Star Wars feeling. You will see tons of 
 Rodians, Ithorians, and maybe a few Zabraks. The thing that I liked is that the game isn't depending 
 so much on which mission you take, it's how you complete it. You can go off and force some gang 
 boss out of office, or you can take the 'fun' way by slashing and killing your way in order to 
 slit his throat. A new feature in the game is the ability to make items. Throughout the game, you 
 will run into work benches and lab benches where you can make items from weapons, to armor, to 
 health, etc. Also, the Force alignment has become more harsh on your choices. You can easily plummet 
 to the Dark Side from just telling someone to take a hike. There are occasions where you can kill 
 an innocent person and then, your party members will react. Oh yes, I almost forgot about them. 
 You get to team up with other characters, all with their own history, secrets, and goals. Yet, 
 if you want a strong team, you need to make them trust you so that you can seduce them to the Dark 
 Side or become a band of heroes as you fight your way to the goal of being a great Jedi. The gameplay 
 is fairly simple. You control your character with the keyboard and can select people from your 
 party using the mouse and clicking on their portraits. Also, leveling up isn't as hard as it was 
 in the first game. In the first level, you can reach level 3 in no time, if you have the right 
 feats and skills. Combat is not a problem at all. You will never have enemies coming up behind 
 you and stabbing you in the butt with a sword. The game will pause itself and give you the best 
 view on your enemy, so now you just need to select from four different styles of attacks, depending 
 on if you are a ranged or melee character. The graphics are great for a game of its quality and 
 the voice acting, music, and sound effects make you want to say "Bravo, LucasArts, bravo!" The 
 only thing I would say that was a downside was that the first level can get ridiculously hard if 
 you don't have the right items equipped. Camera? No problems what so ever. It usually hangs out 
 behind your character and only shifts when you enter a door way or when an enemy tries to ambush 
 you from behind. Even when it shifts, it isn't a problem. Star Wars fans will be able to go to 
 a variety of different locations, like Dantooine, that weren't really explored in the other Star 
 Wars games. Now, what are you doing, sitting there reading this review? Shouldn't you be at Game 
 Stop, buying this game? Go on and have fun. Kill a few Rodians and earn some credits. Oh! And also, 
 may the Force be with you, like it is strongly with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  In many ways, Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is a typical sequel. It irons out 
 some gameplay issues from the first game and makes other minor improvements. Sith Lords could 
 have been a great game  even better than the first. However, this game falls far short of its 
 potential for one major reason. Story. Its an absolute disaster. Its a miserable failure thats 
 poorly conceived and confusingly told. Its needlessly complicated, full of holes, and chock full 
 of obnoxious, pretentious dialog. I love the first game to death, but I have a hard time getting 
 excited about this one. 
  
  Kotor 2 uses basically the same engine as the first game, but it does have some notable gameplay 
 improvements. The interface is better, although it still feels consolized. There are lots of other 
 tiny improvements, like the way that a container will say empty after you have already searched 
 it, so that you dont need to check it twice. There are a lot more feats and force powers, but 
 perhaps most importantly, the game is balanced better. The game gives you opportunities to create 
 items from scratch, and a lot more options for upgrading. These opportunities provide a lot of 
 uses for your non-combat activities like Repair and Computer. The dialog is also skill heavy. Your 
 Persuade isnt the only skill that gives you special dialog options anymore. Now, your awareness, 
 repair, and computer skills provide you with special options here and there. Gameplay-wise, Knights 
 of the Old Republic 2 is very solid and actually better than the first game. 
  
  The game starts off with a very long linear sequence  even longer than the first game. You do 
 start off with Jedi powers, but you dont get your lightsaber until you are at about level 14 or 
 15. The Sith Lords, thus, has some pacing problems. After the long sequence at the beginning, 
 the world opens up again, as you go on a quest to find a group of lost Jedi. Sith Lords is still 
 considerably more linear than its predecessor though.
  
  Graphically, The Sith Lords still looks good, but time has not been kind to this engine. Since 
 the first Kotor, a number of high-tech shooters have come out that have raised the bar dramatically. 
 Also, the combat animations have gotten repetitive, and the environments seem kind of bare. The 
 audio is impressive, as it was in the first game, with a StarWarsesque soundtrack and thousands 
 of well voice-acted lines providing the highlights.
  
  Light side vs Dark side is handled substantially different from the first game. Everything is cast 
 with a such a bleak and morally ambiguous tone that it hardly feels like Light and Dark anymore. 
 I applaud the developers for changing up the formula, but it just doesnt work very well here. 
 Your progression towards light side or dark side depends less upon your actual actions, and more 
 upon the dialog that you choose. If you are rude, then you earn Dark Side points. If you are polite, 
 then you earn Light Side points. If you express regret about past crimes, you earn Light Side points. 
 None of it is very convincing. The Dark Side isnt particularly cruel, and the Light Side fails 
 to give you warm fuzzies for being good. Your actions also influence the alignments of your traveling 
 companions as well, but this system is half-broken. Your companions alignments may change, but 
 their dialog often doesnt. 
  
  The first Knights of the Old Republic was a classic Good vs. Evil game. It was a bit of a clich, 
 but it worked perfectly as a Star Wars game. Kotor 2 is a much more morally ambivalent game. Few 
 of the characters in the game fit traditional RPG stereotypes. You can see the influence of games 
 like Planescape: Torment here. This may make for a unique experience, but it has its disadvantages 
 too. None of the characters that you meet in the game are likeable, and even the Jedi all just 
 seem like rude, obnoxious self-absorbed jerks. I couldnt have cared less if any of my companions 
 had gotten killed. Your friends rarely interject comments, and there is no banter between them 
 like in the first game. Likewise, the games villains are hardly developed and they just dont 
 seem as hateful as Darth Malak was in the first game. Malak was such a hateful villain that you 
 wanted to kill him as soon as you could. But the villains in this game fail to create that kind 
 of emotion. As a result, its hard to care about anything that happens in the story. 
  
  The centerpiece of this theme is your pretentious and annoying companion, Kreia. Kreia wears her 
 mysteriousness on her sleeve. She reminds me of The Architect, that lame character who spouts pseudo-intellectual 
 bullcrap in The Matrix Reloaded. Kreia does exactly the same. She answers simple yes or no questions 
 with five lines of philosophical BS. Its not keep or insightful. Its just stupid. 
  
  This style carries over into every aspect of this games convoluted and confusing, incomplete story. 
 Everything is obfuscated by a gigantic cloud of smoke. This story is so poorly told and incomplete 
 that after playing the entire game I can hardly tell what happened. Entire incidents, plot twists, 
 and sub plots go entirely unexplained. At the outset of the game, you are unconscious on the Ebon 
 Hawk, along with Kreia, who actually appears to be dead. How did you get on the Ebon Hawk? How 
 did Kreia? Neither of these are ever explained at all. At one point late in the game, you storm 
 a Sith stronghold to stop some significant ceremony from taking place. At the time, it looks significant, 
 but you never find out what it actually is. These are two examples out of probably a dozen major 
 items that are left hanging when the end credits roll.
  
  The story is so bad that it keeps this game from being great. The game has been criticized for 
 having a bad ending. I disagree. The ending is just consistent with the rest of the game. People 
 have criticized this game for being rushed out the door for the X-Box for Christmas. That may be 
 true, but I dont see how an extra two months of work would have helped the story. Its poor and 
 confusing in every way, and a little bit more polish wouldnt have helped. In retrospect, Knights 
 of the Old Republic had a terrific story and dialog, and thats partially what made it a great 
 game. Sith Lords doesnt, and thats what makes it mediocre. The effect is so strong that I barely 
 recommend this game.
  
  Ultimately, Knights of the Old Republic 2 was a disappointment for me. Is it enjoyable at times? 
 Absolutely. Does it have some good ideas? Certainly. Unfortunately, the mainstay of the game, the 
 story, is a failure, and because of this, theres nothing to tie the games events together. Kotor 
 2 is ultimately a good diversion and worth playing for fans of the first game, but its not nearly 
 as compelling as the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 17, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I was so obsessed with KOTOR, i got little sleep. When i got my hand on the sequel, it was no different. The 
 first KOTOR was and incredible game. The great storyline, solid gameplay, and the awesome characters 
 are just a few things that made it awesome.
  
  Now for the sequel............ Um........ I was somewhat disappointed. The game feels very promising 
 when you start playing it. The gameplay is solid and just as good as the first. The open ended quests, awesome 
 combat system, and minigames, contribute to its greatness.
  
  I have a question...... why are the graphics so much worse then the first game? I mean, how does 
 that even happen? Can't you just update the graphics engine?
  
  The sound is pretty soild.
  
  And my biggest complaint: This game has one of the most terrible, abrubt 
 storylines i have ever played through. I won't reveal what happens, but let me tell you this, it 
 will probably dissapoint you.
  
  In closing, KOTOR 2 gets very close to achieving KOTORs level of greatness, but falls short. I think 
 it is a buy if you are a diehard KOTOR fan like me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyTDavenport
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to compete with KOTOR 1 because it was so great. This one has its moments though. The 
 storyline is weird, you can't really tell where the story is going but it's still awesome. The 
 gameplay is the same and I love it. It's awesome that you can affect your teammates and that you 
 can actually create friendships with them. The only part I don't like is the end. It was too abrupt 
 and you don't know what happens to you or your team. I was really curious for that and you never 
 find out! Hopefully that means KOTOR 3... I hope it does because this series has potential to be 
 one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtlePerson2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars KOTOR II is set thousands of years before the star wars movies. You play as one of the 
 last remaining Jedi left in the galaxy. Years before the game you chose to split away from the 
 Jedi order because of their view on a large war which you fought in against their will. Because 
 of this you were expeled from the Jedi order. The plot of the game is that you have to find the 
 remaining members of the Jedi order and get them to reinstate you. There are many various sub plots 
 along the way which really make up the story, but what makes the plot great is that it pulls you 
 in.
  
  This game is open-ended which means that you choose how the game plays out. Unlike traditional 
 RPGs you don't have to rescue someone if that is what you are told to do. If you would like you 
 can become a sith and kill all who stand in your way or you can become a jedi knight and help and 
 protect the galaxy. It's this open-endedness that sucks you in and makes it so addicting. The gameplay 
 is exciting because of the strategy involved in the battles. You can have three characters in your 
 party, but you will have 10-12 characters to choose from. You can use a variety of weapons ranging 
 from blaster pistols to lightsabers.
  
  Being open-ended, this game allows you to play it in many different ways. You can build a character 
 who is a brute that just destroys every enemy with one or two hits or you can become a jedi master 
 who uses advanced force moves. When I played through the game for the first time I was like the 
 former of the two. The second time I was more like that latter, which was fun because I could walk 
 into the room and kill everything with a force lightning or force persuade one of the enemies then 
 hide.
  
  As of 2007, the graphics in this game leave a little to be desired, but they are good enough that 
 they don't take away from the gameplay in any way.
  
  The sound was pretty good. It supports EAX and has excellent music so you can really be pulled 
 into the experience. The only reason that I gave it a 9 instead of 10 was because some of the alien 
 language recordings get a little repetitive.
  
  The value on this game is incredible since it is only $20. It takes 20-40 hours to beat it so you 
 get an hour or two of gameplay each dollar. And if you're like me and you play through it twice 
 it's an even better value.
  
  Overall this is my favorite game... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 8, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  I'll tell you first off that I hated KOTOR1, mostly because it was a total rip-off of Neverwinter 
 Nights, and the NWN campaign was supposedly meant only to show off the NWN toolset!
  So practically we were getting some sort of museum we'd seen before as an entire game (as KOTOR1 
 didn't include the MP and Toolset that made NWN so great) and it certainly felt that way, suspicious 
 though, the few parts that weren't completely ripped off were actually very good, but the large 
 part inbetween there were lame, boring, uninspired and they all had that "been there, done that" 
 feeling to it.
  
  So while KOTOR2 wasn't being developed by the same company, I was still skeptical, even though 
 Obsidian was founded by former employees from Black Isle, who've made a few very good RPG's in 
 the past.
  
  I have to say that while the game overall is quite disappointing, it does have some very good features 
 which made the game shine.
  
  I'll start off with the bad part:
  Most part of the game is still mindless and far too easy combat, the worst part is that sometimes 
 you won't have your main character in your party, which can make the game a sort of "i didn't expect 
 this and i wasn't prepared for this" difficult. Which is fairly annoying considering you cut through 
 your enemies like a knife through butter with your main.
  
  I also thought it was pretty stupid that half of the planets you go to are similair to KOTOR1, 
 no matter what might have happened to them.
  
  The Good:
  So the main part of the game was pretty lame.
  However, the story and the partymembers compensate 
 greatly for this.
  I think the reason why a lot of KOTOR1 fanboys hate 2 is because it's juicy part is not action-based, 
 unlike KOTOR1.
  Another problem is that you sort of have to "unlock" those henchman interactions and story elements.
 
  
  The henchman system goes like this: If you do something they like/dislike your influence on them 
 rises/lowers, once you have enough influence they will finally talk about certain topics.
  A part of the story (and a very good part) is told this way.
  I think the problem is that this 
 part wasn't noticed by a lot of people.
  
  Sadly, despite having great potential, the story ultimatly fails to deliver, and you're left waiting 
 for answers which MIGHT just come to you in the next game.
  The game is also incomplete, making the end game very disappointing.
  
  The culmination at 
 Dantooine with the Jedi Masters is great, the mood is superb, sadly, it ends too quickly, and then 
 it turns into that boring endgame.
  
  However, it gave us a small glimpse of something which i would like to call "The future of RPG's/gaming" 
 which is, having more emotional involvement with the game.
  
  Obsidian showed me/us a spark of this, and i liked it.
  I'm very excited about Neverwinter Nights 
 2, which will have this feature fully worked out, since KOTOR2 was clearly released too soon. But 
 that was Atari's fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuBashi
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 6, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Characters had real potential, great graphics and better controls than KOTOR.
  
  The Bad:
  The story was absolute garbage. From the very beginning I could hardly play for 
 more than 15 minutes without getting so frustruated I wanted to break something.
  
  The Ugly:
  The actual game was never finished. They shipped it early and that's why the story 
 makes no sense. They're selling only part of the game. Frankly, I feel anybody who bought this 
 game should get refunded from Lucasarts, until it's done right.
  
  Bottomline:
  Lucasarts should feel ashamed and embarrassed, if not taken to court for selling a faulty product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OleYeller2113
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  LucasArts managed to get this sequel fairly right. While of course you do get the feeling that 
 their loose plot threds (probably due to the game's hurried release) overall there is more than 
 enough substance to the plot for things to be pretty interesting. It takes some time and a lot 
 of talking to link this game to the first one adequately, but if you're willing to spend the time 
 to read the dialogue you see the connection and a bit more. When you combine this game with KOTOR 
 I, you'd have to believe that there is at least one more game in store for KOTOR to wind up the 
 overall story and explain what happens to Revan and the Exile.
  
  KOTOR II plays the same way the first KOTOR played as far as a gameplay perspective, but obviously 
 some of the graphics have been tweaked a bit to make the game more visually attractive (I cannot 
 tell you how many times I played KOTOR I and wished the Jedi Robes actually looked like robes... well 
 here they do) . Sure they might be tons of more visually appealing games out there, but it is a 
 great use of the Star Wars genre. Many have said that they were disappointed by this game, and 
 I'll admit that as far as the plot is concerned I definately liked KOTOR I better, but it is a 
 lot of fun and almost addicting at times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetRacer33J
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the Old republic 2: the sith lords is just as good or even better than the 
 first in the series, Star Wars Knights of the Old republic 1. It is a very addictive game but the 
 battling system is some what odd. Still though it is a very good game. You can pick a jedi class 
 for ur character, upgrade his skills and level up as you fight. You can choose to go to the dark 
 side or light side, which ever you want. There is 2 different storylines for the light side and 
 dark side. You can also get party members to help you fight the sith and you may get upgrades for 
 ur weapons or just go buy new ones from merchants. It is very close to the first Star Wars Knights 
 of the Old republic but is still a very good game. If you are looking for a star wars game to get, 
 I would highly recommend you get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmike1980
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  STAR WARS Knights of the Old Republic 2 : The Sith Lords
  
  System requirements:
  
  minimum
  Pentium III/Athlon class 1 GHz or equivalent
  RAM: 256 MB
  Video Memory: 32 MB
 
  Other: DirectX 9.0c compatible computer 
  
  recommended
  System: Pentium III/Athlon class 1.6 GHz or equivalent
  RAM: 512 MB
  Video Memory: 128 MB 
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  
  A sequel of sorts to one the the most beloved and may I say genre defining games of old times, 
 KOTOR 2 had it difficult from the beginning following such footsteps. It has done so admirably 
 with a story that somewhat carries on from where its predecessor left off, adding a tinge of extra 
 flavour.
  
  All the oldies are here, the sith, the republic (albiet in its last stages) and of course the Jedi, 
 singular of course considering that you are pretty much the remanents of the old order.
  
  The game plays according to the now familiar 'd20' D&D ruleset, so i shall refrain from getting 
 into the specifics. Needless to say you will be leveling up, increasing basic stats once in every 
 4 levelups, and improving abilities more often. Then there are the force powers and other techniques 
 to master. Oh joy!
  
  KOTOR 2 places you in the shoes of a totally neutral character, who wakes up in a kolto tank, aboard 
 a space station drifting seemingly meaninglessly. You have no recollection of who you are, and 
 what you are about. Armed with a blowtorch and the ramblings of Kreia, an old lady who though seemingly 
 innocent enough, takes on the role of your inner voice and mentor throughout the game except till 
 the very end, when you are sprung with the biggest surprise of your saber twirling life.
  
  KOTOR 2 follows a very gripping storyline that revolves you and your followers. Increased party 
 interaction, and the ability to influence them to your means, (whether nefarious or otherwise) , 
 has got to be one of the highlights of this game. Throughout the story you will be faced with decisions, 
 which are integral to the main storyline by the way. The resulting path you choose will decide 
 your fate, and the fate of your followers. One of the coolest attributes of KOTOR 2 that it gives 
 you the liberty to be as good or as bad as you want to be. The game rewards you by bestowing you 
 with light or dark side points which will affect your skills, (dark side character will be able 
 to use dark side abilities more freely as they cost less force points) . Your looks will also change 
 as you tread further down the light or dark side, from the haloed Jedi, to the red haze swirling 
 behind you if you turn sith. Your character also appears evil with cracks ultimately appearing 
 on your face, (which is a mottled gray by now) if you turn sith. You are rewarded by gaining tremendous 
 power in the bargain as only the dark side can grant you.
  
  Character customisation is very good, and leveling up so much of a joy, that you'll undoubtably 
 spend most of your time, waiting to accumulate enough points for that next level. All the Jedi, 
 (and Sith) , powers are yours for the taking, and as you increase in level and hence skill, you 
 can also improve previous powers. The visuals are also rich, and the force powers look superb particularly 
 force storm.
  
  Throughout KOTOR 2 you will get side quests by talking to NPC's. Not only completion of these quests 
 award you with more points, but depending on your approcah you'll get a light or dark side boost 
 as well.
  
  KOTOR 2 is much richer an experience than KOTOR, because your actions and decisions have much deeper 
 repurcussions this time round. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Character animation is slick, and the combat system though turn based is all good. You can fight 
 close range, with ranged weapons i. e. blasters and their ilk, or with good ol' force powers.
  
  You can play as a Jedi guardian, Jedi sentinel, Jedi Consular from the beginning, unlike KOTOR 
 1 where you start as a soldier, scout and so on. 
  At level 15 or so, depending on your alignment you will be offered deeper insights into the discipline 
 and mental focus of the jedi, simply meaning that you can prestige class now.
  This is where the leveling up becomes more interesting with classes like Jedi Weaponmaster, Jedi 
 watchmen or the Jedi Master, the Sith equivalents being the Marauder, Assassin and Lord. These 
 classes are simply the the martial and weapons expert, the sleuth and negotiator and the force 
 power wizard in that order. Its possible to play as a Jedi guardian in the beginning and due to 
 wicked deeds 'sithify' and become a Sith Lord. The combat oriented characters will want to melee 
 and the marauder and weaponmaster are for you. 
  
  I found that the most powerful character in the game was the force wielding consular, (though not 
 in the beginning) , once he graduates to a master or Lord, the sheer force points he gets, (alongwith 
 the wisdom modifiers and other bonuses) , mean that powers like force storm are sure croud killers.
 
  
  Played from a third person perspective doesn't spoil the experience of KOTOR 2 at all. Right from 
 the mundane dialogue sequences to the travel and sometimes hectic battles you will find the gameplay 
 completely absorbing. Part of the reason for such a thrilling gameplay experience is the revamped 
 graphics engine, delivering everything an RPG of this cadre should. Another aspect, perhaps of 
 greater significance is the storyline, Simply Absorbing in 2 words!
  Party interaction is also another aspect of KOTOR 2 that is so fun, you will actually find yourself 
 repeating a conversation just to choose different dialogue options! 
  Much of the story is told through cut scenes and dialogue sequences, and each of your party members 
 have their own tales to spin, alongwith side quests that upon completion will improve their opinion 
 of you immensely.
  
  SIGHTS AND SOUND
  
  The KOTOR 2 engine (slightly tweaked Odyssey engine) is basically somewhat ageing now, but not 
 before delivering and delivering well, (I might add) , for this game. The effects are good, the 
 game lighting excellent. lightsaber and force power animations carried on very well, this game 
 has the SHOW and the go.
  
  The aural experience is still excellent, good voice acting, no goof ups whatsoever here. A definite 
 :hap2: to the developers here. Unlike some good games that fail to deliver the visuals and sound 
 to that level that justifies the gameplay, this one delivers it all!
  
  My Personal Take:
  
  I Played KOTOR 2 three times through. I thoroughly enjoyed both the games, 
 being a fan of the genre helped here. Unlike many others who thought KOTOR 2 wasn't a decent enough 
 sequel, I beg to differ. To follow in footsteps of greatness is tough, to leave a few new prints 
 here and there... a touch of genius!
  This is one highly recommended game, which every fan of the genre should play and own. I haven't 
 played a game this good since Neverwinter Nights. All credits to Obsidian for developing this one, 
 even if folk say they copied Bioware's stuff.. Kudos all round to these 2 great developers and 
 here's to more single player campaigns like this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sophospeare
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first played KOTOR, it was a stunning feast of story, unique gameplay and interesting if 
 not overwhelming visuals. KOTOR II didn't do anything to vastly improve the previous game. This 
 isn't a bad thing at all given the fact that KOTOR was pretty spectacular in its own right. Instead, 
 it makes subtle changes here and there and provides you with an even deeper storyline than the 
 first. 
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as KOTOR just with a few more options and the addition of fighting 
 stances which didn't seem to add as much depth as the developers might have hoped. Still, the gameplay 
 is refreshingly fast paced for an RPG and still allows for micromanagement of battles.
  
  The only real knock I have on the game is that its visuals, while pretty good when they were applied 
 to KOTOR, don't hold up as well now.
  Add to that all of the screen flickers, random (albeit rare) game crashes and weird stuff like 
 hands through walls and characters showing up as NPC even though they're in your party and it can 
 be a little disappointing.
  
  However, the story more than makes up for this and, as in KOTOR, the game has a tremendous amount 
 of replayability on both the dark and light side of the force giving you a huge bang for your buck 
 with the new $20 price tag. If you like Star Wars, RPGs or just good games in general, I would 
 highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harmonious-g
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  If u liked the first gane u will most defenetly like this one, do one could expect more from a jedi 
 novel based game.
  U start again without a light saber wich is annyoing for starting new characters cause u get ur 
 sword together quite late in the game. That means having to invest incredible amounts of time in 
 order to get the character a fun level.
  The group didnt quite change from the last game, and the time laps between the 2 stories could of 
 been a bit bigger.
  so pretty much same game as the one before.
  but it addicting in any case, and with a lot of bad things come allso the good things.
  And when 
 u actually do reach the final levels on hard the battles r pretty massive, and the fact that u can 
 pause the battle scene is very effective. Theres also a massive selection of items u can gather.
 
  The first game i started was with a consular, it evols much slower the all the other jedis but 
 in the final battle againts treya it has its advantages due to the massive force damage he can 
 deal, not saying it was easy to beat her cause the consulars dont have much lightsaber power.
  the guardian is a fomidable sword fighter wich makes the first levels of the game easyer cause 
 u dont have to rely on the force so much. and allso in the last battles the guardian just rips, so 
 overall on my account its the strongest of the 3 jedis.
  the sentinel is good for those whom didnt play the last game, its very balanced between force and 
 sword. hes more of a quick character wich makes him perfect for newbes and for understanding the 
 character development .week in the last parts of the game.
  !!!! 
  an overall fun game to play but it can get boring easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  You play the role of "The exile" a jedi knight that was banned by the jedi council.
  Now he is the only thing that's left of the jedi, and the sithlords grow in strength, and become 
 a greater threat to the galaxy then ever before.
  
  You start of the game, as the ship's maintenance droid, and you have to cure some crewmembers, 
 and repair the ship. Which has had a hard time fleeing from a sith vessel.
  
  Not much after "The exile" awakenes in a tank of water, supposed to mend and ease wounds. He breaks 
 free, and it seems that the waters of the tanks have been poisoned, suprisingly he survives the 
 attack on his life, but the others didn't. 
  
  Already from the start the heros are followed by dark, and mysterious forces, and the game is really 
 much darker than it's predecessor. The story isn't bad, but at some times it just becomes to much 
 darkness, and mystery.
  
  The gameplay itself hasn't changed much from the prequel, you now have different forms of lightsaber 
 combat, which will give you boosts. F. ex : You fight many enemies, there is a form for that. Another 
 for using force powers etc.
  
  But the fighting itself remains the same simplistic style, and possibly a bit too simplistic. Another 
 new detail is that Kreia and "The exile" share powers through a special bond related to the force.
 
  
  The music itself is a lot more dark, and gloomy, and not as good as the original, but still worthy 
 of recognition, the voicing is also good, if not improved from the original.
  
  Graphicwise the game hasn't improved at all, and if it has, then it's only by small portions.
 
  
  But to any Star Wars fan this is definitly a game to look at, and enjoy. If you don't like Star 
 Wars, or if you didn't like the first game, then you probably should stay away from the sequel 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesRed
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is good though not as good as the original Knights of the Old Republic. Having 
 said that, Obsidian made some improvements such as refining the combat system, adding new feats 
 and skills. Another plus is increasing the level cap to level 50, which vastly improve the game-play 
 experience.
  
  However, the story is flawed in certain parts of the game. After playing through the first half 
 of the game, you begin to realise plot holes here and there. Furthermore, its complexity does not 
 help the story at all and pretty much had me confused at times. This will surely bog down the gaming 
 experience and once you're through with this game, you won't be feeling the need to replay this 
 game again, unless if you're willing to ignore the plot holes.
  
  As for the stability of the game, there are some minor bugs here and there but nothing that is 
 game stopping though the frame rate issues does tend to bog down the game. Not to mention the infamous 
 Dantooine lag and warp that plagues it's predecessor, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, is 
 still present in the game. Sure the lag was gone but the warping problem is still there. Same graphics 
 engine, same problem, I fear.
  
  In conclusion, the game-play in SW: KOTOR 2 - The Sith Lords is much better than it's predecessor, 
 SW: KOTOR, but don't expect the plot to be the same. Overall, this game is still worth a look but 
 don't expect anything fantastic or special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughdemorgan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most action packed game of this century overall after you finish the 
 game you will have killed at least 20 000 enemy's, from wild animals like the cannox or the very 
 scary and strong drexl to invisible assassins and whole numbers of jedi and sith who try to kill 
 you, the game takes a very weird turn for the worst close to the end and some allies turn out to 
 be not so friendly.
  When you complete the game you will have done about 30 hours of playing and you will have to play 
 it again to see what happens if you go to the light rather than to the dark.
  one tip is that i would advise choosing a certain way to go very early on because when you get 
 to level 15 you will be able to choose an advanced class but you cannot do this if you are still 
 in the middle so you must be very light or dark then you can gain the better levels then you can 
 focus on using the force or weapon techniques that are all helpful in different ways.
  i hope you enjoy this game it is a very well made game but there can be problems with bugs in the 
 game that make it close automatically and you will lose all you unsaved data so save often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmking04
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Compared to Knights of the Old Republic, this game was a dissapointment to me. The first KOTOR 
 was a pretty much flawless game. The storyline was clear, easy to understand and left me going 
 "wow that's awesome". This game on the other hand confused the heck out of me. The storyline was 
 okay, but certain things happened without much of an explanation. Also, the game's creation was 
 rushed and many parts of the game were cut out, leaving empty spaces in the game. Despite all of 
 that, this game is still very good. The graphics are great, the fighting system is terrific, and 
 the characters are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaiyanFusion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of The Old Republic 2 The Sith Lords (A. K. A: KOTOR2) , is an excellent game that 
 everyone will enjoy. I highly recommend this game to anyone, because it combines so many different 
 elements. This is an R. P. G., action/adventure, and strategy game that is unbelievably fun! The 
 only problem is that it has some high requirements, like the graphics card. But it's worth it, 
 because the graphics are so good! (the graphics card is useful for more than just games, you'll 
 need it for some other programs as well) .
  There are so many ways to respond to people. Some responses will give you Light Side Points, and 
 others will give you Dark Side Points. One of the many cool features of this game is that your 
 character will change as you get closer to either side. There will be another change when you achieve 
 Light Side Mastery or Dark Side Mastery. Another thing is the way characters will respond to you. 
 For example, if you rise to the Light Side, most characters will be kind, and cooperate with one 
 another. Like your character and Atton playing Pazzak. However, if you fall to the Dark Side, some 
 characters may be afraid of you, and fear your power. Take Atton for example, instead of playing 
 Pazzak, he'll stutter and have a nervous tone. He also says something like "that evil old witch 
 is hypnotizing you, you can still come to the light". On the Light Side, your character can influence 
 others to do good. On the Dark Side however, your character will steal another character's soul.
 
  That is just a small feature of the game, there is a lot more you can do. Like build lightsabers, 
 or gain new force powers, both of the Light Side and of the Dark Side. Oh yeah, and complete the 
 game! On the Light Side you save the universe and destroy the Sith, and on the Dark Side you take 
 over the universe. 
  There is so much to this game, I couldn't possibly describe it all. So I'll leave off with this: 
 this game is incredible and is fun for everyone. Don't judge it on the first few minutes. The tutorial 
 is boring, but he game gets better and better as you get farther and farther. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Though I purchased this game a year ago, I've decided to sit down and write a review. I've noticed 
 that this game still gets heavy hits on bulletin boards, walkthroughs, etc. In short, the game 
 is still very relevant and continues to be one of the best games on the market today.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game sucks you in from the beginning. With the character customization ability 
 you don't just create a character, you evolve and grow. I've played as a female character consumed 
 by the darkside and played as a male character dedicated to the Light. You can specialize in assassination 
 and stealth or become a Jedi Master and contemplate the mysteries of the universe while wielding 
 an impressive array of powers.
  
  The weapon and armor creation/upgrading system is equally great and enables you to have a great 
 amount of flexibility and creativity. The multitude of dialog options and personal choices influence 
 the storyline heavily, enabling you to have a different gaming experience each time you play.
 
  
  The storyline is one of the best written I've ever seen, if not the best. It is complex enough 
 to be interesting while not so far fetched as to be unbelievable. Clearly a lot of thought was 
 put into it, something that as lacking in most of today's games.
  
  The ability to choose which planets you visit in any order you wish increases the variables as 
 well. In an effort to avoid any spoilers, I'll leave it at that.
  
  Value:
  I have played this game from beginning to end no less than five times, probably more. The replay 
 value is tremendous, something that is very lacking in most games today. As I touched on a bit 
 above, you can use completely different approaches each time. 
  
  I can't do justice to this game by describing it here. This is a rare gem that is actually worth 
 the $49.99 price tag that is slapped on every PC game these days. If you don't already own this, 
 you're seriously missing out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I waited impatiently for this sequel and I was not disappointed. Truth be told I wasn't blown away 
 either.
  The gameplay, the script, the sound, the combat, the visuals... all are kept at the level of the 
 first game. But in doing so it lacks the originality that would have pushed it farther.
  The rushed endgame takes away much of the pleasure of the game, especially when considering the 
 rumors on the net regarding the planned content which did not made it in the final game.
  The good news is that there is an independent group of fans that are trying to add the missing 
 content, but I feel that this should have been done by the maker and released in an offical patch 
 or add-on. For free of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-120
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the better games of Star wars. I mean, of course it has it's bad side..... like 
 everyone hating jedi, but not so much the sith... but still! I understand how this game helps you 
 begin to understand the ways of how designers use to keep rpg games together! This game is a must 
 play for all star wars fans, and many who aren't should play either way. I wasn't much of a star 
 wars fan myself, but This game was a great game nonetheless! I wish those who play the best of 
 luck to this, and hopefully, play the first before you do it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drillbitz03
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  When Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic came out, it was one of the hottest games on the market. 
 It won Game of the Year (over games like Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, Warcraft 3, and Unreal Tournament 
 2) and earned Developer of the Year award for BioWare (over companies like Maxis, Ubisoft, and 
 Pandemic) . That meant KOTOR was a pretty spectacular game. But I was completely caught off guard 
 by the quality, depth and overall enjoyment I experienced in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 
 2, The Sith Lords. This game is, for lack of a better term, phenomenal. First of all, it's a LONG 
 game. The first time I ran through the 
  game, it took me 25 hours non-stop to complete the game without most of the side quests included. 
 That's about twice as long as it took me to run through KOTOR. Sith Lords is also an incredibly 
 more in-depth game. One thing I always was so down on the first game was it's relatively linear 
 nature. There was a series of planets you could go to (plus the Leviathan) but one of them (Yavin 
 4) was a tiny installation where you bought your upgrades. In KOTOR II, the game is much more expansive. 
 You have a lot more quests offered to you and not only do they affet you financially and experientially, 
 but also in regards to your teammates.
  
  This is yet another enjoyable feature of KOTOR II: everychoice you make affects not only your side 
 of the Force, but it also affects all of your companions. Some of your companions will only join 
 you based on your light or dark side persuasions. Some will even join you based on your gender. 
 But in every case, your decisions in combat and dialogue will affect their position in the Force 
 as well as yours.
  
  The final feature this game has is that it basically took everything that was good about KOTOR 
 and upgraded its quality. You have more options in terms of Force powers, saber crystals, items, 
 weapons, armor, everything. There are even items that can only be used by certain characters.
 
  
  Altogether, this game exceeds the Game of the Year that preceeded it. While KOTOR won the award, 
 this game pushes more enjoyment buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luqmanhakim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  this game have a lot of new things in starwars game. we can make a new jedi with a lot of power 
 and we can choose to be good or evil. surprisingly this game have superb gameplay i will give the 
 game play 
  GAME PLAY:10/10
  at the other point, the graphic is superb!! and it have a lot of good timing on what they want to 
 do. but there are some thing that not so good about it. there are.... the boss some times are like 
 chicken stuck at their home. hihihihi the second last boss is just so easy to kill. i just run around 
 and the boss will stuck at the wall, then i just kill it with lightning. ihihhahahahaha so easy .the 
 flaw have to be cover after this. but it still good. hihihi... i give the graphic
  GRAPHIC:9/10. hehehe...
  the sound is just right. i give it 9.5/10
  the value?? i dont want to 
 talk about it because the price is reasonable.10/10
  and other is good
  
  OVERALL:9.5/10 ok that my review. i think this will help for the future starwars
  thanks and sorry 
 if i have make a mistake hehehe...
  bb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 is an expansion to the best selling KOTOR and for the most part it is a pretty good game, 
 with deep character development & henchies NPCs.
  
  Pros: Better combat animations is always a plus. And I'm very happy that they updated the Jedi 
 Robes, as I'm not a fan of those plain robes in KOTOR. The new skills and the epic char development 
 doesnt hurt either
  
  Cons: When I first played this game, I was pretty impressed and was prepared to give it an above 
 9 rating. Then the ruckus over the cut dialogue (see the news section of this game for more details) 
 makes me wonder how much better the game could have been if it was'nt rushed out to production. 
 The ending still sucks, it left massive holes in the storyline & leaves the gamer with more questions 
 then answers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Knights of the old republic 2 The Sith Lords is a very popular game that took over the 
 world over one night. It has everything a Star Wars fan desires, but even something for the ones 
 who enjoy strategies
  
  The story takes you back into the life of a Jedi who was exiled from the Jedi order. But now as 
 the Sith rises and becomes powerful the jedi ( you get to choose his name. Yiippee! ) has to do 
 something starting his adventure captured on a shuttle. There he finds a old forgotten jedi named 
 Kreia, and thats where the true story lies.
  
  The game has Exellent graphics and outstanding sound, the gamplay is a success and the way of fighting 
 has captured me for a looooooooong time. ( In fact, im playing it right now ) , But the thing that 
 is irritating me is that there is NO MULTIPLAYER! Come on...
  
  Anyway thats not a reason to not buy this game, in fact i recommend it to all players. Both Seniors 
 und Juniors. :-)
  
  
  Tool fan, out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Wait, didn't I save this galaxy in the last game? What's happened?
  
  KOTOR 2 takes place a few years after the first game and although it seemed (assuming you were 
 of Light Alignment) there was nothing but good times ahead for the galaxy, you start the game confused 
 and bewildered, much like your character.
  Since enough time was spent in the first game bumbling around as a non-Jedi, KOTOR 2 sets you on 
 the path from the beginning. You will have to wait awhile before you get a lightsaber, though. 
 Or clothes, come to think of it. You wake up in an abandoned mining station's medical bay in your 
 underwear and you won't find a jumpsuit to wear for awhile - this means you'll be running around 
 the complex in bland, tight cyclist clothes (I should have played a female character) . This puzzling 
 decision seems to be warranted at first, but after the umpteenth battle you may find yourself wondering 
 if you didn't miss a hidden locker somewhere. Hard to imagine Vader running around in pyjamas.
 
  The gameplay remains mostly the same from the first game, you run around opening things, battling 
 enemies, and chatting to folks, without leaving the floor throughout (no jumping!) . You will once 
 again be placed in a 'first area', which you will be unable to leave for awhile, before the game 
 opens up and gives you the chance to visit other planets. Even some familiar hangouts from the 
 first game, although they have changed slightly. This makes them more enjoyable as you wouldn't 
 have as much fun were they identical. Following your footsteps as another character is part of 
 the game's charm, so newcomers to the series will be missing out until they have a chance to run 
 through the first game. Completion of KOTOR 1 is not required, however, as there is enough in-game 
 explanation to clarify the game's events for the uninitiated.
  A lot more emphasis has been placed on your party of companions and a lot of replayability stems 
 from it. Your companions will be influenced by your decisions (if they trust you enough) and their 
 alignments will shift along with yours. Redemption has always been an important part of Star Wars 
 mythology and there's a great feeling in knowing you've turned a dark jedi into a shining example 
 of the light with just conversation and actions. You can even make Jedi out of members of your 
 party. In fact, there are many more chances to influence your alignment by just talking to people, 
 and not all are as simple as 'steal = dark, give= light'. This gives you a greater ability to create 
 a character that resembles you if you like, as you can see how light/dark your opinions are. That's 
 excellent roleplaying, plain and simple.
  KOTOR 2 also throws in a few chances to play as other members of your party to spice things up 
 a bit. To clarify: you can play as either member of the party you take along with you just like 
 in the first game, but at certain points characters will go off on solo quests to advance the plot, 
 much like the little droid does in the prologue. As in the first game, the characters are all well 
 written and have their own motivations and opinions - chatting with them may sway them to like 
 you or distrust you more, as would occur in real life. The only problem, as in the first game, 
 is that you will probably limit yourself to using only certain characters as you will soon find 
 who is the most useful to have along in a battle, until your own abilities improve, anyway. At 
 least there's something to vary when you decide to replay the game.
  Work benches have been upgraded, allowing you to break items down into base parts and then create 
 new ones, depending on your skills. While this adds more freedom to what your arsenal will be, 
 you'll probably only use it occasionally to fashion a nice powerful weapon (or more) for yourself 
 or your teammates and then move on. You don't have to use them at all if they annoy you, but they 
 have their benefits.
  KOTOR 2's story is, as Star Wars yarns usually are, suitably epic. Once again the fate of the galaxy 
 is in the hands of someone as Horrible Evil approaches. You may feel a little disappointed at the 
 roles certain Sith Lords end up playing, but it does do its bit to keep you guessing. While most 
 of the story unravels well and what's going on in your character's life is explained well, the 
 gap between the two games isn't. You'll probably be curious about the fate of the Jedi you played 
 in the last game and there's even a chance to 'input' your actions of KOTOR 1 into the story through 
 a conversation, but you'll spend the game in the dark about what happened to Revan. Even your own 
 future isn't all that clear and the endgame will probably leave you almost as confused as the beginning 
 - it's almost as if there's a cinematic or section of the game missing. It's probably called KOTOR 
 3. 
  It's very easy to recommend KOTOR 2 to anyone who enjoyed the first game because it builds upon 
 the latter's solid foundation while excellently expanding the light/dark choices to include your 
 companions. In a way, KOTOR was playing a Jedi while KOTOR 2 is playing a Jedi Master (teacher) . 
 The graphics may remain similar but graphics never make a good RPG, they just complement it, and 
 KOTOR2's pictures are a perfect side dish to the story. They're good enough to engross you in the 
 story, but should allow you to run the game on a somewhat older computer. As I've said before, 
 KOTOR 2 improves upon the first game so if you've played and enjoyed the adventures of Revan there 
 should be nothing stopping you from enjoying even more saber slicing action in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chantingcrow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Its a solid game, plays well, decent graphics and a story line that keeps you wanting discover 
 more. Like the original it to has a suprizing revilation for the main character, but it was much 
 easier to see coming. Of course wiether this is because you are expecting it now, or not, I can't 
 say. All in all though it is a stunning look into the Star Wars universe.
  
  Fans of the first game will find they can choice early on the exactly what happened to Reven the 
 "hero" from the last instalment, as they played it. Also there are many return characters, three 
 of them playable agian. However I was much let down by the return of HK-49 ... he seemed to lose 
 his bite this time around.
  
  Those who did not play KOTOR I. Will still find a good game with an intresting story, but I think 
 much of the flavor will be lost to them and most all of the subtext.
  
  Now to the reason I wanted to write this review in the first place. As for the ending, talk about 
 vague and anti-climatic. You are left there kind of like "what the h*#$%!" as the ebon hawk (the 
 ship from both games) rides off into the sunset. There is some vague talk about whats to come first, 
 leaving it all behind to go fight the final battle and some other half-#$%^# garbage. But basically 
 you are just left there hanging, on a rather depressing note. I really got the feeling that the 
 writers just forgot to come up with an ending. 
  
  Other than the ending though it really is an exellent game all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasovdaelve
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Kotor 2 starts off a little boring, giving the newcomers time to get used to the gameplay. Once 
 you leave the first planet, the game becomes intense. Choose your path, Light or Dark. Both have 
 their advantages and disadvantages, and can result in helpful or disastrous outcomes. Having over 
 25 hours of gameplay at least (without doing sidequests) , Kotor2 is incredibly fun, and challenging 
 to a good extent. Being a game more on the philosophical side, this game is perfect any starwars 
 fan. Characters are extremely immersive, and mysterious at the same time. Influencing them can 
 result in a huge surprise that is worthwhile. The Sith Lords in the game are menacing and origianl. 
 Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bar-2006
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  the game has a lot of options, lots of good graphics, lot of weapons and items and an interesting 
 story. the game is additive and pretty long.
  in the game you also have companion, some of tham you can turn to jedi to make tham be stronger, but 
 to do so you must make tham like you, by supporting stuff they say or do. sometimes they get to like 
 you or to hate you more by your own acts and. the game is an rpg with levels, power and feats you 
 gain in time. thr game also balance the exp you get to your other companion. you can be a Jedi or 
 a sith, something that effects yor story and char. there is much more but if you want to know just 
 play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  Making a sequel to 2003's game of the year in a very limited amout of time is far from an easy 
 task. And fortunately, Obsidian pulled it off nicely. Sure the game has one of the worst endings 
 I've seen, but I hear the half-life 2 ending was much worse. 
  
  Once inside KotOR 2 TSL looks very much like the KotOR except with a music section. Yes! Finally 
 we can listen to the awesome music from the game! After my intial excitement I was quickly calmed 
 down when I realized I had to first actually here the music in game, much like with the movies. 
 So I quickly got in and created my bad ass jedi man. 
  
  You start out as T3-M4 and your mission is to save the ship. This is very similar to KotORs opening 
 mission except you can skip it if you want as it doesn't actually add to the story and really this 
 training mode works a lot better then KotORs. 
  
  After the you complete the training mission, should you choose to accept, you wake up in a medical 
 bay tube, in your underwear. Eventually you meet up with your mentor, Kreia. She suggests that 
 you find some clothes. As well as a way off of the Peragus Mining Facility. 
  
  For some reason, (the game doesn't do a good job of explaining this) all the mining droids have 
 gone beserk and are killing any and everything in sight. Eventually you'll meet up with Atton, 
 free him from his cage and devise a plan to escape. Like KotORs Carth, Atton is the smart ass of 
 the group only younger and has a dark secret. 
  
  From here on out the missions are pretty straight forward but the best part is they all fel organic. 
 Unlike the KotORs linear missions, in KotOR 2 each mission is a smaller part of a bigger outcome. 
 For instance, on Peragus, your mission is to escape, but to do that you have to contact T3-M4, 
 get him to turn on the elevators, go into the mine, get to the outside of the station, walk around 
 in space, get to the living quarters, find out what you can about what happened, meet back up with 
 Atton and Kreia, talk to an HK-50, kill a bunch of mining droids, take out a tank, meet up with 
 T3-M4, and finally find the Ebon Hawk and get out of there! Not in that particular order but you 
 get the idea. 
  
  Probably one of the coolest missions is the Onderon/Duxn mission. After your first visit you'll 
 be called back. Onderon is in the middle of a civil war and you must lead the troops into conquer 
 or save the planet. And yes you are the leader. But at the same time the sith have landed on Dxun 
 so you most divde your companions up and take out the sith at the same time. 
  
  Another feature of note is the ability to turn your companions into jedi. (if they aren't already) 
 It's all based on your influence with them, whether all good, or all bad. 
  
  Another nice feature is every companion has a special ability that they bring to the table. And 
 if you pass the influence test can teach new powers. Kreia is especially good for this and well 
 thats about all shes good for. 
  
  Of course the love stories are still there for those of us that enjoy them. But interestingly we 
 see a lot more character interaction even when characters aren't in your party. Such as the mini 
 war between Bao Durs remote and some other stupid driod that you'll never use. 
  
  However one anoyance I had is how you have to reassemble HK-47. In KotOR HK was by far my favorite 
 character and I was greived at how I had to wait and bulid him back up to use him. 
  
  Lastly, as I mentioned earlier, the ending really sucks. The story is great, much better than KotOR. 
 But they make it lead up to this grand battle and then just as quickly as the battle ends, so does 
 the game. All you really get is a shot of the Ebon Hawk flying away from Malacore V and about 80 
 thousand questions. 
  
  Conclusion 
  All in all I definately liked KotOR 2 better then KotOR. I thought it was much better game with 
 a much better story although it's quite the cliff hanger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  STORY & OBJECTIVE  The Sith Lords takes place after the fist Knights of the old republic series 
 & before any of the star wars movies. You play as an ex-Jedi roaming the galaxy in search for redemption, 
 self-discovery & a haunting past. Along the way you meet many allies who help you to unite or destroy 
 the galaxy, the choice is yours.
  
  GRAPHICS  The graphics are O. K , enough so that you could enjoy the game. But nothing really speacial 
 to boast about.
  
  SOUND  So far all the Star Wars games that have come out have featured good sound so why would 
 this be any different? Well, its because of the fantastic voice actings, amazing sound effects 
 & a touching musical score.
  
  GAMEPLAY  The Gameplay is one of the best Ive seen so far in any game. As a gamer you have no 
 limitations, you can do anything, change your dressing sense, your character, your abilities, you 
 control everything the way you walk, the way you talk, your fighting styles, your skills. above 
 all your force powers. Theres a wide variety of options ranging from your appearance to your abilities 
 as I said you control it all. You can talk to mostly everyone around you & go to places to hang 
 out such as the cantina where you can race swoop bikes or play pazaak (a card game) . You can buy 
 & sell items as well as make your own armors, guns, swords, LIGHTSABERS & many more. This is a 
 free form game which means you, by the way you talk & behave with others, can inspire or corrupt 
 people around with, you can be good or bad, its up to you. Gameplay hours are just long, & still 
 you just can't get enough. Many quests & side quests await your desires & yet you want more, thats 
 what you get after playing star wars. No contoll issues & no wierd camera angles makes this game 
 almost PERFECT.
  
  PROS  STRONG / PERFECT gameplay, marvelous voice actings, many side quests, many planets, force 
 powers & the list goes on & on & on.
  
  CONS  VERY ADDICTIVE.
  
  VERDICT - Raising the bars of the world of gaming & thats what the game delivers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlfrnt2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Although I only played the first KOTOR once, I can say that this game is a lot better than I expected 
 it to be. I'm the type of person who likes the type of game where you can just run up to anyone 
 and kick their butts, but I found KOTOR 2's combat system very effective when in battle. I love 
 planning out how my character reacts in battle and upgrading to new dark or light side force powers. 
 The first time I played through the game I turned my back on the council and became a sith lord 
 and loved how I ended the game with a sith ending. Overall, I thought KOTOR 2: The Sith Lords was 
 worthy of being called a sequel to the amazing KOTOR 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This one I preordered 3 months in advance and bought the day it came out. KOTOR 2 is a good, but 
 not great sequel. I can understand though, as it would nearly impossible to make one better than 
 the original KOTOR. However thats not to say that the game still isnt very good. You still have 
 the light/dark side thing going, but this can also affect your buddies. So if a Jedi joins you 
 but you turn evil, the Jedi could turn evil with you, making the game a much better experience 
 as there are no more characters urging you to be good if you go bad. The worlds are good, but if 
 you played the original, you can tell where some of the same textures were moved with only a few 
 graphical improvements. The ending, isnt wellaswellIts not very good compared to KOTORs Climatic 
 ending. Still good game, well worth your attention, especially if you liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTOR_1
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard Bioware was coming out with a sequel to KOTOR I was thrilled. Some words that 
 went through my mind were. Awesome! Another great game! But after beating it light side and dark 
 side it was disappointing! I thought this was a rip-off! It had no big surprises in it as did Knights 
 of the Old Republic One, nor did offer any fun. The only good part was the return of HK-47, the 
 human-hating assasin droid and the evil Wookiee, Hanharr. I would not recommend this game to anyone. 
 If somehow you enjoyed playing this game, you must also have fun with Dora The Explorer: Journey 
 To The Purple Planet. The game was a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7_armageddon_7
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  After the original KOTOR came out, I had high hopes for this game. Very high hopes. But when I 
 actually started playing the game February last year, I found out that this game did not preserve 
 the true essence of KOTOR at all! Let me explain...
  
  First off, the storyline. Now, I can say that I have read about almost everything there is to read 
 in the Expanded Universe of Star Wars, including the Old Republic Era. Trying to fit KOTOR 2's 
 storyline in is just impossible! Not to say ridiculous, insulting and just incredulous! Let me 
 outline the discrepancies starting with the fact that almost all the Jedi are wiped out. Throughout 
 the Star Wars saga, characters always mention the Jedi as an eternal order. The one and only time 
 it was nearly wiped out was because of Palpatine. But here in KOTOR 2, you start off the game as 
 the only single living Jedi!!! I mean, that's impossible! Throughout the game, the Jedi are extinct, 
 except for those 4 other Masters. And what if you turn to the dark side? What then? Every single 
 other Jedi is either dead, including those 3 Masters, or turned to the dark side (female Master 
 A) . So there is no more Jedi Order? It's just gone? And then reeappears again sometime during Star 
 Wars history? A very serious leap in logic....
  Then you hear about these three Sith Lords, none of them with the exception of Kreia, actually 
 do anything! Darth Nihilus appears only at the end where you kill him easily. Darth Nihilus who 
 supposedly annihalated the world of the Miralukas. The thing about consuming the life energies 
 of an entire planet seems kind of extreme and only something that Naga Sadow or Exar Kun could 
 have managed. They could at least make him difficult to beat and give a him a larger role! And 
 then, there's Darth Sion. Who's actually dead, but is holding himself together through the Force. 
 He doesn't do much throughout the game either... As a matter of fact, the villains in this game 
 are not really defined at all! They don't aeven ffect the galaxy at large! Darth Traya or Kreia 
 (notice the rhyme) is sort of like a female Palpatine, manipulating and elusive. She also reminds 
 me of Vergere from NJO. I suppose her character is well done. Her enigmatic nature makes for interesting 
 discussions. But come on! She's supposedly in league with the other two? When you see no connection 
 between any of them other than a dark cinematic?
  
  Next up, the environments. I confess myself especially disappointed with the environments. In KOTOR, 
 the world seemed alive whereas in KOTOR II the world seems largely gray and metallic and... dead. 
 There's no sunlight. No ambient noise. Very few people that all have repetitive dialogue. It's 
 all very dark from the depths of Nar Shaddaa the smuggler's moon to Telos the metallic monster 
 to Peragus IV the lifeless station to Dxun moon raining constantly. The only area I like was Iziz, 
 the capital of Onderon. That was worthy of KOTOR. But to explain my previous statements, I would 
 like to illustrate with an example. *Clears throat* A loong time ago, in a galaxy far, far away 
 *Star Wars theme* Crash! Bam! T3 saves the Ebon Hawk and lands on Perugus IV. You wake up in a 
 gray metallic medroom. Kreia is already present. You then explore the station, which is the same 
 shade of light gray and metallic. No one. The station has no one in it, except for that smuggler, 
 Atton Rand. So you go explore. Throughout the first 3-4 hours of the game, you meet a total of 
 3 living organisms!!! Not a good first impression considering that in KOTOR Taris was a world with 
 life and seemed alive! In KOTOR II, there is no one in Peragus IV. It's like the Star Wars galaxy 
 was dead. The only things you see are droids, droids, and ,well, more droids. After escaping that 
 accursed station, you land on Telos, another drab looking station with occasional orange strips 
 on the walls, but still no outdoor environment. On Telos, you are still enclosed inside some place. 
 Now, Star Wars planets are just like Earth. You can go outside wihtout suffocating to death. So 
 take advantage of that. Don't show everyone the nonimpressive space station! (Unless it's the Star 
 Forge or Death Star) On Telos, the life there is next to none. The NPCs in general say the same 
 thing over and over again. Gets really irritating.
  
  Continuing my rambling, characters! So you can change your character's alignment to light or dark? 
 Great... except for the strange fact that every single character is Force sensitive. I dunno about 
 you, but not every character in Star Wars is Force sensitive and to only include them is kinda 
 unrealistic. Visualizing Atton, the smuggler, torturer, as a Jedi is disturbing. The characters 
 don't exhibit the proper "traits" for me to visualize them as Jedi or Sith. Because you can influence 
 them, it means they have no personality of their own or that much less of it. Maybe I'm just travelling 
 with a bunch of suck-ups who will actually listen to me and let me make their decisions for them. 
 Who will become my personal army and blah blah blah. Where is the Jolee Bindo who has an eccentric, 
 cynical behaviour... Where is Canderous, the gruff, battle hardened Mandalorian warrior? Okay, 
 so he's actually in the game... but still, it would be nice to characters who have strong personalities.
 
  
  I was also disappointed that the last sequence of the game was so... random. I don't know, but 
 you run around to various planets killing off the "villains" of the story who didn't really have 
 anything to do with it in the first place. In KOTOR, Darth Malak was the unquestioned villain. 
 He had a big part in the story, which was great. Along the way, you met several side-villains such 
 as Darth Bandon, Calo Nord, even Bastila. In KOTOR II, you jump to Telos where Darth Nihilus is 
 attacking. You board his Ravager and kill him: easy. Then (or was it before?) , you go to the moon 
 and confront Atrea or Atrial or whatever her name was (the Jedi with white hair) . And finally, 
 you end up on Malachor V where you enter the academy and kill Darth Traya. The end. No resolution 
 at all. The other characters aboard the Ebon Hawk just disappear. Some conflict resolution.
  
  Also, in this game, the conflict was not of galactic proportion with two opposing factions. 
 It was just you and your crew on a general search for Jedi Masters. Nothing fun in that. It was 
 fun having the Sith vs the Republic conflict, it added to the atmosphere. But here... it felt unimportant, 
 as if you had no real impact on the galaxy. It seemed like a game based solely on a personal quest 
 like a man searching for his father or something. \
  
  The addition of lightsaber forms and new Force powers was welcome though. I like the fact that 
 you can change your style of lightsaber combat. But I found it strange that you would get a Force 
 power like the Breath one for the cantina, and it would stay in your bar for the rest of the game. 
 That Force power was only used for that single sequence. In my opinion, you should never, ever 
 do that in a game. Why not just have Force powers for every new situation that comes up? Like Force 
 Detoxify-Yourself-by-Sweating. Or Force 
 
  
  So, in the end, KOTOR II was a major disappointment. The biggest disappointment I ever had in a 
 game. My expectations were so high yet the game just did not appeal to me at all. I hope they make 
 a KOTOR III, but one based on the success of KOTOR, not KOTOR II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  While, the game didn't captivate me as the original did, it is an excellent continuation of the 
 saga. A couple of things to note are that, while you don't need to play the first in the series, 
 if you did, KOTOR II misses out on the opportunity KOTOR I had. Specifically, it doesn't allow 
 dialogue to be fufilled adequately if the player has knowledge of the first game. Often the player 
 has intricate knowledge of the Jedi Civil War that can't be realized in conversation. The game 
 does a great job joining the two stories, but leaves you wishing you could use your avatar-ish 
 knowledge to impress NPCs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemkeer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Best Jedi Game to have come out since the good old days of jedi outcast and more recently jedi 
 acadimy. its third person view of the many wolrds that it offers is just how a game should be that 
 use third person views. 
  
  This game is great but it could have been even better if Obsidian had made the game a little longer 
 like it was orignialy planed to be. other than that this game has it all an almost unlimited number 
 of upgrade able weapons ,armor and most importenly light sabers to create and personalize to your 
 likeing. the world are great and there large enought to keep you bussy for an hours figuring out 
 the side missions and destroying the enemys but small enought not to become anucence of constant 
 runing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipodaf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I like the improvements. The new feats and so on, especially the lightsaber forms.
  The multiclassing with the prestige classes, from the beloved D20 Star Wars by wizards of the coast, 
 is very good. But it would be more cool if you could have a non-jedi class, like in the first KOTOR. 
 So you could make a wannabe Kyle Katarn character.
  You can only survive if you have 2 lightsabers or a duel one. Where have the prestige from the 
 last game, gone? A Jedi master don't walk around with slaughter weapons.
  The story is a bloody disaster, I mean a little child could have written that. If it is the same 
 story writers for both games, the should shame themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic was a brilliant game that let Star Wars players live their own adventure 
 in the galaxy far, far away. Roughly a year later Obsidian Entertainment (Consisting mostly of 
 developers from the legendary Black Isle Studios) delivered a superb sequel that stands as a worthy 
 successor to Bioware's KotOR.
  
  Five years after Darth Malak was defeated the galaxy is in a time of darkness. The Republic is 
 beginning to collapse, and nearly all of the Jedi are are dead or retired. You are a former Jedi 
 who was exiled from the Order after you returned from the Mandalorian Wars deciding not to follow 
 Darth Revan. After you mysteriously awaken in a Kolto tank aboard an asteroid space station, you 
 set out to find out what is going on only to find that being one of the last Jedi has made you 
 a target of many powerful individuals in the Galaxy. The more secretive Sith won't be your only 
 threat this time around.
  
  The plot in KotOR II is much more philosophical than the original's. Throughout the entire game 
 you'll have to piece things together yourself. This has been a very controversial topic for fans 
 of the original game who criticise KotOR II's plot, and claim that it at makes no sense. Up until 
 the ending, however; the storyline makes perfect sense if you pay attention, and actually think. 
 During your journey across the Galaxy for answers you'll meet many interesting characters, and 
 some of them will aid you in your quest by joining your party like in the original game.
  
  In KotOR II your choices will have more impact on the Galaxy rather than simply affecting your 
 alignment. In KotOR II you can indirectly influence the future of entire worlds. The alignment 
 of your party members can also be affected by gaining influence with them. This system is nice 
 on paper, but clearly wasn't finished. For example; even if you have fully corrupted a supporter 
 of the light he or she will still disagree with evil acts that you perform, and you'll lose influence 
 with them. This is rather strange and inconcistent, so it is a good idea to usually bring naturally 
 light or naturally dark characters with you when you leave the Ebon Hawk.
  
  The gameplay in KotOR II is the same as the original. There are a few minor changes to the interface 
 along with some major additions such as the influence system and new force powers, but for the 
 most part KotOR II won't feel very different from the original. If you loved the original KotOR, 
 however; this will not be a problem for you.
  
  The graphics are for the most part the same as they were in KotOR except that the character models 
 were updated, and there are obviously new textures for the new planets. Fortunately the character 
 models were vastly improved for the sequel, and feature better animations such as loose hair moving 
 when that character moves their head. Once again the player portraits\heads are not very impressive, 
 however. Along with the improved character models are better looking Jedi Robes which actually 
 look like robes this time around.
  
  The audio got mixed reactions from me. The sound effects are for the most part the same as their 
 predecessor's which is great. The music this time around feels much more like Star Wars rather 
 than something from a fantasy RPG, but it's not quite as catchy save for a few musical tracks. 
 Finally the voice acting isn't on the same level as it was in the original. Most of your party 
 members seem to lack motivation, or seemed to go through just only one take for every line. This 
 can be annoying; especially when Atton (one of your party members) delivers a dramatic line with 
 a very wooden voice.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is a worthy follow up to the original KotOR with 
 a deep, and thoughtful story along with a new cast of memorable characters, and the same gameplay 
 that made the original entertaining. If you want to live another adventure in the Star Wars universe 
 than KotOR II is what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cawscorp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I held off on buying KOTOR2 because I had heard it was a disappointing sequel. My curiosity got 
 the better of me, and thanks also to a price drop, I finally purchased the game. It was worth every 
 penny. The plot lines were immersive and very clever. The player is treated to a galaxy rich with 
 diverse and entertaining characters. I do agree with many of the criticisms, though, of this game, 
 and that is why it does not get a PERFECT score.
  1) The Ending? if you can call it an ending is very unsatisfying. After the big final battles, 
 it just sort of ends with unclear resolution. I guess that's to lead us into the sequel, but I 
 think the player deserves more.
  2) EVEN AFTER PATCHING, and with a strong game playing systerm, the glitches can bog you down. 
 I didn't have any crashes, but the lag time between cut scenes and loading screens was distracting 
 and annoying.
  3) few improvements, if any, on game locations, leading to a bit of tedious and repetative game 
 play.
  4) not much choice in character creation-as far as the look and species of your character.
  But 
 the positives outweigh the negatives and the positives are: 1) the detail and nuances given the 
 story and character interaction, 2) the characters themselves, and 3) the voice acting which was 
 far superior to most games out there.
  SO, all in all.... if you enjoyed KOTOR1, and can ignore the glitches, KOTOR2 is a thrilling journey, 
 well worth the taking!
  May the Force Be With You!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: KOTOR was one of my favorite Star Wars games ever. And I've been playing those for a 
 while now, ever since Rebel Assault on my 486 computer. Sith Lords just takes the KOTOR formula 
 and adds some great features, more speciality traits and a more custom character building system.
 
  The core game system, such as graphics, sounds and the controls remain the same. The weapons can 
 be changed from one opition to the other on the fly, which makes the fights more strategic, since 
 you'll want to keep a ranged and a melee option always available for the need of a particular fight.
 
  
  If you like Star Wars and RPGs, BIOWARE does not fail us. That's a 6x0 record for then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  I just love this game, but the cut content is a shame. Thankfully there is the restoration project 
 http://www. team-gizka. org/ ! It's better of the PC than the XBOX, hopfully if we see a KOTOR 3 
 they will take more time over it and release PC version at the same time as other platforms. It's 
 just about perfect, but maybe not quite up to the standard of the first game (by bioware) but then 
 again I think the sotry is even better in this one so I guess it balences out! The improvements 
 to the gameplay are great (being able to turn the alignment of your part for example) is great, 
 as are some of the characters (Visas Marr!) . Quite honestly I think the story/plot in both KOTOR 
 games is far better that quite a lot of Star Wars fiction out there (including one or two recent 
 films! :-) ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  ... to a GREAT game. So close. I'd like to say it would have gotten the same scores as KotOR 1 if, 
 well, KotOR 2 came out first, but that isn't the case. With more customization, more powers, feats, 
 skills, and an absolutely engaging story line with entertaining, if not down-right lovable NPC's, 
 how could it miss the bull-eye?
  
  Bugs. Bugs bugs bugs. As an avid RPG'er I can tolerate shoddy graphics and fed-ex quests, but bugs 
 drive me nuts. Now I felt the graphics were fantastic for the game, and the speed of the game made 
 fed-ex quests, for the most part, fun. Still, did I mention bugs? What had me infuriated as I was 
 coming to the end of the game was... You guessed it, another program quirk that decided to make 
 the final three areas black; Except when I was in stealth mode where everything was fine or a force 
 power with visual effects was in effect on myself or an enemy. This was had me scratching my head 
 after a few reboots.
  
  All that said, I'm going to assume their was something corrupt in the save, but I'll be darned 
 if it did not seem like one more "Hey, you thought someone brought RAID and killed us eh?" just 
 to make me shake my head in disbelief.
  
  So, the pluses of the game:
  
  Same as the first incarnation of the series. Good music, exceptional voice acting to a phenomenal 
 script, great visuals for the aesthetically inclined.
  
  Now, as I asked above; "how could it have missed the bulls-eye?" I suppose now you know, but rest 
 assured, it certainly hit just outside the inner circle.
  
  With the time Obsidian had to get this game out, they delivered a "Just about finished product" 
 that is still better than most games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky86
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  
  After KOTOR, everything could be expected from KOTOR 2. Either totaly addictive and best game of 
 the year, or totaly disapointing... Well it's neither of these. Graphics are better, gameplay's 
 still pretty cool. Sure it's harder to **** up what you did right in the first place but they did 
 that too as well...
  
  You see they added new stuff, great stuff, but they failed at what they had most brillantly done 
 in the first game, which is the storyline. Some may talk about technical issues, I won't... (check 
 why under) some may say it was just like the first one, its just an expansion some might tell 
 you... Well, why change something you did great??
  
  (Simple enough, for me it's not because a game is a little buggy that it sucks... I played Golden 
 Eye on N64 for hundreds of hours, still all you had to do is run up to the guy so you would walk 
 throught his gun, having the cannon behind you, and you wouldnt get hurt... My point is, it was 
 still a fun game, a very fun game...)
  
  Sure the game is great, sure ok the devellopers confessed they had to cut up stuff. But any player 
 that tried the first and second games can tell you... You just feel so angry and disoriented when 
 you realize they cut what could have been a couple hours of storyline to break it into a fast forward... 
 No ok let me rephrase, they just cut up a part of the story so now we are left with the last quarter 
 of the game that is disconnected from the rest of the story, almost pointless and totally frustrating. 
 I mean it just sucks, you play for 10 hours (less or even more) running around (maybe a bit too 
 much) having so much fun twisting or enlighting your characters to make them more like you, killing 
 stuff, i mean having a great time with the force, in a great universe which is the Star Wars universe 
 and Kotor universe... And then, the crappy end.... at least if they gave us an explanation why 
 we jump in time from a place to another but no, they don't...
  
  Well anyway, i loved the game, actually i played a lot with it... But it always brought me to my 
 knees, seeing a game with so much potential making me so mad for the wrong reasons. It'has just 
 one crack, one single crack in a gorgeous picture, but it's just as huge as a canyon so how can 
 I go over it?? Great game, just find something to gets you high enough when you get to that damned 
 spaced station to forget it makes no sense.
  
  Otherwise i mean it's a KOTOR game, sure it has the benefit of using a great universe which is 
 Star Wars, but it is a load of fun for something that is not called Final Fantasy or Baldur's Gate 
 or any other big RPG franchise name. It has the advantage of dissapointing you either a little 
 or a lot but still making you beg for more.... 
  
  Guilty pleasure, so fun but so dissapointing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  ok to start off the graphics in this game are garbage. battles have no reactions to enviornemnts 
 and yeah u get the idea. Next is like the bttling stuff thats soo boring wacthing your character 
 take turns shooting with a droid and miss half the time that ridiculous! Also the game is soooo 
 slow paced its not like guild wars or WOW where there is more action this game just isnt that fun 
 then only thing i could say good about this game is that u have a variety of things to do whther 
 u shoot up som ppl with ur guns or get your light saber and slice some guys up but you can basically 
 do that in any rpg so its not a big deal in other word this game is ok.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Excellent. This is a super game. I bought it before K!, maybe a good choice as I got even more 
 loving the series rather than gettign a bit put down. My friend told me about this, so I went looking 
 around the shops. I couldn't find it anywhere, until, there it was. In GameStation, only one copy, 
 I made my brother stand right with it while I sprinted to the bank. It was worth it. I've restarted 
 the two games a lot of times. 
  
  I don't want to talk abotu it too much, just want to say I love it. Even, Obsidian forums, G0-T0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millenium_dare
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I had just finished Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and it kept me wanting more. The story 
 was wonderful, the gameplay was revolutionary (for me at least) , and the graphics were sensational! 
 I played it over and over trying to get my fix and then KOTOR II was released, I was drooling at 
 the mouth to play it. I had just upgraded my computer and wanted to flex its technical muscles. 
 FEAR, Call of Duty 2, KOTOR I, Chronicles of Riddick, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory... They all played 
 great on my (Radeon X800XL 256MB, Pentium 4 3.0 Ghz LGA 775 Processor, 1GB Corsair RAM) computer. 
 I had seen the screenshots of KOTOR II and it didn't look too much different than KOTOR I, so I 
 automatically thought that it would play smooth as silk (40-60 FPS) . I was WRONG. I started the 
 game and was expecting a fun and entertaining experience, turns out it was just full of frustration 
 and wasted time. On the game I have averaged 20-40 FPS, which I could live with. My problem is 
 that the framerate will jump for 40 to 20 to 37 to 25 to 40 and back down to 15 at times. So I 
 did what any one would do and switched the settings down to the lowest that they could go. This 
 didn't help at all. So, I went and patched the game thinking that maybe it was a glitch that Obsidian 
 fixed. Nothing... It did absolutly nothing. Its really sad to see a franchise of this caliber be 
 ruined for the PC gamers by these technical oversights. Well, If you have a totally top of the 
 line PC you should try it because there is fun to be found, but I want to warn anyone without a 
 256MB graphics card to think before you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  Kotor II is darker, more difficult and ... green-ish ( maybe another colour will suit best for 
 the interface ) . The atmosphere is changed completely - this time the universe witness the almost 
 complete destruction of life and jedi knights. Your character is still capable to choose between 
 good and evil, but the outcomes look grim nevertheless for the Republic and his citizens, facing 
 Dark Jedis and a possible invasion of the original Siths. Weapons are less powerful and a good 
 mix of implants/armor will not make your character almost invincible when dealing with beasts, 
 who damage the hero in a way humanoid can`t. The only problems, present also in KOTOR , is the 
 limited number of sidekicks and the fact you have to face the bad boys alone in the end and this 
 is time consumption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game which continues the story from Knights of the Old Republic comes very close to what the 
 first installation was. I found it slightly buggy in some areas. This is the main reason why this 
 one isn't rated as well as the first. But otherwise, the graphics are above-average. The gameplay 
 is good. Most of the music is from the Star Wars movies and a few others are just from Knights 
 of the Old Republic. Of course, this game continues the storyline from the previous game so it 
 is almost essential to your gaming library. Once the price lowers, this would be a good buy for 
 your money. Have fun!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot of depth. You are continually involved in many different missions, and tasks. 
 Your choices amoung others in the game will diverge you in a path of light or darkness. The technique 
 and skills that you build ultimately determine your success and hardships against foes and challenges.
 
  
  This game has it all. You can have the ultimate abilty to custimze everything to your liking. The 
 story line of this game is extremely strong ,even to strong sometimes. There is much discovery 
 along the way, which keeps this game quite interesting.
  
  Graphics are quite sharpe and the soundtrack gives the game the strong Star Wars feel.
  
  You 
 will get the chance to experience every aspect of the Star Wars universe whether it be swoop racing, 
 bounty hunting, or clearing starships of foes with the lightsaber or blaster of your choice.
  
  Buy this game if you like spending the time in a game with a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I played KOTOR years ago and loved it, but it didn't have nearly effect on me as KOTOR II. It is 
 flat out fun, combining great battle sequences with wonderful characters, plot twists, emotional 
 story lines. Honestly, getting through the game unscathed is pretty easy, but the game developers 
 did a clever thing -- they force you to use weak characters at time to solve story lines. They 
 are weak, yes, but have special skills that make getting through tough spots possible. That means 
 you can't always troupe in with three Jedis, blasting away with lightsabers and force powers. When 
 you do have three Jedis, you are pretty unstoppable. 
  
  I played as a light-side weapon master the first time through (female) and am eager to go with 
 a dark-side Sith master the second time. The game will be completely different, I am sure.
  
  The gameplay was totally engrossing. When you dream the game at night, you know it is good. 
 And I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmodo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR set a new expectation for certain turn-based rpgs, and KOTOR2 has definitely followed up 
 on that. The gameplay, sound, plot, graphics, and everything else are just amazing. This is a series 
 that I am partial to, because it gives you some freedom in the "light vs dark" area. The only thing 
 I would like to see, with all games not just KOTOR2, is more freedom in the story and movement; 
 like an MMO. I especially enjoyed the idea of having to make your own lightsaber. It reveals a 
 personal feel and unveils the understanding of the importance of a Jedi and his/her saber. The 
 customizable options in the level area are, as always, a big part of why I play rpgs. I like the 
 ability to sentence my enemies to death by lightning, or desperately try to force push them off 
 a cliff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannyfox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, Star Wars KOTOR II was definitely worth the wait. Bioware wasn't going to change 
 what was essentially a winning formula ... and so they didn't.
  
  The gameplay and controls are almost exactly alike ... and they've addressed one of the issues 
 of the first installment ... switching weapons.
  Of course, if you are playing your main character ... you don't want to, but every now and then 
 you have to take control of one of your other party members.
  
  The story follows a few years after the events in KOTOR I, and in many respects is almost similar. 
 You have new party members obviously, but you might just end up bumping into one or two of the 
 people from your past ... none playable, unfortunately.
  
  From time to time you'll be forced to take control of other party members to complete your missions, 
 due to your main character being either incapacitated or unavailable, and while the autolevel function 
 is nice ... it may be a better idea to be able to know what each of your party members is capable 
 of.
  
  Another issue I had with KOTOR I is the fact that you can only get up to level 20, which made the 
 final battle a bit of a challenge. In KOTOR II however, I've managed up to level 27 with no level 
 in sight, and while my final battle was almost laughably easy, I was doing my best to level up 
 just once more ... my character was insanely poweful.
  
  KOTOR II is a highly enjoyable game, taking up where KOTOR I left off, and while it doesn't really 
 add anything new to the mix, it's a brilliant game in its own right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Orfen_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I was walking in my local Best Buy and saw KOTOR 2 and remembered how enjoyable it was. The huge 
 story was great and the game was just tremendous... I loved that game and I loved this game, that 
 is, until the end. Star Wars Knight of the Old Republic 2 was a really good game but as many others 
 have noticed parts have been cut out. I payed good money to play a good game and when I notice 
 I didn't get what I payed for I was really upset. Not to spoil anything, but when I seen the ending 
 I thought "What?" and instantly went onto the Internet to find answers... Where was the promissed 
 Revan? I didn't see him... Only in the caves, but he was a vision. Then what happened to me? I 
 thought.... wait, no spoilers... Anyways, the ending left a lot of questions and I wasn't satisfied 
 with it. I enjoyed this game a lot but in the end I felt a lot was stolen from me. I recommend 
 this game, but don't be TOO disappointed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game. It was not as good as the first game, plot wise, but the villians are 
 really good. The graphics and sound in the game are pretty good. I love the sound of a lightsaber 
 Whooshing through the air. The KOTOR line is also very good because you get double play out of 
 each game. You can play good and then go back and play evil. I love seeing the game play out in 
 each scenario. This also appeals to my cheap nature and love of a bargain. I will say that the 
 ending is a little contrived and easy to figure out but it doesn't ruin the game. I was also confused 
 why a few things played out the way they did in the end. If you love playing a jedi, pick this 
 game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColaTheWhite
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  i recommend this for all star wars fans and all rpg fans i would say play it palyit now i cant 
 get off it i comlete it then i start agen its that much fun so all of you buy it it is worthy of 
 any ones playing i lovvvvvvvvvve it the best game eva dont be put of by your freinds telling you 
 its crap its not it is a really good game i would buy it for everyone if i wanted to but i dont 
 but if you love rpg game this is the one for youso plz all buy it coz its star wars and if you 
 like star wars you will want to know the history of the jedi SO BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AROWRAJA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Iam a gamer since i was eight but this game was the most interesting game i have ever played of 
 this kind of games you really control the character you create as you choose between the path of 
 dark side or the light side an you will notice the changes in characters behavior and the way people 
 deal with you.
  creating a hero is to easy you start with the face then feats and charcteristics of personality 
 of the hero you create then you choose the name and you start your journey
  as to weapons you will find alot of weapons and armors that may give you bounces if they are suitable 
 for your feats
  kinds of wepons (blaster, melee weaponsand of course the light saberswith all colors red blue green 
 etc.. 
  and if you are allowed to use the light saber you will have jedi powers
  and you are free to choose what power to gain when you are at the level requested
  the story 
 of this game is wanderful
  well enjoy this super ultra cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Maybe not as good as the original KOTOR but it sure makes a great sucessor. The best thing about 
 this game was your ability to train your party members to become Jedi or Sith. It adds spice to 
 the game and it deepens the plot by making some of you followers light or dark depending how you 
 speak to them and if you are dark or light. You find that members of your party start to fall in 
 love with you and will show jealousy towards other party members if you speak nicely to them. The 
 combat system is the same as the original KOTOR so no worries there. The graphics are good and 
 the space cinematics are stunningly beautiful in some scenes. The plot is a little less in depth 
 than the original and it would help if you played the first KOTOR before playing this one so you 
 are familiar with names and motives behind certain things. What I noticed in this game is the lack 
 of lightsabers that you can find which is for better or worse. In KOTOR you generally find 2 lightsabers 
 per encounter with a group of 3 jedi. In the original KOTOR I currently have 5 lightsabers that 
 I don't use. The bad part about the lack of lightsabers in this game is that you can't equip some 
 of your party members correctly or to you satisfaction. The soundtrack is typical SW music so nothing 
 really special except for some ill timed battle music. I love this game and so will any SW fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archican
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  What it's about: Your an exiled Jedi Looking for all the Jedi Masters that sentenced you to be 
 exiled and find out what they were hiding from you! It wont be easy though tough challenges await! 
 Your just lucky people like to look after you! 
  
  My Review: Kotor2 is a fun game to play that you have to use your mind alot to complete. Whether 
 You turn to the Dark Side Or Stick to the Light you can always find a good mission, Or if your 
 felling like a good old card game play pazzack with Aon Remember though its strictly Republic Senate 
 Rules. Still has a few bugs even in the patch! But over all a very fun fast paced game that will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis159
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Aaaaaaaaaaaah, about time I get around to wirting the KOTOR 2 review. ANYWAY, the game is lacking 
 because the losers at obsidean dont type and debug code fast enough, so we were really stuck with 
 a incomplete game that left hundreds of unanswered questions but still a moderatly fun game somehow. 
 But, if they ever do finish (lol not) the hk50 driod factory, and the unlocking of the nav computer, 
 and being able to find revan, then happy i will be.
  so, good game, but lacking
  also, swoop racing is broken, it takes mad skills to win (although i have done it) the key is to 
 never forfiet a race and be awesome at it in KOTOR 1 (beat that one too, see my review on it) so 
 thats all i have to say on it, look for future reviews by me on other star wars games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dioncarlyle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say that I've been awaiting the arrival of this game for a long time since I first 
 found the game was being sent to the masses. I've played it, beaten it like all fans who would 
 not just give up on this game. I've gone back and played both sides of the force just to see what 
 the differences were. This is where I start nitpicking. The concept itself is no different from 
 the first game, seemingly this could just be an add on as there have been no real changes to the 
 game engine itself. 
  
  First, the good:
  There are marked improvements in the character interactions so it is not as repetitive as the first 
 game, the characters have a little more depth and more story to them. The storyline picks up where 
 the first game left off and you find yourself attempting to figure out what is going on... again. 
 
  
  The Bad:
  The game ended up being buggy as sin. It crashed on several occasions, seemingly right after I'd 
 just finished something important and before I had the chance to save the game. Fortunately some 
 of the issues were answered by the good work of the programmers. The feel from interacting with 
 characters is that they are just feeding you the same line again and again and you wish you had 
 more options to deal with these characters even if the choice was "knock them down and smack them 
 until they spill their guts"
  
  The Ugly:
  Worst than the previous game there seems to be absolutely no regard for where the character stands 
 as objects will fly through them people walk through them and just generally break the feel that 
 you might actually be in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Here, I am going to review the famous game Star Wars KOTOR 2. 
  
  The good: Great dialogue. Story changes depending on your postition. NPC character's are greatly 
 creative, with lots of decision that you can say to them. Great storyline. Lightsaber.
  
  The bad: A. I. is quite dumb. Quite a bit of bugs in the game, graphics are great, but does feel 
 a little old.
  
  The game begins some five years after the end of the first game. You play a former Jedi who has 
 been cut off from the Force, drifting unconscious in the battered wreck of the Ebon Hawk. After 
 you land onto the mining colony (hated that level) , you find out some bad news. After you had defeated 
 Malak in the first part, it went way worse. The jedi are very rare, abotut 10 of them, and the 
 sith are everywhere, and are looking to kill you. The great thing is, you choose on which side 
 are you on, the light side, or the dark side. The decision will depend onto the universe.
  
  As you begin, you see an unconsious body, and as you know, she is an important women. Atris, 
 one of the Jedi Council currently in hiding. It looks as if she's in the *light side*, but later 
 in the game, you'll know the real her. Much dialogue from the dark side is given by Kreia, a woman 
 who who has "fallen" from the Dark Side and now maintains an aggressively hostile neutrality to 
 both sides of the Force. Kreia is, without a doubt, the most compelling character in the game. 
 Her constant challenges on why I made the choices I did was the reason I kept her with me through 
 the entire game.
  
  Although a lot of your really cool force powers are discovered near the beginning, it takes a while 
 for you to get your lightsaber. First, I was really mad, but it's just as fun with other weapons. 
 
  
  Since my exams are coming soon, I must stop now. Hopefully you will get the point, that is to get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  When you speak of KOTOR II, you speak of the same engine of KOTOR used with a new history, so, 
 in the graphic department you dont have anything new to see, that doesnt mean that the graphics 
 are bad, but definitily they could be better considering the time between the first and the second 
 game.
  
  The audio of the games falls in the same department, its the classical Star Wars audio from the 
 begginning of the times, which its a positive things, that allows you to sumerge in the game and 
 in the Star Wars Universe.
  
  The game its not particulary difficult if you define a solid character and influence well your 
 partners, and there its the mayor disaster of this game. Its great to have some influence in your 
 partners like in Baldurs Gate II, in which decitions had consequences over your party and make 
 them even leave it, but in KOTOR II, this system seems not right sometimes, because of it you may 
 or may no influence some characters and dont get in knowledge of some plots of the game, that takes 
 me to the next point...
  
  When i played KOTOR i get inmerse into the end and no matter which way you took you get in the 
 end a solid and complete history, but in KOTOR II... well, there are some HUGE holes in the plots 
 that get unresolved or that you have to suppose taking another events, and in the end, the game 
 has a lot of loose ends, even the end of the game keeps so open that makes you feel a little dissappointed 
 because you expectd to learn the entire history.
  
  If you can surpass some holes that sometimes can make you feel lose, you are gonna enjoy a lot 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic - The Sith lord is one of the best RPG games because of 
 the really good gameplay. The story line is fantastic and interesting. You start as a Jedi who 
 has lost his memory. You wake up on a mining planet with several so called friend with you to join 
 your party. One of them is a woman Kreia who is also a Jedi and know's a lot about Force and the 
 Jedi order. She knows all the Jedi, and she is a main actor besides you. The boring thing of Kotor 
 2 is that you get the lightsaber late in the game, you must first get the ingredients to build 
 one. When you get the lightsaber that is when the fun begins, you can choose between 2 lightsaber 
 looks: ordinary lightsaber or the two handed one. I prefer two handed, because you will do more 
 damage but you will have a reduced chance of hitting a enemy, but if you chose Jedi Guardian in 
 the start you won't have problems. force power are also great, when you're level 15 you can chose 
 between 6 additional Classes - 3 for the light side, 3 for the dark side. 1st one is concentrated 
 on fighting, 2nd on defense, 3rd on party encouraging. That's about it. If you liked the first 
 Kotor you'll like the second even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Mol
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  When one thinks about KOTOR I & II, it's about this really nice storyline that is completely unreliant 
 on the movies. KOTOR I therefore was excellent.
  But please, find some inspiration before you make a sequel !
  
  For the gameplay of this game, 
 it's just what you prefer.
  I really loved it, for having a lot of oppertunity to do what you like when you like how you like 
 it.
  
  I just hated the boring beginning and the boring ending of this game.
  The first KOTOR had that just right.
  
  Next time, put it on a DVD-rom instead of 4 CD's
 
  
  PS: only improvement since the first are the jedi robes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic took many RPG gamers by shock. Sure, many of us had been 
 praying for a Star Wars RPG... but one from Bioware? One that got high critical acclaim, and even 
 some GOTY awards? Not in our wildest dreams did we imagine it, but it happened.
  
  It was of course, to the dismay of some that Bioware passed the sequel on to a different developer, 
 and seemed to almost abandon the series.
  
  Thankfully, Obsidian is a worthy developer in its own right, and took the torch readily and easily. 
 KOTOR II is a great sequel to a great game, and that's about as much as we can ask for... though 
 some flaws are disappointing.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played the original, Star Wars: KOTOR II is no real surprise when it comes 
 to gameplay. The only real difference is the influence system, which allows you to sway your comrades 
 to or from your own allegiance by how you treat them and act around them. It is a great system 
 that does add some interesting elements.... (a dark side T3M4, for instance, is one of the high 
 points) . 
  
  For those who have not played the superb original KOTOR, fear not for the gameplay department. 
 KOTOR II uses a D&D based system behind all the battles, which seem to be in real time, but truly 
 take place behind the scenes in turns. You can fight with lightsabers, vibroblades, blasters, or 
 any number of weapons.
  
  Thankfully, the developers opted to make blasters a little more worthwhile this time around, and 
 a character who exclusively uses the ranged weapons is no longer useless (though of course, still 
 not as useful as a Jedi with two lightsabers) . 
  
  The gameplay is played out in traditional WRPG fare for the most part, going around gathering info 
 by talking to NPCs, and doing various sundry quests to meet your goal of continuing the storyline.
 
  
  The Star Wars universe lends itself heavily to the plot. The incredibly vast amount of back story 
 that was readily availble to the developers is apparent in KOTOR II. Constantly you learn more 
 and more about the Star Wars universe. The plot constantly gets more and more back story and fleshing 
 out. This is easily one of the deepest games in terms of backstory I have ever played .The fact 
 that such an enormous amount of dialogue is in the game has me floored.
  
  The plot itself is great, though not quite as sublimely good as the original's plot was. Suffice 
 to say, however, that there are still many a plot twist to satisfy the average gamers tongue, and 
 even enough to satiate the weary Role Playing Gamer. 
  
  Graphics: Graphically, KOTOR II is virtually identical to its predecessor. Sure, there are a few 
 bells and whistles added on, a few better effects here and there, but all in all, it isn't what 
 can easily be expected for a few years of improvement. Still, the graphics aren't horrid, they 
 just aren't as good as they could have been.
  
  Sound: The music is incredible. Star Wars music always seems to give the impression something epic 
 is going on, and this game is no different. The music always suits what is going on in the scene, 
 and it never gets tedious or annoying.
  
  The voice acting is again superb, although the aliens still repeat the same lines over and over, 
 as they did in the first one. The fact that there is so much spoken dialogue is amazing in itself, 
 and deserves merit.
  
  Value: Easily replayable, KOTOR II will give you the most bang for you buck of just about any RPG 
 out there. It is a good 40ish hours to beat it the first time, and then you will likely have many 
 reasons to go back and play again.
  
  Tilt: The game is great, there is no doubt about it, but sadly, it just doesn't live up to the 
 vast potential it had. A slightly better story (although it is superb, could have been even better) , 
 combined with improved graphics could have made this game even better than its predecessor. As 
 it is, it is on par with the original, and that in itself is one of the highest complements I can 
 pay a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic 2: The Sith Lords is a RPG following the events of the first Knights 
 of the Old Republic (ok, several years later anyway) . You start off the game as an outcast Jedi 
 without your powers, lightsaber, or memory, however you'll slowly come to get all of these in time. 
 You get to choose your style of Jedi, essentially the fighter, force user, or a balance of the 
 two. Later on in the game you are able to upgrade to a superior class of Jedi. What the game does 
 better than anything is make you feel that your actions or responses to characters have consequences. 
 If your wishing to become a light side force user you'll want to help people, or if the dark side 
 calls out to you just be a total jerk. Either way most of the story will not alter depending on 
 which path you take. Throughout the course of the game you will have 10 companions join your journey 
 to save the Republic, and the Jedi Order from the Sith. There are a couple other characters you 
 can get, based on your characters gender, although they do not add to the 10 but replace some. 
 The gameplay is very similar to the first Knights of the Old Republic, battle is commanded by clicking 
 the attacking icons that appear over your enemy. You can pause and issue commands for other characters 
 at any time, sometimes making battle easier. Outside of battle you can walk around exploring worlds 
 and talking with each worlds inhabitants. The game packs in a lot of missions (some bonus, some 
 story related) to give you a 20+ hour adventure. Sith Lords has quite a bit of replay value, in 
 that you can play with a different force alignment, gender, and class, all of which affecting how 
 your journey will end up. The game only has a few minor setbacks, graphics can look awkward at 
 times. Personally I have only had one area where the framerate drops for a few seconds. But the 
 minor technical problems are outweighed by the game's gameplay and story. For any Star Wars or 
 RPG fan this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  I was eager to get this out of the box after playing through the original KOTOR 3 times. From the 
 get go i was bored as all hell, wandering around half naked and looking for atton. I almost quit 
 then and there, but it slowly started to get better. 
  
  The overall story of the game is no match for kotor's, neither are its characters. You just dont 
 feel the same way about any of them like the way i did in kotor 1. Picking up peices of your past 
 can become confusing at the best of times and is annoying while playing through the game. 
  
  One of the things i was dissapointed with was the graphics. I think this game came out almost 
 a year after the original and still they couldnt manage a better visual display? Not that graphics 
 make a great game, but it sure would have helped the game along. 
  
  I think they have made the game too complicated, with the involvement of chemicals and lab stations, 
 breaking down, creating etc. I have chosen to ignore this aspect of the game entirely as i think 
 its very tedious and unnesseccary. 
  
  There are some inclusions of new force powers and feats which become useful, but its just not the 
 same as the original game. This game was definately rushed and truly could have been grest if a 
 little more thought went into the development side of things. 
  
  None the less, if you found kotor a guilty pleasure then you should definately pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naylor182
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I owned and played to death the original KOTOR. I had it on Xbox, and completed it about 5 times, 
 sadly enough.
  Therefore, I bought KOTOR 2 with high expectations; especially because it was on a different format 
 - PC. What could be that much different, I mused? Certainly not the gameplay or storyline, they're 
 still at their best. The graphics are better, but there are major issues which I shall get to later. 
 
  The gameplay got off to a slow start. The first few hours are a bit questionable and tedious, but 
 once you get going... boy, do you. If you can grin and bear the early stages of the game, great 
 - buy this... but on Xbox.
  The PC version is simply TOO BUGGY. Strange things happen at strange times (i. e. things that aren't 
 meant to happen) , the landscape often disappears altogether, and most annoyingly, the game exits 
 at random and inopportune moments. 
  The story and the gameplay will more than pay for the re-purchasing of this game on Xbox. Unfortunately 
 for the PC, patches haven't addressed the problem; neither have graphics drivers or system care.
 
  
  Brilliant game... shame about the bugs.
  
  Buy the Xbox version if you want to complete this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  There is no way to describe this RPG... if you want some quality story, Star Wars game, your own 
 lightsaber and partners for adventure, you should try this one. It's a perfect game, with lots 
 of levels, that make you think, battle, cheat... and of course, if you just follow your instincts, 
 you will get to the right path: The dark side or the Light Side! 
  To complete this game at all... you should try both sides. It's a long game that makes you get 
 inside the screen and enter in the most amazing lightsaber duels. The best RPG ever, no doubt.
 
  
  I give 9,8 to it! 
  
  Check it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360motina
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  "It is the journey that matters, not the destination" - Kreia
  
  Knights of the Old Republic II is a different game compared to its predecessor in that it is more 
 subtle. The objectives and ending are more clear and standard in the first game. This game is all 
 about the relationship between you and Kreia the old woman. While she does manipulate you throughout 
 the journey, there is a point to it. She manipulates you to achieve two ends, both her own. You 
 are the apprentice, and she is the master. She may use you, but she has great respect and loves 
 for who you are and what you represent, despite how twisted it may be. The point of the game is 
 not about defeating evil Sith Lords, or becoming one your self. There is no great revelation like 
 in the first game. For those who do like games that get deep this game is not for you, just play 
 the first one. This is the point of the game, even considering the cut content.
  
  For those who cannot make connections.. as I have seen from reading the reviews.
  
  Kreia = 
 Palpatine, not Bastila
  Atton = Han Solo, not Carth
  
  There is not any connection to the original characters, except for the obvious, such as T3 (Characteristic 
 are more developed) , HK, and Canderous / Mandalore. For selectable NPCs, that is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutterdude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This is more of the same of the first kotor. But thats exactly what i wanted. In fact I had some 
 deja vu playing this game. A lot of things were the same. You have the feeling that youve played 
 this all before. But it was so good the first time why not play it again? Heres whats different: 
 the same seems more buggy to me, the AI i think isnt as smart, its harder (or maybe its because 
 i played as the light side) . Storyline wise the first kotor was much better. The characters were 
 much better. Jolee, Carth, Bastilla, Canderous. Those were great characters. This game we have 
 Atton (which is pretty much like Carths character) Mandalore (which is pretty much canderous.... in 
 fact it might actually be canderous underneath that mask because at the ending Darth Traya called 
 mandalore canderous) ... then theres this old lady who is pretty much like Bastilla except shes 
 a **** Theres other characters too but i dont think they were all that well defined. Oh theres 
 Bao-dur which i am confused if he died in the end or was he still on the ship? Bao-dur is like 
 Jolee mixed with bastilla. Good characters but i prefered the characters from the first kotor. 
 They were just better characters. But theres apperances from Bastilla and Carth. Really small apperances 
 but atleast they are there. Oh and the bosses are crap. The one on the cover, who'd you think would 
 be the main bad guy isn't. He's just some sith lord dude who doesnt talk and you only learn his 
 name when u fight him because it has the bar that says "Darth Nihilus".. and he doesnt talk!!!! 
 he just makes some weird noises. And the final boss fight and the ending sucked too. I liked the 
 ending in kotor1 when i ruled the galaxy as a sith lord. That was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vtfrosty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Great game. It starts off a littel slow but once you start racking up skillz and adding members 
 to your group it ends up being just as good as the first game if not better. The plot was a little 
 dicey to follow at times but you don't have to have a masters degree to keep up. The graphics and 
 sound were very solid and the quests keep the game interesting while not being too uber for anyone 
 to get past. If you haven't already checked this one out I would definatly recommend you pick it 
 up when you get a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfDark19
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  I loved this game and I recommend to try it for all the RPG gamers. This game is the second KOTOR, 
 so to all that loved the first one, I say you must try it! There is a little need of optimizing 
 the graphics, but the graphics in this game don't counts, besides its not so bad. This game gave 
 me a lot of fun and I finished it two times, with the Dark side path and the Light side path. I 
 hope that in the future another game will be released! Lucas Arts I'm looking forward to it!
  
  I wrote this review a long time after I played it, so I did'nt wrote about the story and the 
 whole gameplay etc.
  
  Reviewer: Lord Of Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  BioWares 2003 RPG hit Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic was one of the best RPGs to grace 
 the PC in years, thanks to its open-ended gameplay and intriguing storyline. Obsidian Entertainment 
 took over development on the sequel, Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, and follows 
 the formula laid down by the original quite faithfully.
  
  The game still has a great story and allows you to interact with a huge cast of characters in almost 
 any way you see fit. Like the original, Sith Lords takes place in the Star Wars galaxy a thousand 
 years before the Star Wars films; what youll see in the game will still be familiar to anyone 
 whos seen the movies however.
  
  Just like KOTOR, Sith Lords biggest draw is the story, which will allow you to learn the way of 
 the Jedi or the Sith. Your path to the light or dark side should take you about 40 hours to complete 
 on your first play through, and some of the game choices between good, evil, or complacence are 
 so interesting that youll likely have the urge to go back and try every one of them. When the 
 game starts you are a former Jedi that has been exiled from the Jedi Order and had the force stripped 
 away.
  
  You must re-establish your connection to the force, find the necessary parts to build a new lightsaber, 
 and learn the secrets of your past, all while uncovering precisely what has occurred during the 
 five years since the first game. As the game progresses you learn that a Jedi Civil War has left 
 only a handful of Jedi remaining, and you are given the option to unite them or make them pay dearly 
 for casting you out.
  
  Some players will remember some of the planets youll see in Sith Lords from the original. Dantooine 
 and Korriban return in Sith Lords (though quiet different) , along with a number of new worlds such 
 as the smugglers paradise of Nar Shaddaa or the jungle moon of Dxun. You will be allowed to travel 
 to these planets in any order you like, and you will be allowed to return at almost any time to 
 complete bonus quests or purchase equipment.
  
  The option to walk the path of good or evil is back in Sith Lords and is pretty much the same. 
 Throughout the game you will be faced with decisions such as allowing a defeated enemy to live, 
 or executing them for having the foolishness to cross you. If what you desire is blood you will 
 most likely find yourself being pushed to the dark side quickly, accumulating many dark side points.
 
  
  Similarly if your character does good deeds and only kills evil characters you will receive light 
 side points. Your light or dark inclination isnt just for show; it will have an actual affect 
 on the game itself. Certain force powers are specific to those who practice one side of the force 
 or the other.
  
  As a result using a dark force power by a light character will cost you more force points (think 
 of it like mana in other RPGs) than using a light force power. One of the few new features to Sith 
 Lords is influence. Influence determines how you companions feel about you based on your actions. 
 Some characters will respond positively to kind acts and displays of mercy, while others will only 
 be satisfied by brute force.
  
  Gaining high influence with a character allows you to ask more questions to uncover their back 
 story and sometimes can lead to that character discovering the force and becoming a Jedi.
  
  The gameplay in Sith Lords is pretty much identical to that of the original. The combat system 
 is virtually unchanged. You can pause and issue commands to all three of your companions individually 
 or allow the computer to issue commands to two of them while you control the other. Lightsabers 
 and force powers are by far the most powerful, so work hard on turning as many of your companions 
 into Jedi as possible.
  
  XP is equally distributed among your fellow travelers whether they are in your party or not. This 
 means if you dont use one character for most of the game they will still be at the same level 
 as your main character when you need them. Leveling isnt so important in Sith Lords however, since 
 as you gain levels so do your enemies. The real benefit of levels are the new feats and force powers 
 you can learn as you advance.
  
  The game does have quite a few drawbacks however, mostly in its presentation. Sound and graphical 
 glitches plague the game, poor clipping allows you to pass through corpses of your vanquished enemies 
 and cause weapons to pass through body parts. Remains also take an irritatingly long time to drop 
 from your enemies, requiring you to wait around to see if a corpse actually has anything useful 
 or not.
  
  Animation during the in-game cut scenes is generally poor and occasionally horrible. Characters 
 will frequently do things such as moving their hands in a typing motion while standing several 
 feet away from the nearest console. CG cut scenes are also poor since the game will load them piece 
 by piece resulting in you staring at a blank scene for a few seconds every time the camera cuts.
 
  
  Most frustrating of all is how your AI controlled companions will frequently get in your way or 
 run into each other, especially during combat. Another mark against it is the short audio clips 
 played when a party member is selected or ordered to perform a certain action, such as picking 
 the lock on a door or container or attacking an enemy.
  
  For some inexplicable reason they always say the same damn thing! This is especially perplexing 
 since the game has hours and hours of recorded dialog responses that youll never hear your first 
 time through, however every locked crate or door in the game (of which there are many) will result 
 in the same response over and over.
  
  Despite these problems Sith Lords is still an incredibly entertaining game with an interesting 
 story that should appeal to both Star Wars Fans and non-Star Wars fans alike.
  
  Obsidian plays it safe by keeping the game much like the first and they succeed in maintaining 
 most of the good things about the original. However by not fixing some of the game's most glaring 
 problems and without any real advancement this game ultimately falls short of the standard set 
 by the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  FOREWORD
  
  Generations of fans it seems got stuck on the constant battle between good and evil that got immortalized 
 in the lives of generations of Skywalkers and engraved by the Force into the magnetic surfaces 
 of tapes, CDs and DVDs. After several movies, several games have risen from the ground in the true 
 Star Wars style. Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 2 The Sith Lords (to which from now on I 
 will imply as KOTOR2 if I am to finish this review in my lifetime) is one of those games. It is 
 actually a sequel to a prequel. The events of KOTOR 2 happen after the forming of the Sith (the 
 Jedi civil war) , after the Mandalorian wars, before the events of the Episode 1.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY
  
  For the veterans of the first KOTOR, all you probably need to know is that 
 KOTOR 2 is an expansion pack to the first game, masked to be a stand-alone game. A great deal of 
 things in KOTOR 2 is very similar to its mama, so if you liked the first one, go play this one. 
 
  
  In KOTOR 2 you are an ex-Jedi who barely escapes an attack on his life by the Sith, an organization 
 of outcast Jedi who over the time lost all but one main goal: kill all Jedi. The time has come 
 for you to find your friends, enemies and your role in the galaxy's fateas well as some clothes 
 first... To be honest, not once have I been so interested in a games storyline like in Sith Lords. 
 The story is a really strong backbone here. Theres a lot of talk about the histroy of Star Wars 
 like the events of the previous game and other events in general and how they all might affect 
 your destiny. 
  
  Yet the storyline has a few weird things the player might stumble upon. A few events at some turning 
 points areunexpected. An example would be (warning: a potential spoiler!) that an evil little 
 organization hunts you all over the galaxy, and its hunters mostly want to transfer you dead rather 
 than alive. You take half of the total playing time to find and kill its leaders and when you finally 
 meet the mastermind, to your surprise, the guy politely tells you that all he wanted from you is 
 some help in doing something that you were already doing to begin with. Also the game sometimes 
 seems to follow the Matrix movie strategy that goes something like: if we use spooky language they 
 might not realize that we have no idea what were talking about. The game tries to sound too complicated 
 for its own good. 
  
  As most RPGs KOTOR 2 has several side quests besides the main quest, and there are also a few mini-games 
 within the game like sled racing and cards. The latter two things in particular are a nice touch 
 and add to the value of the game. A great disappointment is that after the game is over, its over. 
 Theres not much left for you to do in the galaxy, but the little there is, the game doesnt allow 
 you to do by throwing you back to the main menu after the final battle. That ending, by the way, 
 is so anit-climatic that you want to go back, shake the dead enemy and shout at him "Are you kidding 
 me?! I payed for this game, spent so much time getting to you, and this is all you could say?!" 
 
  
  Let's not get ahead of ourselves, however. At the beginning you custom create your own character. 
 Along your path you will also find other allied characters, of which you can control up to 2 in 
 your party, in third-person view. Each character has his own strengths and weaknesses, and as he 
 fights and does some other accomplishments, he receives experience points. With those experience 
 points the character can rise in levels. Leveling brings points the player can distribute to different 
 powers, skills and attributes. With new strengths and more money, you can get and wear better armor 
 and use more powerful weapons etc, etc. These are typical features of a role-playing game. KOTOR2 
 however confuses you by blending action-game features in this RPG system. Moving, for example, 
 is not done by point-and-click but, generally, by the action game veterans keys AWSD. When engaged 
 in sword fighting with an opponent, the battle consists of a realistic sequence of synchronized 
 moves. Also, most of the games battleground consists of corridors with groups of enemies placed 
 some distance apart. All of this reminds a shooter game. Do not be fooled however, as the fight 
 is still managed purely by the mathematical comparison of the fighters skills. 
  
  When fighting, you can rely on your weapons and your force powers. Weapons, just like all items, 
 can be bought, made or found. They range from swords to mines. Weapons can be upgraded in different 
 ways and light sabers even change color depending on what crystal they use. Guns in KOTOR 2 are 
 somewhat underpowered though. Its hard to imagine a group of riflemen who are firing from far, 
 lose to a guy with a steel sword. Another problem with the fighting system is the difficulty of 
 the enemies in general. After being really easy for the most of the campaign, they started to get 
 real hard real fast at the very end. Bosses, on the other hand, seemed to be a little too easy 
 throughout the campaign.
  
  You can also choose not to fight the enemy and instead sneak pass them using an optic camouflage 
 belt. Although stealth is a pretty and well integrated thing, it might create a problem when it 
 comes to leveling. If youre not fighting each of the enemies you meet then youre missing a lot 
 of experience points, and when in situations where stealth is impossible, you might have trouble 
 dealing with strong enemies.
  
  Besides weapons, there are tons of items for player to use, and they can all be selected through 
 the menu at any point by any of the characters. This is rather strange. The amount of items you 
 find and carry at any given time would barely fit in a backpack the size of your spaceship, and 
 yet theres no maximum on how much you can carry. 
  
  Throughout the game you will have many conversations with NPCs and you will have to make many choices 
 during those conversations. Theres a dark-light meter, and some of those choices will lead you 
 to either the dark or the light side. The side youre on affects your appearance, making you look 
 all evil and... cool. It also affects several other things like powers and even the story in some 
 way. With all those choices the game suggests an open-ended gameplay. However, most choices are 
 cosmetic and many lead to the same result. Still, the freedom of choice in a conversation is enjoyable. 
 In addition to fighting and talking, there are also a few mathematical puzzles for the player to 
 solve. They aren't too hard if you take your time to solve them. 
  
  AI in an RPG game is not so much to think about. AI here rarely has to decide whether to flank 
 the enemy or to hide behind cover so youd think it should be hard to screw up, and yet it often 
 happens. And it happens in KOTOR 2 as well. I would suddenly notice that the party characters got 
 stuck somewhere behind, and they would have to respawn near me (which, by the way, is a clever 
 way out of the problem) . If I ran in one direction and then would suddenly run back, Id see the 
 party members follow my path all the way before turning at the same point where I did. You can 
 however dictate what tactic each of your characters uses during battle. So to speak, you can somewhat 
 control the AI. 
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  It seems the cries about the glitches of KOTOR 2 can be heard from different corners of the galaxy. 
 Just as you start thinking highly of the gameclick... the game crashes. Never in my life have I 
 played a game that crashed so often. At certain times crashes would be about 2 minutes apart. And 
 it doesnt just crash to the desktop but restarts Windows completely. This greatly reduces the 
 value of the game, value that otherwise would be really high. The games performance does vary 
 from PC to PC so your version might just play ok.
  
  I also experienced a very strange problem when on one of the maps. Suddenly the game would start 
 to run very slow (1 fps kind of slow) and the character would become stuck in one place. Changing 
 something serious in the video options (so the graphics would have to restart) would fix the problem 
 for a short while, but it would soon return.
  
  As for the requirements, I was able to run the game with full graphics on my weaker Radeon 9600, 
 2 GHz Pentium machine with a slight stutter.
  
  THE GRAPHICS
  
  Besides a simple reflection effect on some metal surfaces, there isnt much of the latest graphic 
 technology incorporated in the KOTOR 2 visuals. Most of its beauty resides in its detailed environment. 
 On faces, for example, you can distinguish mother spots, scars and each of the teeth. Environments 
 are diverse. From an urban jungle to grassy fields, you get to see a little bit of everything and 
 its all well presented and well detailed. Nevertheless, you do expect more out of a game made 
 in 2005. 
  
  Animations in KOTOR 2 are plentiful. Some look nice like the effects when two sword wielders fight. 
 Most of the animations, however, look odd. This is most evident during the many cut-scenes. The 
 characters twitch, some things seem to be missing, there are strange pauses between scenes and 
 most apparent is the dissonance between the visuals and the sound. For example, theres a cut-scene 
 that shows a guy get killed by a huge monster. Before the guy dies, he quite calmly says, Blast 
 it and (not immediately after being hit) falls to the ground in an implausible manner. Sometimes 
 one of the characters would pretend to be typing, but beneath his fingers there would be nothing 
 but air. Must be one of those futuristic stealth keyboards... 
  
  THE SOUND
  
  The music in KOTOR 2 follows the orchestral Star Wars trend and fits well. The music is probably 
 the best thing about the sound. The wheauw when wielding the light saber and blaster sounds are 
 here as well. With other words, everything you might expect from a Star Wars theme is present. 
 Theres a lot of talking in the game, and the voice work is very well done. A nice touch is that 
 in many conversations the voicing has been done for each character, so your voice (when you're 
 actually heard speaking) varies depending on which character you control. Its a shame the sound 
 corresponds feebly with the visual depiction.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  KOTOR 2 should appeal to fans of Star Wars and to those who liked the first game. The story is 
 interesting and sucks the player in. If not for its terrible performance glitches and some of the 
 poor animations, the game would surely kick some of the best RPGs out there aside. Although if 
 you favor RPGs then this game is unquestionably the one you must crave, for it shallChrist, I 
 start talking like the game characters...
  
  Personal opinion (subjective review)
  
  Its against my rules to be too subjective in a review, so I decided to create a new category where 
 I can be just that. Here you can see how my personality affects me liking and hating the game. 
 To start, I cant stand Star Wars. I cant stand it because it has created a generation that in 
 the 21st century didnt improve on the science of the old movies but instead repeated them, going 
 even further into the unknown grounds of the future yet using the same science like many decades 
 ago. That meant that more and more illogical and anti-science flaws would be visible. Previously 
 kids and now grown up people were, in a way, consumed by the old fantasy and tried to make it all 
 real. KOTOR 2, although a true Star Wars game, is the furthest away from the Star Wars trends and 
 that is one of the reasons why I was able to hold on to it for so long. 
  
  I am not into the whole dark-light side either as of course there are no dark or light sided people. 
 A person is a complicated combination of positive and negative sides, and evil characters exist 
 only in the minds of children and in Hollywood movies. Sometimes the game will not let you make 
 a choice that allows you to stay neutral and instead theres just a sadistic, evil choice and a 
 nave, stupid choice. Thats what the game seems to be ultimately about and I cant like that. 
 However a choice in everything you say is a nice freedom and I like freedom.
  
  Ultimately, walking around with optic camouflage like in the movie Predator is really fun. Sneaking 
 up to enemies, placing mines to damage them and then finish them off with dual katanas is even 
 more fun. 
  
  I also cant say that I liked the small levels of this game. An RPG only works for me when the 
 maps are huge. For some reason I really hate the Diablo-kind of corridor gameplay with a top view. 
 Thankfully KOTOR 2 is not top view and actually has a few large placesno larger than a small FPS 
 multiplayer map though. 
  
  I found it laughable that swords were actually more effective than guns in the game. Im sorry, 
 but no matter where I stand, if I have a buffed up sniper rifle, the enemy in a robe with a light 
 saber gets killed on the first shot. 
  
  Also, as I said before, the story is interesting. I now actually remember some of the history about 
 the Sith and the Jedi, about the two civil wars etc etc. Shame on me!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I've Played the Original game and I liked it alot. I've spent alot of game hours playing it. I've 
 uninstalled it but I've always found I've reinstalled the game a month later.
  
  KOTOR II, creates the same feeling, the game is good and the storyline is nice. However I did feel 
 left confused and wondering "What the heck was going on here." Aspects of KOTOR are in this game 
 however I feel not enough, the depth of the history of KOTOR and what we did could of been explorde 
 more than seeing a glowing image of the Evil side person [I won't spoil it for those who haven't 
 played it yet ] from kotor. 
  
  The storyline in KOTOR does kind of become stale mid-way. Not enough was in the game that kept 
 me excited and wanting to see what happens at the end. The Character Kyra is a confusing one although 
 good perfomance your left wondering, WTF? The game plays mind games with you it screws around with 
 your head in a way. Like was said on the Gamespot review the rather undramatic ending leaves a 
 lot to be desired.
  
  There people creating KOTOR 2 are different from those who created KOTOR, however although they 
 said and I quote you can't see the difference. I cerently could, The Bare bones of the game maybe 
 the same, essanitally the basics of the excitment, quallity ending, Closurer of the characters, 
 basic understanding of the characters. I know I'm not making my self clear, so I'll try and explain 
 better.
  
  I've played KOTOR 2 over 22 times now, doing different paths and questions until, I tried to do 
 the same paths n questions to try and understand who the heck these people that are with me are 
 and what the heck are they doing on my ship? 
  
  The small walk on apperances of the robots did little to me to comfort that this was still the 
 same old game. In truth it felt like a completly different game that shared the same title and 
 a few other details.
  
  The Jedi Masters I feel lacked the behavor of true Jedi masters, shown by the films and the original 
 KOTOR if anything the Jedi masters, some where along the line crossed paths and became Sith lords 
 in Jedi Masters clothes. 
  
  Although for all these things I enjoyed playing the game and I like playing this game perhaps not 
 as much as the original, but Nothing is as good as the first time right? 
  
  This game I would say would be good for people who do like Star wars. 
  also people that have 
 the original but don't hope for anything stunning like the last time.
  
  The game is good don't get me wrong, I just feel the game should of been called something other 
 than Kotor II as this game just simply doesn't feel like a sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sitenl
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  I must admit, the engine is more advance than the original. The graphics are well done, with hi-res 
 textures and more complex meshes than KOTOR's ones. And the story is good. Until the end levels.
 
  
  Obsidian obviously rushed to get this game in the shelves, and this isn't their fault. If you want 
 to get this game wait until Team-Gizka release the Restoration (of the ending) .
  
  Other notes are that the (first version of the) game is bugged, easy and very fast. The only thing 
 that will make the player play more than twice is the morality possibility, the genders differences 
 (on the story) , and the influence system. Which make lot of difference in the story as a whole. 
 The upgrade system is not only confined to a small number of items, but to almost all of them. 
 With a great variety of upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamches
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  The first KOTOR is one of the greatest games of all time.
  The follow-up is a complete disaster: buggy, unfinished, and did I mention buggy?
  It's pretty 
 much all laid out here:
  http://www. theforce. net/jedicouncil/editorials/030405. asp
  Take the warnings at the link to heart: if you buy it, you may not even be able to finish it, it's 
 so buggy. And if you do, you'll lament its awful ending.
  If you haven't bought the *first* KOTOR (2003) , run don't walk, and grab it now for $19. But avoid 
 the sequel at all costs. It's been a year since it was released, and it's been abandoned by the 
 developer: no patches worth speaking of, and none on the horizon. Bioware, developer of the first 
 game, would never abandon a game (first KOTOR came out with lots of bugs, but they were swiftly 
 resolved) . Obsidian, on the other hand, appears to be in over their head.
  It's OK to ship a buggy product, so long as you eventually fix things in patches.
  That hasn't 
 happened, and won't -- it's been abandoned by Obsidian. What a pity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruckinnumber2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic is an epic RPG with an immersive story, memorable deep characters, 
 and amazing endings. This however, is kotor TWO. Somehow they managed to take a great franchise 
 and hurt it so badly. 
  
  The game was clearly rushed, and it shows in its story elements. I don't feel the same attachment 
 to this group as I did in the original. The protagonist is far too underdeveloped. Certain pieces 
 of dialogue hint at events and quests that are not even in the (semi) finished game the player is 
 presented. 
  
  This game could have been great for Kotor fans had they just used the same cast of characters and 
 continued to story but rather there is no mention of the previous game's main character. Take that 
 and add in a convoluted story that doesn't even have an ending besides some meaningless in game 
 dialogue and you have yourself a real flop. A shame, considering the franchise's potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 is a big and long game, and I ike that (I took 12 to 13 hours to beat the game!) . The graphics 
 are great, better then in KOTOR 1. KOTOR 2 has great "good" storyline, but KOTOR 1 has a better one. I 
 cant say what game is the better, KOTOR 1 OR KOTOR 2, I gues they are equaly good. But back to KOTOR 
 2, it has fun characters to use, like Visas Marr (my favorite) , Bao Dur, Kreia and others :) . The new 
 force powers are awesome. The planets you can go on this game are simply FANTASTIC. What could be 
 better then go to the homeworld of the sith, were the darkest sith lords are burried?
  I forgot to mention the bosses of the game, well, they are cool, but they are easy, but the game itself 
 isnt easy. Costumizing a lightsaber, that s also pretty cool, you can choose the color of the lighsaber 
 :) . The only thing that disapointed me was that there seven plantes on the game, ok, but two of then (korriban 
 and dantooine) look exatly like these two same planets on KOTOR 1...
  But a i rocomend this game not only for RPG lovers and star wars fans, i recomend this game for 
 normal gamers, that will problably also enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: camilojv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I played STKOTOR the first title for PC, now I got an XBOX, and I have been playing the second 
 one in my XBOX and its great, well Im a Star Wars fan, I love watching Jedis fighting, light 
 saber and all Star Wars universe stuff, Gameplay, Sound, Graphics are greate as an RPG game, adventure 
 game, and just to spend some quality time playing.
  
  Yo jugue STKOTOR la primera parte en PC, ahora tengo una consola XBOX y he estado jugando la segunda 
 parte en el XBOX y es genial, bueno soy un fan de Star Wars, me encanta mirar Jedis luchando, sables 
 de luz y todo sobre el universo de Star Wars, jugabilidad, sonido, graficos son geniales como un 
 juego de RPG, aventura o solamente para pasar un excelente rato.
  
  Hope it helps!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, I loved the first game. It was one of my favorite games ever, so I was very excited when 
 this came out. But it was disappointing. I was hoping for the same tension between characters, 
 interesting plot, etc, but it was not to be. The ending was particularly disappointing.
  The difficulty was jacked up, the graphics weren't as good, I could wine for hours, but I won't. 
 I recommend skipping this one and waiting for the next one, unless you were really addicted to 
 the first game. I was, so I played it anyway. But if you do buy it, get it used so you don't have 
 to pay the blown up price.
  Mazel Taf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:52 am PT
Review:  Fun combat, not too linear, 2 things that most RPG's these days seem to butcher. The best part 
 about this game is that your actions are a huge part of how the game plays out, both in terms of 
 how the other people in your group of adventurers interact, but in the development of the main 
 character themself. The ruder, meaner, and more vicious you are, the stronger your dark side powers 
 will be, and vise versa. I think this is great, because you don't necessarily have to be "good" 
 or "evil". you can be more one than the other, or somewhere in between, and the story will play 
 out differently because your companions will act differently, and people you meet will treat you 
 differently. Customizing weapons and armor is cool for 2 reasons: its just plain fun to do, plus 
 it makes combat itself more interesting (for example, you might construct an orange-colored light 
 saber that does extra damage to droids) .
  
  Another cool thing about this game, is the fact that the story behind the game is very cool. Not 
 only that, but you learn things about yourself as you move through the game, as well as some things 
 about your companions. I thought this was kind of unique, and added quite a bit to the story, because 
 you are learning about the backgrounds and history of not just the main character, but the supporting 
 cast as well. It would basically be like if in Star Wars, the movies had some background or history 
 behind C3PO or chewbacca. It adds quite a bit of depth to the story.
  
  Overall, its definitely worth the $$$. I am a big RPG fan, and, I will confess, normally not a 
 fan of the sci-fi genre at any capacity. I have always leaned towards the fantasy realm, but this 
 game got such good reviews, I figured I would try it, and I'm glad I did. It has the kind of depth 
 both in combat and character development, that makes it one of those rare games that is constantly 
 entertaining you. Many RPG's tend to be fun for awhile, then boring for awhile, but this is not 
 one of those games. Whether you are a sci fi fan or RPG fan or not, get this game. I think even 
 people that are not typically RPG or sci fi fans will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kambui
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  Well after KOTOR 1 I expected something big ,and This is big .Over all without doing lot of diagnostic 
 its really eye catching. But when you play it for the 7th time in a row many flaws just creeps through 
 you head. I first of all want to thank OBSIDIAN for at least giving us the Choice of making a jedi 
 right from the beginning. (KOTOR 1 we could only make a jedi after reaching dantoine) The best part 
 i liked was the influence part. But then again you can't influence every one in one game can you??
 
  Now let me start my ripping and cutting.... Why did they made a maximum level of 50 when you can't 
 reach it ? ( i tried it in all types of dif lvl and wit all characters but the maximum lvl i reached 
 was 30 that too with lot of time investment in Hisshiss spawn glitch.)
  Well what type of ending was that if you light side your ship just goes away and if you are dark 
 side let me not mention it.... very vague ending
  Every thing is easy until Kreia why is that ? (Kreia don't hurt you much but it like hitting a stone 
 with no result)
  BIGGEST PROBLEM WHY IS FURY BUGGED !!!!!!! (if you use fury force power the animation happens but 
 no other effect)
  Now these are just few ........ But over all enjoyable game (if you ignore my review)
  But i still 
 think Bio ware should .... not OBSIDIAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Long title, long game. It stands up to its predeccesor KotOR quite well. However you once again 
 start as a character with memory loss, waking up already in the thick of things. The only difference 
 is instead of having absolutely no idea that you have Jedi powers, you have *some* idea of what 
 the hell is going on.
  
  Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic 2 is a fairly detailed game. They have thankfully added 
 in abilities and item creation that actually make use of those skills that you forgoed in the previous 
 to become a combat god. Skills and stats now definately make a difference. They will determine 
 what you can make, what you can use, and what you can wear. The only drawback to this is that you 
 will have to become commited to your choices. Once you start down a particular path there will 
 be many things you will miss along the way had you played a different character. Granted this makes 
 for great replayability but for someone like myself who has a "Gotta-catch-em-all" mentality, it 
 can be quite frustrating.
  
  I have finished the game only once. Why? Well various bugs. On 3 seperate occasions the game has 
 crashed resulting in loss of gametime (having to reload back to a distant location) . This was *extremely* 
 frustrating. Also there are minor graphical glitches, and a couple of gameplay glitches (ie when 
 you walk outside in a spacesuit your graphic is insanely accellerated so you appear to be like 
 the roadrunner with your legs a-blur) .
  
  Thankfully the latest patch will fix alot of game crashes however there is one planet in partiuclar 
 where if you aren't careful in what order you complete them alot of quests crash, making them impossible 
 to finish. In fact I don't believe there *is* an order you can get away with.
  
  After completing such a lengthy game I expected an epic finish, but I ended up being very disapointed. 
 It was almost like they suddenly realised they had an exam due in tomorrow, so rounded it off as 
 quickly as possible. As guess its good they say, "Its not the destination, but the journey that 
 is important." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkjediforces
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game for those who love Star Wars. The game improves upon the great KOTOR ( Knights of 
 the Old Republic) better stability and more weapons ( great more bad guy killer) , more force powers 
 ( again more bad guy killers) , and upgrades galor. Guns Lightsabers, you name it can odds are you 
 can upgrade it. and you can even build your own upgrades 9 assuming you have the skill requierments) . 
 All in all it is a good stab up i would like the annoying pause before battle gone not just be 
 turned off. And i would like more choice in party member maybe allow a few more? well that is enough 
 bad things. hail the Jedi Knights and Long live the order 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_Guardian2000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  Okay so KOTOR II continues where KOTOR I left off. The Jedi have disappered and gone to who knows 
 where and the Republic is on the verge of collapse.
  
  Okay so here's the lowdown, not much really changes from KOTOR I, but there are some new force 
 powers, a level 3 heal, melee protection and other fun powers! Some force powers were desperatly 
 needed like the level 3 healing power.
  
  Also, this time around your decisions affect everyone, not just your main character. You can push 
 the party's alignment into the dark or light side by your actions. You can guess yourself how to 
 get there :)
  
  A new feature is the ability to breakdown items to create new upgrades or weapons. This is probably 
 one of the best features in the game. This feature becomes important whenever you get your lightsaber, 
 since you can not only add crystals, but different parts to add bonus effects.
  
  However, I will have to say that the exile (main character) becomes ridiculously powerful thanks 
 to prestige classes. These classes make your character ridiculously powerful and able to take on 
 teams of pretty much anything but the really tough enemies. I played Weapon Master and it was insane 
 how fast my character took people out.
  
  Overall the game is good, but the plot needs a little work, it just seems..... weird.
  
  Pros: 
 Adds much needed force powers, breakdown is great for creating new upgrades and weapons, prestige 
 classes are cool.
  Cons: Story is weird and ending is just dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benmurphy77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  The original KotOR earned its many awards. It was the best game of 2004. And from the start, this 
 game took everything that was great about the original and improved it. The combat system was upgraded 
 with new functionality that makes you wonder how you ever got through the first game without it. 
 The plot and dialogue are significantly more engrossing and intelligent. The areas are larger and 
 have more to explore. Even the little annoyances from the first game, like how slowly you walked 
 in space or underwater, were fixed or improved. The game definitely starts out to be another "best 
 of the year."
  
  However, after you finish a couple of planets (which is probably as far as many reviewers ever 
 get) , things start to unravel. The events of the story begin to make less and less sense. Puzzles 
 start to loosen and become confusing. Some dialogue and characters start to seem out of place. 
 Minor bugs pop up. The infamous load times increase to infuriating lengths.
  
  In the last third of the game, nothing makes sense. You breeze through nearly empty planets with 
 very few events, none of which make any intelligeible contribution. *Three* of the nine playable 
 characters are activated just moments before you are unable to use them anymore, making those characters 
 completely irrelevant to the game. Sub-plots dangle in every direction without any continuity or 
 meaning. Even some of the most compelling, central plotlines of the game simply disappear without 
 any explanation or closure. Boss battles are crammed together, boring and uninspired.
  
  The final map of the game is obviously unfinished. It is nothing more than a series of empty rooms, 
 including many which are labeled on the map but don't exist, because they were never created. And 
 there is NO ENDING! I don't mean that they purposefully leave you hanging in anticipation of KotOR 
 III, I mean they simply didn't end the game. If you make the right choices at the end you may get 
 some weak, contrived dialogue that tells you what will happen to everyone in the future, but otherwise 
 there is absolutely no ending. You just win a stupid boss fight that makes no sense and then fly 
 off into credits. Nothing is answered, nothing is resolved. A huge letdown.
  
  It is clear that this game was rushed to market when it was only about 60% complete. If you are 
 going to play through it, be prepared for a confusing mess towards the end and a very disappointing 
 finish. You won't bother playing it twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  As a Star Wars fan i expected this game with a lot of anticipation.
  Eventually i got a game that is pretty similar to the first game. The positive difference is the 
 story, although there are some unclear points in it.
  The negative things that surprised me were a few : First of all, there is a clipping issue. Then, 
 sometimes your companions get stuck behind a pole, far, far away, and you need to return and get 
 them.
  Some other problems that a could have been handled :
  1. The game is way too easy, even in the hard level. If you pick to improve the right spell and 
 powers, battles will be very short.
  2. The story is unclear. In the end , i still couldn't gather why Kreia act the way she did.
  
 3. AI problem - another reason that the game is easy is that the enemies are pretty stupid. Via 
 the  I just ran behind the big poles that stood there, and they 
 just don't follow around. So then you can pull yourself together, cast some protective spells, 
 and you're back at it. For some reason, they are not smart enough (most of them) to heal themselves.
 
  
  On the other side, I can say I really enjoyed the game :
  1. The graphics , when not clipping, are good looking.
  2. The Sound includes all Star Wars original 
 sounds plus a nice music.
  3. The length of the game is about 50 hrs. I think it is a good value for the money. On the other 
 hand , no multiplayer.
  4. If you forget the holes in the story, the story itself as a whole is interesting, full of twists 
 and turns, and has some back stabbing in it. Most of the game you feel you can't trust your companions, 
 and that in some points they would tickle your back with their weapons ( and guess what ? - well 
 , I'll leave you in suspense) .
  
  To conclude, I recommend anyone who enjoyed KOTOR 1 to give it a try. On some points its better, 
 on some its a step back ( where is a guest star appearance from mighty Revan?) , but it is certain 
 that you will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_And
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  If you like great dialouges in a game and even greater plots - this is the way to go. Story compared 
 to the 3 new Star Wars films, this beats the new George Lucas' triology with ease. I still favor 
 KotOR I plot-wise, thus this game has improved som minor flaws to be seen in the first game. 
 
  You start off in a partially abandoned space station to discover new clues as you get stronger 
 in the ways of the Force and meet to interact with new and familiar characters. All your choises 
 has an influence regarding the other characters or wheter you will be drawn to the Dark or the 
 Light side of the Force, and increase your power. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammybrown
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't been said? It takes many good things from the original, adds some new 
 features to make the game play more interesting; but for this type of game it is the story that 
 makes or breaks it. In this dimension the story is good for at least 80-90% of the way through, 
 almost to the final missions, where the story seems to fall apart and the ending seemed very rushed 
 as if a deadline had to be made. Several sequences such as the final planet seemed half-finished, 
 with many unexplained things and plot holes. Overall I enjoyed the game, but felt let down by the 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  This game is an unbelivible role playing game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You play as a Jedi who doesn't know his part in the galaxy so it is up to you to make 
 the choise for him. This is an awsome game. You can choose to be a light jedi or a dark jedi, you 
 can upgrade your weapons and the combo system is really cool.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are unbelivible for a star wars, role playing game. The players look perfect, 
 the weapons look amazing and the enemies look fantastic.
  
  Sound: The sound is the great from the star wars series. You know what I am saying.
  
  Value: 
 You can play for hours and hours trying to make your jedi or light jedi or dark jedi. My only problam 
 with this game that there is not online multiplayer mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this is an unbelivible game and you should get it first when you buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevanVercetti
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why everybody downs this game. Yeah maybe it wasnt a perfect masterpiece like the first 
 Knights of the Old Republic, but it certainly is an amazing game. 
  
  The basic gameplay structure isn't too different from the first Knights of the Old Republic, although 
 it does improve in some ways. Different lightsaber combat modes are introduced in The Sith Lords 
 as well as an new swoop racing format. Which I must say is pretty confusing. Instead of having 
 your weapon constantly out, you can now switch weapons with your "off hand" which is a plus.
  
  Also all new lightsaber colors are available, my favorite is Cyan. The basic storyline is also 
 great with an all new climatic twist, which made the first one such a hit. Some familiar characters 
 are seen such as HK-47, Carth Onasi, and Bastilla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Telmo_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  There are two ways you can play this game. You can either choose to have your attack sequence interrupted 
 as you fight (real-time fighting) or you could decide on a freeze-time to choose your next action. 
 Either way it isn't a turn-based style RPG but still a very good one. 
  There were a good amount of skills and items you obtained / earned throughout your travels. 
 
  As with all RPG's they always have that one thing that stands out from the rest and for K. O. T. O. R. II 
 it is the ability to choose your destiny. As you embark on your adventure you get to choose certain 
 scenario's that will determine what will happen next. There were many characters to choose from 
 with different abilities but the game is so unique that you can even end up killing off prospective 
 allies that you could have used later in battle. Almost everything you do will affect the others 
 around you.
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Since the original Knights Of The Old Republic was titled Game Of The Year by many different 
 publications, KOTOR II had some very big shoes to fit. Fortunately, it lives up to both the name 
 Star Wars and Knights Of The Old Republic.
  
  Set 4,000 years before the events of the Star Wars movies, KOTOR II gives you the freedom to gradually 
 turn to either the light or dark side, as you learn new force powers and gain more coloured crystals 
 for your lightsaber. The gameplay is superb, combining role playing and adventure with a hint of 
 Star Wars as you journey through familiar planets such as Tatooine and Dantooine. There is a wide 
 variety of weapons such as blasters, swords and lightsabers. Every character in the game has been 
 brought to life with highly skilled voice acting.
  
  Because KOTOR II uses the same graphics engine as the original, the character models sometimes 
 look slightly dated, but for the most part, the graphics look brilliant. The new dynamic lighting 
 system causes shadows to move realistically, while sparks of sword clashes bounce off the ground. 
 You and your party members hair flow freely as you stumble through long grass and mountains of 
 snow.
  
  There are, however, a few bugs that can prevent the player from continuing the story. You will 
 have to reload your save games to fix these but for the most part, the bugs stay out of the way. 
 The story is certainly above average from most games, but compared to the original, it isnt as 
 firm or as moving. Overall I think the original was better and the characters were also much more 
 likeable than in KOTOR II.
  
  In the end, it all comes down to if you like Roleplaying games, and Star Wars, and if you do, this 
 games a treat, even if it is a bit bugged.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II The Sith Lords is the sequel to the award winning game 
 Knights of the Old Republic. The game has pretty similar gameplay but just doesn't live up to the 
 originals standards. The graphics are okay, nothing truely great. The sound i pretty good, you 
 hear all the lightsaber and blaster noises. The game itself kind of gets glitchy sometimes. Actually 
 it gets pretty bad and has crashed my computer a couple times. Overall the game is okay, since 
 it has been a couple of years it is probably pretty cheap, so if you see lying on the shelves you 
 could pick it up and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgtmwilson
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 was more like an add-on rather than an entirely seperate game. The new force powers and 
 some new character interfaces make it worth playing. There were alot of bugs that I did not experience 
 in the original. And after I installed the patch it didn't seem to fix much. Some were so bad that 
 my game became impossible to win halfway through. Some of the new feature like being able to convert 
 a team member into a Jedi were innovative. It is still easier to play as a Dark Jedi, simply because 
 your force powers are more offensive in nature. !! The final showdown was a big let down !! Overall 
 though, it was worth it if you enjoyed the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OreoGamerNE
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  If you have played this game's predecessor, you probably liked it a lot (if not you have serious 
 gaming issues) . If you have not played it, I recommend that you play the first one all the way 
 through before you play this one. If you don't, this game gets a lot more confusing. There are 
 a lot of great things about this game like the unique combat mode and the the many decisions the 
 gameplay has you make. You can follow the ways of the Jedi or the Sith juust like the first one. 
 The gameplay has many twists to the plot and lots of hard spots just like KOTOR 1. The major difference 
 is the characters. They are not as likable as Carth and Bastila n the first one. In this one, Atton 
 is a dimwit, Kreia is strikingly weird, and Bao-Dur is just annoying. There are a lot of better 
 weapons, upgrades, feats, and force powers in this one, however, not all of them are better. The 
 game is still fun altogether, but it doesn't live up to all it should be; being after the first 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMind
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  I know we allll hate the fact that it's incomplete, but still, it's a wonderful game! Wait! I can 
 re-enforce that! :P Meeting old characters again, even if briefly, finding out what happens next 
 is a big thing to most people like me who enjoy story more then gameplay. Cutscenes are wonderful, 
 and the humor is still there, albeit a little dry at times. The open-endedness of the game is the 
 one thing that most people will love. The very fact you can be "dark or Light" may be a cheesy 
 line but it can effect many things in the game, and create new experiences with each play through!
 
  Now as far as the last fourth of the game, it becomes obvious this was rushed to make it into 
 the stores by X-Mas, but thanks to many organizations out there, and the very fact it's a PC game 
 as well, there is the option of "modding" the game to it's completed state, or what some believe 
 the completed state is. If you ask the manufacture / programmers they will say "Like a movie, some 
 was left on the cutting room floor" but most of us know the real truth behind it :) But to each 
 their own, it's worth a try if your not a star wars fan, becuase it is a story in it'self and explains 
 it well for non-SWers and if you ARE a fan (like me) it's a must have despite it's short comings 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Well 1 year ago i started playing Kotor. I was a year late into the fold, i had heard that the 
 game was good, so the first chance to buy it i did. I was pleased, and i replayed 4 over a year, 
 untill febuary 2005. 
  I had found Kotor II, and let me tell you i was disapointed at first. The game had gotten "orgianal 
 is better" reviews, and it takes at least 2 hours to really get into it. The first level is pretty 
 much for atarts. But then it starts to heat up. The story lacks that sense of good and evil are 
 not visible. Just the sense of emptiness in this game is inspiring to find out why a starwars game 
 is so depressing. So the feeling is great. The gameplay is identical to the orginal, so no new 
 review there. the sound is classic starwars goodness. the graphics are good for an rpg, that isnt 
 wow. replayabilty is a factor too because of the good/evil branching. over all i like this game 
 better than the orginal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is a good follow up to the smash hit 
 Knights of the Old Republic. The game picks up about five years after the first one and contains 
 a story that is mostly its own. It is designed by a new company, Obsidian, since Bioware moved 
 on to do Jade Empire. While the game crafts a good story and it goes a long way to adding to this 
 timeline in the Star Wars universe, you will feel cheated by the end of the game.
  
  First off, you have to compliment Obsidian on the task at hand. This game had to follow up what 
 I consider to be one of the greatest PC games of all time. This is no small task to take on, but 
 seeing as the people at Obsidian worked on Planescape: Torment and other Black Isle projects, I 
 figured they could handle the weighty subject matter. In the story department, they do more than 
 adequetely. The story is meaty and tells gives you a wealth of information on the current state 
 of the republic and other characters from the previous game.
  
  Graphics are servicable and the game seems to use the same graphics engine as the first game. This 
 is not a bad thing, but it does keep the game looking a bit sparce at times. And the detail level 
 seems to be on the low side, even running at 1280x1024 at 32bit color with all details on. There 
 are some cllipping issues at times and I did come across a washed out palette once while saving 
 a game. The force effects seem a little sharper and there is a better framerate to the game now 
 that the engine is two years old.
  
  Sound wise, the game fills in quite well. The game obviously gets the luck of having the Skywalker 
 Sound labs to use all the Star Wars sounds and soundtrack. Also, the voice acting is top notch 
 and no one phones it in. The sounds and dialogue are a treat.
  
  So why is the score so low. Because the story leaves you hanging. The first half of the game is 
 slow paced and gives a lot of info. Then the game goes 100 miles an hour for another 5-10 hours 
 of gameplay and then just ends. it is a bit unsatisfying to say the least. I felt a bit cheated. 
 It was a disservice to push this game out the door so fast, but that is the way a Christmas release 
 brings to the industry. Another few months would of made this game spectacular. As it is, it feels 
 incomplete and while the story really makes up for a lot of its faults, it just ends. No real other 
 way to put it.
  
  So while I would definitely recommend the game to people that are out there, be aware that you 
 may finish the game scratching your head saying "Is that it?" Sadly, that is all there is to the 
 game. Better luck with the inevitable KOTOR 3. Hopefully Obsidian learns from their mistakes by 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakelim
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR 1) was so good and finished so well that it would've been difficult 
 to create a worthy sequel. Obsidion, however, didn't seem to play (or at least enjoy playing) the 
 game before designing the second. The beginning left me plain confused as the game introduced alot 
 of story that seemed to contradict with both the original game and the Star Wars universe as a 
 whole (such as describing Sith as Jedi) . Only much later on does the game explain itself, and some 
 things it leaves completely unresolved. You finish the first game as either Darth Revan returned 
 to conquerer of the universe or turned Jedi and saviour of the Galaxy. KOTOR 2 starts off with 
 you as completely different character without any of your powers (a pity, but dealable) , but with 
 alot of history since the first game, it seems. You are now "the outcast" who has rebeled against 
 the Jedi order and are now floating in space. You come across a shady hooded character called Kreia. 
 She is your make-shift mentor you find on the mining planet of Paragos. You end up destroying that 
 planet and entering a mission (having encountered the evil Darth Sion) to bring four remaining 
 Jedi Masters back to Dantooine to build an attack against the Sith. You must travel to Dantooine, 
 Nar Shaddar, Korriban and Onderon. There lies the game's major fault -there are only a total of 
 four new planets to explore in KOTOR 2, in comparison to six in KOTOR 1. Two planets are merely 
 the same maps as in KOTOR 1 with different objectives. These planets aren't in the least bit interesting 
 as you've already explored them if you played the first game. You end up facing the Sith Lords 
 to rule the Galaxy (or save it) , and there are more than you think. At the end, however, you are 
 left completely unsatisfied. The reason? - there is no ending. You simply drift off into space 
 before the credits come up. Talk about unresolved. In fact, it sums up the game as an unworthy 
 sequel to the legendary KOROR 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyLeviticus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  Well this is the sequel to the game of 2003. This game was really good but it lacked quite a few 
 things, first of all I my self was expecting a lot from this game since the first one was so perfect. 
 Well first of I was expecting quite a epic ending but unfornatly that did no happen which led to 
 my major disappoinment, I say the ending is quite crappy, and the fights that you do against the 
 Sith are quite laggy but apart from that its quite a great story. Obsidian needed to do quite a 
 bit more work on it. Also there was also quite a bit of cut content left out of the game that only 
 ended up on the cutting room floor that I believe a lot of people would've prefered then the original 
 story line. Of course Obsidian was quite in a rush to get the game out for the 2004 Xmas rush so 
 they could all get their cash in thier pockets. i say the developer needed a lot more learning 
 for the game that was *surposed* to overtake its big brother. But of course hopfully the developer 
 if they decide to make KOTOR III could learn from their mistakes. apart from all that I love KOTOR 
 II and I would say it very good. I give it a 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PnoizeMD
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  i would like to say that it was the best game i played.. but the ending was not that good.. it 
 left many things hanging to the point that it became anticlimactic, it had all the potential of 
 bieng a great rpg but a great rpg shouldn't leave gamers with a  
 feeling" . i was told that maybe things was left hanging intentionally to make way for the next 
 sequel, well it seems to me that the developers just ran out of ideas as the game was at its most 
 exciting parts, but hey its only me, but if it really was done intentionally for the sequel well 
 it worked, i cant wait for kotor 3 to come out just to know what happens next. however despite 
 my issues with kotor 2 i did enjoy the game, the graphics although similar to kotor 1 is still 
 good, the musical score is still great. i would recommend this game to both rpg gamers and sw fans. 
 its a good game save the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game takes off after the first KotOR left, and has also had many improvements along the way 
 which I very much welcomed, and technically it surpasses the first game in every respect, but sadly, 
 the horrible deadline given to Obsidian meant that huge chunks of the game were cut just make Christmas 
 sales, as well as it having it's fair share of bugs. But the fact that it's still a very playable 
 game in that condition proves what a great game it could have and should have been.
  
  Gameplay:
  Anyone who played the first KotOR should feel right at home, in addition to larger 
 buttons and generally better interface, some new things such as the ability to create things out 
 of chemicals and components are a nice feature, and the touted influence system can lead to different 
 relationships and interesting conversations for several replays of the game, as well as making 
 you think of your responses and really getting to know your fellow characters. There are new force 
 powers and animations as well as aliens who didn't have much of a showing in the first game having 
 significant roles this time, such as the Quarren and Ithorians. Alien voices were also redone and 
 have more variety. The upgrading system has also had a major overhaul and you can choose amoung 
 many variants of upgrade types that now have disadvantages as well as advantages. There are also 
 more lightsaber upgrades that don't just involve the power crystals, and different lightsaber forms 
 best for fighting certain enemies.
  
  The story isn't as good as the first game though, there are no shocking plot twists or revelations. 
 But because of the cut content, a lot of the story didn't make sense, and unfortunately, the storyline 
 suffers most at the end of the game, where sudenly it sems that all your bonding and character 
 development just goes flying out the window, you fight your way to the boss and then the credits 
 roll. A shame.
  
  Graphics:
  KotOR2 might not be up there with Far Cry and Doom 3, but the graphics are still nice to look at.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound was very well done, especially the music which was nice to listen to and appropriate 
 for the occasion in the game. The voice acting was excellent.
  
  Value:
  For a single player game, KotOR2 has a large amount of replay value, attributed mostly to the lightside/darkside 
 paths, different jedi classes and the items you'll pick up being random every time. Even in it's 
 incomplete stage, you'll get a decent amount of hours from this title.
  
  Bottom Line:
  Star wars fans will definately appreciate this game as well as RPG players. It's truley a shame 
 that Obsidian never got a chance to finish what they made, but there's still a good deal of enjoyment 
 to get out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  Testing machine:
  PIV 3.0@3.2GHZ 800FSB
  1GB DDR400 PC3200 
  ATI AIW X800XT 256MB 
  
  Note: Already many reviews analyzed graphics, sounds and music. This review will again cover these 
 important parts of the game, but will more deeply cover the storyline and gameplay to see if it 
 is worth playing for KOTOR players and the others. Be warned, the review contains spoilers from 
 KOTOR. I minimized any spoiler damage from The Sith Lords, but if you didnt play the first 
 KOTOR, I suggest you dont lose your time reading this or playing The Sith Lords and go right 
 ahead. I did read many reviews before buying it, and none of them covered parts that really interested 
 me. Hopefully this one will.
  
  The Sith Lords had big shoes to fill indeed, The Knights of the Old Republic developed by 
 Bioware was an incredible game that truly stands as the best Star Wars game ever, scoring better 
 than the Jedi Knight series , Rebel Assault and its latest MMORPG, Star Wars Galaxies, that in 
 my opinion, failed miserably. KOTOR was not only good by its graphics and its incredible 
 voice acting, but also because of its amazing breathtaking storyline. Unfortunately, The Sith Lords 
 succeeds in recreating this feeling only partially, but still with great success. 
  
  A lot is to be said about the graphics. First of all, ATI users, if you thought Obsidian would 
 have fixed the engine problems, you can always keep dreaming. You will face many FPS drops. I had 
 to Google the problem to find unofficial solutions I actually found two, and will share 
 them with you in this review. The first, you can add the following line in the swkotor2. ini file 
 under graphic options: Disable Vertex Buffer Objects=1. It did not do the job for everyone, some 
 had to downgrade to Catalyst 4.11 or 4.12 to make it work. The game will also slowdown after long 
 playtime, around three hours. This can be solved by disabling and re-enabling Frame Buffer to flush 
 the cache. Hopefully these two tricks will make your experience better. It is important to mention 
 that my machine ran Half Life 2 at highest details and 1620x1024 flawlessly. These graphic bugs 
 have nothing to do with your specs, but rather how badly the engine is built. As for the quality 
 of the graphics, they are good, but they do not standup to the latest shooters. You will find few 
 differences between KOTOR and The Sith Lords. More detailed shadows and lightning effects are noticeable, 
 but beyond this point, nothing revolutionary. 
  
  Again, voice acting was carefully taken care of, and The Sith Lords stands on the same level as 
 KOTOR regarding this particular aspect. You will find many characters to interact with and will 
 never hear the same voice. Again, The Sith Lords beautifully recreated the Star Wars Universe, 
 and you will no doubt feel yourself immersed. On this level, The Sith Lords is flawless. You will 
 hear many known Star Wars music themes and new original compositions that stick well in the background.
 
  
  Moving on the most important aspect of all, the gameplay and its storyline. In the very beginning, 
 you will wake up, again with amnesia, not knowing what the hell happened to you. Yes, yes  
 very original ! The events that happened between KOTOR and The Sith Lords are reported to you through 
 dialogues with your party members or NPC. Basically, to make the story short, Revan just disappeared 
 and nobody knows where the hell he is. You will hear many speculations about this throughout the 
 game, but you will never truly learn what really happened. This probably has to do with the fact 
 that Obsidian removed a big chunk of the storyline so the XBOX version could make it for the holidays 
 2004. Rest assured that it doesnt reflect so much as other people have said The Sith 
 Lords storyline is still highly significant even if it suffered some losses. 
  
  Most importantly, this time, you start as a Jedi. However, even then, The Sith Lords start slower 
 than KOTOR. Therefore, you will have to be patient before you can start chopping heads off with 
 your lightsaber, as you receive it only later in the game. You still get Force Powers though, so 
 choking your foes is still part of the fun even in the very beginning! I was really looking forward 
 to see HK-47 back, and he is! You can expect more meatbags remarks and jokes from your most trusting 
 Assassination droid make sure to ask him the definition of love, itll crack you up 
 ! TM-34 is also back, but the list stops there. You will still be able to learn about Bastila, 
 Canderous and the others throughout the game, but very little. I found the interaction between 
 party members to be much more superficial than in KOTOR, and their personal storyline is much more 
 shallow, too. This wont affect you too much if youre not into the dialogue thingie, 
 but if you are looking for profound interaction with your party members you will be disappointed. 
 
  
  Many new additions in The Sith Lords pleased me. Notably, many new force powers, and the best of 
 all, Prestige classes. When you have reach a certain point in either the Light or Dark side and 
 got to level 15, you will have the possibility to choose a Prestige Class. They are the same as 
 the Jedi classes (guardian, sentinel, consular) but you receive special items very, very 
 cool special items. For example, I started the game as a Jedi Guardian, went to the dark side, 
 and went with the Sith Lord prestige class (equivalent of Consular) . Therefore, I can wield a lightsaber 
 like a true fighter and handle the force like a true Sith Lord. This is really fun, as you can 
 make many mixes, and you dont have to feel like youre missing something because you 
 limited yourself to the lightsaber, or only to the force, or too little of the two together. Robes 
 and lightsabers received many cool upgrades. The Dark Lord of the Sith Robe that you receive with 
 the Sith Lord prestige class is truly awesome. There are new lightsaber colors and tilts and the 
 robes are now moving when you run. For each prestige class, you will receive crystals, a robe and 
 a lightsaber of each type. Finally, many new additions to The Sith Lords will make you forget its 
 flaws.
  
  As for the storyline itself, I found it to be very intriguing, but I was disappointed with the 
 ending. You do learn about the guy on the cover with the mask, but his story is somewhat superficial. 
 There are no real plot twists like in KOTOR in the Sith Lords, unfortunately. Perhaps there were 
 some in the original scenario. Hopefully, Obsidian will release patches with the original content. 
 The game has a good replay value, minimum two times of course for each side. 
  
  All in all, The Sith Lords is a great game altogether. Clearly, it doesnt stand to KOTORs 
 quality, but still achieves to recreate the atmosphere. Any Star Wars fans will enjoy The Sith 
 Lords, even if they played the first KOTOR. In my opinion, playing this game without having played 
 KOTOR is futile, anyway. I am uncertain to how non Star Wars fan will welcome this game 
 the ultimate test would be to try KOTOR before. In conclusion, if you are tolerant enough to accept 
 some minor, some big bugs, you will enjoy The Sith Lords for sure. It is a great game, that will 
 allow you to revisit the great atmosphere of the first KOTOR. Keep your expectations to an acceptable 
 level (meaning, under KOTORs level) and you will enjoy countless hours of fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenaltom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the original KOTOR, where Wookies were your cuddly friends, the Sith Lords' Wookies would 
 gladly bite your face off. Because everything about KOTOR 2 seems to have been ravaged by the Dark 
 Side. If KOTOR 2 had Ewoks, they'd be waving red lightsabers around. You'd expect this sequel to 
 follow the example set by The Empire Strikes Back, making everything that much darker and more 
 sinister. KOTOR 2 goes beyond dark; it makes The Empire Strikes Back look like a Care Bear slumber 
 party.
  
  From the beginning, you're on the run, hunted mercilessly by the Sith who believe you to be the 
 last Jedi. Across planets, cities, and asteroid fields - where ever you turn, the Sith are there. 
 But unlike the original, there is barely a moment to stand and fight, let alone build a lightsaber. 
 The first third of the game is breathless; a real hum-dinger that, at times, threatens to get frustrating. 
 When all you'd love to do is duel with Sith, you're armed with just a bag of rocks. It's a risk 
 for the developer to introduce such a bold idea to have you defenceless for so long. But when you 
 finally create that first lightsaber, you'll fall in love with the game all over again. Because 
 now you're ready to start investigating this intriguing and devastatingly clever story.
  
  Your crew is still half-assembled but unlike the Getalong Gang from the first game, this lot would 
 pummel your face for a pie. As well as fighting off Sith, there are times when the party itself 
 comes to blows. Which is where the new 'party influence' aspect kicks in.
  
  
  continues... "You're on the run, hunted mercilessly by the Sith" 
  
  Depending how you treat 
 a character, their opinion of you will rise or fall. Treat them mean, and they'll in turn act meaner. 
 Help them, or listen to their fears, and they'll see you as a kindly mentor, making your good-side 
 points hit the roof. But be careful; there are deep, dark issues this time around, and even the 
 smallest gesture directly affects your team's fate. Minutes after a refugee accepts credits from 
 you, for example, he's murdered for his cash. 
  
  As the mystery of KOTOR 2 unravels, so does the galaxy. New planets include Telos, a war-ravaged 
 place being rebuilt from colony above it, Jedi academy planet Dantooine (again having felt the 
 effect of the Sith) and a monstrous new planet called Onderon along with its moon Dxun. That's 
 not to mention an obliterated planet called Peragus, Sith home world Korriban and refugee world 
 Nar Shaddaa. And there's a couple of others we're keeping under our sleeves. The galaxy may have 
 expanded, but it's not a light-hearted universe to explore. Every planet visited is in a sorry 
 state and is packed with peril. These bleak, uninviting planets all have more than a touch of the 
 dark side about them. Call us sentimental, but at least one familiar planet from the movies would 
 have been nice. Then, to add to the misery, there are the Sith Lord themselves, who are so dark 
 side they virtually swallow light. 
  
  The cast of bad guys include Darth Sion, Darth Nihilus, numerous assassins, killer droids, shadowy 
 figures, and 'other' Darths far nastier than Malak ever was. Such is their evil power, there's 
 not a lot you can do to fight the stronger characters. You cannot specifically train in any new 
 Force power, for example, because you simply don't know the shape of the threat that awaits. Hoping 
 to avoid Sith detection and make the best the new force powers seems like the best strategy. Abilities 
 such as Force Scream, Force Revitalise, or KOTOR's Battle Meditation seem to have the greatest 
 clout, but physical attributes really pack a wallop.
  
  When you rank as either a Sith or Jedi Master, you'll find yourself on the other side of the equation, 
 striking down enemies before they know it. Electricity crackles around you as you unleash volley 
 after volley of strikes, your powers cranked up considerably because of the games' improved work 
 bench sections. Everything from lightsabers to medipacs can be broken down on the handy benches 
 and remade into grenades, mines, or upgrades. Similarly, chemicals can be conjured up on lab benches 
 to create all new medipacs or antidotes
  
  Despite the handy new Force powers and upgraded attacks, the core of KOTOR 2 is still relatively 
 untouched from the original, save for the darker, slightly superior storyline. Developer Obsidian 
 has indeed added new features, but more would have been welcomed, such as the ability to choose 
 human and non-human Jedi body models. 
  
  What Obsidian has done is wise, though. KOTOR's strength isn't in new blasters or stronger shields, 
 but in the story. And it's this that is the clincher. What the sequel lacks in originality is more 
 than compensated for by the undeniably darker tone and plot. It may be something of a retelling, 
 and fans of the first game will easily slip once more into the KOTOR world and workings, but it's 
 a sequel wrapped in barbed wire.
  
  Don't expect an easy ride just because you know what you're doing. From the opening scene to the 
 final, cataclysmic end, KOTOR 2 sucks you in, chews you up, and spits you out the other end. Despite 
 being a parallel to the original, this is a is a superb sequel if ever we saw one.
  
  But be warned, prepare for a disapointing ending. A very disapointing ending!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  || KOTOR II ||
  
  Millions of Star Wars fans have been begging for a decent game based on the franchise, but unfortunately, 
 other than Rogue Squadron on the N64 the franchise has been shelved as one of those infamous movie-to-game 
 games. After many prayers, a miracle with the name of Knights of the Old Republic made its way 
 to consoles and PCs and proved that Star Wars could be a great game and it doesn't have to involve 
 Obi Wan. 
  
  KOTOR II was bound to come, not because of a cliffhanger ending but rather from a seemingly incomplete 
 story despite the length of the first KOTOR. So how does chapter 2 live up to the great game of 
 last year? Quite a lot actually.
  
  | Gameplay
  
  Since the first one had a surprisingly successful gameplay formula, Obsidian decided not to change 
 a lot for the second part. While this has a lot of merits, it certainly has a lot of drawbacks 
 as well. First of all, if you didn't like the system in the first one then certainly you wouldn't 
 like it here, and vice versa as well. 
  
  You start off choosing your character to be tormented for the next 40 hours, his or her class and 
 then you customize the skills and your qualities however you wish, trying to keep in mind what 
 goes best with your character class. It's a good start but may seem overwhelming, and having to 
 do it for all your characters at level up can get tedious, but you always have the auto option 
 to do it for you whenever you feel like.
  
  The menus are still neat yet extremely complex, with a detailed line after line of information 
 on each and every single item you acquire in the game. It can get extremely tedious for the casual 
 gamer, and you'd tend to experiment without reading; but for the hardcore all this information 
 can come quite handy when you want to equip. 
  
  The Journal is most likely the most useful submenu you'd find in the game, and it details all your 
 quests, what you have done and any changes that have happened while you are in progress. It's extremely 
 useful especially with all the stuff you can do, and it can come quite handy if you haven't played 
 for a while and you need to refresh your memory. 
  
  The quests themselves vary in length, some can be achieved within 15-30 minutes of gaming while 
 others can take up to several hours and span multiple planets. Some of them are optional and can 
 be skipped altogether, but it is very enjoyable to complete them and you are usually rewarded with 
 a great deal of items and credits, and certainly light or dark points depending on how sadistic 
 you decide to be.
  
  With sadism in mind, the game certainly has its charm by forcing you to make choices all the way 
 from the very beginning to the very end, and you feel that you are forging your own destiny with 
 the light or dark side, or even a bit of both, while playing. Would you like to free the refugees 
 by talking to the guards? Or would you rather kill the guards for the refugees? How about killing 
 hte refugees instead? The choices are very open and how strong your character is aligned with either 
 extreme to the force affects a whole lot of decisions and options. And apparently, your class, 
 persuade and awareness points make a huge amount of difference in dragging information out of people 
 and in opening up many other conversational options that won't be otherwise available.
  
  | Story
  
  One of the drawbacks in KOTOR II is the familiar feeling of "no real story" that 
 is present in the original game. The game is basically composed of quite a handful of sub-stories 
 that pave your way into your force alignment, but basically the main story is quite minimal and 
 it presents itself profoundly only in the finale. So instead of feeling quite grand at the end 
 by itself in the end, you feel that the main story strongly depends on how much you finished the 
 subquests and how much information you got with your shrewness; so the more you skip conversations 
 the more you feel left out near the end. It is a double-edged sword, but somehow after 40 hours 
 or so of gaming you expect how everything will turn out regardless of your choices. Despite having 
 direct yet subtle connections to Malak and Revan 1000 years previously, it is a new game in the 
 story department and is rewarding if you give it the time and the patience.
  
  Overall it is an excellent sequel to an already excellent game, but with both of them being almost 
 identical you get the exact goods and bads from the first game with an extra couple in both departments. 
 If you liked the first one, you'll like this, otherwise if you're not willing to sit for 40 hours 
 and wonder how everything connects then steer clear and pick up something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, when compared to such PC RPG greats like Fallout or Planescape: Torment, Knights 
 of the Old Republic just didn't get it in in so many ways. It relied on disembodies arms that just 
 so happened to carry a datapad with vital game information way too many times. Or their being a 
 broken down war droid just waiting at the entrance of a level. Almost all quests were the Fed-ex 
 variety, and with the exception of the wonderfully original HK-47, the characters were remarkably 
 flat and hackneyed.
  
  Now enter Obsidian, with some of the best minds behind Planescape: Torment and Fallout 2. Could 
 such a team screw up an RPG? No, but not having enough time to make one did. This game has an incredible 
 amount of bugs, making some swoop races unwinnable. Furthermore, the end game segments are so disjointed 
 and lacking, its like skipping all the even pages while reading a book. Then there is the combat, 
 which on its surface would seem to be as well done as it was last game, but as the game progresses, 
 its deep, inherent flaw reveals itself: combat is way too easy. This is true even on the hardest 
 difficulty setting. This is a real shame, since a lot of the improvements made in this sequel are 
 minimized by this fact.
  
  And there were improvements made. Take interaction among the PCs. In the original, every time you 
 leveled up, the game would force you to have a conversation with one of the other PCs in your party. 
 This conversation would open up a quest for them eventually, but thats it. Now, conversations are 
 either initiated by the player or by specific events, making them far less generic. And these conversations 
 can actually lead to bonuses. Take your professional droid. During conversations you can ask to 
 upgrade him. If your influence with the droid is high enough, he lets you either use your repair 
 or computer skill on him, which in turn can increase his constitution or intelligence permanently. 
 In other characters, interaction will actually allow them to change their class to Jedi. Talking 
 to the games most prominent PC besides your actual avatar can allow you to change your class to 
 one of 6 new prestige classes, including Sith Lord and Jedi Master.
  
  The PCs are also a lot more diverse. Every one has some unique feats that make them appealing to 
 use, instead of just how you level them up. One character can fire rockets and darts from her wrist. 
 Another will revitalize himself if he isn't knocked down last. Then one has a special unarmed attack 
 that disables enemy energy shields. You get the idea. Furthermore, every play through will have 
 two character unacessible (obviously not the same two every time) depening on your gender and your 
 good/evil alignment. Then there is one more optional character, who is still plenty easy to get: 
 HK-47. Fans no doubt wanted to see more of him, and it is a bold or stupid developer who doesn't 
 listen to fans.
  
  This game also features truly customizable weapons. In the original game, only lightsabers were 
 truly customizable. The rest were just items that could be given bonuses. Now you can use repair 
 tables to make a plethora of new modifications that can be applied to almost any weapon or armor. 
 And a good portion of these mods come with some disadvantage to make you really think about your 
 choices. So, you turn a normal vibroblade into an ion enhanced driod destroyer. But then again, 
 combat is just so easy, why bother? Furthermore, there are just so many random items floating around, 
 you'll almost always have enough components to make the items you want. So, there really isn't 
 many "guns or butter" decisions to be made.
  
  As far as quests goes, I found them to be a remarkable improvement, also. While there are still 
 plenty of fetch quests, there is enough variety to keep a veteran CRPG player interested. Like 
 trying to figure out how to prove an NPCs innocence, or finding ways to remove loyalist guards 
 from their posts. This game is longer, too. It should take 40+ hours to beat it your first time 
 through, which is a nice change from the current trend of 12 hour games.
  
  Is this game as good as those legends of the past: such as Fallout? No, not by a long shot. But 
 it was decidingly better RPG then the original, and gives me a lot of hope for the upcoming Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 and whatever else Obsidian decides to do, provided their publishers realize a good RPG 
 needs more than 18 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacon10210
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is very similar, and yet different from its predacessor. 
 Unfortunately it has the same rediculous load times as the last one which can be extremely annoying. 
 The great story is one of the few things that bails this game out.
  
  Like i said just before, KOTOR 2 has an excellent story line bringing you to many different planets 
 and meeting many different people. The number of computer characters in the game is amazing as 
 many of them have their own very distinct personalities. Your party members will even react to 
 each other and other people in the environment based on whats happening in the game (well mostly 
 by what situations you run into) .
  
  Also, you can gain influence with other characters in the game though acts and conversations with 
 them. This will cause them to either drift away from you or follow you on what path you take. For 
 example, if you have a high influence with Atton and you go to the dark side, Atton will become 
 dark as well. 
  
  The story is one of the most in depth, excellent ones i know. However, this is hurt by the load 
 times and repetative gameplay. The situations may change, but the gameplay is basically the same. 
 (the removal of a level limit helps but its all the same anyway) a few new feats and force powers 
 help but like i just said, it gets repetative. The load times are rediculous. You have to load 
 everytime you enter and leave your ship, and enter and leave basically every area. Its a good game, 
 but this partially ruins it. 
  
  Overall Kotor 2 is like Kotor's older brother. Its better, but essentially the same. If you like 
 Kotor 1 and want a new story, buy this game (because its too long to complete on a rent) , but if 
 you want a fast paced RPG, you may want to look else where.
  
  Do not let the load times scare you. If your a Kotor owner, the load and save times are essentially 
 the same. For the rest of you the common load time is about 45 seconds from the main screen and 
 around 38 seconds in game to in game (yes i timed it) . it may vary from area to area but i dont 
 wanna test that out, it would take an eternity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  KOTOR II is the debut game to be developed by Obsidian Entertainment, the company formed by former 
 Black Isle employees Chris Avellone, Feargus Urquhart, most notably among others. At their heyday 
 manning the RPG production team at Interplay, they were the creative force behind such classics 
 like Planescape: Torment and Icewind Dale.
  
  KOTOR itself has been lingering in the minds of many gamers who clamored to be part of the Star 
 Wars universe, roleplaying the character cutting a swath through the galaxy indulging on the open 
 possibilities of upholding the light side of the Force as a Jedi or the tempting dark side as a 
 Sith. Ever since KOTOR has availed itself an ample opportunity to further extend its engrossing 
 story, the release of the second installment had been one of the most surefire bets in the industry 
 and anticipated by many.
  
  KOTOR represented an overall good roleplaying experience, but disappointing execution in porting 
 from Xbox and a score of technical issues hampered its transition from its console origins to PC. 
 Furthermore, the rather ham-fisted linearity of its plot upon which a string of tired conventions 
 of RPG are trotted out to dry, even in some daring misinterpretations of the Star Wars universe 
 (a Wookie ceremonial blade being more than a match for a lightsaber) , made for a game that only 
 a marketable license based on the Star Wars could buoy to the status and gravitas it currently 
 enjoys among the roleplaying fans, regardless of platform. However, it cannot be denied of the 
 role it had in invigorated the genre, and it presented an excellent opportunity for console gamers 
 to finally appreciate what Bioware has meant for numerous PC gamers and its mammoth stature built 
 upon releasing high profile games after games. I for one would not have it any other way than this 
 high profile RPG title to be developed by none other than a developer of considerable repute, loaded 
 with experience.
  
  So a lot of Biowarians (fans of Bioware) were uneasy about the handing of the torch to Obsidian, 
 however that ironically has been one of the reasons that I ever was awaiting for the release of 
 the game in the first place. I was interested in how the upstart developer would differ from Bioware 
 in their approach in leaving their creative footprints on the robust Star Wars universe. There 
 are some things that Obsidian has done to add to the depth of the gameplay over the original, but 
 all in all, KOTOR II is surprisingly similar, both aesthetically and technically, to the original. 
 So much so, that it could have as well been called an expansion.
  
  The graphics of the game are more or less lifted directly from the original, despite minimal additions 
 of new race models and robes, improvements in facial features, and consistent texture quality. 
 However, the levels feel constricted and suffer from dearth of interaction. In the end, they fall 
 short of lending very convincing sense of immersion to the settings that they are supposed to lend 
 convincing flair and realism. Take Nar Shaddars refugee section, for example, and compare that 
 location supposedly teeming with poverty and desperation to another place of similar disposition, 
 namely the Under City of Taris that was featured in the first series. The immediate observation 
 of whether the definition of poverty has somehow unequivocally taken to be synonymous of being 
 just empty will occur to your more than once. On the aside, there are some neat, underused weather 
 effects such as falling snow on the arctic regions of Telos, but overall sense of wonder that should 
 be afforded by the inclusion of new planets and expanded playable locations is replaced by that 
 galling sense of dj vu.
  
  The graphics engine has been transferred all the nagging incompatibility and non-compliancy with 
 the ATI hardware, and even the animations of depicting certain feats seem to be have been recycled. 
 The in game movies still have that low resolution grainy ported direct from Xbox feel, and meager 
 shader effects and eye candies are implemented few and far between (only on certain levels and 
 force power triggers) and set against that quaint aesthetics that oddly feel more relatively lacking 
 in visual fidelity now that the two years have passed since the first series, they look quite ordinary. 
 
  
  Furthermore, the game engine (Odyssey) , while retaining its humble origins eons ago, is not exactly 
 a model of efficiency. It may come as a surprise to many, but it does not seem to be as optimized 
 and polished even when compared to KOTOR, which itself proved to be a resource hog on some configurations 
 even when they exceeded the recommended specs. On the whole, the best complement that I can ever 
 give to the graphics is that it may appease the original fanbase and ease them into the game by 
 a sense of familiarity. On the other hand, Obsidian only had a fairly limited timeframe (13 months) 
 to develop this game, so it is understandable how the graphical facelift was placed on the lower 
 end in their developmental priority list.
  
  The battle system has been integrated in more or less the same manner as well. It is the same pseudo-continuous 
 turn based (or whatever youd choose from variety of monikers probably concocted by Bioware PR 
 department) with a queue of actions tagged from the action menu. It works quite well from the outset, 
 at least in conveying a sense of combat, but the overall lack of difference attributed to the playing 
 style between classes present in the game is sometimes glaring. There seems to be little distinction 
 in playing these classes even when actually gauging for any noticeable changes in combat. The gameplay 
 conventions that have to accommodate the classes seem either missing or sorely skewered to cater 
 to one possible type of gameplay style, one that of combat oriented. 
  
  Even the most physically deficient consular can opt to swing lightsabers directly into the foray 
 and expect to last more than a couple of rounds with allies in tow. The combat is very easy and 
 some of the force powers you acquire midway through the game (force wave and force lighting in 
 particular) can be spammed to no end to decimate the opponents, including bosses, in one turn (enemies 
 towards the end are placed in clusters to provide such opportunity frequently) . Every feat set 
 based on combat heap more advantages and rewards to already robust combat options until they become 
 absolute overkill (two weapons fighting for example) . On top of that, depending on class, youd 
 have more skill points than youd actually have a need for, and which translate actually into meaningful 
 gameplay features. That some of the overlaying combat mechanics are bugged (relating to armor and 
 force powers stacking if I am not mistaken) does not help matters conveying any semblance of challenge 
 that was in store even in minimal amounts in the first game of the series. 
  
  Interspersed among all the combat are occasions where interactions with your NPCs provide you with 
 ample opportunities for role-playing and progress of the overall plot. The NPCs in the game are 
 quite varied and also coming along for the ride are two droid characters from the first game, and 
 serve as points of reference that make the events transpired in the first game more relevant to 
 the proceedings one would encounter in the game. There are a couple of romantic interests from 
 both sides of the force and gender. Another interesting aspect of NPC interaction involves the 
 influence system where your alignment in the force can more or less affect the characteristics 
 of your party members to attain similar qualities. It does not affect all NPCs, but can work to 
 coerce them from both sides of the force or to augment if their alignment is compatible with yours. 
 Also, this influence effects are measured in degrees, accumulation of which can unlock new dialogue 
 options that further emphasize your relationship with them and can even develop them into your 
 true disciples.
  
  The story of KOTOR II, in a word, is engrossing. This is one of the few bright spots of the game 
 that compel gamers to follow the plot even enduring some of the conspicuous pitfalls. The one single 
 pivotal character who is unequivocally the main driving force of the games sprawling plot is Kreia, 
 whose dialogue is a more than an earful. Her often contentious discourse touches on such a variety 
 of topics, such as what a master would dispense in chiding a wayward and disillusioned padawan, 
 is on a whole different level from what I have seen in RPG recently, in fact even when compared 
 to the original source material conceived by the mind of Lucas himself. However, the player may 
 find Kreia to drone for what seems like forever in that irritating and obscure way that may present 
 her as an insufferable hostile. And the kind of depth that was provided for Kreia may work against 
 the players immersion during the interaction with other characters, some of whose range of behavior 
 and conversation topics are sadly lacking. The worst aspect of the story, and which unfortunately 
 made on me the lasting impression of the game, is its final arc. It just does not seem to contain 
 the kind of polish and design from the earlier sequence of the game. Using the word design to 
 describe the Sith academy level preceding the final sequence is a disservice to the craft of game 
 development. Here is a level where only power conscious players with force lightning or wave could 
 ever glean any form of enjoyment, even then only from demonstrating sheer destructive forces on 
 rows of rows of unchallenging fodders only placed to augment that feeling of power trip. To describe 
 this level as rushed or banal would be an understatement, right up to that inevitable ending 
 that utterly creaks at hinges just vainly gathering all loose ends up to that point and blowing 
 them to smithereens along with a planet. How Obsidian managed to cram in apparent hints to the 
 next sequel during all that ending fiasco is a great achievement in and of itself.
  
  There is no doubt that the rushed job was to make the holiday season from thanksgiving leading 
 up to Christmas, probably mandated by the LucasArts. This explains a plethora of gameplay and system 
 bugs and the general dearth of polish in many aspects of the game. In the games native state, 
 some of the areas suddenly developed these stuttering framerate anomalies that made traversing 
 these parts painfully disorientating. Some dialogues contained grammatical errors, loops (where 
 certain dialogue choices brought the conversation to the very beginning, with some prior choices 
 neither registered nor appearing) , and sometimes suffered this inexplicable acceleration bug where 
 the dialogues will fly by so fast unaccompanied by dubbing. Another setback is that while the game 
 soundtrack itself can be counted as being exceptional as is generally the case in any LucasArts 
 game, borrowing from a very resourceful archive of music scores and equally impressive sound facilities, 
 the entire music in KOTOR II has a low quality encoding that seriously dampens its aural proceedings. 
 This is exacerbated by the fact that the sound effects of the game seem to be entirely lifted from 
 KOTOR.
  
  KOTOR II overall is an epic RPG but I cannot shake off the feeling that the game could just as 
 well have been an expansion pack to the first game of the series. Almost every aspect of the game, 
 including but not limited to the level design, sound effects, character models and such, despite 
 the claims of improvements across every category from the publisher and developer, have not managed 
 to depart that far from its predecessor, if not entirely worsening in some cases. Its plot does 
 advance and envelop the entire Revan saga into a greater context, setting up for what seems to 
 be the final chapter of another Star Wars trilogy. Only that time at the helm of its development, 
 I can only hope that Obsidian will acquire enough resources and time to see through to the end 
 of their original vision of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThE_MuTiLaToR
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) 2: The Sith Lords is the long anticipated sequel to Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) , winner of around 50 Game of the Year Awards by many different 
 publications. Is this a very fun and immersive game experience? Yes it is. Does the game live up 
 to its predecessor? No it does not. 
  
  When you first run the game and are led through the Ebon Hawk tutorial, you will notice the superb 
 presentation of the game, from the trademark Star Wars text at the beginning to the detailed features 
 of the damaged Ebon Hawk, including sparking circuts and broken pieces of the ship's hull laying 
 scattered about the floor. It is here where I encountered my first (but certainly not only) bug 
 of the game. I was presented with a strange invisible wall that would not let me into the port 
 dormitory. Interesting. 
  
  As I emerged from the tutorial victorious and encountered my main character, named after me of 
 course ;) , I encountered my second bug. After collecting chemicals and a couple of medpacs, I opened 
 the door to the morgue. I collected my plasma sword and watched as Kreia rose from the dead to 
 confront me. And then, nothing. Somehow while I was watching Kreia, someone had ambushed and asassinated 
 me from behind! The whole game was a trap! No, not quite. The game had in fact frozen with a black 
 screen and I was forced to unplug my computer and restart from the beginning.
  
  This is an example of one of the many, seemingly random freezes I would come across in this game 
 because apparently, Obsidian hates ATI and made it so that the game would not run well with my 
 Radeon 9700. Other bugs I would encounter include Bao Dur duplicating almost infinitely before 
 my eyes, and Hanharr seemingly grabbing at Mira's crotch.
  
  The reason I have brought up the bugs so early in the game is because of the sheer multitude of 
 them that will significantly mar gameplay. But once you work around the bugs, you will find a game 
 that is well worth the trouble.
  
  The gameplay in this game is excellent and has turned me, an rpg scorn, into a liker of the genre. 
 Combat is fluid and smooth and apart from the repeating animations, is nice to watch. It is fun 
 to issue orders to the party and watch as they dice up the enemy with force and lightsaber combos. 
 It is also loads of fun to choose which line of conversation I want to say and how the npcs will 
 react to it (dark side of course) . With the addition of the influence system, which is unfortunately 
 also full of bugs, and the weapon upgrade system the gameplay is a fun and fulfilling experience.
 
  
  This game is admittedly running on a dated engine. The Odyssey engine, which was old when it first 
 came out, can not produce decent graphics. They are good enough for the style of game, with fluid 
 lip animations and nice body and weapon styling, but do not live up to the class of newer games. 
 The framerate also deserves a mention for being very bad and very choppy at times, especially on 
 Dantooine.
  
  The sound in this game is superb. With a perfect blend of Star Wars themed music by John Williams 
 and music specifically composed for the game, the game sounds great. It is a great experience when 
 I am wandering in a corridor and lonely, quiet music is playing, but I see an enemy and the music 
 suddenly speeds up to accentuate the encounter. The voice acting in this game is also very good, 
 if not as good as the first. Bao Dur is annoying as hell to listen to and Darth Sion sounds cheesy, 
 but Kreia is perfectly played as mysterious and manipulative, and Visas is very well played too.
 
  
  Overall, this is a very fun game to get into, if you can work around the bugs, and [spoiler] the 
 disappointing ending [/spoiler] . I had a great time with the game and it has a lot of replay value 
 if just to play dark side one game, and light side in the other. The game is very easy though and 
 advanced rpg players will have no trouble breezing through the game in as little as 20-30 hours. 
 But [spoiler] the ending will definitely leave you wanting more. It is very abrupt and unsatisfying 
 and leaves you wondering what happened to all of the characters [/spoiler] .
  
  Rent this game and if you like it and it runs okay on your computer, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Knights of the Old Republic II : The Sith Lords is the sequel to the extremely popular game of 
 the year 2003. KotOR I, released in 2003, was a proof that the Star Wars franchise and the role-playing 
 games genre made a terrific match. Even though the famous BioWare Corporation did not develop the 
 game, it was the team with whom they worked on title like Baldur's Gate that took the enormous 
 task of bringing TSL home. This group of people were in fact developers of the late Black Isle 
 Corp, now united under the name of Obsidian Entertainment. TSL brings some interesting improvements 
 to the original game, and also comes with a load of new options and abilities. 
  
  Gameplay 9
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as in the original. In fact, the game uses 
 the same game engine, so you can expect a similar gameplay; this also means a BioWare-quality game 
 engine (which, in case you have been living in a cave for years, means that it's an extremely good 
 engine) . The first major change (which most people will consider as an improvement) is the fact 
 that your character now starts as a Jedi. Choose between the Guardian (your traditional fighting 
 Jedi) , the Sentinel (a skilled user of The Force) and the Consular (Force powers galore) . The people 
 at Obsidian's are no fool, however, and they know that a large portion of the replay value of a 
 game comes from class combinations. So they included Prestige Classes in the game. Choose between 
 the Jedi Weapon Master (ultra-melee Jedi, though the name is quite crappy) , the Watchman (skilled 
 Jedi a la Ben Kenobi in A New Hope) , Jedi Master (which makes you a Yoda wannabe) , Sith Marauder 
 (for the Maul fans) , Sith Assassin (if you like to kill people) and the Sith Lord (when you want 
 to go Lightning frenzy like Palpy - it rhymes!) . Basically, a prestige class is a special class 
 that brings new abilities to your character, but it can only be selected once you met some specific 
 requirements. In TSL, the only requirement is to be level 15, which brings us to the next gameplay 
 improvement. 
  
  The level cap in TSL is now 50. Before your start dancing around in joy, let me specify a couple 
 of things. First, you will never reach 50 in the game, unless you cheat. Second, the game is not 
 any longer than the original; they only speeded up the experience gain. You should reach a level 
 between 20 and 30. Why the cap is 50, I do not know. Perhaps an expansion? That would explain a 
 lot, especially the weak ending. 
  
  Another key improvement is the new combat animations. Since a graphic and story oriented role-playing 
 game like TSL can become quite dependant on how your character looks when he fights, the few animations 
 of KotOR I needed to be improved in a sequel. The designers basically added two new animations 
 to the existing ones, and this include the special feats such as flurry, critical strike and power 
 attack. And trust me on this : the new animations really break the boringness of massive flurry 
 usage. TSL also brings Lightsabre Fighting Forms, which represent more or less the forms seen in 
 the movies. The downside? No new animations for using different forms. 
  
  Even though the designers of Obsidian have learned that making your character start as a Jedi will 
 attract more people, they still forgot something important. What people really want is to play 
 as a Jedi with a lightsabre in hands. In TSL, you get your sabre incredibly late (later than in 
 the first game) . The designers originally said that it did not matter much, because getting your 
 sabre would involve a cool quest that would really make you think you have earned your weapon. 
 Heh. I found myself rushing the earlier parts just to get it sooner. And no, there is no "cool 
 quest". You just find the parts, build it, and voila. 
  
  One of the disappointing part of the game is its inability to properly represent the Dark Side 
 of the Force. Just as in the original, a Dark Side character is more a street bully than anything 
 else. There is a sweet moment though, when you "break" a party member to your service all using 
 words. Most of the time, however, earning DS points just involves killing for fun, or robbing people. 
 A true DS conversation tree should be literally full of [LIE] options. 
  
  The game uses the same "visit some planets in order to advance the plot" system as the original. 
 Once again, it works great, and the designers have succeeded in making the quest a worthy one. 
 This point brings me to analyse the story. 
  
  Story 7
  
  I personally have mixed feelings on the story. While it is generally good, the Star Wars fan in 
 me is starting to get worried. Even though the plot is well developed and quite addicting, there 
 are some things that take away the Star Wars feel of the game. First is the game's interpretation 
 of the Force in general. The game boasts a theory of "striping someone of the Force", which is 
 just non-sense to a dedicated and purist Star Wars fan such as me. I could list more examples, 
 but it would be nearly impossible to do so without spoiling the game. Another of my concern is 
 the planet choice. Back in KotOR I, they had a handful of known planets, such as Tatooine (probably 
 the most seen planet in the SW saga) , Kashyyyk (seen in Episode III) and famous extended universe 
 planets like Korriban and Dantooine. This time, there are no "movie" planets. Dantooine and Korriban 
 are back, but they are the two shortest planets. Korriban is especially weak, providing only three 
 (yes, 3) areas. Of course they used the same layout as in the original game, which makes me think 
 that the Obsidian developers are either really lazy, or the people at LucasArts pushed them so 
 they finish the game earlier and LucasArts can get their money. 
  
  The killing point of the game is also in the story : the ending was incredibly rushed (way more 
 than in the original; the even "forgot" to remove the map notes of the areas that ended being cut) 
 and leaves too many questions unanswered. In short, the ending is bad, not to say horrible, or 
 even non-existant. Really, the situation has not improved from the beginning of the game : you 
 are the last known Jedi, and the republic is weak. It is the same motto throughout the entire game. 
 
  
  Video 8
  
  The graphics are the same as in the original. However, there is an extremely important addition 
 : your character can now wear a Jedi robe that actually looks like those from the movies. Even 
 better, the robe actually swings around when you run and when you fight. One downside : the texture 
 should be re-done. 
  
  Otherwise, the graphics are fine, though they are starting to show their age. But to tell the truth, 
 it did not really bother me; the game is addicting enough, and its gameplay will keep you hooked. 
 It is obvious, however, that a sequel should have better graphics, if it wants to be as popular 
 as the previous titles. Lets face it : there is a large group of people who only care about the 
 graphics. 
  
  Finally, you should be warned that ATI cards do not seem to be really popular at Obsidian. Even 
 my new high-end computer with a top-notch ATI video card, I had to lower some graphics setting; 
 something an average NVidia card user will not have to do. And if the game does not work at all, 
 be sure to download the latest drivers (happened to me) . 
  
  Sound 8
  
  The sounds are great, as always. I am quite sure that they used the sames as in KotOR I, but it 
 does not matter; they are great. 
  
  The huge disappointment for me here is the music. In KotOR I, the composer really succeeded in 
 creating original music, while still including some classic Star Wars music in his work (one even 
 had a chorus!) . That's not the case with TSL. One of the other reviewer says that the music is 
 just "traditional Star Wars music". Well, no, it is not traditional SW music, and that's a problem, 
 if you ask me. 
  
  Replay Value
  
  With the 9 possible class mix available, you should find yourself playing this game a lot. Anyway, 
 the three main class category (Guardian/Weapon Master/Marauder, Sentinel/Watchman/Assassin and 
 Consular/Master/Lord) actually have a quite different gameplay. And since skills are much more 
 important in TSL, a guardian, while he is the absolute best fighter of the group, might find himself 
 lacking in the skill department. In that case, he would really have to rely on his party members, 
 which is great for the "team" aspect of the game. This brings me to the party members. Each of 
 them has a clear personality, and will change accordingly to how you influence them. Do you really 
 trust them? Or are they all tools to your success? Conversation choices are much more important 
 now, and will affect your game significantly. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Pros
  -Character starts as a Jedi
  -More Jedi classes
  -Better party interaction
  -Possibility 
 to turn party members into Jedi
  -Addicting storyline
  -New combat animations, feats and powers
  Cons
  -Story is getting far from what Star Wars really 
 is
  -Later parts were incredibly rushed, way more than in KotOR I (no proper ending either)
  -Bugs 
 with various video cards, including the newer and powerful ATI
  -Some balance problems
  -Dark Side character is a 10 year old bully
  -You get your sabre very, very late
  
  Do not 
 be put down by all the negative points I listed. It was my duty to do so in a review. The game 
 is awesome. It kept me hooked for hours and I would not get bored. Even though the ending was a 
 huge disappointment, I still found peace by creating a new character with a different class, alignment 
 and gender. While it might not be as epic as the original, TSL is sure a keeper for everyone who 
 likes Star Wars and/or role-playing games. 
  
  The designers, however, should be careful when creating a possible sequel. If they do not look 
 into the mistakes they have done, the amazing KotOR series that had started with the fabulous KotOR 
 I will greatly degenerate. While I understand that LucasArts would have the XBOX version of the 
 game rushed in order to get it out in time for Christmas, there was no reason at all for them to 
 do the same for the PC version, which had been delayed for a release after Christmas. I mean, there 
 are some bugs in the XBOX version were not even fixed for the PC version, which came out 2 months 
 or so later. LucasArts and Obsidian should learn that people will probably not buy any more rushed 
 games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSauron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 19, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic 2 is a great game and follows up pretty nicely from Kotor 1. In Kotor 
 2 you play as The Exile instead of well... your character in Kotor (dont wan't to ruin it) . In 
 this game you also revisit Dantooine and Korriban the planets with the Jedi Academy and Sith Academy. 
 It also continues to let you play with the choice to play as a jedi, sith, or a gray force sensitive, 
 with the ability to influence your party members to become Jedi or Sith. Whether you are a man 
 or woman, jedi or sith you can get different characters throughout the game. A big complaint that 
 I and many others have with this game is that many glitches occur during gameplay. Such as falling 
 into never-ending holes, constant freezing, and lag. With the exception of all that crap you play 
 absolutely solid game. 
  
  Graphics-9- The graphics are good except some of the environments like trees look like paper. Although 
 the game's graphics are almost continuely solid.
  
  Gameplay-9- (read top paragraph) Who doesn't like playing an RPG with lightsabers.
  
  Sound-9- 
 A star wars RPG with the Star Wars sound. Nuff said.
  
  Value-9- a long game that is always fun to get new force power, lightsabers, and armor. The only 
 bad thing is that you are unable to continue playing with your character once you finish the game.
 
  
  Tilt-8
  
  Great game and if your a Star Wars or RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WraithRSW
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The original Knights was one of the best games ever. Naturally, this sequel had high expectations. 
 It doesn't quite achieve this level but it still has it's good points. Other than a few tweaks 
 and additions, nothing much has changed. Gameplay, dialogue, and sound are still great while graphics 
 are lacking. There is still the same glitches that the original had. Cutscenes and music are a 
 little less quality than before. But if you have an ATI Radeon X--- series card, expect a lot of 
 lockups and crashes when moving from area to area. The storyline is a bit long and dark but doesn't 
 have the same oomph the original one had. But I suppose the darker storyline resembles an Empire 
 Strikes Back type of progression. At first the story looked lacking but from a longer perspective, 
 it turned out quite well. The characters themselves are a lot more darker and solemn that in the 
 original and it works. For the next KOTOR, the producers really need to fix the glitches and tie 
 up the stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first Knights of the Old Republic and hearing that a sequal was in the works, 
 I was quite excited. I'm a bit of a Star Wars fan myself and love to be a jedi. The first game 
 did it all for me with the Star Wars feel, lightsabers, the planets, everything. The Sith Lords 
 does about the same by providing just about the same.
  
  Graphically the sequal is the same as the first. With the exception of flowing hair and robes, 
 which by the way I would have liked to have in the first game, there really is nothing different 
 in the looks department. The interface this time around feels much better than in the first, so 
 I guess that's really the only huge difference in the game as far as how everything looks.
  
  The gameplay, again, is pretty much the same as the first. However this time right from the 
 get-go you are a jedi. So rather than wait till you finish the first planet to get some force push 
 going, you can choose that on your first level up. The story in Sith Lords is deep, really deep. 
 It's got a lot of philosophical aspects to it, and may be too much for a lot of people to take 
 in and fully understand and appreciate. Nonetheless the story is a fairly good one, worthy of being 
 related to Star Wars in my opinion.
  
  There are some aspects of the game that just seem rushed and incomplete. Some of the levels and 
 plotline ties seem bland and just fray at the ends. Some levels just look boring, while others 
 look like serious time and effort were but in. Character back-stories sometimes just end, which 
 is a huge downer since you really want to know how things turn out.
  
  In conclusion if you enjoyed the first Knights of the Old Republic, then The Sith Lords will not 
 be unfamiliar ground. A good game, but may not be what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic wasn't just the best role-playing game of 2003. It was one 
 of the best things to happen to Star Wars in years. Knights of the Old Republic impressively succeeded 
 on several counts: It delivered a memorable and open-ended story featuring lots of excellent voice 
 acting, an entertaining strategic combat system, and a lengthy, highly replayable quest. Now all 
 those good traits -- as well as the game's few shortcomings -- are back once again in Knights of the 
 Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. The sequel is clearly aimed at fans of the original, since it's 
 a very similar game whose storyline picks up not long after the first one left off. Given that 
 The Sith Lords arrives only about a year after its predecessor, it's remarkable that the game's 
 quest is every bit as big and complex as the original's. On the other hand, some unsightly technical 
 issues and a general feeling of dj vu will probably prevent you from feeling as strongly about 
 The Sith Lords as you did or still do about the first game. Nevertheless, it's hard to fault The 
 Sith Lords for following in the footsteps of the original so faithfully. 
  
  
  
  Prepare for another journey of self-discovery and major consequence in The Sith Lords.
  Like 
 its predecessor, The Sith Lords takes place thousands of years before any of the Star Wars movies 
 and is focused on some of the formative struggles between the Jedi and their power-hungry counterparts, 
 the Sith. In the first game, you eventually discovered your Jedi powers, as well as your mysterious 
 past. This time, you play as a different character that begins the adventure as a Jedi -- but your 
 knowledge of the character's past, the character's Force powers, and even the character's lightsaber 
 are all missing. A journey of self-discovery awaits, and as you pick up the pieces of your character's 
 past and discover the reasons for his or her exile from the Jedi order, your path will lead you 
 to the few Jedi who survived the catastrophic events that took place at the conclusion of the original 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short for those trying to make a decision. If you are a Star Wars fan, PLAY IT! Nowhere 
 else can you have this much fun being a Jedi. The game is looong! As long as KOTOR 1. Graphics 
 are just OK, but enjoyable. Story is very good, but as everybody else says, It comes undone at 
 the end. But you know what? I did not care. Being a Jedi is FUN!! So buy it, be patient for the 
 first 1/3rd of the game, then the fun begins. Use the walkthroughs if you are scared about RPG's. 
 I dislike RPG's. As a matter of fact, I will never play any RPG unless is KOTOR or Star Wars series. 
 THE END. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of KotoRII I was very excited as I loved the original. Unfortunately you do 
 not play as Revan from the last game but you play a jedi who has lost his connection with the force 
 ( which was pretty much how kotor started) . In fact I highly recommend you play kotor first as 
 alot of this game isn't going to make sense otherwise.
  
  Gameplay - Easy as. Really no challenge, Ai does some really quirky behaviour and team mates never 
 seem to attack properly like stand around in battle or get stuck on objects. I also noticied alot 
 of you team mates are basically carbon copies of most of your original team mates from KoToR in 
 their mannerisms and the way the act. Kreia though is probably one of the best developed characters 
 i've seen as you can never work out exactly what side she is on. You also get all these styles 
 but they really don't make much of a difference. This game also has BUGS big time, like endless 
 dialogue loop bugs which if you've saved your game over can be really frustrating. I also didn't 
 notice as much character interaction as there was KoToR between your characters. The planets you 
 visit also aren't particularly that big comapred to the original. There really wasn't any romance 
 dialogues either which kind of killed any connection you tried to feel for the characters.
  
  Graphics- I liked Kotor's graphics but for some reason they have managed to make them look 
 worse in alot of areas.
  
  Sound - Good enough, can't say I was really blown away by the music. Again much better in kotor.
 
  
  Value - Play through as light and dark and you'll be getting most aspects of the game. I thought 
 Kotor 2 was an OK game, I wasn't dying to finish it though. The ending is truly terrible though. 
 
  
  tilt - KoToR was a classic game and unforuntately this sequel is just half baked in it's delivery 
 and lacks the epic feel of the first. Annoying bugs, and poor combat Ai didn't help. It just didn't 
 have that bioware polish i'm afraid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, after drooling over KOTOR when it first came out, I really expected KOTOR 2 to be something 
 of a milestone, something that not only improves over the substance of the first KOTOR but adds 
 much more innovations and features. Well, KOTOR 2 did add quite a few things to the structure of 
 the game (some good, some bad) but has totally messed up the story. It is predictable and cheesy 
 throughout.
  
  I dont know, maybe it was me (and thousands of other people out there) but the storyline wasnt 
 as satisfying as everyone expected, but if a good storyline doesnt bother you, then exclude everything 
 I said above, This game will then ROCK for you! Its amazing!
  
  Graphically, it has been improved from KOTOR but still needed to be improved so much more, especially 
 with the character designs and such (Havok physics anyone?) . The environments are also pretty tiny 
 and there are quite a few loading times.
  
  Sound is superb throughout. There is nothing negative I can say about it. Truly superb.
  
  
 Now gameplay is pretty much recycled from KOTOR with a few new things thrown in here and there 
 and at many times KOTOR players will have "De ja vu" moments throughout the game, doing the same 
 thing over and over and seeing stuff similar to KOTOR. Still, gameplay is stunning and the fact 
 of the matter is, if you like RPG's, you will LOVE KOTOR 2.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick3333
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this short and to the point.
  
  Pluses: +Great story. +Great character interaction. +Like the first KotOR, all the lines in the 
 game are delivered through spoken dialogue, which is great (and in fact essential to be sucked 
 into the storyline) . Without such great voice acting, the KotOR license wouldn't be half as good 
 as it is. +Intelligent and slightly complex plot, more ambiguous than your standard 'light vs dark' 
 theme. +The fighting system is as intuitive as ever ( ever being the first KotOR) . Whoever came 
 up with the real-time-turn-based system is a genius. +The soundtrack is overall pretty damn good, 
 as is the tradition with most Star Wars games, especially the KotOR series. Minuses: -THE ENDING! 
 The last parts of the game have obviously been rushed and are evidently unfinished. Large chunks 
 of the plot hang loose with an inadequate, un-Star-Wars-like, unsatisfying ending. -The game is 
 buggy and unpolished in a number of areas. -The graphics are beginning to show their age and are 
 not very impressive at all. -The game doesn't feel 'right'. The game doesn't feel alive. -The 'influence' 
 system, while innovative, can get on your nerves. Getting your party members to talk to you and 
 tell you their story is like pulling out teeth, it is way more difficult than it should be. -Characters 
 aren't very well developed or memorable (unlike the first KotOR) , except for one or two characters. 
 Only Kreia and HK-47, for instance, really come to mind as memorable, well-developed characters. 
 The others were 'meh'. -The game has an overly dark theme. Ok, it's a bad time in the galaxy, we 
 get it, but that doesn't mean that you have to make everything dark and shadowy and all the characters 
 moody and uninterested. -The enemies you face are not developed at all character and story-wise 
 (unlike Malak in the first game, who was talked about the whole way through etc so that tension 
 rose, meaning fighting him truly felt like an epic battle.) In Sith Lords, you fight three bad 
 guys, two of whom you barely just met, and that's it. Finished. Even the last battle doesn't feel 
 as epic as it should have under the circumstances. Where's the satisfaction in that? -The environments 
 feel odd, unnatural, empty, unfinished and the whole game somehow lacks charm and doesn't really 
 feel like Star Wars.
  
  In conclusion it is clear that in objective terms this is a great game. However, many faults mar 
 the Sith Lords, which could and should have been much better. For instance, this game just doesn't 
 feel right, it doesn't feel like Star Wars; and on top of that, it is glaringly obvious a lot of 
 content was missing from the final version, content developers had to cut at the last minute to 
 get the game to the shelves by Christmas. That's marketing strategy for ya. The result is a hugely 
 disappointing game, albeit a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow I could have sworn I played this game before, oh that's right I did it was the original one. 
 Well if you just never wanted the first game to end this is pretty much what you get with this 
 sequel. I can really knock the game except for the fact that it offers almost nothing new or original 
 from the first one which isn't neccessarily bad or good.
  
  The graphics look good, as good as the first one. The gameplay is good, just like the first one. 
 Ok I think you got the point by now.
  
  Why you should play the game however is becuase it is as good as the first one and the first one 
 was great! The new storyline help keep you involved and seperates itself from the first but its 
 just about the only way it does. 
  
  Again, if you liked the first one you will defiantely enjoy the second just dont expect any new 
 tricks from this pony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorganite
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Less bug fixes than there were bugs introduced, as well as a number of new hassles introduced.
 
  
  
  Don't get me wrong, I liked Kotor. I played it for four days straight and blew right through it. 
 It was unlike anything I'd ever played. I thought it to be a futuristic Morrowind with voice-overs. 
 However, Kotor 2 is Kotor with a new story, a few new problems and a couple of the old ones were 
 fixed. I understand Obsidian didn't want to stray from BioWare's path, but they should have at 
 least fixed it. BioWare left gaping holes in Kotor as they were too eager to run off and work on 
 Jade Empire as opposed to finish Kotor.
  
  A huge example of a bug would be the fact that, while collecting parts for my lightsaber, I collected 
 not only a lens fixture, but literally 9 different lenses. I spoke to one of my party-members who 
 was going to help me build a Lightsaber, asked him if I had all the parts -- "No, you're still 
 missing a lens". I almost smashed my head through the monitor trying to build my lightsaber. I 
 god fed up and cheated for it. Now I'm blessed with a wonderfully yellow "Cheat Used" statement 
 on my savegame screenshot.
  
  Pros:
  New storylne and characters
  More lightsaber colors
  
  Cons:
  Still extremely low framerates at times
  More bugs than 
 fixes
  
  
  Simply put, if you liked Kotor - despite it's flaws - you'll like Kotor 2. It's the same game with 
 a few additions. New force powers, new feats, etcetera. If you didn't, but are lookign to get into 
 Kotor, you will NOT like this any more than you would Kotor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  So you say you liked KOTOR 1? Well there is no question how you will feel about KOTOR II. This 
 game offers up all of the same great gameplay, story, characters, dialogue choices, and Star Wars 
 stuff as the first game. Actually MORE!! Of course it was timed perfectly with the release of EP 
 III. That only made it so much better.
  
  Perhaps the best aspect of both KOTOR's is the stories. Very in depth and offering tons of choices 
 in terms of side quests. The key choice one must make is whether you want to be good and help all 
 of those that so desperately need it or would you rather just blast them to pieces. Dark side or 
 light side. Isnt that the crux of all issues in life?? This choice effects everything you do in 
 this game. You will often find yourself being tempted to choose that dark side response to that 
 smart alec character who doesnt realize he is toying with a JEDI!! I am a JEDI BEYOTCH!!! Thats 
 what makes the story so amazing. Play it both ways and you will get very different games. This 
 time around you even get more characters to add to your party and influence depending on the tendency 
 of your character. Instead of one hottie to sex up, you get THREE. Thats right, three!! Of course 
 there is only about 4 characters that you really need to play much with and just make sure you 
 level them well.
  
  Force powers are back in full effect and a few new ones have been added for your force abusing 
 pleasure. Like in the first game all you need to remember is Force Storm. This THE power to have 
 in this game and once you have it you pwn everyone in sight. The other cool feat you need is two 
 weapon wielding. Once you have these two powers and two light sabers, its lights out for all of 
 your enemies. Even those pesky Dark Jedi and Sith assassins will bow to your might.
  
  Along the way you will find tons of side quests to complete or not to complete. Its worthwhile 
 completing most of them as you will gain valuable items and money to help you purchase valuable 
 items. You most definitely will also need the extra XP gained from these quests to have your characters 
 fully powered for the end of the game where you will have some tough battles unless you are properly 
 leveled. Some of these quests involve helping the Hutts end a rival merc from stealing their freighters, 
 ending military coups, solving murders, and of course becoming a pazaak champion. Choose which 
 ones you desire to complete or just do the main story line. Either way its fun.
  
  Seeing as this is a Star Wars game, it would have been cool to get to pilot a few aircraft or vehicles 
 along the way, but its a small complaint. You will once again travel the galaxy in the Ebon Hawk 
 and once again talking to your compatriots inside will yield lots of helpful hints and items. The 
 main character in this story who helps you refind your lost connection with the force is Kreia. 
 She could be Sith or Jedi, but either way she is intent on helping you. Talk to her often to gain 
 more knowledge about your past, present and future.
  
  Another minor downer is that the graphics are exactly the same as the first game. No real improvements. 
 Definitely would not have been bad to see them tweaked slightly, especially for the PC, but again 
 its a minor gripe. The soundtrack is truly Star Wars and the game offers the option of listening 
 to the sound track from the main menu. You also get to unlock all of the cut scene CGI movies as 
 your progress through the game. I was unable to unlock them all, but perhaps that is because I 
 did not complete all of the side quests.
  
  So does all of this interest you?? Well of course it does! No self respecting Star Wars fan would 
 deny themselves of pitloting your Jedi/Sith Master/Lord through another epic adventure of finding 
 oneself, killing the bad/good guys, and reigning over the galaxy. Pick this game up ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  If you have even a remote interest in RPGs or Star Wars, then you should not pass this one by.
 
  
  Few games give you so many hours of fun and immerse you in such a way. The amount of content in 
 this game is 
  
  amazing.
  
  The sound effects are decent, yet nothing great. The soundtrack is excellent, as you would expect 
 of any Star Wars 
  
  related game.
  
  The graphics is where this game falls short. Its the same engine used for KOTOR, but two years 
 have passed and it 
  
  shows. Textures are washed out and the environments feel lifeless at times.
  
  Gameplay in 
 this game makes up for all flaws. You really feel inside your character and in the world that surrounds 
 
  
  you. Voice acting is very good and adds atmosphere.
  
  Even thought the storyline might not be pleasing to everybody who liked the first KOTOR, there 
 is more content in 
  
  this one than in the original game.
  
  The extra details make this a worthy sequel: The influence on your companions is a very nice touch 
 that was missing 
  
  in KOTOR.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 28, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I had to re-review this game because I reviewed it too soon. Its not as great as I thought it was. 
 There are a lot of bugs where the game just crashes by itself and the music isn't that great. 
 
  
  I'll explain why. When you enter battle, the music changes into a nice beat, then as soon as you 
 finish that battle it goes to the end of that sound track to show that battle is over, but the 
 problem is battles last for only a few seconds, most under 10 seconds, so that gets really annoying 
 hearing the start of the track, then the end. The voice acting is top notch though, noone really 
 sticks out because they are all great. 
  
  Gameplay is fun and animations are really cool, but the crash bug is annoying. There are so many 
 different tactics and choices you can make giving the game a high replay value. The graphics are 
 reasonable and the game is just plane fun. The controls were a little wacky at first, but I quickly 
 got used to them. Controlling a Jedi is pretty fun and there's a lot of freedom. This game is not 
 linear which is good too. This game is really made well and you don't have to play the first game 
 even a second to understand this one. 
  
  Overall I would recommend this fan to anyone because it is a lot of fun. The sound issue, just 
 turn the music volume down in the options, and for the crash bug, just save often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evest2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best games I have played. I normally play games that are more on the medieval 
 fantasy role playing and strategy side, and this was my first foray into the Star Wars group. I 
 was surprised at how much I missed playing the game while I was away. The graphics were very good, 
 and so was the sound. Being a true RPG, it would be nice if you could customize your appearance 
 a bit instead of picking a pre-designed avatar.
  
  The supporting cast was a little weak, too. In many cases, it just didn't matter who you chose 
 to come with you unless you play a Consular. As a Sentinel (or the dark side counterpart) , you're 
 so well rounded, that you can pretty much do it all by yourself if don't rush into a fight where 
 you're toe-to-toe with an entire group of enemies.
  
  All in all, it was a great game. It would be nice to see an NC-17 version come out where Visas 
 gets a bit more personal;)
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alf2499
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 12, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game, and though i had my doubts when i started the game, it did 
 show great potential. First few hours of gameplay are solid, but after that the heavy script cutting 
 Obs had to resort to due to Lucasart's impossible deadline began to show. 
  NPC development stops abrutly along with the story, thus causing one of the most hyped new features 
 of the game to become a liability rather than an asset, and the ending is a huge unforgivable letdown. 
 
  Then there's the bugs... words cannot express, the least problematic bugs i experienced were far 
 worse than the worse ones in the original. 
  Nevertheless, voice acting matches up to the original along with cinematics (in terms of looks 
 not storytelling) and new tweaks to the interface does improve gameplay though both party and enemy 
 AI remain unchanged.
  Simply put it was just rushed out too soon, another 6 months in the works and this could've easily 
 lived up to its predesessor and probably surpassed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy_Beboper
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 12, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords (KOTOR II) is the sequel to, quite possibly, 
 the best Star Wars game ever made. Although KOTOR I was developed by BioWare, the task of delivering 
 a sequel was charged with Obsidian Entertainment. 
  
  KOTOR II is set several years after the ending of the first game. The galaxy is in peril once again 
 as the Sith are on the rise. The Jedi have all been defeated save for one, you, the player. The 
 game begins with the Ebon Hawk floating through space, the ship's damaged hull showing signs of 
 an intense battle. When the craft has regained control (through the skill of a familiar droid) , 
 the player awakens to find himself/herself on the Peragus Mining Facility and discovers that he/she 
 is the only person alive in the facility. You soon meet up with a shifty old woman in Jedi garb, 
 but throughout the story you'll often question her motives. 
  
  Character creation is pretty much the same as KOTOR I, except this time instead of selecting from 
 a Warrior, Scout or Scoundrel, you choose a Jedi Class, which allows you to obtain a few simple 
 force powers right from the outset. Although you begin as a Jedi, don't expect to obtain your lightsaber 
 immediately. Your character has been exiled and was forced to give away your lightsaber. It takes 
 a lengthy bit of time to get it back. I believe I went through two planets before I was able to 
 use it. 
  
  The game itself is very similar from KOTOR I. You can control your character through the keyboard 
 and mouse (although it is unfortunate that there is no game pad support) . The interface consists 
 of icons that will take you to specific menus such as your items, weapons, equip screen, journal, 
 map and options. Combat is driven through entering commands into a queue. Again, the system is 
 not very different from that of KOTOR I.
  
  One of the major differences of KOTOR II is the influence system. In KOTOR I, your party members 
 would tell you their back-stories as the game progresses. gameplay would be interrupted by showing 
 the party member and showing the phrase " [so and so] seems restless. Talk to him/her?" With KOTOR 
 II, hearing a character's history depends on how much influence you carry with them. Influence 
 can be gained and loss through actions and conversations. Gain enough influence and a character 
 will present you with a piece of their past. If you don't have enough influence, the character 
 will not let you into their interesting pasts. 
  
  Graphics wise, KOTOR II is similar to the first game as well and doesn't seem to offer any major 
 graphical enhancements. KOTOR II offers a handful of interesting characters, two of which are dependent 
 on whether you play as male or female. These lead to several romantic options for your character 
 to follow, but unfortunately, these romantic story arcs do not lead anywhere because of the game's 
 jarring plot holes. 
  
  This leads in to a discussion about the bad things in KOTOR II. Until I reached a distinct point 
 in the game, it was enthralling. All the characters are interesting, their stories captivating 
 and the game's plot is pretty darn good as well. However, plot holes, missing content and annoying 
 bugs hamper this potentially great sequel to KOTOR I. 
  
  Bugs. It has been reported that there are several bugs that hamper gameplay and I didn't experience 
 too many except one that seriously hurt story progression. When a certain character made an important 
 decision, I was supposed to be treated to an in game cinema. However, a bug caused my character 
 to be placed in the area where the movie was supposed to take place. There was nobody in the area 
 and all exits were sealed. This occurred every single time I attempted to get the scene to play 
 correctly. After four attempts, I could not get the scene to play and was forced to ignore the 
 opportunity to encourage a party member's important choice. 
  
  Plot holes. This is what kills KOTOR II. By the time you reach a pivotal point in the game, everything 
 gets lost. When you reach the final planet, the entire level is full of confusing plot holes. Up 
 until this point, you've been fighting hard with your party members across four different planets, 
 overcoming each of their obstacles. However, when you reach the last area, these members vanish 
 with no explanation as to why they are absent. Depending if you are playing as a Light Jedi or 
 Dark Jedi, a particular character will venture around the area. Why does this happen? The game 
 doesn't say. What happens after their section is over? Who knows. What happens to your ship? Why 
 can't you go back in it? Why does it seem to miraculously reappear at the end? the game doesn't 
 say. Even though the game offers a chance for your character to be romantically involved with a 
 certain party member, you can help but feel upset that you never see the result of these involvement's 
 because your character will never meet the party again. 
  
  KOTOR II also suffers from missing content. This has recently been exposed on the Obsidian forums, 
 but several sections of the game were cut out, while their scripts and sounds are still accessible 
 within the game folder. Apart from missing scenes, an entire area of the game was cut out, resulting 
 in a certain quest to remain unfinished. LucasArts and Obsidian have been promising a patch for 
 KOTOR II for quite some time, but whether or not it will be a content patch or simply a graphical 
 fix patch is left unknown.
  
  Another element that has suffered from the rushed product is the music and cutscenes. Featuring 
 a new score, the music in KOTOR II has, for some reason, been recorded in mono and the non-engine 
 cutscenes look like they were made on a computer with its resolution set to the lowest, resulting 
 in ugly looking scenes. 
  
  In the end, KOTOR II is a good game until the end where it just seems to collapse in its storytelling, 
 largely because, I assume, the game was rushed for the holiday season. It's sad that LucasArts 
 isn't the company it used to be, if it was I would imagine they could have given Obsidian more 
 time to finish the game. As the game stands now, it is hard to recommend it, considering that the 
 last portion of the game is messy and so unfulfilling, it's painful to play through the game knowing 
 that significant question refused to be answered. 
  Although the game has enough room for replay, knowing that certain elements are left unfinished 
 might make you wonder if there is any point in playing through the game. 
  
  This game had so much potential, but as it stands, you'd be better off waiting until Obsidian and 
 LucasArts get their act together and release a less shoddy version of KOTOR II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigadoon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 9, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Buyer beware! It keeps you on the edge of your seat loving every minute of this game until the 
 last hour or so when all the intricacies fail to be explained! Most of the reviews posted with 
 high scores never finished the game. I was planning a few days ago to come and tell you all how 
 much I liked this game more than the first one! But the dismal death of the story toward the end 
 makes me want the hours spent playing this back to do something else. So if you really enjoyed 
 the first one, understand that this one is going to let you down in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Painkiller29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  Although the sequal doesn't hold the 'revelation' impact of the original, it does offer a fantasic 
 story with even more interesting characters as companions. The combat has been improved both graphically 
 and functionally, with a more user friendly GUI.
  
  My only gripe is that certain transitions between cutscene and in game cinematic, or player transitions, 
 left a 'ghost player' effect that took me out of the game somewhat. I'm sure this will be addressed 
 in future patches however.
  
  Enough reviews have been written for you to know if you're going to buy this game or not; I had 
 plenty of hours of fun with it and reccomend it to fans of the original, RPG's, or Star Wars in 
 general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  
  Technical gameplay improvements such as one-button weapon switching and being able to set your 
 NPC party member's attack styles (stationary; ranged; Jedi Support; agressive) -- Although, these 
 rarely work in certain situations.
  
  The Bad: 
  
  Storyline -- As another reviewer said, the storyline is very pretentious and comes off like a "Matrix" 
 wannabe trying to be too cerebral and too morally ambigous for the SW universe. 
  
  In an attempt by Obsidian Entertainment to go in "darker" direction... Which should immediately 
 cast doubt in your mind since devs never deliver on this promose... And bring something "new" to 
 the Star Wars franchise, The Sith Lords relies on an overly pompous tale that revolves around an 
 exetential plo to destroy The Force. Yes. *The* Force upon which the entire foundation of the films, 
 books, cartoons and Extended Universe is based on. If that doesn't scream "trouble" from the premise 
 alone, nothing will... But wait. It gets worse!
  
  In addition, Lucas Arts rushed the release of the game to cash in on the peak Christmas '04 (Xbox) 
 sales and cut out over half of the game's NPC subplot endings as well as the main PC and storyline 
 ending (s) leaving the player with nothing but an unfinished game in every sense of the word. The 
 terms "truncated ending" and "no emotionally satisfying ending" are now synonamous... Infamous... 
 With The Sith Lords.
  
  This is the worst ending I have ever seen in any game, regardless of genre... Because it is not 
 a finished game in any shape or form.
  
  The Influence and Skills System -- Great in theory, terrible in execution. 
  
  As another reviewer 
 said, this makes the game more linear since a player must go down certain dialogue trees in order 
 to gain influence to unlock a character's backstory in order to train them as a Jedi. There is 
 no real freedom to a system like this, regardless of what the developers say.
  
  It also makes role-playing (in the strictest since) more difficult because of the NPCs inherent 
 affinities for Light or Dark responses. Therefore, one cannot truly play a Light sided, or Dark 
 sided character because they will loose influence (and gameplay options like turning them into 
 Jedi) if they want to be a purely evil or good character. 
  
  Also, there is no real reward for influencing your party members other than turning them into Jedi, 
 or learning their backstories... Because even then, they will still have their inherent affinities 
 and you've done nothing to really "influence" them to your side.
  
  For example, if you are a male and playing a Dark side character... If you convert the Handmaiden 
 to a Dark Jedi... She still exhibits Light side qualities!
  
  This completely shatters the illusion of "influencing" your party members since it doesn't change 
 them one bit.
  
  The Skills System the game uses also makes the game more linear from the very first time you create 
 a character as the game is designed to actually read (use) certain levels of skills you have in 
 your main player character to unlock things -- like dialogue options and even options on how to 
 solve quests. 
  
  It becomes a problem because the "true", fully immersive and rewarding experience that the developers 
 probably want a player to have is buried within an infinite number of combinations of these things 
 (Influence and Skills) and hence, makes it more linear if one wants to have the penultimate Sith 
 Lords experience... Yet has to have a walkthru sitting beside them when they play from the very 
 start when they create a character.
  
  Graphics -- While graphics don't necessarily a good game make... As others have said, the graphics 
 in this game actually seem more dated than the first and it is not because this is a more recent 
 release than the original KOTOR.
  
  The graphics seem "downgraded" for some reason. The textures appear more bland and less detailed 
 than the first, and character models appear more cartoony than the original as well.
  
  Sound -- The actual sound effects (blasters; lightsabers) are top notch. This is to be expected 
 as a good 90% of what makes Star Wars, Star Wars is the sound effects editing.
  
  However, where it really falls short is that the music score of the game are encoded in 10Hz, 44 
 Kbit MONO... Yes, I said MONO... Sound. This is about as good as telephone conversation quality! 
 And this is the "epic score" and not dialogue we are talking about!
  
  Even six year old games like Half-Life and others have stereo music tracks. This is just inconceivable 
 considering that Lucas Arts is part of the parent corporation that champions THX for the theatrical 
 sound experience... And that Lucas Arts hired composer Mark Griskey to compose a brand new score 
 for The Sith Lords. 
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Bugs, bugs... And did I mention MORE bugs? 
  
  Lcuas Arts QA (Quality Assurance) doesn't exist and or consits of employees who keep their jobs 
 by simply stamping their approval on anything that ressembles a game. Not a good, quality, bugless 
 game, but a game nonetheless.
  
  The Sith Lords is in what amounts to a post-alpha, pre-beta state:
  
  Dialogue loops; random 
 crashes to desktop; quests that cannot be solved once you start them (due to parts of the story 
 having to be literally cut as discussed above) ; Swoop Racing is so bugged you cannot even race. 
 I am not exaggerating; Event trees (cut-scenes and dialogues) won't trigger, I. E. Nar Shadda and 
 meeting the exchange, etc, etc, etc.
  
  There is a huge list of bugs over on the official Obsidian Entertainment board and it is sixteen 
 (16) pages long and it does *not* consist of repeated bugs. I have never, ever seen a game this 
 buggy at release. Every gamer says that, but this is the utter truth in this instance.
  
  Bottom Line: 
  
  The Sith Lords could have been a great game if Lucas Arts had given a more 
 realistic time table and allowed them to finish the game; Obsidian actually knew what makes a good 
 Star Wars story and didn't have a "doom and gloom" fetish that is a carry over from "Fall Out II" 
 and some of the game mechanics (Influence, Skills System) and bugs were taken care of before launch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickedBadMan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 had a lot to live up to following the success of the original, and it faired quite well.
 
  
  Overall the game is solid, you begin your journey a lost jedi seeking answers aboard a phantom 
 ship. From there you spread out across the galaxy, weaving together a tale of laughs, mysteries 
 and danger.
  
  The graphics are touchy. Many times you will notice that all of the sudden someone is invisable, 
 or you will get stuck inside a wall. It is also very demanding considering the quality of the graphics. 
 It is a minor annoyance and can create problems but overall it can be overlooked.
  
  The sound is filled with originals and classics, and to be honest not much beats Star Wars music.
 
  
  The game only has a singleplayer, but the surprising thing is, you will want to play through again 
 after the first time. I am on my thrid and you can learn new things and experience new things by 
 taking different choices in your path. 
  
  I am a major Star Wars nerd and this game is damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luderchris
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and the translation into german IS PERFECT, i found the best that there a 
 the german voices of the "king of Queens" cast, Visas Marr voice of carrie, but after 35 hours 
 of play only ~20 sec ending video? Also the i think this could be an add-on not a extra game because 
 it seems the technologie is the same as in KotoR 1? finaly if there is a Kotor3 (or a SW: Kotor2 
 addon (in german) ;-) ? ) someday i went to the stores again!
  at the end i can say that this game makes fun to play!
  greetz from germany chris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2005 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts gave Obsidian 12 months to finish the game, and it shows. How can a developer cut off 
 8-10 distinct plot lines... ya, that's right! Don't get too attached to your characters, cuz guess 
 what... the game just ENDS! NO resolution, NO explanation. That's not to say that the game is so 
 "deep" that answers are for the unimaginative... NO! THE GAME... JUST... ENDS!
  
  Example? The guidebook comes with a poster showing Atris fighting Darth Nihilis... NEVER HAPPENS! 
 That's right, it never happens in the game! About as lame as having Anakin build C3PO... oh, wait.
 
  
  **Spoiler alert**
  
  Ebon Hawk crashes on Malachor V... falls into an abyss... then suddenly it appears and you fly off 
 the planet. WTF?
  
  Horrible.
  
  Very disappointing.
  
  Gameplay 6 (Force powers/Lightsaber styles are either underpowered or generally useless)
  Graphics 
 7 (Looks just like KOTOR)
  Sound 7 (Same as KOTOR, but hey... sounds good)
  Value 2 (Story starts out BRILLIANT, then 
  Story 2 (Goes from 
 engrossing to just gross)
  Dialogue 9 (Excellent as usual. HK-47 is still brutal and hilarious) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elpdude
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is so replayable, I'm on my third time. From the beginning it held my attention. Then 
 when it got to the end it left me flat. Then I found out there was material cut from the game that 
 left a lot of plot holes and unanswered questions. Even the ending was cut down to save time. If 
 they ever restore the deleted footage, I'd give this game an "A+" rating.
  Each time I played, I learned a new set of choices I could make. The first time, I didn't know 
 how to train others in my team to become Jedi. This time around I'm trying to Jedi-train everyone 
 on my team who's eligible. 
  This time around I'm playing as a light-side male. The next time around I may play as a dark-side 
 female, just to see how the romance angle plays with Atton Rand. As a light-side male, my preference 
 is towards the handmaiden. I do think Obsidian should have developed the romance angle more thoroughly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Kotor II does not change anything in regards to the feel that you got from KOTOR. This game has 
 the same look, feel, and play and for some that might be a reason to not play this game but I suspect 
 for most it is a reason to rush to the store and buy.
  
  The good: The story in KOTOR II is great. It's story is huge and has a lot of detail in the characters. 
 You get a different experience in this game depending on if you go Dark Side or Light Side more-so 
 than KOTOR did. The ending when you go Dark Side is flat out painfully abrupt and openended while 
 the ending to the Light Side is far more revealing and final. This makes for great conversation 
 about the game and it's story which let's face it how many games actually cause dialog between 
 friends on the things they were able to experience in the game that the other was not? Elder Scrolls 
 comes to mind and not much else. You get a chance to make a lot more choices in the dialog in KOTOR 
 II than in KOTOR. There are dialogs where you can have 6 or 7 choices and most have force allignment 
 implications to them. Your party members can react differently to you during dialog if you go Ligh 
 or Dark and it IS evident in the game not just in idea. 
  
  Aside from just the story which is indepth you have the ability to train your party members to 
 become Jedi. This makes for the potential to have multiple Jedi in your party at once which is 
 very fun to play with. The party members interact with each other on the ship, almost every time 
 you enter the Ebon Hawk you watch a scene between members of your crew and they change based on 
 who you have on your ship.
  
  The bad: As mentioned above you do get some great story in KOTOR II however they fell short of 
 the potential you clearly see when playing this game. There were no over-the-top great moments 
 in the game as in KOTOR. I won't go into detail on them, play KOTOR I and you will know. The dialog 
 has many instances where you can loop back to something you just went through 20 seconds earlier 
 and this can be very annoying. The ending was vague even for the Light Side but not as bad as the 
 Dark Side. The Dark Side ending is enough to make a gamer want to strangle the writer and whoever 
 signed off on that ending.
  
  The combat system is one of the worst I have ever played and I have played more than the average 
 gamer for sure. This combat system is riddled with bugs and the bugs are so bad they actually caused 
 me anger and that's not a good thing for a game to do. My party members often forgot their assignments, 
 would ignore orders and charge into combat often times charging into combat and just stand there 
 for the whole fight doing nothing, the pathing was horrendous as they got stuck many times, you'd 
 give them 3 things to do in their qeueu and they'd just stand there until you changed from controlling 
 your character to the one just standing there then suddenly they'd start playing out their queue. 
 This was so annoying.
  
  The fights were incredibly easy on Normal mode. Mr Clown Face was about the easiest battle I ever 
 had in a STAR WARS game. I was very dissapointed in the "bosses" in KOTOR II. The only challenge 
 in the entire game was the final battle which you could use the games piss poor battle AI to defeat.
 
  
  The graphics are a a considerable let down. Not only are they below average for today's games but 
 the game is often sluggish. If you encounter smoke in this game run if you can because it will 
 cause you more problems than any of the bosses.
  
  All in all the game is saved by it's volume of story. There are may different takes on the game 
 based on who you bring with you in your party and so on. The game is a definatly "must play again" 
 which set's it apart from just about every other RPG out there. The bugs kill a lot of the enjoyment 
 in this title and Obsidian better invest in some Q&A before releasing another game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitmanopolus
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased the original KOTOR, I wasnt expecting much. How could a Star Wars adventure/rpg 
 game be any good? To my surprise, KOTOR offered me one of the most enjoyable gaming experiences 
 Ive ever had. 
  
  So naturally I rushed to my local Best Buy with high hopes for KOTOR2. Without second thought, 
 I bought the game, rushed back home and installed it.
  
  Thats when my trip back in time started.
  
  The first thing that I noticed were the graphics. 
 They made me wonder if I had just purchased a re-packaging of KOTOR. Maybe Im a bit jaded considering 
 Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 have come out between the first and second KOTORs, but the graphics are 
 serviceable nonetheless.
  
  Then I began moving the droid about the Ebon Hawk (yes, the fabled ship makes a triumphant return) 
 only to notice that the game controls the exact same as the original. Ok, again, no biggie.
  
  As I delved deeper and deeper into the story, I began to notice striking similarities between 
 the original and this so-called sequel. The map interface on the Ebon Hawk is the same as before 
 and a lot of the textures from the original are re-used. The architecture looks like it could have 
 been pulled from the original, and in some places actually was. The sounds, while almost expected, 
 are also yanked from the original.
  
  However, I must give props to the voice talent. Voice overs are professional, packed with emotion 
 and vigor and keep the story interesting and engaging - which it wouldnt be if the voice overs 
 werent so well done, considering weve seen this kind of scenario a dozen times before.
  
  Im not saying you shouldnt buy KOTOR2 - Im saying that if youre not a diehard fan of the series, 
 dont bother with this one. Retailing at the full price of $49.99, KOTOR2 is hardly worth the money. 
 Maybe I wouldnt be so reluctant to recommend if it were a mid-priced expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneLake
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  Imagine a pie thats fresh out of the oven and smells so good. Now imagine you just start eating 
 and eating that pie and it tastes so good UNTIL you realize the pie is not all the way done. Pushing 
 past these sour parts of the pie you continue to eat and finally you finish with a lingering sour 
 taste of something not quite done and half-baked. KOTOR2 is very much the same way, as bugs and 
 some underdeveloped portions detract from the great premise and generally great story.
  
  Gameplay: Same great game mechanics as its predecessor with a little added depth from lightsaber 
 forms. For fans of Bioware games this game may seem a little dated in terms of gameplay mechanics 
 as the design is a good 4 years old. It helps to add a little bit extra by fleshing out portions 
 of the original like adding in a defined influence system.
  
  Graphics: very very dated. In some cases charecter models actually started to break apart. Basically 
 all terrain, charecter models, and about everything else was ripped from the original KOTOR yet 
 somehow it all looks worse than before.
  
  Sound: It uses mostly the same great sound track used in numerous other star wars games but it 
 sometimes gets repetive and detracts from the expierence when soundtracks change very quickly. 
 A few sounds are off on some weapons/powers because of bugs which detract from the expierence. 
 The big plus in this category is the superb voice-acting and voice over that was introduced in 
 KOTOR1.
  
  Value: It is a rpg that can be played multiple times through but because of the multitude of bugs 
 and an unsatisfying end you may not want to play it again. Also given the fact that it takes so 
 much from  it ends up feeling more like an expansion 
 that a sequel so you may not feel like you got your money's worth.
  
  Tilt and Conclusion: A for the most part compelling storyline and good charecter design show the 
 potential of something great. But the fact that their were so many bugs ,that even more than a 
 month later have yet to be addressed by obsidian, ravage this game. Also for fans of KOTOR1 you 
 will have a sense of Deja Vu for good reason as Obsidian re-used basically everything from KOTOR1's 
 environments without adding too much new. For fans of Star Wars or KOTOR1 you should get this game 
 otherwise there are better rpgs out there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who played the original KoTOR, you will find The Sith Lords to be a game that 
 is nearly identical in its gameplay and style. For those who haven't, in brief, it is a third person 
 adventure/RPG set in the Star Wars universe. You control a party of up 3 characters at a time with 
 a chasing camera view. Combat is done in a turned based fashion.
  
  As someone who is a great fan of the RPG genre, I have definitely enjoyed the two KoTOR games and 
 although I won't say that they are the best RPGs ever written, they are definitely very good. In 
 The Sith Lords, the game continues the style of the original by having a rich and detailed story 
 supported by an enormous amount of dialog, all of which is spoken (with the option for you to see 
 subtitles) . What's more impressive than the quantity of spoken dialog is the quality of the voice 
 acting, something that seems to be lacking in games these games. I think this is the greatest strength 
 of the game and something I very much applaud.
  
  In The Sith Lords, you'll find some additions to the original game. The are more force powers, 
 more feats and more weapons and items and you will acquire a larger party of followers. The game 
 also places a greater emphasis on your skills in opening new dialog options throughout the game. 
 In addition to buying and selling items, you now also have the option to use workbenches to breakdown 
 existing items into components which can then be used to construct new items that you may need.
 
  
  The graphics are really nothing to be impressed with. By today's gaming standards, they are fairly 
 mediocre but are good enough to carry the game. At least, you can tell that they put effort into 
 making use of high resolution textures, something that seems to not usually happen in games that 
 are developed for both the XBox and PCs. The problem mainly lies in a low polygon count with lots 
 of simplistic structures and straight hallways.
  
  You get to learn a bit about all of the characters that join your party and through deep dialog 
 trees, you can learn new skills and teachings from them. There are no whiny characters this time 
 around which is a good thing. You also get to see some interaction between your characters which 
 is interesting.
  
  Another good thing about the game is that it is very satisfying in length. Many games today are 
 really too short, but it took me 60-70 hours to finish this one (and I tend to do as many quests 
 as I can) .
  
  I have two complaints with the game. The first is that it is too easy. I increased the difficulty 
 level and I still found the game generally a bit easy with the occasional challenge. I maxed out 
 my light side points well before half way through the game and I generally like to see such things 
 happen much farther into the game. My second complaint is that on quite a handful of occasions, 
 the game forces you to play with specific members of your party, often one at a time, and without 
 warning. This generally results in you having to play a character that is not entirely prepared. 
 I generally keep my best weapons and items on a few of my favorite characters and when suddenly 
 I have to play with different characters, I do not have access to those items that are currently 
 equipped by the others. And sometimes, you find the game forces you into this position several 
 times in a row which means that you cannot simply reload the game to immediately before because 
 it may have been quite a while since you had access to all of your party.
  
  If you enjoy this type of game, I would also like to recommend to you Anachronox another sci-fi 
 adventure/RPG whose gameplay style is very similar to KoTOR and a game I think is even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Star Wars games have seen their fair share of ups and downs. While we've had brilliant titles like 
 the Jedi Knight series, horrible reminders such as the notorious RTS Force Commander still manage 
 to keep our expectations in check. However, since the release of the original Knights of the Old 
 Republic, the future of the series is looking up.
  
  Knights of the Old Republic (known as KotOR henceforth) is truly an instant classic and arguably 
 the finest Star Wars title ever made. Its successor The Sith Lords, developed by Obsidian Entertainment, 
 aims for that very same status but instead falls way short due to bugs, outdated technology, bugs, 
 and bugs. Oh, did I mention bugs?
  
  The Sith Lords' story takes place 5 years after the original game. Revan, the previous game's  
 (that depends on your choice in KotOR - if you've played it - or several lines of nifty dialogue) , 
 is nowhere to be found and you are found lying unconscious in the severely damaged Ebon Hawk, formerly 
 Revan's ship. You are a Jedi. You had lost your powers. Sounds familiar?
  
  At least you get to wield the Force starting at level 2 this time around, not to mention the fact 
 that you can go all the way up to level 30 and 6 different prestige classes depending on your alignment 
 and choice. Then there are the obligatory new Force Powers and Feats. You also get to influence 
 characters in your party to shift towards your alignment. However, everything else is more of the 
 same. With a twist...
  
  Guess what? That twist isn't a positive one. Sith Lords is riddled with bugs, ranging from the 
 constantly-resetting brightness to downright crashes. It can also get ridiculously easy, especially 
 during the final stretch. The worst offense, still, is the severely underdeveloped (unfinished?) 
 story that falls far short of its huge potential. While some characters are superbly-written, there 
 are less 'personal subplots' than in the first game. The influence system is supposed to enhance 
 the interactions between your party members, but instead it looks like the game is so rushed to 
 the point that some truly stunning plot elements and events are left out. The evidence? Mess around 
 with Sith Lords' audio files and you'll find dialogues for some of the best sequences ever in RPGs.
 
  
  Wait, it gets worse. KotOR is a good-looking title, although nothing special, and the less said 
 about the character models the better. Sith Lords inherits that same engine, seemingly without 
 any modification and/or optimization. Frame rates fluctuate throughout the various locations, sometimes 
 without any real reason. Some parts of the game even seem to look worse than its predecessor. That's 
 a shame, as most Star Wars titles sport flashy graphic engines and slick production values.
  
  Despite all those flaws, however, The Sith Lords still emerges with some credit. The essence 
 of the game is pure brilliance, even though bugs and an ancient-looking graphics engine weigh the 
 experience down quite a bit. Play it for the story (even though it's underdeveloped) , play it for 
 the fights (even though they tend to be too easy - at least on Normal difficulty) . There is great 
 fun to be found here. You just need to wade through all those bugs.
  
  Why worry? You've got a lightsaber! Go Jedi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 13, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  What a disappointment. I loved the original KOTOR, despite its many technical issues. Of course, 
 after all the problems the original KOTOR players experienced, a good publisher like LucasArts 
 would be sure to iron out any problems in the sequel, especially since it uses the identical game 
 engine. Right?
  I knew I was in trouble when the same computer that I have played over 20 of the most recent titles 
 (including Doom 3, Half-Life 2, UT 2004, COD) without a single crash, refused to load the game 
 after I created my character. Ugh.
  Well, an update to my ATI drivers at least allowed me to load the game. I did enjoy most of it, 
 despite several other issues. For Example: NPC conversations cut short, doors that would not open, 
 a story & plot that never really materializes, several graphical issues, swoop races that I forever 
 forfeit (after choosing to end one race prematurely) , Paazak players that always end up with 20, 
 frequent lockups on Dantooine, and an exceptionally disappointing ending.
  Hey, I understand that often a game is released prematurely, but at least the publishers are quick 
 to release a patch. Right? Right? Ok, I have had time to play through the entire game twice and 
 there still there is no patch.
  Inexcusable.
  It is a good game, but under no circumstances would I advise you to purchase this game until a 
 comprehensive patch is released. Game publishers should really be held responsible for the final 
 product. I dont have a problem with It will be ready when its ready. I do have a problem with 
 a good game marred by a colossal number of bugs.
  Caveat Emptor!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylore2003
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  KoTOR I when it hit the last year for xbox then the Pc, Was a revolutionary game. Not many games 
 can boost going from a platform to a PC and still Keep the "Kick assness" that I enjoyed during 
 my 160+ hours of KoTOR. KoTOR II: The Sith Lords keeps this immersive genre hot to the hilt. It 
 is just an amazing game. One this I like about it is its replayability, and its immersive maps. 
 I have only one issuse with it    Graphics. It does suffer a bit because of the Graphics, as sad 
 as it is I think we can do better. All in all i think its a great buy If you are a Star Wars and/or 
 a Rpg guru. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  I like Kotor 2 very much, mainly because of the first two thirds of the game. These parts of the 
 game are paced well, immersive and are a worthy successor of Kotor 1. Though the graphics are a 
 bit dated, at least I wasn't plagued with the bugs and the slowdowns that seem to be widespread. 
 
  But the ending! Dear Lord, the ending. After having enjoyed the game up to this point, the ending 
 was like a slap in the face. In the twenty years I've been playing games, it easily makes the top 
 five, if not the top three of lousy endings I have experienced. The game obviously wasn't finished 
 as it was intended to be to make the christmas deadline. Lucasarts really should have waited until 
 easter to ship the game to have a truly great game and not just a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 10, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  I am reviewing this having only got about 10 hours into the game so I have not experienced the 
 problems of truncated plot due to Lucas Arts desperation to maximise the pre-Christmas X-Box profits. 
 Indeed things also have the capacity to improve. What I have seen however is a potentially great 
 game spoiled by poor QA, some VERY tedious storylines and a very poor control interface for directing 
 your companions actions (i. e. it doesn't work) .
  
  QA - I have a fast, well specced machine with no extraneous software, dlls etc by nature of the 
 fact that it is just used for games. It runs problematic 1st person shooters like a dream where 
 other machines crash. So how come a game like this which makes limited demands on the graphics 
 card etc seems to black out so often? Usually it has to be said, at the end of the rather nasty 
 low-res video interludes, but also just at random. Aside from stability issues, there has clearly 
 also been limited QA on issues such as dialogue loops, where conversations end up going in circles 
 because the links haven't all been checked properly.
  
  Storylines - firstly is it my imagination or is this game a LOT more linear than KOTOR1? Are back 
 stories of ones companions a lot less complex? Are there far fewer side plots and missions? It 
 certainly feels like it - indeed what it feels like is that for the bulk of the game s far I have 
 spent most of it running down featureless corridors hitting a series of pretty similar bad guys. 
 Have just arrived on the planet's surface and.... lo!.... I seem to running in paths that are curiously 
 defined almost as if I'm in corridors (i. e. no options) fighting a series of similar looking bad 
 guys.
  
  Control - this is possibly my biggest gripe. The on screen tools to control your companions actions 
 SIMPLY DO NOT WORK. I know this has been raised by other reviewers but really, its bloody frustrating. 
 Whatever you do, as soon as they see an enemy off they go. They don't use skills intelligently, 
 don't heal, rush straight through minefields, all in their desperate and (as it turns out) often 
 unstoppable urge to kill everything they can see. Just tried quietly killing a creature and then 
 sneaking round a large group of mercenaries - fat chance. My crew transitioned seamlessly from 
 attacking this creature with silent (but less effective) weapons, to running straight towards said 
 heavily armed mercenaries. I tried to recall them, I tried to tell them to be stationary. None 
 of it WORKS. So no surprises, without the planning required to take out a group like this they 
 were killed off. Turned the game off in disgust because I know that really the only solution will 
 be to hack and slash my way through another group of bloody mercenaries.
  
  So - I suspect that this is another in a long line of dumbed-down, money grabbing sequels - could 
 have a been a lot better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeerLuver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not much for RPG style games, but after playing the first Star Wars Knights of the 
 Old Republic; which I thoroughly enjoyed, this sequel met my expectations and enjoyment. The continuance 
 of the story was nicely done. The new features/additions added to the experience and was done well 
 in my opinion.
  
  Graphics were on par and nicely detailed/textured. I've always felt that if you have good graphics, 
 that really helps to bring a game to life and really capture the gamers' interest. Sound was good 
 as well too. Some nicely created sound effects, character voices, and environmental sounds. 
  
  The main thing that captured my peak interest of this game extending from the first game was 
 the ability to choose how the story progresses for YOU. Following the path of the Lightside or 
 the Darkside can really alter the story for your enjoyment. Even a mixture of both can make a significant 
 difference. A well thought out storyline strategy if you ask me.
  
  All in all, this is definitely a game worth picking up. It's not one of those types of games you'll 
 finish in one night or a few days. Unless of course you played around the clock non-stop and/or 
 used cheats :| bad monkey BAD :p heh. Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 4, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed KotOR 1; one of the best games I've ever played. So I thought KotOR 2 would be 
 just as good, or even better. Graphically, KotOR 2 is about the same, with a few small tweaks like 
 improved particle effects for lightsabers, etc. Gameplaywise, a greatly expanded workbench which 
 allows you to create items and break them down as well, is a nice improvement over the original 
 game.
  One new feature that didn't seem to make much difference is the Jedi fighting styles new to the 
 game. Sound is very good as always with Star Wars games. Plotwise, KotOR 2 started out well, but 
 2/3rds of the way into the game it just fell apart. The reason for this is that approximately 40% 
 of the game was gutted so the X-box version could ship for Xmas. This is unexcusable, and entirely 
 due to Lucasarts' corporate greed.
  Many quests, areas, and the alternate endings were removed, and replaced by a tacked-on ending 
 which resolves nothing. What an incredible disappointment! And on top of this are legions of bugs, 
 which include frequent CTD's, dialogue looping, and swoop bike racing which is completely broken. 
 Extremely poor QA.. Obsidian, the developer, is working on a bugfix patch, and they have asked 
 Lucasarts to let them restore the missing content with a patch also, but as to whether that actually 
 happens remains to be seen. If the missing content is restored, the game will be what it should 
 have been to start with, but if that doesn't happen, then I cannot recommend this game. My advice 
 is to wait for the content patch, and if it fails to materialize, then stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralCortez
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2005 4:50 am PT
Review:  This is the PC version of the long awaited sequel to 2003's Game Of The Year, Star Wars: Knights 
 Of The Old Republic. Does it's sequel match up? Let's find out!
  
  Graphics: Damn good. I cannot complain, the graphics are clear and crisp. There are a few glitches 
 but they do not dent the game experience at all. My Radeon 9000 video card does a fine job displaying 
 the game, I can only imagine what a X800 would do!
  
  Controls: The Mouse and WASD keys do I fine job controling this game. There is nothing to say other 
 than good job.
  
  Sound: Amazing. There are no glitches to my knowledge in this area. The character voices are great.
 
  
  Value: It took me 24 hours to beat this game. If I want to, I can play through again as a Light 
 Side character. Which I shall do. It is rumored that there are hidden conversations that are unlocked 
 after beating the game as Dark Side and Light Side. This gives the game a 72 hour play time. That 
 says this game is well worth its 50 dollars.
  
  Misc: Alot of the ending was cut so Microsoft/Lucasarts could ship the game out for the Xbox in 
 time for the December holidays. It shows, alot. The game practically falls apart after you finish 
 your second trip to Telos.
  
  Overall: Good game. Was it worth the wait? Yes. Could this game have benefited from a few more 
 months of development? Hell yeah. But hopefully there will be no rushing when Star Wars: Knights 
 Of The Old Republic 3 is made.
  
  By GeneralCortez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Sith Lords is the sequel to the popular 1993's Knights of the Old Republic, boasting an excellent 
 story integration into a pretty solid RPG construct enhancing the Star Wars mythos. Characterization 
 is compelling, a true testimony to the original: the plot is deviously detailed through savvy dialogues, 
 while remaining mysterious ( some may whine about plot holes, but hey, we can expect another sequel...) . 
 The way developers have tweaked the different alien races to be involved inextricably through tight 
 dialogues is eluding the extra-movie SW universe to a new level of interaction, namely by working 
 the backgrounds of many locales. Now we really feel the pre-Solo scoundrels's worlds... To those 
 patient enough, the discussions between Jedi sensitives as well as cantina-like are truly enriching 
 this universe we barely knew from that angle a few years ago. The KOTOR franchise incredibly pushes 
 forward the scripting to a credible level of interaction, perpetuating the tradition started in 
 the Dark Horse comic book series.
  
  Eloquently, the user interface and RPG elements disclosed are intuitively focused, easy to navigate 
 with, user friendly to the new players rather than over-complexified ( yet the number of options 
 is staggering ) . However, some screenies remain bland overall, like the workbench and some windows 
 in need of additional work. If only one thing requires a steep learning curve it's consequential 
 to the lack of information regarding what kind of upgrades to construct for which type of ranged/melee 
 weapon - and considering the leveling of the character you use at the workbench/lab station. As 
 for lightsabers, choices remain pristine. 
  
  Obviously, the most impressive mechanics rely around the magnificent Light/Dark alignment system. 
 As side companions to the already reckoned choices the player has to make during all the campaign, 
 Persuade and an updated Influence are new features implemented adding to the uniqueness of the 
 game, though their real ''influence'' to the challenge's outcome could be more aesthetic than crucial. 
 The campaign itself is indeed longer, much longer than what most observers seem to indicate by 
 their total of 25-40 hours: that is the real gameplay length for the experienced KOTOR player skipping 
 some dialogues, then a part of the whole story. But if you take into account all the dialogues 
 and story subtleties hidden within such interactions, it's almost double time.
  
  The same positive comments apply to the combat tabs while pausing; nonetheless in action the whole 
 gameplay shines....... and hurts for being hugely dependent of the graphic engine. Regardless, melee 
 combat involving lightsabers is seamlessly rendered just as ranged weaponry ( mostly lasers ) using 
 accordingly the engine's physics the way intended. By chance, combat situations - even those involving 
 numerous enemies at a time - run smoothly as most glitches didn't appear then.
  
  The lags can be.... excruciating even on decent machines. Around the Administration on Dantooine, 
 some parts of Onderon & Nar Shaada, you may need to lower textures & shadows and/or reload in order 
 to get past a near-freeze ( 1-3 fps ) . But once the player finds its way to get past the occasional 
 lock-ups, the visual experience delivers just what it's designed for: a still decent 3D RPG layout 
 combining an array of indoor corridors and exteriors. Of course this is still pretty much the same 
 resolution than the prequel released in late 2003, so the engine shows its age more than a year 
 later. Just a point less here. Camera control is surprisingly good. At times some characters you 
 have persuaded or finished a conversation with, are running away and suddenly disappear like if 
 they were teleported ( other than Jedi Masters ) ...... Odd, even though the glitch is intentional 
 and served the purpose of the coders. They have worked out an appropriate use of bump mapping and 
 reflection effects, especially on armors and walls, not overly - rightly tamed just as the sparsed 
 particle effects like in the first title.
  
  Adding to the general immersion, the audio enriches a credible SW experience by being faithful 
 to the franchise. The various sounds, and we're not talking about the overarching amounts of voice 
 overs, seem to relegate at a lower level an otherwise excellent musical score. Background effects 
 are tamed, not overly amplified bass and treble alike, yet still boosting the sci-fi feeling when 
 progressing through Goto's yacht for example. Speaking of which, the wavelengths of almost undistinct 
 bass effects are coded in a way you may need to be all ears or equipped accordingly. Crafty voice 
 overs make the solid story, but don't pay attention too much to the lip sync...
  
  Assuming you are a SW fan and a RPG addict, Sith Lords is not only a worthy sequel but should undoubtedly 
 provide a daring experience sufficient to overshadow its little set backs. Like Visas said, '' 
 It may manifest itself in many ways...''. For the gamer being also a SW comic book collector in 
 awe with the series extending the storyline 5000 years before the original movies, then it is a 
 definite buy you may want to complete at least two times ( one Light, then Dark side ) . The new 
 players should be aware the game has a lot of backtracking to do, also including some obligatory 
 comebacks to ''completed'' locations ( Dantooine, Telos ) . This serves the story well; but it seems 
 developers are quite reluctant to innovate when comes the time to design the level variety and 
 connectivity.
  
  In the end, it was a daunting task for Obsidian to fill the shoes of BioWare, and though Sith Lords 
 doesn't top the original, it's a mission = success overall. Newcomers must be aware of a few, albeit 
 irritating technical glitches ( saving often can tamper this ) , and some tiresome backtracking. 
 It may be preferable then to see it in action someplace else before buying it. But taken alone, 
 the Light/Dark alignment feature and choices related justify the price of admission for the gamer 
 whose patient enough to toggle with all its hidden intricacies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anchor_Man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  The main question was if Obsidian could come up with a sequel up to par with Biowares Star wars: 
 Knights of the old republic, you would be surprise as how well they did a good job on it. Kotor 
 2 sets you off just 5 years after the Jedi Civil War. You are an exile Jedi dumped into outer space, 
 with no knowledge of what has happened over the past five years you must save the future for the 
 Jedi. Kotor 2 is basically a good standalone game; you dont really need to know a lot about the 
 Star Wars universe or even what happened in first Kotor. Almost every feature in the first Kotor 
 is back in Kotor 2 but a little more tweaked. One of the main aspects of Kotor 2 is the voice dialogue, 
 I took great notice of the voice acting which was very good, even the alien creatures like Wookies 
 and Twileks have voice acting in their native tongue as well; this small aspect sets the very 
 mood of the game. 
  
  The levels are pretty well designed too. You can take notice by this comment by simply exploring 
 the levels, one major let down though, is the loading times between each section of a level, which 
 can get really annoying sometimes. The graphics couldve used a little more polished but the game 
 play can set up for it. Blazing into a base full of hazardous droids with dual light sabers is 
 always a great sight. Obsidian also did a great job in reinventing the Jedi powers. Using a dark 
 side power like Force Crush on an opponent is a one of the various ways to destroy and enemy. The 
 whole Lightside and Darkside system is back but tweaked to perfection, like now you can actually 
 influence your party members into being light or dark. 
  
  There are also small and big cameos from the stars of the first Kotor. Knights of the Old Republic 
 2 also has major replay value, you can play as a male light side character and have a different 
 ending as a female dark side character. Being male or female can change the story of the game too. 
 Kotor 2 is one of the best Star Wars games on the shelf's go and buy this awesome game for a good 
 price! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 25, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  You want the truth? Right then let's get started.
  
  First of all, the plot. This game does something very unique in that it gives the player control 
 over the plot. The problem this creates is that at the beginning of the game you are not really 
 sure about which are the "correct" responses to the questions people ask you about events preceeding 
 The Sith Lords. In fact you find out that you were expelled from the Jedi Order through your own 
 responses. This expository dialog through responses plagues a great part of the earlier stages 
 of the game.
  
  Speaking of which, the start of the game is VERY tedious to play through. I actually played the 
 tutorial mission even though I am a KOTOR "veteran". The beginning of the game sees you stranded 
 on an asteroid where you will be fighting of invisible Sith Assassins and you will also meet the 
 games most intriguing and greatly voice-acted characters, Kreia. To give you some idea of how tedious 
 the early stages are, for the first 8 hours of the game you will spend your time indoors in enironments 
 that are pretty much just plain textured walls - the reason being that you spend those 8 hours 
 trying to recover you ship.
  
  Kreia refuses to answer the question of whether she is a Jedi or a Sith. This raises ones of the 
 things that made the original game great - every character had a backstory which was revealed as 
 you levelled up and in most cases had a mission to finish their story. In The Sith Lords any backstory 
 is not handled as well as it was in the first game. In fact the game seems centred around YOUR 
 backstory.
  
  Just want to mention the voice acting. Apart from Kreia and Vrook, it's not great at all. One of 
 your shipmates is of the same species as Darth Maul and I cannot stand to listen to him. He pretty 
 much copies Darth Maul's soft spoken tone, but that was okay in the movie where he only spoke one 
 line. To hear a character speak EVERY line in that soft spoken voice is very hard to listen to.
 
  
  I think that actual gameplay mechanic has been over complicated. You now have various "forms" of 
 saber combat. This is a dumb idea as it should have been handled automatically. The AI of your 
 companions is ATROCIOUS. It really is. It is not uncommon for you to see them rush through a field 
 of mines. The path finding is non existent, and I have seen cases where my mates will be 50 metres 
 behind me. The will also rush and attack every enemy they see, and never cast healing spells enough 
 when you have them set to "Jedi Support". So a lot of responsibility falls on you, if you want 
 to clear a minefield you need to switch to solo mode just so your teammates don't rush through 
 and set them all off in their zest to kill everything in sight. The game does have the option of 
 setting your teammates agression level to "Stationary" but even in that mode they will attack enemies 
 on sight.
  
  The environments you visit are disappointing from both a design and a graphical viewpoint. This 
 is especially true in the early stage of the game where the graphics are so monotonous that playing 
 through those levels is actually a chore. Onderon is the best designed planet in my opinion. The 
 original Knights Of The Old Republic's graphics were very nice, but this year, not so.
  
  I'd like to finish by mentioning my biggest hangup with the game, and that is that some of the 
 writing is clearly influenced by The Matrix films. This is completely unnecessary in a universe 
 as well established as Star Wars. You can probably avoid a lot of this matrix influenced dialog 
 by never speaking to your "handmaiden". The bit you cannot avoid is being referred to as an "exile" 
 or the merchant on Onderon who does a bangup impression of "mouse" from The Matrix - "Pay this 
 soldier no heed", he even quotes one of "mouse's" lines from the film.
  
  To sum up, if you don't mind "The Matrix" being shoved down your throat in a Star Wars game, then 
 this is an enjoyable yet flawed update on Knights of the Old Republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skydiver8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  After falling in love with the gameplay, story, and characters of KOTOR I, I couldnt wait to get 
 my hands on The Sith Lords (TSL) . I had high hopes that the former Black Isle folks who are now 
 at Obsidian would continue their tradition of making great RPGs. Unfortunately, what could have 
 been a great game was very obviously rushed out the door by an overeager publisher, and it shows.
 
  
  First, Ill start with the good. Compared to the first, the small additions to the gameplay made 
 this one more enjoyable to play TECHNICALLY. For example, your character runs through the world 
 faster, which is a huge blessing for those larger areas. Also, the one button weapon switching 
 was a great idea. There are some new force powers and feats, as well, most of which can be added 
 to the list of good things in this game.
  
  Seeing as how I play games for the story, I could really care less about the graphics. I dont 
 think they distracted from the game, and I dont need super stellar, "256-MB-video-card-required" 
 graphics to make my gaming experience enjoyable. I wasnt expecting a huge leap in graphics quality, 
 so I wasnt disappointed.
  
  What I was expecting, however, was a group of developed NPCs to share a journey with, a coherent 
 story and ending, and enjoyable side quests. Which leads me to the not-so-great
  
  OK, Ill admit, I was happy you could choose the gender and alignment of your previous KOTOR I 
 character, and that it affected some things later on in the game. I was happy with the story (just 
 the story, mind you) up until a certain turning point, when it commenced to all fall apart into 
 an incoherent mess, leading up to a wholly unsatisfying and poorly-designed ending. After finding 
 out about all of the incredible content that was left out of the ending (yet still remains on the 
 CDs) , it tells me that the publisher put way to much pressure on the developer to get this game 
 out the door. I would have easily waited 6 more months for the great ending that was supposed to 
 be there. 
  
  The NPCs were another disappointment. No interaction except in cut scenes, no romance (!!!) , and 
 a flawed influence system make NPCs who could have been very interesting into nothing more than 
 flat support in a fight. The Influence system was touted as being the Next Best Thing to happen 
 to RPGs, but really what we get is the NPCs influencing how my PC should behave, rather than the 
 other way around. I shouldnt have to play the game through with a walkthrough beside my keyboard 
 in order to get my NPCs to talk to me. One misstep and my PC was in a romance with the competing 
 NPC! Why should I have to change my PCs behavior in order to hear important plot points?
  
  Im sad that so much was left out of this game. Im sad that LucasArts forced it out the door 
 too soon. This review is too long already, and I didnt even mention the BUGS! UGH! Dont put on 
 the box that the game supports ATI cards, because it obviously doesnt. 
  
  I wanted to like this game. I wanted to replay it again and again like I did the first one. But 
 I cant bring myself to do it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords is a sequel to the very popular single 
 player RPG Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic which came out for PC and Xbox in 2003. Like 
 the original, the game is set in the Star Wars universe, many years before any of the movies. KotOR 
 II takes place about 5 years after the end of the original KotOR, and features a completely new 
 storyline, with some of the old characters and locations returning. 
  
  In KotOR II, the players will become a former Jedi, who lost his Force powers after fighting in 
 the Jedi Civil War. Over the course of the game, this ex-Jedi will discover why he lost his force 
 powers, and why suddenly the Sith are looking for him again. The storyline of the game is quite 
 complicated, and contains several twists, which makes it easy to sometimes get lost in it, but 
 in the end it all becomes much clearer. In his journey, the exile will visit many planets from 
 the Star Wars universe, and meet several characters that will be able to join him in his adventures.
 
  
  Some parts of the game are very linear, however most of the time it allows the player to go wherever 
 he wants, and do whatever he wants to do. Sometimes, the player will be forced to fight his way 
 out of a small map, other times he will be able to roam through cities, plains and jungles more 
 freely. The maps in KotOR II are divided into several small zones, however they're usually packed 
 with contents such as friendly characters or hostile NPCs that the player must fight with
  
  Throughout the game, the player can either become evil, and fall to the dark side of Force, 
 or be good and lean towards the light side. Almost any situation that the game throws at you can 
 be solved either peacefully, or violently. When faced with robbers attacking a defenseless civilian, 
 you can either assist them with their exploits, or attempt to convince them to peacefully walk 
 away. The player's choices will affect how the NPCs in the game react to him, and the player's 
 alignment affect how the storyline plays out. This adds some replayablilty to the game, since after 
 finishing the game as a character who helps everyone, you can play it again, and just cut down 
 anyone who stands in your way.
  
  The game is somewhat long, by todays standards, and can take over 30 hours to finish, if the player 
 tries to complete every little side quest they encounter. Throughout the 30 hours, the game alternates 
 between fighting, exploring, making difficult decisions, and solving problems enough to keep you 
 entertained. Although some of the parts of the game might feel a little bit boring, the storyline 
 will make you want to get through them to find out what happens next.
  
  The graphics are certainly a weak point of the game. KotOR II uses the same engine that the first 
 KotOR used, and although it doesn't look terrible, it certainly looks dated. The animations of 
 characters look good, but everything else isn't as impressive. However, the graphics do not take 
 much away from the game itself, and while they could be better, the game is good with the graphics 
 that is has. 
  
  The game's sounds are the usual sounds that you'll find in a Star Wars game. While they fit, and 
 are good for a Star Wars game, they aren't amazing. voice overs, however, sound great. Any character 
 that speaks English (or whatever it's called in the Star Wars universe) is fully voiced over, and 
 generally the voices match the characters very well. Some aliens do not speak English, though, 
 and for them, the game reuses a couple of sound clips of alien talk, which soon get annoyingly 
 repetitive. Fortunately, the player isn't forced to listed to the same alien talk over and over 
 again, and he can instead just read the translation in the subtitles, and skip the alien talk. 
 The music is also similar to what you can find in other Star Wars games and movies, and it can 
 help set the mood, but again, it's just good, and not great.
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II is certainly one of the best single player RPGs that 
 recently came out. While every other developer studio is jumping on the MMORPG bandwagon, Obsidian 
 made a SP RPG that includes all the elements that make SP RPGs good. If you are looking for a good 
 SP RPG, or played the first game, you may want to pick KotOR II up. If you are a Star Wars fan, 
 this is one of the best Star Wars games that you can buy. While KotOR II has some shortcomings, 
 they do not stop it from being a good RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords (hereafter referred to as KOTOR II) is the first 
 game from fledgling developer Obsidian Entertainment, and it looks like they've gotten things off 
 on the right foot.
  
  KOTOR II just does so many things right. It doesn't try to re-invent the wheel and consequently 
 builds upon a lot of the strengths of the original game. If you liked the first game you will without 
 a doubt appreciate what KOTOR II has to offer. 
  
  You begin the game as a Jedi that has lost touch with the force. Obsidian wisely avoids the amnesia 
 clich, and you will either start out in a tutorial/ prologue area, or skip it if you're already 
 familiar with the game mechanics.
  
  Some of the most impressive qualities of the first installment were glitzy graphics, a bona fide 
 Star Wars soundtrack, fully voice-acted characters, and an open-ended adventure that took 30+ hours 
 to complete. One could argue that KOTOR II delivers on every one of those merits, except that the 
 graphics engine is exactly the same as last year's game. From the very beginning you will be drawn 
 into the game world. Great roleplaying games possess the ability to suck in a player for hours 
 at a time. It becomes very difficult to stop playing during the heavy expository sequences and 
 cut scenes, and though it takes a little while to get warmed up, KOTOR II delivers an absolutely 
 superb narrative.
  
  Instead of a cookie cutter save-the-universe plot, the focal point is self discovery and internal 
 strife. KOTOR II may be pretty familiar, but it is good to see a little creativity in the storyline, 
 which is ultimately the most compelling part of the game. It is expertly told, and even after you 
 master the core mechanics of the game it will keep you playing.
  
  The gameplay and combat system are rewarding in their own way, but as it has been mentioned in 
 the official gamespot review, the combat is most certainly unbalanced. With some rudimentary knowledge 
 of D&D games you will absolutely CRUSH anything and everything in your path. It only took me 28.5 
 hours of game time to finish. This is largely because I felt hurried through. There is a serious 
 bug that Obsidian has acknowledged in the documentation that comes with the game. The following 
 is taken directly from it.
  
  "The game may freeze or crash to a blank screen if you play in one level for extended periods of 
 time. This was typically seen when playing the game between thirty and forty minutes without transitioning 
 to a new level or movie. We recommend that you save the game often to avoid losing progress if 
 you encounter this issue."
  
  When you are trying to do side quests and such, the threat of an imminent crash every 30-40 minutes 
 is KILLER to the roleplaying experience. I ended up skipping a lot of the optional content because 
 I didn't want to repeat quests lost due to game crashes. The really unfortunate part about it was 
 that the crashes happened VERY often, so I was always counting down in my head how much longer 
 I had until I should expect another crash.
  
  Other minor glitches were present as well, including an annoying reset of the gamma after every 
 pre-rendered cut scene. This was present in the original game, so it's even more baffling why they 
 didn't make a fix a top priority.
  
  Greg Kasavin made reference to the 'terse' ending of this game in the official review, and I think 
 that's somewhat of an understatement. There is no ending. You are left guessing, and I would be 
 really surprised if there wasn't at least an expansion pack forthcoming.
  
  Despite some unsightly bugs, if you're an RPG or Star Wars fan, you should not miss out on this 
 game. Not much has been done to make KOTOR II more of a mass-market game, but for fans of the genre 
 that is probably a plus. It is a great RPG worth a 20-40 hour investment, though hopefully a patch 
 will be released soon to fix the bugs. Waiting to purchase the game until that patch comes might 
 be wise. I have a feeling I would have enjoyed the game a lot more without the crashing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2005 3:32 am PT
Review:  To be critical of KOTOR II seams a little unfair because it is a good game in own right despite 
 all the bugs (I encountered a lot of graphical bugs myself) , but the comparison is enviable given 
 that those who will pick up this game would have played the original and expecting a better experience.
 
  
  The Good:
  -Great story
  -Game play mechanics remain the same
  -Almost everything you like about the original is in it
  
  
  The Bad:
  -The original does 
 everything better
  -A number of graphical bugs (original release, no patches) and a couple of crashes. Save often.
 
  -The ending kinda sucks, leaves some unknowns  not as bad as Half-Life 2, but not that great 
 either. I bet you there is KOTOR III in the works. 
  
  
  The Ugly:
  -Slightly unbalanced towards the end, looses the challenge
  -The bosses arent that great
  
 -Made me miss the original  everything was better the story, the graphics, the love angle, the 
 twists
  
  
  Bottom Line:
  Biowares shoes are too big for any company to fill. KOTOR II is a worthy game, just doesnt beat 
 the original.
  
  I feel like a jerk being critical, as the fans will enjoy KOTOR II and would want to play it regardless. 
 Just dont say I didnt warn you about it falling slight less than the bar set by KOTOR I.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndave
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 17, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I have never been so disappointed with a game that Lucas Arts has been a part of. Bugs Just KILL 
 this game. I can understand having some frame rate issues but the bugs in this game are really 
 STUPID!! The two main bugs I have had are: 
  
  Game will not load properly, it gives me a "wrong version detected" error message and I need to 
 reboot my computer. Are you telling me that Obsidian and L/A can't take 5 min. to see if their 
 game loads correctly!!
  
  Game crashes after 20 to 30 min. of game play no matter where you are in the game. They even note 
 this issue in the Read Me file that comes with the game. If you had time to put it in the Read 
 Me file why didn't you fix it before you shipped it!!
  
  I know that Lucas Arts wanted to get this game out quickley to profit from the success of KOTOR 
 1. But give me a break!! We have seen other games delay their release because they wanted to put 
 out the best product with minimal bugs. For example: Doom 3, Half-Life 2.
  
  Really great job on the quality testing Obsidian and Lucas Arts!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Well after my first 3-4 attempts to create a character were thwarted by the apparent ATI bugs (resulting 
 in a program lock-up)    
  While I have not progressed too far, the initial impression is a good one. The improvements for 
 inventory, secondary weapon switch, party behavior, etc are very handy. The action and character 
 development get started right away. The story-line is captivating, and the unexpected turn of events 
 are a pleasant surprise. 
  
  My biggest gripes with the game so far are:
  1) Graphics issues - despite my ATI 800x, 2Gig Athlon XP processor, 1 GB memory
  - unplayable 
 frame rates in certain areas
  - reducing graphics quality substantially helped
  
  2) No strafe - so used to 1st person shooter strafe, why isn't it there by default?
  - maybe 
 i can and just need to map the keys... will look into it
  
  3) Show-stopping glitch - i lost 2 hours of gameplay    - what happens when you force push an enemy 
 behind a door that locks on you...?
  - you curse, cry, and load that save point from 2 hours back...
  
  Other than that, this looks 
 like a solid and fun sequel to the epic called KOTOR.
  
  I especially look forward to acquiring my lightsaber and going head to head with with "sleeps with 
 vibroblades."
  
  "May the force be restored to you" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: var1000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the first KOTOR and I have been waiting for this game for some time. I am now 
 about 1/4 the way through and I have to say this game is great. It has all the cool stuff from 
 the first one, except a lot of additional things that will enrich the gameplay. I could go into 
 every aspect of this game, however, if you liked the first one, then you will definitly enjoy this 
 game even more.
  I have not experienced any bugs or any issues w/ the game. I am running a AMD, w/ a 9600 ATI Card 
 (overclocked) , 1.5 GB of PC2100 RAM. 
  All I can say is buy this one. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Knights Of The Old Republic 2 is the first released endeavor of Obsidian Entertainment. Many of 
 the employees of Obsidian are ex-employees of the now defunct Black Isle, and their experience 
 towards putting together a great story within the confines of a AD&D-like system is clearly showing. 
 This is good news to you if you've played Planescape Torment, because much of the same attention 
 to creating a enriching plot has gone into KOTOR 2.
  
  KOTOR 1's plot was good. KOTOR 2's plot is longer, deeper, and (in my opinion) considerably better, 
 and this is what makes it a more than worthy sequel. In this review I won't be spoiling anything 
 for you, but suffice to say becoming a Jedi or Sith has become a heck of a lot more involved. Also, 
 much like in Planetscape Torment, each individual character has an interesting history and unique 
 special ability that makes them all the more interesting choice to accompany the protagonist.
 
  
  I noticed is that the GUI has been received some minor upgrades. The equipment screen allows you 
 to equip your characters with two sets of weapons (ideally long range and close range, but you're 
 free to choose) that can be quickly swapped between with the push of a button. The behavior script 
 of the AI for each individual character is easily swappable on the main interface screen between 
 5 different behaviors. The old standbys "aggressive, Jedi support, grenadier" from KOTOR 1 are 
 joined by "ranged" and "stationary". 
  
  The gameplay is roughly the same, but it has been enhanced in places. The ability to construct 
 and upgrade items has never been this well implemented before, and so is quite a treat for the 
 would-be McGyvers out there. There are lightsabre stances and other new features that get you that 
 much more involved. Usually the AD&D-like rule set doesn't impress me much in terms of player involvement, 
 but I have to say that the masterminds behind Obsidian really know how to get the most out of it. 
 There are times in which you may die and have to reload your save game, but you'll usually get 
 a warning before entering particularly dangerous situations. I found combat quite easy, even easier 
 than KOTOR 1, but that's just on the "normal" difficulty level, and there is an option to switch 
 to a more difficult combat mode that I've yet to try. KOTOR 2 seems noticeably more dialogue heavy, 
 but it's worthwhile dialogue because the story is the main draw.
  
  The engine that runs the game is based on the engine that runs KOTOR 1. This is both good news 
 and bad news. The good news is that, despite the dated engine, the graphics hold up relatively 
 well. There's been a considerable amount of new content created specifically for KOTOR 2, so there's 
 a whole lot of new mixed in with the old. The bad news of using this engine is immediately evident 
 if you are using an ATI based chipset and have played KOTOR 1. 
  
  General community consensus has it that Catalyst version 4.11 is the ideal version to use, or else 
 face a low (possibly unplayable) frame rate in certain parts of the game world. There is one issue 
 with this solution: I've noticed that while using version 4.11 of the Catalyst drivers I encounter 
 a black screen lock up when I attempted to create a new character, right after the first video 
 sequence. According to the community forums, this is a common issue with ATI cards. I was able 
 to get past that sequence successfully after I upgraded to newer drivers, but then I ran into the 
 slowdown in parts of the game world. Fortunately, 4.11 seemed to work just fine after I had passed 
 that first video sequence, but I have yet to complete the game.
  
  Ideally, I would like to be able to play the game on current (5.2) drivers without fear of slowdown, 
 as those drivers work well with all but a extreme few games. An Internet-based patcher is part 
 of the game software, and here's hoping that ATI, Obsidian, or Bioware are able to introduce some 
 kind of fix soon. 
  
  There are also a few bugs in the game that are unrelated to the hardware you are using. Aside from 
 the occasional random crash, they have not proven game stopping. There are auto-save and quick-save 
 features that keeps you from losing too much progress if disaster strikes. Regardless of the issues, 
 KOTOR 2 is the kind of game you'd be willing to put up with a few bugs for. It's just that good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dessna32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes you may have been amazed at Star Wars: Knights of the old republic. This sequel is even better 
 and is arguebaly the best Star Wars game ever made. It took all the bad things of the first and 
 made it better. First, a rather short campighn. It made much longer with more levels to gain and 
 so on. Second, the wait for force powers. You start as a Jedi in the beginning (without a lightsaber 
 though) and by level 2 force powers. Third, graphics. Graphics looking astonishing with wide state-of-the-art 
 graphics. But, some flurries when turning make it annoying (I played it on 3 computers) . And it 
 still does not feature a multiplayer mode. Past these though this game is the best Star Wars game 
 ever made. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms8445
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is truly one of the best stories that has been told. I actually felt as though I was making 
 the decisions and I had to really think about what answers to give, and how to respond to the many 
 different characters. 
  
  My most memorable moment was when Astril showed me the lightsaber I had described to Atton earlier 
 in the game. It took me a couple of seconds to realize what had happened then I thought to myself, 
 wait I want my lightsaber back.
  
  The story is wonderfully done and the work that you have to do in order to regain a lightsaber 
 is well worth it. When you finally hear the snap, hiss, then the hum of your saber it is a great 
 feeling. 
  
  This game is not without it's flaws. It is the same old graphics engine with some new graphics 
 which brings my nice machine to a crawl at some points. Also the team AI is questionable at times. 
 I have had numerous occasions when my party would run on top of mines I was trying to recover/disable 
 as well as run off to attack creatures even when not set to aggresive... most of these problems 
 can be negated with practice. 
  
  There are also quite a few CTD's to deal with, main piece of advice save the game as often as you 
 do not want to repeat something. So whether it's a hard battle or a long walk with lots of mundane 
 killing of a large number of creatures... SAVE SAVE SAVE!
  
  These problems are all avoidable but if they had not shown up in the first place this game could 
 have been perfect! As it is, the game is still a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  Better! Don't get me wrong, the first one is still what set the ball rolling on this great series, 
 and it will always hold the title of the "original" of the series that started it all, but Obsidian 
 picked up Bioware's ball and carried it all the way.
  
  Now let's be honest, the game is an expansion pack. They sold it as a stand alone, but it could've 
 easily been an expansion pack. The previous formula has been picked up without a hitch, and the 
 new developers have decided to deepen the existing gameplay mechanics. Skills actually seem a lot 
 more important now, and they actually play a part in dialogue. Weapons and armor are more upgradable, 
 and instead of trading in all your useless junk for credits, you can use your skills at the work 
 bench to build things. 
  
  The quests in the game just feel more... epic, more starwars'ish. They've actually taken Lucas' 
 two battles at once formula and integrated it into the game (ie Endor/space battle/inside the deathstar... ok 
 that's three, but you get what I mean) . The characters just feel better, they fill out more, and 
 the game's attempts to draw out their pasts don't seem as clunky and awkward as in the original... I 
 always hated when I'd be running and suddenly I was interrupted to be informed that something was 
 on Carth's mind... This game feels more like a galaxy, rather than five individual locations to 
 travel to (plus bonuses) . There is a cohesion here that the original didn't quite manage to capture 
 (despite it's greatness) .
  
  The story is also better in my opinion. It isn't quite as cut and dry. It doesn't feel as... comic 
 bookish. I wouldn't call it serious drama either. On the downside, it lacks some of the wit that 
 the original possessed. Everything about the game just feels more fleshed out. There is still little 
 to no value in carrying around blasters as melee always overpowers.
  
  When it comes down to it, the game is essentially the same as the original (which is good if you're 
 like me and you wanted more of the same) , but it manages to add enough to make this a fresh new 
 experience that takes more advantage of all the aspects of "role playing" which results in a little 
 more thought and interaction in your party selections. The game should've scored higher on my review 
 but the graphics are showing their age... but hey, this game was never about grapchics, it's always 
 been about great characters and story.
  
  Oh and on a final note... worst end cut scene ever... but whatever, the game easily makes up for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrrufusss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game ever since I heard the announcement, especially considering 
 how much I loved the first and how must respect I have for the Obsidian team, given that many of 
 the same guys developed Fallout 2 - arguably one of the best computer RPG's of all time.
  
  I played through the entire game in a 3-day spree in which I was unable to move from my seat, completely 
 absorbed in the KOTOR 2 universe. Many have complained about the dated graphics, but this isn't 
 a game about graphics. Sure, the could have been better, but as they are they help to reel you 
 in, and the force powers and battle sequences are all very well done. What's important here is 
 the characters, the story, it's faithfulness to the original (as well as the Star Wars universe) 
 and, quite simply, how FUN it is to play. On these, it succeeds unquestionably.
  
  Admittedly the story is much, MUCH darker here and that may turn some people off, but for me it 
 just sucked me in that much more. The new influence you have over your many teammates and the sheer 
 number of decisions to make suggests that you will never see everything on the first time through, 
 and I'm looking forward to trying it out again from a "light side" perspective. 
  
  Hats off to obsisidan for developing what I strongly feel is a larger, more complex, beautifully 
 written and more engrossing sequel to one of my favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Coming so quick on the heels of the original Knights of the Old Republic, I had some doubts about 
 the quality of The Sith Lords. Those are all forgotten, now. While the game does not make any markedly 
 innovative advances from the original in presentation or graphics, that can be forgiven by offering 
 what is an overall excellent gaming experience.
  
  For those who loved the first game (and there were many of us) there is little reason to believe 
 you won't also enjoy The Sith Lords. At the heart of the game is a captivating story and fascinating 
 and deep characters. The Gamespot review was, however, correct about some pacing problems at the 
 end of the game, which did seem to make some logical jumps that were, well, a bit stretched. Many 
 complained similarly about the first game's plot twist, which to some felt forced and a bit unbelievable. 
 If the first game's twist didn't bother you, the story's few shortcomings near the end likely won't 
 bother you either.
  
  Graphically, the game is on par with the first, which for some will be disappointing. The original 
 KOTOR was, in my opinion, quite good looking, and so while The Sith Lords is dated (only slightly, 
 really) in its presentation, it is still quite a beautiful game. Voice acting was good throughout 
 (as I've said in other reviews, good voice acting is rare in games these days) , with the main characters 
 really standing out as believable, just as in the original KOTOR. Similarly, the sound effects 
 are also on par with the first game, with the lightsaber sounds particularly cool.
  
  Difficulty on the easiest setting is too easy except for those cutting their teeth on RPGs. But 
 for experienced players, the higher settings will provide a challenging game experience. I found 
 the most difficult setting almost too difficult to be enjoyable, but profoundly satisfying when 
 I managed to squeak out of a difficult battle. That's the best feeling any game can provide, and 
 this one did so several times.
  
  You'll definitely get your money's worth out of this game. Replay value is as high as KOTOR, and 
 with the extended classes for Jedi, you'll really feel like you're progressing further than the 
 previous game. If you're one of those who played KOTOR through five or six times (like I did) , 
 you'll find similar replayability here. You'll be playing this game for months without tiring of 
 it.
  
  Overall, if you liked the original KOTOR, this game is an excellent pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terdog
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well, after waiting a few months for the PC version of KTOR II, I can say it was worth the wait. 
 The game is very good, and up to par with the original, but there are some problems along the way.
 
  
  First off, the graphics are looking a little old. Now, thats not a bad thing, as the look of the 
 first game was very good, but now, I think the Neverwinter Nights engine (KTOR 1 & 2 use a heavily 
 modified version of the NWN engine) could have been beefed up.. Also, some of the cut scenes in 
 the game have some camera problems, and can drop you back to the desktop (but you can just click 
 on the taskbar, and the game comes back.) But there is some slowdown in the game. Its not major, 
 but its there.
  
  The dialog in the game is freaking huge. Lots of it, the voice acting is well done. As is the music 
 and lightsaber sounds.
  
  As for the story, good grief, long one. You will see some familiar faces pop up. and you will be 
 glad they did. I've only logged about 5 hours on the game. and I expect it to go another 25-30 
 hours at least.
  
  As for the interface. MUCH better than the first game. More streamlined, and the inventory menu 
 and such are now the full size of the screen, which makes them much easier to navigate.
  
  Your choices also have much more meaning this time, as they will affect everyone in your party, 
 and how the game pans out. As in the first one, you can play as either a Light side of Dark side 
 Jedi.
  
  All in all, a great game, with some small problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam5150
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  I'v only played about 9 or 10 hours so far and im already hooked. The game just gets more interesting 
 as you keep playing. I'v heard and read alot of people complaining about bugs/glitches but I have 
 experienced none. 
  
  So far the story gets more interesting as your progress farther in the game. I think one of my 
 most favorite parts about the game so far is that you have complete freedom of making right or 
 wrong choices depending upon the situation. 
  
  The attack animations are better looking now, not the same old 2 attack animations with lightsabers/melee 
 weapons. 
  
  The graphics remain unchanged since the first KoToR but the same still looks nice. The walls and 
 environment around you is well polished and not many glitches with graphics. Voice acting is played 
 out well. I think the character diologue and animations while you are interacting with an NPC is 
 kinda quirky looking but it doesn't affect the game at all. 
  
  All in all, i'v barely played but i'm already loving it. Obsidian did a wonderful job in keeping 
 everything intact. I thought that they would completely change the game from when Black Isle had 
 ownership.
  
  For $50 i think that this game is well worth it because there is EXCELLENT replay value to be played 
 here. You can play the game as Light Side or Dark Side which makes the game just more fun to play. 
 I highly recommend this game any anyone who loves RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderHawk_m82
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  KOTOR 2 is the best rpg out there. The only thing that might not appeal to everyone it's the graphics 
 which are a bit old in my opinion. Excellent story, starwars world, etc... 
  The new things on lightsabers are also very nice, more action, more interaction with party members, 
 new weapons, and a lot more. A must for every starwars fan and all rpg players. Maybe next time 
 we can have some multiplayer modes such as coop or deathmatch? :D I think the engine and concept 
 can be more explored and make it a even better game though it is already awesome.
  It surely deserves a best rpg title for 2005. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
