-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Force Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsforcecommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 446 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 21, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Because of its dated graphics, ineffective controls, and flawed gameplay, Force Commander falls 
 short of its ambitious intent. 

 Star Wars: Force Commander is a traditional real-time strategy game that has fully three-dimensional 
 graphics and a few original gameplay ideas. Most importantly, Force Commander intends to let you 
 re-create the ground battle sequences from the classic Star Wars films by letting you take control 
 of Imperial walkers, Rebel defenses, and more. Yet because of its dated graphics, ineffective controls, 
 and flawed gameplay, Force Commander falls short of its ambitious intent; and because it's been 
 so long in development, and so highly anticipated, it finally comes across as a disappointment. 

 Force Commander's 3D engine would have been considered state-of-the-art two years ago. The game 
 can render a rather large quantity of animated units without slowing down, although the graphics 
 won't ever move very smoothly even on high-end computers. Force Commander's 3D units range widely 
 in visual quality; zoom in up close and you'll see that the towering four-legged Imperial AT-AT 
 walker looks and moves with marked similarity to its counterparts in the famous Battle of Hoth 
 sequence in The Empire Strikes Back. The flying units in Force Commander, which include Imperial 
 TIE fighters and bombers, as well as Rebel snowspeeders and Y-wings, also look more or less exactly 
 as they did in the Star Wars films. Unfortunately, most of the other structures and units are simple 
 shapes that are lacking in detail, and the hilly terrain graphics are similarly unimpressive. And 
 the game's flat, washed-out textures do little to bring the units or the topography to life. Moreover, 
 all of the units change direction by rotating in place, which looks all right for the Rebels' treaded 
 and hovering vehicles but not good at all for the Imperial walkers, which seem to slide in place. 

 Probably the most visually unappealing element of Force Commander's presentation is its onscreen 
 interface. It's a plain rectangle that consumes about a third of the game screen, and though you 
 can toggle it on or off (which takes an undue amount of time) , the game is unplayable without having 
 the interface bar's ugly displays readily available. The interface looks unfinished, and its various 
 functions that let you build structures or change unit behavior are nondescript and counterintuitive. 
 The slipshod interface graphics look surprisingly poor, but other than the sheer amount of space 
 they take up onscreen, at least they don't really interfere with the gameplay once you memorize 
 all the functions.  

 Unfortunately, Force Commander's 3D camera controls are a huge detriment to the game. The view defaults 
 to a slightly raised perspective that shows your units up ahead in the distance. It's a nice angle 
 to look at an AT-AT, but it's entirely nonfunctional for gameplay purposes. So instead, you're 
 expected to pan, rotate, tilt, and zoom the camera until you find an angle that works. You can 
 manipulate the camera with the mouse, or you can use the predefined keyboard keys to do so, but 
 either way it'll take you a long time to figure out how to get the camera to move the way you want. 
 Ultimately, you'll just end up zooming the angle as far back as possible and raising it high above 
 your forces, such that the game's perspective mimics most every other real-time strategy game. 
 You'll need to do so to see as much of the screen as possible, but in consequence, most units will 
 shrink to a minuscule size. You'll have a hard time seeing them shooting at one another because 
 the shots are so small, and the units themselves will be obscured by wire-frame selection boxes. 
 In the end, you'll have to compromise between being able to control the game effectively and being 
 able to see your 3D units clearly, which reflects Force Commander's compromised design: Aside from 
 the occasional circumstances when terrain affects your units' line of sight, the game's 3D engine 
 is a liability rather than a feature.  

 Force Commander also features a soundtrack that's at least as misguided as its 3D graphics. There's 
 a good intent behind the game's techno remixes of the classic Star Wars themes. The composers recognized 
 that Star Wars fans have likely heard John Williams' score one too many times by now, so they tried 
 to work with the familiar Star Wars musical cues to create an original soundtrack. Unfortunately, 
 most will find the results to be either silly or offensive: The drum loops and heavy-metal guitar 
 chords just don't sit well with the classical strings and brass of the familiar soundtrack. Luckily, 
 not all the music in the game got the techno treatment - but chances are you'll shut it off anyway, 
 just to be safe. Force Commander otherwise sounds like most any other Star Wars game. The voice 
 acting is generally quite good, though the unit acknowledgments are repetitive as in most real-time 
 strategy games. Some of the sound effects in Force Commander are actually very well done, such 
 as the distinctive whine of multiple TIE fighters in flight. Once you get past the interface, you'll 
 find that Force Commander can actually be a lot of fun to play sometimes. Battles are fast paced 
 and generally look and sound convincing if you zoom in on them, especially since the units in the 
 game are depicted to the proper scale. Your forces do a good job of firing on their enemies as 
 soon as they get into range, and they also let you know when they're in trouble. What's more, although 
 Force Commander initially seems to play like most every other real-time strategy game available, 
 it actually has some distinguishing play mechanics. For example, units and structures are acquired 
 in the game using command points, which are earned mostly by killing enemy units. A portion of 
 the value of every unit you destroy is transferred to your surplus, which means that if your enemy 
 attacks early on and you stop his rush, then you'll end up having a lot more money to spend on 
 a counterattack. The game's campaign missions also let you complete optional secondary objectives 
 that further boost your command-point supply.  

 In addition, although infantry in Force Commander are generally fragile, they play a key role in 
 the game because they can take over enemy structures, and even enemy units in some cases. And unit 
 reinforcements as well as new structures are shipped down to the planetary surface from orbit, 
 rather than built on the spot as in most real-time strategy games. Consequently you can order large 
 groups of reinforcements at a time, and they tend to arrive quickly, which lets you get them into 
 action without much delay.  

 Unfortunately, there are consequences to most every aspect of Force Commander's gameplay that severely 
 impair the game's balance and diminish its lasting value. Though the battles in Force Commander 
 tend to resolve quickly, it takes a really long time for your units to move from place to place, 
 no thanks to the poor unit pathfinding. However, you can't change the speed of the game from the 
 default, which means you might get frustrated watching your AT-ATs trudge across the map, just 
 as you'll wish you could slow things down to evaluate your forces during battle. The inability 
 to adjust game speed may be the consequence of the designers' intention to maintain a sense of 
 "real-time" realism, but that doesn't change the fact that Force Commander's pacing is too sporadic. 

 Part of the problem is the game's infantry, whose ability to control structures tends to dominate 
 the game. A small set of fast-moving, inexpensive transports filled with infantry can quickly move 
 in and take control of the enemy's defenses, which will then turn and fire on their previous owner. 
 Even a dense cluster of anti-infantry, antivehicle, and antiair turrets is susceptible to infiltration. 
 Although you can defend your structures by stationing your own troops inside, doing so is a real 
 hassle since you have to walk a unit into each building then click on it to check if it's occupied, 
 and doing so will quickly put you over the unit limit anyway. Besides, the Rebel infiltrator unit 
 can take down defending stormtroopers pretty easily, especially since battles in buildings are 
 resolved automatically. The Imperials get AT-ATs, but then again, the infiltrators can take over 
 AT-ATs just like buildings.  

 The pitched battles are a real problem in Force Commander. You'll find yourself squinting to check 
 for infantry rather than thinking about how best to mount an attack. Each time you lose a unit, 
 your enemy effectively gains reinforcements in command-point value, and units that survive battles 
 gain experience and become stronger. Consequently, Force Commander gives a big advantage to the 
 player who's already winning, which keeps the game from being much fun competitively, since you'll 
 keep losing once you lose the advantage.  

 Force Commander has some good ideas. Its campaign has an involving plot and interesting mission 
 objectives, as well as nice-looking 3D mission briefings. The command-point system and the balance 
 between the stronger Imperial units and the shielded, regenerating Rebel units is original, as 
 are some of the game's unit designs. But because of Force Commander's lackluster graphics, grating 
 soundtrack, and multiple gameplay flaws, it's impossible to recommend to experienced real-time 
 strategy players, just as the cumbersome camera controls will prevent even some of the most die-hard 
 Star Wars fans from enjoying the game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Star Wars fan since Episode IV and anything with Star Wars on a store shelf will get 
 my attention. The box cover looked so good, the screen shots on the back were awesome. I cant 
 blame anyone but myself for buying such a bad game. Even with a fast computer and a great video 
 card this game seems bogged down with a lot of bugs that even a 5year old will complain about. 
 My thinking if you going to copy another companys idea, a good selling point would be to actually 
 make it better that one that you are copying. This games feels like you are their Beta Tester. 
 The Views are hard to manage much less the units you are commanding. Now you think in the Star 
 Wars universe everything looks good but unfortunately the graphics seemed unfinished. In all another 
 company just cashing in on an unfinished product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalzargahoughan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  From what I hear, Lucas Arts was almost done making this game, when they decided to push the release 
 date back and redo the entire game with a 3D engine. From what I know from playing this game, this 
 is probably true. And in my opinion, that's what ruined this game. The gameplay is, in many ways, 
 great. It is one of the most realistic RTS games out there. And it's realistic in a good way. For 
 example, every other RTS has done one of three things with troopers. They either make the troopers 
 unrealistically powerful, cheap and weak, or make the game focus on troops and have little if any 
 vehicles or air craft. This game makes troopers necessary, but not powerful. You fight mainly with 
 vehicles, AT-St's AT-PT's, AT-AT's, and the like, there's also some deep strategy elements with 
 Ion canons, fighters, bombers, and spy droids. Everything feels like it should in reality, it's 
 amazing! I don't know if I have ever seen this type of realism done so well ever before! It's just 
 incredible. Then, you have troopers and building, Troopers can be useful in battle, but their main 
 function, is basically the same as it is in reality. They can storm and take over enemy buildings 
 (If they successfully kill the enemies defending units inside) . They can also mount and dismount 
 certain vehicles, and cross any terrain that vehicles can not. This adds a great variety of different 
 strategies and options on the battlefield. Plus, all of your units also earn experience during 
 battle.
  
  The units, by the way, are not built as in standard RTS's. They are ordered and brought to your 
 location by drop ships. You order units by spending command points. You earn command points by 
 eliminating enemy units, completing objectives, or capturing and holding bunkers for continuous 
 command point flow. Another use for command points is in the hanger bay, which you are taken to 
 in between the campaign missions. Here you will have 1 or more drop ship (s) preloaded with units 
 that you can't change. You will also have 2 drop ships which you can load-up with surviving units 
 from the previous mission, buy spending your unused command points from the previous mission. You 
 won't get to keep any of the units you don't load into the drop ships. But don't worry, for a few 
 command points, you can put them in a storage bunker and save them for a future mission. The whole 
 setup just works great, and I think it's one of the high points of the game.
  
  There are a few problems with the gameplay. Path-finding can be a serious problem, some crashing 
 issues, and general technical problems. But the single greatest problem to the game is the camera. 
 It is very hard to learn how to use. And it has the horrible problem of you having to continually 
 zoom in to see where your troopers are, then zoom out to be able to get a tactical view to be able 
 to move them. The game can also be ridiculously hard at times. I'm talking pull your hair out, 
 scream bloody murder, pound your head into the wall until it's just a bloody pulp type of hard. 
 I had to try one mission 15 time, and then when I finally beat it only the two hero's that I had 
 to keep alive survived with extreme amounts of luck, and to this day I can hardly believe I beat 
 it.
  
  Graphics: They are horrible, If you zoom in close enough, you can even count the pixels on your 
 units. The explosions are hardly worthy of the star wars name, and the maps are just plain ugly. 
 If they wanted to do a 3D RTS, then they needed to make the graphics a lot nicer.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is good, and the sound effects are okay. But you will likely feel insulted, 
 by what they did with the classic star wars music score. But hey, at least they tried something 
 new, then the same old music. And its not bad once you get used to it.
  
  Value: Well, this game will take you a loooooooooooooooooooooong time to get through, but you probably 
 won't want to replay it. It'll probably take you 20 to 40 hours to get through, and much of that 
 will be very frustrating gameplay. There is also a skirmish mode, which can be fun, as well as 
 an online multiplayer mode. So you do have some options.
  
  Conclusion: A good game with a ton of problems. Most of which are probably because they decided 
 to redo the whole game with a 3D engine. Yet, there are many great and unique gameplay elements 
 that it probably would've been a great game if they hadn't screwed it up with their stupid 3D engine. 
 Still, if you think you can trudge through the first hour or two it takes to learn the camera, 
 you should be able to find some enjoyment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odmog
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  First, the graphics appeal to me. It seems that Gamespot's reviewers do not like dark, foggy graphics, 
 but I do. Although the graphics are might not be too impressive, the setting of the Star Wars universe 
 during the dark times is captured nicely. You'll see all the units and buildings you'd expect from 
 a game like this.
  
  The sound. Now, I digged the music. In almost every other Star Wars game I have played you get 
 that same old classic music over and over again. Not that the SW compositions aren't truly great, 
 it's just that you get tired of everything. This game actually has some pretty neat remixes instead, 
 fitting for the setting. The effects are what you can expect from an average RTS, unique voices 
 for everyone, standard SW laser sounds... Note that on some sound cards you might experience sounds 
 cancelling and such.
  
  The main flaws are in the gameplay. 
  Like in most 3D RTS games I have seen, the units are rather clumsy and move into eachother, etc. 
 In fact that part is worse in this game than in any other. The units try go go into formations, 
 but it is not too successful. Commanding the units can be very hard on tight maps.
  The mechanics take some time to learn, and there is a long three-stage tutorial at the beginning. 
 After this tutorial you jump straight into a rather hard mission which might take some attempts 
 to manage to beat. Some of the following missions might be annoying at times.
  I reccommend some Skirmish missions (many bunkers=hard) , and multiplayer is really fun when playing 
 someone close to your own skill level. The good thing is, you will soon have to use some wits to 
 defeat the enemy, not just premade one-track tactics.
  I found the camera control system (you always complain about this...) to be fully functional, giving 
 you more control than in any other 3D RTS game. Mastering the camera can require some skill though.
 
  
  This is, from one point of view, the most realistic RTS I have ever seen. No, I'm not talking about 
 any amazing graphics or physics; Please let me explain: 
  -Rather than being the regular unexplainable commander-god swirling around in the air, you realize 
 that you are on a Star Destroyer. Your computer is the "BHCI", a simulator showing you where everything 
 is, and also allowing you to order your troops around. Maybe it's a cheap explanation but at least 
 there is one...
  -You don't mine for gold during battle (ridicolous when thinking about it) ... You earn digital Command 
 Points whenever you are successful, for example when destroying an enemy unit or capturing a bunker.
 
  -You won't build units out of materials and individuals coming from nowhere: You order everything 
 from the Star Destroyer or Rebel ship. They are sent down to the battlefield by spaceships.
  -The buildings and units are actually in the right proportions to eachother.
  
  If you like 
 both Westwood and Blizzard-style Real Time Strategy games, I can reccommend this game to you. I 
 enjoyed this game far more than for example Generals, which is similar.
  
  It has it's flaws, and you'll need to master them and avoid getting frustrated in order to enjoy 
 the game. Some of the user-reviewers here were clearly just frustrated and had not sufficient patience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  I don't even think Yoda himself could save this game from itself. Talk about one bad bad bad game. 
 I was stupid enough to ignor the reviews and went out and bought this game expecting it to be all 
 that it had promised to be and much to my own displeasure I discovered other wise.
  
  This game is one of the worst Star Wars games ever released. It had an interesting story, but abissmal 
 game play.
  
  The graphics were extremely bad, and the controls were next to useless.
  
  I played this game for about an hour and uninstalled it in a major huff. I was so extremely 
 frustrated that I actually returned the game to the store. I have only done that twice that I can 
 recall.
  
  Now years later a friend buys this POS and installs it on his computer expecting it to be a great 
 game. I had warned him against buying it, even for a $1.00, it was still way over priced. He discovered 
 that I was correct and it is safe to say that the game disk is well on its way to the dump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  The second Star Wars RTS came out several years after the initial Star Wars: Rebellion. It was 
 one of the first fully 3D real time strategy games, and this is only one of the reasons why it 
 failed.
  
  Force Commander follows a more linear storyline compared to the open ended Star Wars Rebellion 
 in which you take on the role of an Imperial Officer who was formerly a stormtrooper named Brenn 
 Tantor. For the most part the story tries to tie in with events that occured during the film trilogy 
 as well as present a personal conflict for the game's protagonist, and the story is definitely 
 one of the better parts of the game. Unfortunately the gameplay, graphics and camera controls may 
 very well prevent you from finishing the campaign let alone trying a skirmish or multiplayer game.
 
  
  Force Commander doesn't have a resource gathering system like most strategy games. Instead FC uses 
 a "command point" system in which you get command points for proving your loyalty by killing enemy 
 units and destroying enemy buildings. With these command points you can summon down troopers via 
 troop landing shuttles and vehicles and more buildings in their respective transports. While this 
 system may seem innovative it also makes the gameplay extremely linear. You're pretty much forced 
 to buy the best vehicles possible using what little command points you have at the beginning, then 
 you must destroy enemies to get enough command points to reinforce your army. There are also occasionally 
 bunkers you can capture that add to your command points after a certain amount of time, but not 
 enough to really help you. The unit selection and building selection are also extremely limited, 
 you've got three forms of infantry (two on some form of transport) , a couple vehicle types, and 
 a couple aircraft\starfighter types. Most of the buildings you can request are also quite useless, 
 one building for example lets you upgrade your units, but these upgrades ultimately don't help 
 in the long run and the building as well as the upgrades are just a waste of command points.
  
  The graphics in Force Commander even for their time were quite abysmal. The larger vehicles 
 are somewhat detailed, but smaller units are blurry, blocky (though this is understandable considering 
 the time FC came out) , and the lasers look worse than the ones in Rebellion. The game lets you 
 use a form of freeform camera so you can view the action at any angle you want, unfortunately the 
 way it is implemented is very poor. The controls are confusing, and the camera itself is slow and 
 clunky. Something as simple as moving the screen up and down is a chore, while most strategy games 
 let you drag the mouse up, down, left or right and move the screen with it as well as the ability 
 to use arrow keys; Force Commander uses the FPS "W, A, S, D" setup which feels out of place and inefficient 
 for a strategy game.
  
  The sound in Force Commander are for the most part just as bad as the graphics. Some traditional 
 Star Wars sounds are included, but the voice acting is second rate and the soundtrack is some sort 
 of pointless and poorly made techno\heavy metal remix of classic Star Wars music.
  
  Force Commander is quite simply a bad game; there is just no other way to describe it. Poor gameplay 
 design, poor graphics, poor controls, poor audio... everything about it is mediocre at best. I 
 wouldn't recommend this game to a casual RTS gamer at all, and to Star Wars fans it seems to be 
 a mixed bag so I recommend they just try it for themselves. Overall, however; Force Commander is 
 a good example of what a 3D RTS shouldn't be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisepye
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Force Cammander has so-so graphics and gameplay. But i have always been a fan of the 
 music so I liked it. yet for people who haven't thought much of Star Wars this game IS NOT FOR 
 YOU! It has some good ideas and lets you remake the classic star wars battles but unless you area 
 die-hard fan of the series this isn't for you. the pixelated figures move like robots and unless 
 the image is large the detail is small. now i will say a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a i did this to fill up the box i needed 100 words 
 but this game isn't worth that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ste9813
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  A great game with pretty damn good graphics for the era.. only flaw with it would be the really 
 hard and quite lengthy campaigns!! can't go wrong in the skirmishes.. a great gaming experience for 
 hardcore RTS players! well worth adding to your list!! it is sometimes a little to hard to play 
 in the skirmish if you can't quite grasp it.... but once you get it, its really fun to play and 
 very very addictive!!!!! campaigns take a while to get going with 3 highly annoying training missions 
 that take an eternity.. but this missions are all good with interesting plot that i didn't expect 
 to happen.. but the missions are far to long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chozojedi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2004 6:40 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Force Commander is a game I came across in a Comp USA, on the bargain rack, for $10. 
 I'd seen it in stores before, but with a $50 price tag, I wasn't that curious. Don't get me wrong, 
 I'm a huge Star Wars fanatic. But back then, fifty bucks was pushing it for me.
  
  Anyway, after taking it home, I popped it in the CD tray, installed it, and played it. I was impressed. 
 I liked the opening cutscene a lot - the Imperial ground assault on the Alliance world of Kalaan. 
 The AT-ATs lumbering forth, the scout walkers look out for Rebel Assault craft, the explosions, 
 the colors, the authentic sounds...
  
  Then the gameplay came. At first I didn't like it, but after a few dozen hours, you get used to 
 it, and it gets to be quite fun. The main problem, as most people who've played this game will 
 tell you, is the camera. The whole keyboard is used in the game, along with the mouse. And believe 
 me, if you want to have any chance of winning in this game, you need to master it.
  
  Now, the graphics were a little bland (so what) , but they at least put the Star Wars universe there: 
 from the stormtroopers, to the terrains, to the TIE fighters flying overhead. I recommend you have 
 a computer with some good RAM and at least a 32MB video card, or this game tends to move like molasses 
 - not what you need when a squadron of Y-Wings comes to bomb your assault force.
  
  The sound effects are very good, very close to the real thing: the blaster rifles, the TIE Fighters, 
 the clank of the AT-ST's bipedal movements, and many others. The music, on the other hand, is a 
 little irritating. Some levels are really good, while others are quite abysmal. Unfortunately, 
 it's just the original trilogy soundtrack spliced together, paced with some techno, some weird 
 sound effects, run through the rinse cycle, and repeating over and over until you beat the level.
 
  
  Now, the story is where the game really shines. Brenn and Dellis Tantor, two brothers hoping to 
 make a name for themselves in the Empire, serve in a series of campaigns to push back the Rebel 
 Alliance. But soon the tyranny of the Empire becames evident even to them, leaving them to defect. 
 Soon thereafter, the tables turn as you now fight for the Rebels to stop the Empire, and retake 
 the Old Republic. The story is told in small snippets of dialogue during the levels, in the briefings 
 at the beginning of every level, and the occasional cutscene.
  
  All in all, this game is really good in single player mode. I have yet to try out multplayer, but 
 the Skirmish mode is quite interesting, pitting you against 1 to 5 other enemies. You chose their 
 allegiance, their team, and other settings (such as time a day, locations on the map, and command 
 points - the system used to buy new troops and buildings to secure your position.)
  
  Force Commander will not appeal to everyone, and it's very hard to hunt down even in the local 
 bargain bin, but it certainly is worth the look. I recommend it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
