-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jediacademy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.0, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 6,285 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 17, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It manages to take all the fun parts from its predecessor and greatly expands them to create an 
 engaging, new action game in its own right. 

  There are dozens of Star Wars games on the market, but none captures the excitement of lightsaber 
 combat as well as the Jedi Knight games. Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is the third game in the series, 
 or, technically, the fourth if you count 1995's Dark Forces, which didn't bear the Jedi Knight 
 name (and didn't let you use lightsabers or Force powers, either) . It is not a revolutionary product -- as 
 it uses the same Quake III engine and gameplay elements as last year's well-received Jedi Knight 
 II: Jedi Outcast. It manages to take all the fun parts from its predecessor and greatly expands 
 them to create an engaging, new action game in its own right.  

          Jaden can be male or female, human or alien.     

  You play as Jaden, the new protagonist 
 in Jedi Academy. You previously played as Kyle Katarn, a strong yet reluctant Jedi, in the previous 
 Jedi Knight games. Kyle has since joined Luke Skywalker as a teacher at the Jedi Academy and is 
 looking for new students. You can actually customize Jaden's character. You can be male or female, 
 choose from one of several different races, and wear different outfits. In any event, you also 
 happen to be the most promising student in the new class. Apparently, you've even built your own 
 lightsaber, which is highly abnormal as lightsabers are usually built during training.  

  If Jaden is considered an unusual student, then your training is anything but common. Jaden's transport 
 ship is attacked when it arrives at the Academy. Then it crashes into the ground. You and another 
 student, Rosh, are the only survivors. He becomes your friend, yet he seems to become jealous of 
 your abilities and his own slow progression. You don't have time to worry about Rosh, though. The 
 storyline revolves around solving several questions related to your attack at the start of the 
 game. Why did a female twi'lek steal information from Luke's chambers when the students were away 
 rescuing the downed ship? What role does the Imperial remnant fill in this attack, and is it related 
 to the mysterious Cult of Ragnos that is appearing in the galaxy? After a short training mission, 
 you immediately set out to help Luke and Kyle obtain answers to these questions. The game's story 
 doesn't get in the way of the action but serves to tie the numerous missions together.  

  Jaden travels all over the galaxy in the game. The missions are surprisingly varied, and that is 
 one of the most pleasant aspects of the game. One mission has you fighting stormtroopers on a refinery, 
 while another mission has you stranded on a desert planet until you can find pieces to repair your 
 ship. Like its predecessor, Jedi Academy takes you to familiar locations, such as Tatooine and 
 Coruscant. Some missions can last over an hour while others take five minutes, so you never quite 
 know what to expect. Jedi Academy has an overall linear path, but you can mix this up to a certain 
 degree. You start out with a set of five missions to choose from. Once you complete four missions, 
 you can either return to the academy to gain new skills and advance the story, or you can play 
 the fifth mission. There isn't a reward for doing so, but you may find yourself doing so just because 
 the missions are diverse and entertaining. After returning to the academy and completing a plot-critical 
 mission, you are offered a new set of five missions. This repeats three times until you complete 
 the game, adding up to about 15 to 20 hours' worth of solid single-player action, depending on 
 what missions you choose and what skills you utilize.  

  Jedi Academy does an excellent job of balancing its missions. Your first set of missions puts you 
 on reconnaissance or rescue missions where you'll face mercenaries, poorly equipped stormtroopers, 
 and the occasional dark Jedi. This is by no means boring. Let's face it: It's very satisfying to 
 completely dominate your enemies, hacking through them with your lightsaber as they desperately 
 try to shoot you down. By the last set of missions, you'll constantly be fighting dark Jedi and 
 stormtroopers in power armor. The game justifies this by explaining that new students take easier 
 missions and then progress to more challenging ones as their training continues. You also drive 
 a variety of vehicles throughout your journey. You get to take speeders out for spins, and you 
 get to control an AT-ST while attempting to ravage Imperial remnant bases from within. While not 
 a crucial part of the game, vehicles are a welcome addition to the normal gameplay.  

  Perhaps the best improvement in Jedi Academy over Jedi Knight II is that it grants you your lightsaber 
 and Force powers at the very start of the game. You spent the first portion of Jedi Outcast without 
 your abilities, and it made those sections rather tedious by contrast. The weapons were interesting 
 enough, but people play these games for the Jedi combat. So this time around, the developer's decision 
 to focus the gameplay on these Jedi abilities is a major boost for the game. That's not to say 
 that conventional weapons are useless. While it's possible to finish the game without ever putting 
 down your lightsaber, sometimes rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and grenades help dispatch some 
 pesky foes.  

          You'll travel to familiar places in Jedi Academy.     

  Jedi Academy also changes how you progress your Force abilities. You start out with eight core 
 Force abilities: pull, push, speed, sense, jump, saber offense, saber defense, and saber throw. 
 Your abilities are limited at first, but you automatically become more advanced in these areas 
 every time you return to the academy. There are eight advanced Force powers to choose from: four 
 on the light side of the Force and four on the dark side. The light side abilities are absorb, 
 protection, heal, and Jedi mind trick. The dark side powers are comprised of life steal, lightning, 
 grab, and Force rage. You receive a point when you complete a mission, and you can distribute it 
 in any of these eight powers at the start of the next mission. Each power has three levels of improvement. 
 For example, one point in Force heal allows you to heal while standing still. A second point lets 
 you heal while moving around, and a third point improves the healing ability altogether. The point 
 system works well to represent the fact that you are slowly learning from your master, Kyle. There 
 aren't enough points in the game to become a master in all categories, so you can either specialize 
 or choose a little bit of everything.     

  In reality, you'll probably find yourself choosing Force grab and Force heal at the start of the 
 game. These two abilities are the most useful, and you can complete the game using just these two 
 advanced powers. Force grab is the incapacitating choke Darth Vader uses in  A New Hope . Your 
 level-three grab lets you pick up and throw enemies using your mouse, or you can just hold them 
 steady -- which allows you to quickly kill them by throwing your lightsaber at them while they are 
 helplessly suspended in the air. You can also inflict damage to opponents by slamming them into 
 walls and/or slamming them into the ground. You can even drop opponents off of nearby cliffs. While 
 regular foes are dead meat, Force users can break free of your choke. But the split second it takes 
 them to stop your choke is still enough time for you to flick your mouse to the right and drop 
 them off into an abyss. Use heal to repair any damage you've incurred, and then it's time to move 
 on. Unfortunately, this combination makes the game too easy, at times, because there are plenty 
 of ledges in the game -- allowing you to keep using this tactic over and over.  

          You can just dump enemies over ledges with your Force powers.     

  Even the AI seems 
 resigned to its fate. Stormtroopers usually just stand there shooting away at you, even though 
 you block every one of their shots. Dark Jedi rush at you, even after watching four of their brethren 
 plummet to a horrible death. Occasionally, you'll see an enemy accidentally commit suicide by falling 
 off a cliff or falling into lava. The game's excitement comes from the massive body count you can 
 accrue and by how viciously you can get rid of the opposition.  

  You can actually be as vicious as you desire. Killing every enemy you see, even those who are running 
 away from you with no weapon, has no negative repercussions. You can use any of the eight advanced 
 Force powers in any combination. You get warnings if you have more points vested in the dark side 
 than the light side, but nothing ever comes of that. What's even more odd is that you can use Force 
 grab hundreds of times in a mission, yet get congratulated on your path because you have more points 
 in the light side. Jaden does get to choose between the light and dark sides of the Force toward 
 the end of the game, though. You still play the same last mission, but the goals are different. 
 The last mission is rather exciting in that regard, and it features plenty of Jedi versus Jedi 
 combat -- as you'd probably expect to find in a suitably climactic end-battle for a game such as 
 this.  

  Another addition in Jedi Academy is two more saber styles: dual sabers and saber staff. Everyone 
 has wanted to use these weapons since the new movies were released, and now you get the chance. 
 You begin the game with "medium stance with a single saber." When you return to the academy to 
 advance your abilities, you can choose new saber stances. You can only choose between fast and 
 weak or slow and strong stances on your first return to the academy. Further down the road, you 
 get another choice, this time with the different sabers as well. Each has its own advantage and 
 disadvantage. The dual saber lets you throw one saber while being able to block shots with the 
 remaining saber. The saber staff is like the weapon Darth Maul used in  Episode I . You can't throw 
 it, but you get a new kick ability when you are close to enemies. If you choose the fast stance, 
 as previously mentioned, you can't learn the strong stance. You can only learn all three stances 
 if you stick with the single saber.  

  Jedi Academy certainly doesn't flaunt much in the way of bells or whistles. The game uses the Quake 
 III engine, which, by now, is showing signs of age. While it's capable of displaying large outdoor 
 environments, they're rather devoid of detail. The character models just don't compare with those 
 of some other, more-recent action games, and there are clipping issues as well. The lightsabers, 
 however, still look like they should. They reflect off of different surfaces and radiate color 
 into the world, especially on the last mission, when up to 10 Jedi may be fighting at the same 
 time.  

  The audio is fine, but it's forgettable. We've all heard Star Wars music over and over by now, 
 yet that becomes a paradox. We may yearn for something different, yet expect the old music in a 
 Star Wars game. The voice work does a great job in conveying emotion during cutscenes, especially 
 if Jaden succumbs to the dark side. But some in-game voices can be lacking. Enemies continue to 
 taunt you with looping statements like "A Jedi!" or "You are weak." Sometimes, these taunts don't 
 make much sense, especially since your enemies will shout them out after you've just effortlessly 
 slaughtered all their friends.  

  You won't have these taunting problems in multiplayer. Human players pose quite a challenge because 
 tricks from the single-player game won't work. Even if you manage to throw someone off a ledge, 
 you aren't rewarded for the kill. You must learn to fight with lightsabers and figure out stance 
 counters. The dual sabers and saber staff provide more layers of depth in this type of combat. 
 You still have different gameplay options, like using various conventional weapons, choosing lightsabers 
 only, and adding bots. The way multiplayer works is that you have a limited number of points to 
 distribute among all the Force powers, so you have to choose wisely. The deathmatch and capture 
 the flag modes return from Jedi Knight II, and Jedi Academy adds two new modes: power duel is a 
 two-on-one mode between Jedi and siege is the big, class-based team mode with objectives. For instance, 
 in one mission, the Imperial side must complete six specific tasks to successfully capture the 
 Hoth base. There are non-Force user classes that perform specific roles, like healing or demolitions. 
 There are Jedi in this mode to fill support roles, but they are physically weaker and don't have 
 the abilities necessary to balance them.  

          The lightsabers are very colorful.     

  Between the multiplayer and different character 
 paths, you'll find plenty of replay value in Jedi Academy. Those who wished Jedi Knight II had 
 picked up the pace earlier on in the game should particularly enjoy it. Jedi Academy is a nonstop 
 action ride that starts out on a high point and manages to remain there for the entire game. Gameplay 
 elements that can be tedious, such as jumping puzzles, are limited, while the use of Force powers 
 is accentuated. The game may not look great, but it will play well on older systems, so it can 
 be enjoyed even by players who are waiting to upgrade their computers for some of the graphically 
 intensive games scheduled for a holiday release. It even caters to those who aren't familiar with 
 the Star Wars universe and just want pure action. In general, Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is highly 
 recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (181 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 8ourne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a very well made game. The missions are diverse and exciting, and they give you 
 a feel of playing your own way through the game, though after every set of missions, you get to 
 a story mission, along with a force power upgrade. After the first story mission, you get a new 
 lightsaber style (heavy or fast) . After the second, you can either obtain the other style, or you 
 can choose to have two sabers, or a saber staff. The joy of customizing your lightsaber is quite 
 satisfying.
  The combat is delightful (especially if you use a slow motion macro) , though it can be quite easy 
 at times, especially in situations involving high ledges and the ability to throw people around. 
 *wink*
  This game is one of the most replayable games I have. I personally have played it through as male 
 and female, light and dark, and a few repeats. When you're finished with that, there are plenty 
 of mods out there to add to it.
  Very good game. No complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamious2
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Okay, so jedi knight jedi academy puts you in the place as jaden, a useless yet cool character. 
 The customization in the game is pretty sucky. You get to be like, 5 species. It's not necessarily 
 a bad game, but it really doesn't give emotions on characters. Rosh turns to the dark side, you 
 save him. Also the levels aren't designed very well. The huge polygon wall is kind of unacceptable. 
 especcially considering the value of the game. The weapons rock though, and you can shock somebody 
 with force lightning as many times as you want. The lack of dismemberment really got my goat, as 
 burn marks are the only thing you will even see as you hack a stormtrooper to his gruesome death. 
 While this lets this game down a bit, it is still a great action game. The lightsaber duals are 
 also very fun.
  
  So what the heck, buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J5L
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I'd say that this game being on of the many star wars games for almost all the systems this is 
 one of the best. Another couple of good games that are star wars related atleast are jedi knigh 
 2 jedi outcast, battlefront, battlefront 2. these are all real good games to play I also suggest 
 buying the game called spore, its a fun filled game were you can create anything in your imagination 
 and then use it or play as your creature. Don't mistake spore creature creature or galactic edition 
 for the real version if you want a better all out version just get the one with both of them on 
 it. I've even seen some peoples creations that they've posted on the internet that are replicas 
 of star wars charecters like jar jar binks or r2-d2, and even a jawa. The rest is just so I can 
 get enough characters to post this. these games are totally cool if you can find another game better 
 than these please let me know and I'll try the game and let you know if I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been meaning to review this game for a while now and after having the urge to play the game 
 once again, I think its time to grade the final Jedi Knight game, entitled Jedi Academy...
  
  Looking back at the time, I think Jedi Academy for the most part is a good looking game that 
 looks like the Star Wars Universe. Player models are pretty sharp though the textures can look 
 a little rough sometimes, even for the era the game was made in. The levels also look improved 
 from Jedi Outcast with the only problems being some of the buildings can look a little bland. The 
 light-sabre looks great and easily the best from any of the JK games but I still feel more detail 
 could of gone into them, like some mods created by the community have managed.
  
  The games strongest area is probably the sound department, which has managed to make Jedi Academy 
 sound truly authentic to the Star Wars Universe, from the gun sounds to sabre combat. Voice acting 
 is pretty strong too, however the dialogue might not be the best ever written and the male human 
 voice for Jaden and Tavion are probably the weak links among the cast.
  
  Gameplay is mostly solid, offering the chance to start as a Jedi unlike Jedi Outcast, which is 
 a big plus since force/sabre combat is way better then the clumsy shooting engine. The ability 
 to choose, which of the force powers you want to focus on is a good addition and gripping people 
 off ledges or attack groups with lighting is great fun. The sabre combat is easily the best in 
 the series but I still find it lacking on what I truly want from a Star Wars game, however fights 
 with the sabre can be truly exciting at times. The ability to customise your character adds depth 
 to the game, however the amount of choices for sabre hilts, clothes and the general look of the 
 characters are not enough for me and more could of been put into the game. The shooting engine 
 is pretty much like Jedi Outcast but while it can feel clumsy, it does feel more like Star Wars 
 especially when shots go wide often with the standard rifle.
  
  The AI is easily the weakest part of the game with most of the enemy characters very easy to kill 
 and will shoot wide often. Standard cultists are for the most part easy to kill but the reborn 
 Jedi do offer real challenges and will require skill with the force and sabre to defeat. The AI 
 is not quite dumb but a lot more work could of gone into creating a more challenging array of opponents.
 
  
  The game offers a good length single player with the ability to choose what missions you want to 
 play through and of the the 15 standalone missions you will have to complete at least 12 of them. 
 The levels that push the main plot forward are of course non optional but they are very strong 
 with the last levels being the most fun in the game. Also Jedi Academy has two different endings, 
 giving you reason to play through the single player more than once. Online is pretty decent with 
 several game modes to choose from though am sure most will play the FFA mode, in which you can 
 go around killing whoever you want or challenge certain opponents to duels. Overall the game offers 
 a worthy if not a little easy, single player with a true Star Wars like story but for me lacks 
 a true bad ass for the main enemy like Desann was in Jedi Outcast. Online will give the game more 
 life for those interested in fighting the best the Internet has to offer and I would recommend 
 this to any Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast introduced a deep and satisfying Jedi Combat experienced, Jedi Academy takes the Lightsaber 
 swing frenzy to a whole new level and is generally more fun than the last game, but there are still 
 some unfixed flaws from the last game.
  
  Story: Dessan, the dark Jedi who attempted to use the power of the force and his reborn army to 
 rule the galaxy was defeated by Kyle Katarn and piece returned.
  Although stripped thin imperial remnant activities continue through out the galaxy and with continuing 
 diminishing factions the remnants grow desperate in their movements in the ongoing struggle against 
 the new republic.
  Meanwhile, Luke Skywalker became a Jedi master and has supported the new Republic by establishing 
 a Jedi Academy on Yavin 4, in order to bring the Jedi Knights back in their place as peacekeepers 
 of the galaxy.
  Jaden Koor was a very promising student, evident by his incredible feat of constructing a Lightsaber 
 without any past experience with the force.
  
  Game design: Graphics are pretty much the same, there isn't a lot of improvement in environments 
 and character models but that doesn't matter since the game still looks good anyways.
  Like the last game cut scenes are presented in real-time while flight scenes are pre-rendered.
 
  Like the last there are 2 modes, single player where you go through the story and multi-player.
 
  Multi-player is relatively the same just with deeper customization and more arenas.
  The single player isn't the same, first off the game breaks the tradition by letting you start 
 with your lightsaber (while in the last games you usually had to go through shooting people before 
 getting a lightsaber) 
  The last games had you progress in a linear path, now the story is mission based, you will have 
 a list of missions to select, after completing 4 missions you will have the choice to either ignore 
 the last mission or go back to the academy for the next set of missions and progress through the 
 story.
  
  Game play: You will play as Jaden Koor one of the student in Jedi academy, you will get to customize 
 Jaden in different races, gender and outfits before starting the game and you can even customize 
 the hilt and colour of your lightsaber.
  Progression of lightsaber skills and force powers is handled through points, completing each mission 
 will reward you with points and you can use these points to either learn or power up force abilities 
 (Core force abilities and lightsaber skills level up through progression and not manually) , later 
 on you even get to select different Lightsaber types, there are 3 in total.
  The first is the single saber, which can be fought through 3 different fighting styles (fast, medium 
 and strong) and is overall a basic selection with a balanced range.
  The second is dual lightsabers, basically holding a saber in each hand to deliver really stylish 
 and fast blows, it is set as a fast fighting style and can be changed into a single saber by deactivating 
 a blade (however fighting style remains on fast and cannot be changed) . The dual saber is fast 
 but has low range.
  The third is the saber staff, the saber staff is a saber with 2 blades on each end of the hilt 
 (Like Darth Maul's from Episode I) , the saber staff is set at medium fighting style and can be 
 changed into a single saber by deactivating a blade (however fighting style remains on medium and 
 cannot be changed) , while the saber staff has incredible range it cannot be thrown with both blades 
 active.
  
  Sound: The voice casts from previous games return to portray their characters. While Jaden's voice 
 changes from the selected gender the dialogues are the same.
  Music has remained unchanged from the last game and no new music is introduced.
  
  Star Wars 
 Jedi Knight Jedi Academy is a game that truly makes you feel like a Jedi, you can customize your 
 own characters looks and fighting style and is overall a blast to play.
  However because you only get to the deeper part of the customization late in the game you will 
 feel as though you didn't get much opportunity to use them and will wish that there was more to 
 the game.
  The missions were so much fun and varied you would wish that there was more to the game, especially 
 since there are no replay value after completing the story.
  While controls have been refined a bit some advanced moves are still hard to execute.
  
  While 
 the Quake III engine feels dated Jedi Academy is still fun, the story is engaging, the missions 
 are fun and the combat is super fun, I recommend this game for both fans and new comers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Jedi outcast was a great game from Lucas arts and now here is my review of the sequel "Jedi Academy"
 
  
  so on the start i can say that this game is awesome but lets start.. first the graphic is the same 
 as Jedi Outcast... the sounds also like Jedi outcast and everything is like Jedi Outcast only with 
 different story line.. you are a new jedi in the jedi academy of luke skywalker and you are train 
 the way of the force... the game have 2 endings, the end of the dark side and the end of the light.. 
 you choose your path
  
  so anyway the game is lot of fun.. the first level arent the best becuse you dont have all force 
 powers but in continue the game just gets more and more fun
  
  the only problem that i found in the jedi academy game is the story.. its more like... you know 
 what... jedi academy dont have a story.. its just lots of missions and the game is also short (i 
 think.. took me 3 days to finish this game) but now lets talk about another thing the multiplayer 
 mod.. this mod is fantastic.. i mean theres lots of star wars game online but the problems in those 
 games are that U play only with the mouse (STAR WARS GALAXIES) i dont like games with only the 
 mouse.. but in the multiplayer of jedi academy you have also the keyboard i mean you play the same 
 as you play in the single player... its awesome
  
  like i said beforce sounds and graphic are the same as jedi outcast.. but visual effects (lightning 
 and saber) are way better than OUTCAST game...
  
  i play this game with the new mod: KNIGHTS OF THE FORCE and the game is even more fun
  
  the 
 game is very good and worth playing + worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSword25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game to play, especially for fans of Star Wars. The graphics are believable 
 and the story is well thought through. The Multiplayer Gameplay is very enjoyable. The customization 
 of your character is nice. But there are a few things that could be fixed. 
  The AI units' personalities and actions are not well done. Throughout the game, enemies will often 
 accidently kill themselves by walking off of cliffs and falling into pits. Your objectives are 
 not always clear. But overall this is a fun game, with many hours of gameplay and plenty of missions; 
 a great addition to the Jedi Knight series. I love it. I hope this review was helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaker3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight Jedi Academy is a Star Wars game that is set a few years after Jedi Outcast. 
 The story starts as a New Republic transport escorts new students to Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy 
 on Yavin IV. Rosh Penin is so excited for his training and makes friends with a player created 
 character named Jaden Korr. Jaden already built his/her lightsaber, leaving Rosh a little jealous. 
 As Jaden and Rosh become friends, a mysterious attack happened to the transport, no one was hurt. 
 Luke calls the ship to make sure everyone is ok, but as he is talking, a Sith apprentice named 
 Allora sneaks in to the academy and sneaks into Luke's journals for force info. Jaden and Rosh 
 try to get to the academy, but they had to stop due to Stormtroopers on Yavin, and a Sith reborn. 
 Jaden beats them and tries to get to the academy, but Tavion from Jedi Outcast knocks Jaden out. 
 He wakes up and meets Kyle Katarn, his new master. so it is just plane fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight III: Jedi Academy is the sequel to Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast and the third installment 
 in the series. It is a very good game, which a lot of rewarding instances and tricky gameplay, 
 but, if you have played Outcast before, you may feel dissapointed.
  First off, Jedi Academy is much more customizable then Outcast. You can make your own character, 
 and you can customize your lightsaber, a feature not available in Jedi Outcast. In spite of all 
 this, the game actually looks worse then Jedi Outcast. Jedi Outcast had better shading, sharper 
 enviroments, and smoother models. It leaves you with a feeling of, did they really take a lot of 
 time in modeling this game? Apparently, Outcast is the stronger in that category.
  
  
  In terms of controls, the does well, there is no bad controls since you can customize them. 
 
  In the sound category, the music in this game is good, featuring Star Wars like tracks and everything 
 else you can come to expect.
  Now, the definite worst part of this game is the level design. Unlike the previous two games, in 
 this game, you are to select missions from a list to complete. All these missions are pathetically 
 easy, and I faced absolutely no challenge in this game whatsoever. I was frustrated many a time 
 in JKI and JKII, but in JKIII i simply laughed as I massacred many a Jawa at how easy it was to 
 complete each level. The hardest part about this game was just to not make stupid mistakes like 
 falling from too high up. 
  br / 
  
  How scary.
  
  In the end, Jedi Academy is a great game, a Star Wars must-have, and I recommend it, unless you've 
 never played Outcast.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight Jedi Academy is a Star Wars game that is set a few years after Jedi Outcast. 
 The story starts as a New Republic transport escorts new students to Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy 
 on Yavin IV. Rosh Penin is so excited for his training and makes friends with a player created 
 character named Jaden Korr. Jaden already built his/her lightsaber, leaving Rosh a little jealous. 
 As Jaden and Rosh become friends, a mysterious attack happened to the transport, no one was hurt. 
 Luke calls the ship to make sure everyone is ok, but as he is talking, a Sith apprentice named 
 Allora sneaks in to the academy and sneaks into Luke's journals for force info. Jaden and Rosh 
 try to get to the academy, but they had to stop due to Stormtroopers on Yavin, and a Sith reborn. 
 Jaden beats them and tries to get to the academy, but Tavion from Jedi Outcast knocks Jaden out. 
 He wakes up and meets Kyle Katarn, his new master.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it still has lightsaber playing fun. Later in the game you 
 can hold either two sabers or Darth Maul style lightsaber. Great story. A multiplayer mode. A multiplayer- 
 like single player mode. New force powers. A heck of a lot of weapons.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the light side ending was kinda cheesy, as was the dark 
 story ending. 
  
  Overall, Jedi Academy was amazing. With new force powers and the ability to hold two lightsabers 
 make it more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the follow up in the Jedi Knight series and... ugh... frankly it isn't really an improvement 
 over JKII: Outcast.
  
  Academy is sort of nerfed to appeal to a younger audience. Doesn't require much skill or strategy 
 to get ahead in this game. Neither did JKII, but stylistically it seemed more mature. There's no 
 command to sever limbs with a lightsaber in this game at least.
  
  The story is alright, we guess. You go around doing what jedi knights do, helping. There's the 
 main plot which revolves around a new dark jedi cult, its tie in to the last game helps the story.
 
  
  The game is still very star wars, but it does rely pretty heavily on expanded universe ideas and 
 its own little concepts. That sort of detracts from the whole thing. Stormtroopers are pretty cool 
 looking as they are, making super decked out stormtroopers in lame outfits doesn't improve anything.
 
  
  You start off as a jedi. That's a little lame. As the game's protagonist, there isn't much of a 
 character arc. You go from being a rookie padawan jedi to a better jedi... eh. Other characters 
 aren't that interesting, the head antagonist is though and it makes up for it.
  
  Multiplayer sucks. There doesn't seem to be much of a strategy. There may be a skill to getting 
 down timing, but it's obscure and not worth the time to learn. Power moves are pointless.
  
  This is a game worth playing for the single player... and not really worth playing more than 
 twice... once if you save before the good/evil decision fork towards the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarracKaiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is the fourth installment in LucasArts Dark Forces series and the third of the Jedi 
 Knight games. It manages to improve on its predecessors in most ways and is generally a very enjoyable 
 game to play.
  
  You begin the game as a humble apprentice with limited force skills which you can easily improve 
 over time. You can customise your character which is a nice touch and there are lots of missions 
 to complete. These missions take the form of tiers and are set on many famous Star Wars locations, 
 so there is good variety to the stages and misison objectives.
  
  While not overly complex, the single player game contains a healthy dose of playing time with many 
 large levels with different goals. One mission sees you riding a speeder bike through canyons escaping 
 from mercenaries; another one requires you to free prisoners from a stronghold with a rampaging 
 rancor. There is enough variety in both the gameplay and the locations to make Jedi Academy be 
 less linear than its predecessors. Force powers also are impressive, with a good range of light 
 and dark powers (including lightning and force choke) .
  
  The action is also excellent, with a choice of 3 different lightsaber types and a large arsenal 
 of projectile weapons. Whilst the guns are no doubt effective and powerful, you will probably spend 
 most of the time using your lightsaber as it really is a fantastic weapon in the game, especially 
 once you have unlocked one or more of the unique fighting styles.
  
  Visually the game is for the most part fine. Most of the environments look good and the textures 
 are well rendered, but the character models all move very similarly, with some dodgy animations 
 and the close up scenes of speech show the articulation to be horribly out of time. Aside from 
 this they are generally of good standard and you can overlook the bad parts since the gameplay 
 is so good.
  
  Online mode is a lot of fun as well. The lightsaber combat really comes into its own against other 
 people and you can enjoy some Quake-style shootouts too. Even today there are many servers running 
 a variety of different gametypes and the many mods extend the lifespan of this game further.
  
  Overall this is a must for Star Wars fans and even if you aren't necessarily a fan of the franchise 
 you might enjoy Jedi Academy for the solidity of the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawdanjon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games EVER! Its alot of fun, even for people who aren't big Star Wars 
 fans. The storyline isn't perfect, but its pretty good. The first person/3rd person can get a little 
 clunky until you fix it in the options, but thats a small price to pay. Diverse and intelligent 
 enemies are fun to fling across the room. there is nothing better than flinging a storm trooper 
 into a storm trooper and then carving them up. Rancors are always fun to figt too, and puzzels 
 througout the game are complex and fun to solve. Also, who doesn't like doing matrix moves with 
 the force??? Mods are a great way to create an army of luke skywalkers to fight an army of boba 
 fetts. Mods can do more in this game than in any other I have seen. The weapons are interesting 
 and fun to use, and are affected by force powers. This can add some neat combos and twists. This 
 game is definately worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight Jedi Academy starts you off right away with your lightsaber and some force abilities 
 as oposed to Star Wars Jedi Outcast. The graphics for Jedi knight are pretty good for an older 
 PC game, audio/sound effects are also great and suit the star wars world greatly. After you beat 
 the fist 2 or 3 missions you prove your self worthy to become a jedi apprentice to Jedi Master 
 Luke Skywalker and Jedi Knight Kyle Katarn. Almost right away in the game a "Deciple of Ragnos" 
 named Alora hacked into Luke's personal files and to everything. So you mission takes you from 
 one side of the galaxy to the other. Playing about a set of five missions about three times in 
 this cycle until you are tempted by the dark side of the force. You can then choose to turn to 
 evil or stay on the light side of the force. The game is greatly fun and a little less of a challenge 
 than Jedi Outcast. If you don't already know this Jedi Academy is the game in the Jedi Knight Series 
 the first three are Star Wars Jedi Outcast Jedi Knight II, Jedi Outcast Jedi Knight I, and the 
 oldest in the series Star Wars Dark Forces. One of the few glitches in the game for PC is that 
 it will sometimes do wierd things like after you exit the game it will do things that will freak 
 you out (kind of) .
  I highly suggest you don't play this game on a computer that has Very importatnt files on it, been 
 there, done that. other wise the game is terrific as far as older PC games go!! Another thing, 
 this game has a multi-player and can take a Joystick or just plain mouse and keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcat-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Best in series and only $10!!!! Ultimate force using and lightsaber duels add huge replay value 
 and intense fights. Custom skins and sabers and more when using mods, the ability to own the battlefield 
 and kill stormtroopers in seconds! The force is greatly used and physics work good aswell when 
 im throwing guys on walls with choke and lightning.
  The first game where lightsaber fights seemed real after playing kotor, and the plot wasnt bad 
 either. The level design is great and vechials work great when zooming on a speeder bike through 
 the deserts. Different weapons work well when the lightsaber seems boring and enemies seem just 
 right when having a saber showdown. Although the AI isnt great the fighting makes up for it. Visuals 
 are excellent for a game this old and sound and music may seem familair but still good. Overall 
 a great jedi expericence and must have for any wannabe jedi or sith! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covertgamer78
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Had to bump this to a 10. I don't mean that lightly. With the mods, this is the best game I have 
 ever played period. You can download several music mods, seemingly unlimited player made levels 
 (many of which are very very well done BTW) , many many model mods including every character ever 
 in all the Star Wars movies, and much much more. The game engine and structure of the original 
 game is very well designed, being very easy and quick to learn but is complex enough that you will 
 spend the rest of your time mastering its intricacies as you seek an edge on your opponents. I 
 love Star Wars and this game with the mods is a dream come true for me. And there is no monthly 
 charge to play online! Recently played for over a day straight in just one of my many game sessions 
 and I still can't play this game enough. This game is a 10 in every category and I don't give this 
 rating to just any game out there. Try for yourself and see if you enjoy as much as I do. Master 
 OrHan (my screen name) implores you.
  
  Awesome game with mods. Mods redefine the multiplayer and single player experiences. Some of the 
 mods people have created are more impressive than the original artwork IMO. Good with mods, GREAT 
 with them. Google Jedi Academy Mods to find them. jediknight3. filefront. com is highly recommended. 
 Easy to pick up and play but challenging to master. Go through the single player game on all 4 
 difficulty levels to be more effective online against human opponents. 
  
  I can't stand people complaining about laming in the multiplayer mode as prohibiting this slows 
 the game down big time IMO, but what can you do when everyone is like that but start your own server? 
 Better than Jedi Knight 2 which was a good game in it's own right. If you are a Star Wars fan, 
 you must play this game as you will not put it down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tweaker61
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty good demo, the graphics arent that good but the gameplay awsome, unfortunitly 
 i found it to be a bit hard and this is the person who played kotor non stop and beat 2 times in 
 one day! i would download it for all you starwars fans, the controls are great and even the demo 
 lets you create your own charecter (unexspecting to me) and also the choice to use other weapons 
 and for all you lightsaber fans you can costumise your lightsaber and if you get a two headed lightsaber 
 you can choose to use only the one side or even with two lightsabers great features i would give 
 it a 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abosh1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a great game that you can play how you want, whether you want to chop everyone 
 you come across up with your lightsaber, or use you Jedi Mind Trick to let other people do the 
 killing for you. Or, you could use your Force Speed to race past the unwary enemy. You start the 
 game by choosing you race, sex, how you look, what you wear and your lightsaber colour. Later in 
 the game you will also be able to choose you saber style as well (dual sabers or a double-ended 
 saber) , which is a great addition from the last games. The Storyline is great as well; it starts 
 off with you becoming Kyle Katarns' new student. The first missions you go on are fairly easy, 
 but they get gradually harder as you learn new force powers and fighting skills. The classic Star 
 Wars music is just the same as it's always been, which is OK. Overall Jedi Knight is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This is a well thought through game, well developed and exciting and enjoyable.
  
  It brings many innovations to gaming and I applaud those who made it.
  
  I would give it 9, 
 but bearing in mind this is just one in its series I have to give it to 8.5 since number 9 is reserved 
 for games that miss a bit to be unique masterpieces (those that get number 10 are absolutely unique 
 masterpieces that bring innovation and revolution to gaming) . 
  
  So, had the future editions from this Saga not come out, this game would have deserved 9, but now 
 it deserves 8.5 as it is one out of many good games from this serial. This is not a bad thing since 
 even though this games gets 0.5 less from me, it means that many other games from this serial are 
 successful and I congratulate the designers, makers and even cleaners who work for this company.
 
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Ja, that's a great game, especially when it has something with Star Wars... the story is very well 
 told and the music is good... The gameplay is killing, but here comes the bad thing, there are not 
 so many characters you can play with... and there no character speeches... the levels are well designed 
 and the very best thing are the forces and choices coming from them... there are bonuses after the 
 levels and when and one of the bonuses is the force point you'll receive... you can put your point 
 on the dark or light side skills... you can put 3 force points on every skills, without neutral skills, they 
 we'll be automaticlly puted after a chapter (every chapter has its 5 levels, if you want you can 
 pass by some levels but you will not receive a force point) ... the weapons are also great (they 
 are the same from Jedi Outcast) , but as the previous games you will use more the lightsaber and 
 the forces... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game is in its own way a classic. If you like star wars you'll love this, if you don't like 
 star wars you will detest it and thats why it isn't an all time classic. 
  
  You get to choose your own character profile, not to revolutionary even when it was made but a 
 nice touch. You get to choose not only the weapons you take in to battle but the powers and strength 
 of those powers that you use in general, that is always a good touch. Unlike similar games where 
 you choose your skills and equipment this doesn't micro manage anything, it is a blunt and minimalistic 
 as possible about the choices it provides you. In game is can seem like that as well, the play 
 varies from fluid with a goal to railroading you into a corner. 
  
  There are scenes where your free to explore but have a specific point to reach and scenes where 
 you can only go in one direction alone with almost no choice. This doesn't matter all that much 
 to me as a Star Wars fan but the two other people who I know that have played this have said it 
 ruined the feel of the game for them.
  
  I preffered the points where force powers played a background role to the use of combat abilities 
 like lightsaber dueling and sharpshooting. Though I have replayed the games story half a dozen 
 times I have to say when it comes to it the points where your boxed in and cant move forward until 
 you kill so and so or do this or that it isn't as predictable as you'd think. You don't just stab 
 or blast away and move on, the AI though basic provides a challenge that makes each session unique 
 and fun, for SW fans anyway.
  
  I liked where it lead you story wise as well, the eventual battle for not only victory but your 
 characters soul turned out to be a nice cliche as you could choose with two or three scenes whether 
 you wanted to be good or bad. And at the end this affects you drastically because you either fight 
 for Luke, or against Luke.
  
  Multiplay is the only thing that really doesn't spoil the feel of things, free range around a wide 
 range of maps provided, it even allows you to make your own maps and models to play with like half 
 lifes counter strike. 
  
  In short I say if you like a good game and are a sci fi or star wars junkie then buy this game 
 and if you do. I'll see you online . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammersd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly my most favourite Star Wars game ever. It seems to have the whole package with 
 hardly any flaws to its name.
  
  Well firstly the single player mode. When you start a new game you must custom make your character 
 and you are offered a variety of species, clothes and lightsaber types and as you progress through 
 the game, staff sabers like Darth Mauls and Dual sabers like AAyla Securas become available as 
 an option.
  The story-line is absolutely brilliant. It is the type of game you could easily make a feature-length 
 film out of it is that believeable. The game involves you and makes you fel like the Jedi you play 
 as. This is because the story moulds itself to the paths you chose and you can either end up as 
 a Jedi or a Sith. You can chose your force powers as you progress to lead you down either path, 
 but if you chose all dark side powers and want to stay a Jedi don't worry because you chan chose 
 towards the end which side to be loyal to. Each level has a different mision objective. You play 
 through deserts, ontop a train in corusunt, imperial ships and deserts. Throughout the game you 
 also get to fight giant worms, Tusken Raiders, Boba Fett and a Genetically modified Rancor!
  
  Next the Multiplayer. There are many characters to play as and it is loads of fun to play. 
 You can have as many as 16 controlled computer bots running around at different difficulties, all 
 of which can be different species. There a 5 different maps to chose from and all are reasonably 
 sized.
  
  There are only a few pitfalls to the game...
  One is the lack of species at the customisation menu and the flexibility of custimisation. It does 
 not allow you to change skin and hair colour for intance. The multiplayer also has its flaws as 
 there are not many FAMOUS characters to chose from although this can be overcome by mods.
  
  To be honest though I'm just nit-picking, the game is great, more like these please! A must 
 for Star Wars fans and if you do not buy PC games, this is a good insentive to start... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to the Jedi Knight series. You are no longer Kyle Katarn, but now you are 
 on of his students. You will have a variety of different missions and different planets that all 
 have the Star Wars feel to them. The lightsaber combat is still the best part of the game. It feels 
 awesome. The gameplay is still great, and you can still wield different blasters, but the lightsaber 
 will still probably be your main weapon. The only bad thing about the game is the outdated graphics 
 and sound, but you won't notice that as the game is so great. It also doesn't bring many new things 
 from the past games. This is a great game to get, for anyone that likes Star Wars. A fun, solid 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  First off, Jedi Academy is not to be considered one of the JK (Jedi Knight) series. It is considerably 
 different in many aspects of gaming. To start it off, this is the first to actually start you off 
 with a lightsaber, & keep it that way. The missions are considerably diverse as well. Whoever knew 
 one Jedi could escape a prison without your lightsaber, then survive the great Boba Fett? The missions 
 are truly a wonder to play. But the most noteworthy part of Jedi Academy is the multiplayer. I 
 consider it's multiplayer to be one of the best. It's difficult to tell whether it is the gorgeus 
 level design, or the variety of objectives. JA's multiplayer has the basics: FFA, Team FFA, CTF, 
 etc. But it starts bending the rules a little when they introduce a new mode: Siege. For those 
 who don't have the game, this is what it's like. You choose a team and a type of soldier. No surprise 
 there. The teams are different for the individual maps, but besides that, it's pretty basic. The 
 two teams will have different objectives, & this is what makes siege a blast to play. It's a unique 
 mix of advancing your own objectives, and blocking the other team's. There wil normally be a time 
 limit, so it would be unwise to loiter. 
  
  All in all, Jedi Academy is a great game, so fans of Star Wars & even everyday gamers should get 
 this game. P. S. (The game is practically impossible without Heal, so I advise you to get it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Sampetas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  You play as Jaden, the new protagonist in Jedi Academy. You previously played as Kyle Katarn, a 
 strong yet reluctant Jedi, in the previous Jedi Knight games. Kyle has since joined Luke Skywalker 
 as a teacher at the Jedi Academy and is looking for new students. You can actually customize Jaden's 
 character. You can be male or female, choose from one of several different races, and wear different 
 outfits. In any event, you also happen to be the most promising student in the new class. Apparently, 
 you've even built your own lightsaber, which is highly abnormal as lightsabers are usually built 
 during training. If Jaden is considered an unusual student, then your training is anything but 
 common. Jaden's transport ship is attacked when it arrives at the Academy. Then it crashes into 
 the ground. You and another student, Rosh, are the only survivors. He becomes your friend, yet 
 he seems to become jealous of your abilities and his own slow progression. You don't have time 
 to worry about Rosh, though. The storyline revolves around solving several questions related to 
 your attack at the start of the game. Why did a female twi'lek steal information from Luke's chambers 
 when the students were away rescuing the downed ship? What role does the Imperial remnant fill 
 in this attack, and is it related to the mysterious Cult of Ragnos that is appearing in the galaxy? 
 After a short training mission, you immediately set out to help Luke and Kyle obtain answers to 
 these questions. The game's story doesn't get in the way of the action but serves to tie the numerous 
 missions together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  jedi academy is one of the best jedi games out there.
  the game manages to be very fun with a very very simple gameplay.
  you can see from the begining 
 to the end that the game is totaly focused on
  fun, what i think is a very positive point.
  but even in a universe of simplicity the game still has some original stuff,
  like the option 
 of choosing powers and choosing between the dark side and the good side of the force.
  the choice even makes an alternative ending!
  very cool idea.
  well, conclunding jedi academy 
 fits really well for fan of the star wars series,
  but denifitely fits very well too for players that just want to have some fun fighting with lightsabers.
 
  simple and fun, totally worths it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is the third installment of the cool franchise Jedi Knight. 
 In this game, you play a young student that is about to learn the powers of the good and evil, 
 and you go on adventures trough the academy at the begginning and in many more dangerous places 
 later. Anything related with the single player is good in this game... You can chose from many 
 races to other customisations. Your name is Jaden, and you and your friend (or at least a kind 
 of a friend) Rosh are in the academy and go on thousands of adventures. Kind of a final boss is 
 Alora, but then there is Marka Ragnos, who you fight at the end with.
  
  The game has also got great multiplayer mod, that many players cant get off. Great maps in wich 
 you and your familty. friends, people on the internet can have fun and entertainment with lightsabers 
 for hours and hours.
  
  Graphics are cool, game is fantastic, 9.4 is terrific :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jananton
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Very interesting, great story... If you ever wanted to become Jedi, you have to try it. Well it's 
 still virtual, but there is a lot of fun with creating your final character trough the game. You 
 can select which forces you will use in game, if they are going to be light or dark, later you 
 will have fun with creating your light saber. I see some imperfections, but in this game it's not 
 that important because story, opponents and missions will entrance you completely. I haven't done 
 review at point of graphic and that stuff. I recommend it and salute to all of you: May the Force 
 be with you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for years, and the whole time, I had to re-spark my interest in it, which got 
 steadily harder and harder. The game consists of a Singleplayer mode, which is mildly entertaining, 
 but somewhat annoying and a multiplayer mode, which used bad set-up and made it hard to find your 
 favorite servers (always got deleted from your favorites) . The single player was an annoying thing 
 at times, when you would have to repeat the same events over and over if you died or crashed. An 
 example is that, when you completed all but one of the missions (always the one that I found impossible) 
 you could choose to move on, or try to beat that one. Several times I found myself accidentally 
 pressing finish the last one and to my horror I would have to re-load my last auto-save and re-beat 
 the last level. Eventually, you were given a choice to pick light or dark, your force powers had 
 nothing to do with your alignment, and whichever you picked, they were equally easy from that point 
 on. The multiplayer was mildly fun, but too many servers were devoted to people sitting around 
 and talking, or playing RPG mode. siege mode, one of the more fun ones became swarmed with people 
 who would scream about being killed while talking, when it was a commonly known unwritten rule 
 that this was allowed, due to the fact that your goal was to push past the other team or stop them 
 before time ran out. The game lagged a lot, the combat was repetitive and pointless, the ffa mode 
 turned into story time/scream at the person who killed you time, and the siege was a one direction 
 loop of push past, stop them, push past, stop them, over and over and over again. Eventually I 
 stopped playing, mostly because the clan I was in kicked me for insulting the only girl in it (who 
 was really a guy in the clan pretending he had a girlfriend) . So overall, the game is boring after 
 a while, and the people who play it are annoying. Don't get it for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fast lightsaber action, FPS and TPS views are easy to switch too, great use of the Force 
 powers, decent graphics, Twi'leks are hot
  
  The Bad: Combat requires too much precision, dumb as dirt AI, mundane voice acting, toss away story, 
 difficult level design, not very useful training level
  
  I remember back when this game came out it was a huge thing. Everyone had it and everyone played 
 it. I, in fact, didn't because I had a really crappy computer at the time. Now 4 years later I 
 get a hold of it and I realize how great it was... for the time. The game is loads of fun and the 
 lightsaber combat is fun, quick and easy to use but the game shows its age early on and it's old 
 fast. While you can also use weapons and go into a FPS view this is all to a fault. The lightsaber 
 actions requires too much precision and the the weapons don't seem to ever do enough damage no 
 matter how powerful it is. The enemy AI is dumb as dirt while they stand there and blast you or 
 kamikaze it and run into your lightsaber or line of fire. You can power up your Force powers which 
 takes forever since there's so many slots and you only get one upgrade point for ever mission you 
 complete. The missions can sometimes leave you wondering what to do or where to go due to the lack 
 of an arrow or map. The graphics are actually pretty nice even for today and you can customize 
 your character... but it's bare bones. The best feature is the online multiplayer but even that 
 is faulted due to the games age. If you want some good 'ol Star Wars fun pick this up and you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  A whole slew of new features are present in the latest installment of the series. To start off 
 you can design your character completely from the ground up. You can select which race, gender 
 the character is as well as clothing in varies styles. Next you move on to your light saber here 
 you choose light saber type and blade color. In the single player game you can later on get two 
 light sabers or a double light saber. Although in multiplayer you can choose which style right 
 off the bat. Singleplayer mode starts you off as a student entering the jedi academy. At the jedi 
 academy you get some training that gets you familiar with all the combat moves in the game. You 
 also learn about the force and start developing your abilities such as force push, force pull, 
 heal, and protect to name a few. You can also select Dark force powers and/or light force powers. 
 After training you start to go on missions and also learn about a new sith cult called the Cult 
 of Ragnos that's threating the galaxy. Most of the missions are to find out more about these mysterious 
 sith cultists and what they're up to. On your missions you'll meet a variety sentient and non sentient 
 beings. Almost all the main races in Star Wars are present including some creatures like the Rancor, 
 wampa and tauntauns (which you can ride) from Hoth. To help you in the game are various weapons 
 you can use along side your trusty light saber including Heavy Blaster Pistol, Wookiee Bowcaster, 
 Imperial Heavy Repeater, and Thermal Detonator to name a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Jedi academy offers you the chance of wielding a lightsaber or two or a doublesided one. This game 
 is the best star wars game so far out of all of the star wars games they have made. Singleplayer 
 is pretty easy to beat and would take you a week or more or less to beat. So the singleplayer is 
 easy but still fun. The best part of this game is multiplayer and online play. When you play multiplayer 
 you can choose out of around 25 - 30 characters or customize and choosing your force powers as 
 well which is awesome. The force powers are push, pull, mind trick, protect, lightning and choking! 
 I love choking people. You can choose on multiplayer to play a deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture 
 the flag and assualt. My favourite is capture the flag. I would rate the gameplay a 10 because 
 it is good how you can wield a lightsaber and use force powers. The graphics 8 because they don't 
 look bad at all and the sound 10 because it is the original star wars music as usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutit
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  blabla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Like many others who list Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II as one of their all-time favorite games, 
 I was left a bit out in the cold by its much-anticipated follow-up, Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast 
 .Too much puzzle-solving, not enough Force power, and  most importantly  not even enough lightsaber 
 action. Sure, the action eventually got interesting, but the game simply took too long to heat 
 up.
  
  With Jedi Academy, its clear that Raven Software took this oft-heard complaint to heart. From 
 the games opening scene to its frenetic climax, you are immediately embroiled in more lightsaber 
 dueling combat than you would have thought possible.
  
  The story is set 14 years after A New Hope. You are a young Padawan (Jedi Knight wannabe) selected 
 to learn how to harness the powers of the Force from none other than The Man himself, Luke Skywalker. 
 You get to select the look of not only your character, but also his (or her) lightsaber  and, 
 as the game progresses, youll eventually gain access to dual-saber and double-bladedsaber fighting 
 styles. Once this outfitting is complete, youre off to the Jedi Academy to meet Master Skywalker.
 
  
  Just before you arrive at the Academy, things go haywire, and youre confronted with an attack 
 by a mysterious cult trying to harness the dark side of the Force. At the Academy, youre paired 
 up with none other than Jedi Master Kyle Katarn for instruction in the ways of the Force, with 
 Luke chiming in on occasion as well.
  
  However, very little of the game actually focuses on the Academy, and your Force instruction is 
 limited to one very basic tutorial early on. Instead, your job is to help Luke investigate the 
 intent of this evil cult of Dark Jedi, and you learn along the way.
  
  While this in-game training certainly gets the action moving in a hurry, more of the actual Force-progression 
 elements of the game should have been set in the Academy. For instance, it would have been awesome 
 to learn new saber moves or acrobatics by dueling with Kyle or even Luke at the Academy, rather 
 than just being given access to all the combat moves from the get-go (a number of different attacks 
 are accomplished via specific key combinations, &agrave; la classic arcade fighting games) . And 
 Academy exercises could have been used to beef up your individual Force powers, whereas instead 
 you simply select where you want to apply your earned Force points among all the available dark 
 and light Force powers (with a core group being reserved for automatic upgrades when you hit certain 
 milestones in the game) .
  
  In all, you get 16 classic Force powers Push, Pull, Heal, Jump, Absorb, Speed, Protection, Drain, 
 Lightning, Rage, Mind Trick, and more  and theyre great fun to wield, particularly late in the 
 game when youre a full-fledged Jedi Knight.
  
  Jedi Academy introduces a less-linear approach to level progression than in JK II. You are presented 
 sets of five missions at a time (20-plus missions in all) , but you can choose the order in which 
 you tackle each mission in a set, with the last mission always being optional. Unfortunately, the 
 order really makes little difference in the difficulty of completing each set, and on one occasion 
 led to a bug I couldnt get past until I replayed a given mission in a different sequence.
  
  Also, while at times you may be fighting alongside your fellow classmates, you never get to 
 know who any of them are  except for one, whos central to the story. Thus, you dont care when 
 they get killed  or when, should you choose the path of the dark side, you may have to kill them 
 yourself. Indeed, the game as a whole suffers from a lack of character/personality: too many of 
 your opponents are nameless, faceless enemies.
  
  The best part of Episode I  yes, it had some good parts  was the whole Check out this Darth 
 Maul! aspect, and each time he was introduced viewers felt a heightened sense of drama. Jedi Academy 
 would have greatly benefited from this sort of approach, rather than just tossing dozens of generic 
 cultists and Dark Jedi at you.
  
  After your pivotal choice whether to follow the light or dark side of the Force, youll be tracked 
 toward one of two endings. However, rather than the choice being the result of which Force powers 
 youve decided to focus on using, this selection is based entirely on a single action  one whose 
 importance is clearly presented  late in the game. More of a gradual progression to this epic 
 decision point would have helped, because if you pick the dark side the transformation that overtakes 
 your character is extreme and instant.
  
  The Raven crew has beefed up the Quake III: Arena engine quite a bit for Jedi Academy, adding a 
 new rag doll skeletal animation system, a new terrain system, and the ability to pilot ride-able 
 vehicles such as speeder bikes. And while enemies are prone to killing themselves on occasion, 
 and a few scripted sequences are beset with pathfinding problems, the AI is generally improved 
 from JK II as well.
  
  Mastering the array of ballet-inspired acrobatic moves helps you greatly in multiplay, where individual 
 saber skills make a big impact. In addition to all the classic multiplayer modes, Jedi Academy 
 offers new Siege and Power Duel options. In the former, attackers must accomplish a series of objectives 
 within a given time limit, and in the latter two weaker opponents must team up to take on a single, 
 more powerful adversary, which is quite fun.
  
  The new modes top off what is already an extremely solid menu of multiplayer options. Academy is 
 the rare recent action game with an engaging single-player campaign and a deep multiplayer dimension, 
 which definitely ups its replayability factor.
  
  All things considered, Raven deserves major kudos for delivering an extremely compelling experience. 
 Jedi Academy immerses you in the Star Wars universe, a feat bolstered by countless little touches 
 and homages to the films  not to mention a few brushes with some popular characters well not 
 reveal here. The use of the classic Star Wars sound effects (and particularly music) is simply 
 brilliant. And many of the levels feature some truly awe-inspiring designs that cater to delivering 
 sweat-inducing, life-or-death duels on dramatic precipices.
  
  Indeed, youll find more than a few memorable moments. I just wish more of them involved memorable 
 foes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is an action game in which you create your own Jedi apprentice and take on varied 
 missions to help unravel the game's plot. Unlike Jedi Outcast, your character is equipped with 
 a Lightsaber from day 1. That's a good thing since all other weapons are useless most of the time. 
 So, you join the Jedi Academy and you are assigned to be Kyle's (the main dude from other Jedi 
 Knight games) apprentice. After a couple of training missions, you are presented with a choice 
 of 5 missions you take on in whatever order you prefer. After completing 4 of them you can go back 
 to the Academy to progress the plot. After a couple of linear missions... you are presented with 
 another series of 5 missions. This happens one more time until you reach the last story missions 
 and you finish the game. It's a nice concept but some of those missions seems out of context and 
 don't advance the main plot of the game. At least, they is a good variety of things to do in them.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks good for 2003 but sometimes weird stuff like clipping or characters 
 that seems to float instead of walking shows it's ugly head. The game use the Quake 3 Arena engine 
 which is nice... but it's nowhere near what Call of Duty (United Offense even more) has produced 
 with the same engine.
  
  Sound, it's the same standard Star Wars fare. The voice-overs is excellent for the cut-scenes but 
 I just wished your foes would say something else then: Ah.. A jedi!! . The sound effects are excellent, 
 which is no surprise because all Star Wars game excel at this department.
  
  Gameplay, Slicing and Dicing your foes with your lightsaber is extremely fun. Battling Dark Jedi 
 is fun as well, figuring what lightsaber style better suits you is cool. Once you map out all those 
 Force powers to your liking, you'll be a Jedi Master in no time.
  
  To finish, this game is great for Star Wars fans. I wished the story was a lot more engrossing 
 and the Missions would tie in to each other more fluidly. I enjoyed this game more than Star Trek 
 Elite Force 2 even if EF2 has a better story. Winning gameplay vs. lackluster Story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is the one of the greatest if not the greatest star wars game 
 I've played.
  
  Graphics: The look of the game seems a bit dated. It does run on the Quake 3 engine which is pretty 
 old. But the game does look great when two light sabers clash together and create a bright flash 
 and a rain of sparks which fall of the floor. During the single player campaign the cut scenes 
 look almost ridiculous. if u have a system that can run the game on it's fullest then it might 
 help the problem, but I found that on the medium settings the cut scenes do look quite terrible.
 
  
  Sound: The voice acting in Jedi Academy is terrible, the actors sound as if they just came there, 
 said their lines, got paid and left. The sounds of the force sound like they were recorded from 
 a cartoon in the 70's. Although that sounds a bit harsh the light sabers sound great.
  
  Gameplay: This is a game you can lose yourself in. Though the single player only lasts about 8 
 - 10 hours, the multiplayer makes up for it. You could spend hundred's of hours playing online. 
 There is so much content available for download on many websites. Players will be able to download 
 Player skins, Weapon skins, and a lot of different maps and mods. But the funnest thing is obvuiusly 
 dueling a rnadom person or a friend or yours. If you're a star wars fan or just wanted a decent 
 star wars game then this is the game for you. I guarantee that you will spend countless hours playing.
 
  
  Vadim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I just want to say how much I STILL enjoy this game, I have never played a game 
 for this long before and it has simply been alot of fun.
  
  PROS: SP is great, killing storm troopers never gets old NEVER. Lots of mods out now, This is hands 
 down the best SW MP game ever, the Jedi fighting MP action is so addicting I have been playing 
 for over 4 years. It is so incredible, in my opinion much better then Jk2. BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT, 
 this is a classic.
  
  Cons: ummmm, the graphics and sound werent the best when the game was released but theyre fine.
 
  
  Other thoughts: this game is amazing, I highly recommend it, especially to starwars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimgimp
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Jedi Academy has added some new features suchs as enhanced lightsabers, more enimies, 
 and new force powers. The gameplay is fun and addictive and definately has some replay value. Although 
 the quake 3 engine that is used in this game is out of date and the game suffered from this mistake. 
 This idea for this game would have been executed better if they made it an Action/RPG.
  
  Graphics: Nothing new in the graphics department. Looks almost exactly the same as Jedi Outcast.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is similar to the sound in Jedi Outcast Although they added some 
 new sounds for the new weapons and enimies. It also does a decent job for the cutscene voice acting.
 
  
  Storyline and Setting: The setting of this game was a great idea and could of been superb but it 
 was executed poorly as with the storyline. The feel of this game is rather weak. It doesn't seem 
 realistic to the Star Wars universe. In the setting of the Jedi Academy they should have created 
 mini games for training instead of just putting stars on which new force powers you want. Another 
 problem with this game is that you can't just walk around the Academy and talk to other Jedi, form 
 relationships and stuff like that. With the way the Academy is shown in this game it feels incredibly 
 babiesh . The training in the game feels like anyone in the Star Wars universe can just pick up 
 a lightsaber and be a Jedi. The Characters show extremely little development and have extremely 
 poor interactions with each other throughout the story. Also the character of Rosh and his fall 
 to the Dark Side is incredibly weak. Another character that seems strange is Jaden. Why does Jadan 
 have a lightsaber at the start? This I don't understand. The story and gameplay wouldn't have suffered 
 if he didn't have a lightsaber at the start of the game. Because the lightsaber is just handed 
 to the player at the start of the game it feels undervalued. They should have went down the same 
 path as Jedi Outcast in this respect by making you work for you lightsaber so you appreicate it 
 more. In missions you should be able to find parts for it or be able to construct it at the Academy 
 on your character's free time. They should have made the training and Jedi Academy more interactiver 
 for the player. The Storyline in this game is decent but the rest of the game brings it down. The 
 storyline shows the return of the character Tavion and her quest to ressurect the spirit of the 
 Sith Lord Marko Ragnos. This storyline is just fine but as stated before the characters, suchs 
 as Rosh ruin this story completely. An example of this is why Tavion would welcome Rosh? Rosh is 
 extremely weak as a character and as a Jedi/Sith.
  
  Overall: I think this game has a great idea of Training at the Jedi Academy that was seen in Jedi 
 Outcast but was executed poorly and suffered from lack of character development and an outdated 
 engine. They didn't make the training or the Jedi Academy interactive to the player which I think 
 was a big mistake. This game did however improve some gameplay aspects which make it fun to play 
 such as the new lightsabers. This seems to be the only real good improvement to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnakeSS2G
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I just got finished playing the SP of this game, It is awesome! I played it on the Normal difficulty 
 or 'Jedi' and it was still very challenging and fun!
  
  Presentation.
  Very nice buttons, slick menus , and good sound selection and music!
  
  Story
  Awesome storyline 
 I haven't played any other of the Jedi Knight series but I found out like the whole story line!
 
  
  Gameplay
  PWNAGE!
  funniest saber game except for EP3! Not only is there 3 different sabers to choose from there is 
 over 25+ weapons for Third/First person views! Levels are huge and very fun! Sound and music with 
 Quake 3 visuals makes this a very likable game even if you hate Star Wars. You can lighting 10+ 
 storm troopers and then push them away or pull them to you and steal there weapons! You can force 
 grip someone like Darth Vader and throw your saber to slice them in 2!
  1V1 saber combat is awesome looks just like the movies
  
  The last 1/3 of this game if basically 
 all SabervsSaber so you will have a lot of fun!
  
  Sound
  Awesome music by John Williams!
  
  Graphics
  Great for its time 2003-4 Quake 3 Engine which 
 is a couple steps up from HL1 engine.
  
  Conclusion
  Great game you must get this game funniest SW game ever!
  Fun multiplayer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Of all games about Star Wars , this one is probably the greatest. I completed it two times and 
 i wouldn't mind getting another go.
  At first, we have to create our own character. Well, my choice is yellow Twi'Lek with barely any 
 clothing. Then we are allowed tro choose the hilt and colour of the lightsaber. [Spoiler ahead: 
 later in game you loose your light saber and can choose between making a regular one, dual sabers 
 or a saber staff. Finish the game and you'll be able to play it again with the new choice of weapon. 
 Cool. Spoiler end.] Whatever species or sex your character is, it will be named Jaden Korr. After 
 the first mission that is a bit of tutorial itself you'll find out that you'll be a padawan under 
 the watchful eye of none other than Kyle Katarn himself. You know, the guy who stops many plans 
 of Sith and Empire. And says cool things like when he responded to Luke's I sense a disturbance 
 in the Force : You always sense a disturbance in the Force . Then we are given mission packages 
 of four missions. They can be completed in any order. When three of them are done, you can go to 
 a very plot sensitive mission or complete the last one and do the important one. But that is not 
 a smart strategy as at the beginning of every simple mission the padawan is given 1 point to spend 
 on powers of Light and Dark sides of the Force. Important mission gives none, so it's clear what 
 to do. While universal powers like jump , push , pull and sense upgrade theselves, more interesting 
 ones have to be upgraded. There are three levels for each power, so it will take three missions 
 to get it's full potential. My choice is to learn heal first, then choke . Other ones are to be 
 decided by oneself. Missions themselves rage from sabotaging Tibana gass platforms, rescuing hostages, 
 escaping prisons to battles in streets or Nar Shadaa or in caves of ancient dead Jedi. they are 
 fun to play, hacking and slashing your way through hordes of Stormtroopers, pirates and what not, 
 using powers on helpless victims, reflecting shots with the saber (other weapons are available, 
 but who needs them - you have a lightsaber) . Plus, there are two endings to this game.
  Even with KOTORs runnig around, this one gives more enjoyment than any other Star Wars title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z-ninja
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Found this thing in a bin at wal-mart last year. Unlike usual wal-mart junk, it didn't stink on 
 ice.
  
  Game Play: 10/10
  
  This time around, two more saber styles there are to select, save the Single Saber Style. Graphics 
 7/10
  
  Pretty nice, the game uses the Quake 3 Arena engine.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Pretty standard, the voice acting is good though. Value 8/10
  
  Overall, the game is good. 
 Get it if 1. You like Lightsabers 2. You like cutting people up 3. You like to drop people off 
 cliffs 4. You like to battle Dark Jedi who jump off of bridges 5. You're a Star Wars Geek (No duh) 
 6. You like games with alot of shooting / melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELLIK2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  It's kind of strange at first, but it grows on you once you get into it. The light sabre range 
 isn't too good. Multiplayer is great. I think the enemies are pretty cool, but some times they 
 can get on your nerves . Graphics are a little dodgy. I like the fact that they've been able to 
 put some of the classic Star Wars characters and still made a great game. The selection of force 
 powers is great and the more experience you get the greater your force power gets. From what I 
 have told you, you'd think the game is pretty dodgy, but as I said before it grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlink786
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  have you ever played star wars games and wish you could have a little say in what you looked like, 
 or how many light sabers you had? if you're that person this is EXACTLY what you need. i never 
 was a pc gamer, but i got this game and i was completely transfixed on its game play and graphics, 
 but what got me the most was the multi player functionality, lets say you want a two-sided light 
 saber, or two light sabers, you can even go traditional with one light saber, go for it, you can 
 even customize your own character! if you're looking to find a fun game that will keep you playing 
 for hours this is what you want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This installment of the Jedi Knight series has you as a student learning to be a Jedi under Master 
 Kyle . It's a little weird having played him in the previous two games and now he's teaching you 
 to do it all over again. However, it's not the same old same old. This time missions are given 
 out and you get to choose between them. Sort of a choose your own path kinda game. However, you 
 are encouraged to go through all the missions eventually because each mission you complete gives 
 you another chance to learn or enhance your force powers.
  
  Force powers in this game are divided up into three categories. Light side, Dark side, and Neutral. 
 Dark powers include things like lightning and choking, Dark rage, and life absorption. Light side 
 powers are more boosting your own abilities. They are healing, protection, force absorption, and 
 mind trick. Neutral powers are jumping, going fast, etc. Yes, the dark and light powers do tend 
 to work off each other. Most of the dark side powers are going to focus on doing things to other 
 people while the light side powers do things to you. For example, if someone was to attack you 
 with force lightning you could activate force absorption and suck away their damaging lightning 
 into more force power for you to use. Of course as you get better at doing things their usefulness 
 will go up. One of the bad things is that you can't use a light power and a dark power at the same 
 time. If you have on force protect and decide to use force lightning, your protection will automatically 
 deactivate.
  
  Don't assume the neutral powers are standard in this game. Your ability to do mind blowing Jedi 
 tricks are hinged upon your neutral force powers. If you want to pull someone towards you and impair 
 them on your light-saber, you better be a darn good Jedi. This game has an amazing array of different 
 acrobatic and force super-powered light-saber moves. What you're able to do is different depending 
 on how high your influence with the force is and what sort of saber you have.
  
  The different types of sabers is one of the games biggest pulls. You get to make your own saber. 
 The hilt, the color. Do you want duel sabers? How about a staff saber? Choose which one you want, 
 but be aware that the single, double, and staff sabers all have a slightly different fighting style 
 and you'll have to find out which one suits you best. I personally love the staff saber. The unique 
 moves you can do with it is awesome, and one of the blades can be deactivated, turning it into 
 a single saber if you wish.
  
  Light-sabers aren't the only customizable thing in this game. From the very outset you get to choose 
 what race, gender, and clothing your character will have for the rest of the game. Pretty awesome 
 eh? During the game you'll learn the ways of the force, and at one point you'll get to choose to 
 follow the path of the Jedi or turn to the dark side. That decision will affect how the rest of 
 the game plays out. I won't spoil it for you, but being able to turn bad or good is a nice feature.
 
  
  Again, one of the best parts of this game is slicing your way through your enemies, though early 
 on when the force is not strong with you you may have to rely on some of your other weapons to 
 get the job done. The wide range of missions and fighting tons of dark Jedi and stormtroopers will 
 make you want to play this game over and over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titust755
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  this game was just fun the story was good the game play was good and the multiplayer was good. 
 me and my friends have a landparty every other week and this is always a game to bring the campain 
 is nothing new but gives you a differnt persepctive of what a jedi goes through in training theres 
 lots of stormtroopers to kill and pretty fun duels against darkforce users, over all its a good 
 game with great gamplay my friends love it and i love it what every type of game your into try 
 this its deffinatly one to pick up and play little learing curve good rpg stats and some really 
 cool lvls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxinator
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Got this game in the bargain bin. The game is a bit too easy but nonetheless a lot of fun. The 
 graphics are fairly good for the time period. Playing the Jedi from the beginning with a lightsaber 
 and force powers was a definite improvement over the earlier jedi knight games. However, the enemies 
 are stupid and are no problem to kill. To make up for this, the various locales are excellent. 
 Also, the different missions to choose give some flexibility with the game play. On the negative 
 side, the force power Jedi Rage cause the enemy Jedi to lose life force and all that is needed 
 is to run &amp; avoid the enemy and then make one hit to kill. Using this tactic makes the end 
 boss very easy to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Every man or boy living in the last thirty years has seen Star Wars and been obsessed with it to 
 some extent, whether you buy a Darth Vader action figure or you author series of novels; we've 
 all been there and done that. Personally, I was obsessed with Star Wars around the age of 12-15, 
 and I got so into it I wrote about five hundred (that's correct: 500) pages of short stories, played 
 all the Dark Forces games, and even went as far as to produce my own Star Wars pen-and-paper RPG, 
 complete with everything and RPG should have. Luckily, I grew up and shed most of everything, including 
 my geeky fanboyish persona, although any game which claims to allow me to slay enemies with a lightsaber 
 will be in my collection to stay.
  
  While I have Jedi Knight 2, I have yet to play it and instead opted to jump right in to the more 
 action-oriented Academy simply to hack some foes up with a lightsaber. The game starts with a crash 
 landing on Yavin 4 -the planet from Episode IV where the Death Star attack is based from- and it 
 thrusts you directly into combat, which is refreshing; after five or so minutes, however, players 
 are forced to complete an obstacle course, which begins my first major issue with Academy.
  
  Simply put, every Star Wars game and movie is aimed too much at a younger audience, which alienates 
 mature, older players and watchers who want to enjoy a darker and less-cheery experience. Star 
 Wars is the perfect platform for an M-rated game and one word supports this: lightsabers. In any 
 case, Academy shows its youth-based gameplay immediately in its in-game movies, which feature ludicrous 
 dialogue and painful-to-watch segments which probably would not be amusing to any player over the 
 age of four. For once, I would appreciate LucasArts to allow an M-rated game -much as Star Trek 
 did, although those games were more or less failures- made by an established studio.
  
  Regardless of the campy nature of Star Wars, Academy does deliver in the gameplay department. After 
 every level players allot a point to a specific force power based in either dark side or light 
 side categories; these range from the sadistic and enjoyable grip (choking) and force lightning, 
 to the lighter-themed confusion -clearly, any player who wants to hack and slash will choose force 
 lightning. With lightsaber in hand and lightning maxed out, however, Academy becomes too easy and 
 the whole game becomes one annihilation session after another.
  
  Besides the general brevity of the missions and the game as a whole, Jedi Academy does a good job 
 of supplying plenty of simplistic action to anyone desiring to wield a sword made of light energy. 
 For Star Wars newcomers, I couldn't recommend any other game, and for vets, a game to fill the 
 waters before the next blockbuster. Happy cutting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a suberb game. Many people say that Jedi Academy 2 was better, but I say this game is better. 
 It is less hard, more fun, has better multiplayer options, improved graphics, and is easier to 
 play. I had a blast with the single player and have played through it many times. Even though the 
 game is short it is still really, really fun. The force powers are great, saber styles, the characters, 
 and the bosses. The multiplayer is fun and around 100-300 people still play it through gamespy 
 servers. The multiplayer games are free for all, siege, duel, capture the flag, and others. It 
 is just fun and the maps are great. I suggest you buy this game since it is 20 dollars or less 
 now in the store and it can keep you busy for a while. Have fun... Cya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvader80
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfect game! The cheat codes are really fun to use, (I'm not saying this game is only 
 fun with cheat codes.) single play alone is fun, and no to mention multiplayer! And some really 
 really fun mods (makermod recommended :D)
  
  When I bought this game a just thought Another starwars game, I'll buy it, play it, and get bored. 
 BUT THIS GAME IS AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The graphics aren't very good but that doesn't matter when your having fun :P
  
  Except people 
 on MP can get annoying and administrators get bossy but you can just start your own server :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  First off the campaign in single player is just perfect.. good storyline with alternate paths.. 
 but what gives single player more of a replay value and challenge is with mods.. specifically the 
 neoarmada mod, which changes every person into a saber wielder.. this REALLY kicks up the difficulty.. 
 alone JA has a standard difficulty.. Mods that alter the saber hilt, saber color etc.. provide 
 endless possibilities..
  
  The multiplayer portion gives some excellent challenges.. and superb play. This game holds up well 
 with age .. in fact it looks sharp and crisp even with the Q3 engine. There are some issues with 
 widescreen resolutions using a 8800 but it looks darn good on standard rez, with little distortion 
 on a widescreen monitor. This game has me coming back again for more saber battles! That alone 
 should tell you that if I love the game... there has to be someone out there that has my same taste 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is fun, very fun, if you don't like mind bending puzzles and just want to shoot your 
 way through countless enemies and use some really cool powers.
  The only reason I found to keep on playing the game is the highly addictive gameplay and the nice 
 use of The Force 
  
  This game is good, don't get me wrong, I enjoyed playing it, but in a zombie-like kinda way. The 
 game is so easy you'll be flying through the stages without even noticing.
  The graphics are easy on the eyes but not ground breaking, the sound is better - with the original 
 music from the movies and some nice voice acting.
  
  There isn't much to say about the plot... It's a standard saving the galaxy from an evil cult story. 
 Theres a large variety of missions but most of them consist of getting somewhere (killing a lot 
 of bad guys in the process) , blowing up/killing/finding something and then getting the hell out 
 of there.
  
  The high-light of the game is the force powers your character can use.
  There are Light-side powers and there are Dark-side powers. choosing Dark-side powers wont make 
 you character into a Sith lord, so go wild.
  In the beginning of every mission you'll be able to choose which power you want to upgrade (you 
 can't max them all so you'll have to choose wisely) .
  
  In short, Jedi academy is a good game if you like slicing your way through a lot (and I do mean 
 A LOT) of imperial guards and Dark force users, throwing people in the air or maybe just saving 
 the galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Major_Gamer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  this here is an awesome game! you do anything you want to do I did everything you can and not suppose 
 to do in this game I used all the moves in this game I mean not the easy ones I mean them all ran 
 up walls along them ran up them then jump off behind them targets and turned them inside out and 
 back I did everything there was to do in this game and I think I did more then most all I used 
 two LS a Staff LS one LS did everything you can do with them this is one awesome I say if anybody 
 has not played this yet go find a copy of it and play like you was going to die in the next five 
 minutes (ok that might be a bad Idea) this is a game where you will need Lot's dark Jedi's or you'll 
 run out to fast can do almost anything in this here game I played this game so much you'd think 
 this would be boring by now no sir it's Still one of the best Star wars game's there was ever made 
 it's an awesome and Great game they Should make some more just like this with all the combat Stuff 
 and more they need to get it so where you can use two LS Staff's that would something I say this 
 is a Super bad a** game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cam3roon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games. One thing that I like is that you can play with your lightsaber 
 from the beginning. The game is very complex because you can choose the side you want to play. There 
 are to Force categories both Light Side
  and Dark Side. The Dark Side is more powerful than the Light Side, but the advantage of the Light 
 Side is that you can use Mind Trick and Force Heal. There is a point when your friend betrays you, then 
 is the point you become a Jedi Knight. There is another point when you catch your friend who tells 
 you that he turned to the Dark Side because he was afraid. You can choose to remain in the path 
 of Light by not killing him or turn to the Dark Side by cutting his head off :D. in the last mission 
 you kill Tavion, which was the Dark apprentice in the game Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast .If you stay 
 in the path of light, you kill Tavion. If you turn to the Dark Side you will also fight your Jedi 
 Master, Kyle Katarn, which was the hero in the game mentioned above. So do your best in this game. It 
 is difficult. What will you do? Stay in the path of Light? Or join the power of The Dark Side? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty_99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the best games I have played in a long time and I think it brings Star Wars 
 to a new level. The force power system in the game really brought out the jedi in me but the lightsabre 
 battles were merely clicking fast and moving in the right direction. The guns in the game were 
 not so good apart from one or two of them but that didnt matter because for 2/3s of the game there 
 was plenty of cannon fodder for you to shoot down. Overall this game is good if you can overlook 
 the sound faults and the cookie cutter troops who all sound the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeek360
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  I'm an old Jedi Knight II fan, and when Jedi Knight Academy came out, I had to go buy it. I installed 
 it and started multi-player... Nice maps and models... You can also use 2 sabers, or a staff saber... 
 But the combat is quite disappointing. Combos are way too easy to learn, and after a few days (maybe 
 a week) of playing, give that you're a big JK2 fan, you've learned everything.
  
  Unlike JK2 where you can still be improving and discoring new little techniques after a year, JKA 
 doesn't offer many moves that you can do differently than other people. If you do a DFA, you a 
 do a DFA, and you do a spike you do you're spike like everyone els... No variation in that aspect.
 
  
  There are 2 things I like about the game play of multilayer... Power duels (2vs1) which JK2 doesn't 
 offer, and the capture the flag mode. In JK2 the CTF consists mostly of people hoping around (If 
 you don't hope you will be A LOT slower) in the same level over and over (mostly) . JKA got rid 
 of the hopping thing and added a lot of nice maps people like to use.
  
  As you can see I didn't enjoy the multi-player part of the game, but the single-player part is 
 amazing, it is one of the only games I've ever played multiple times. The mas massacre of storm 
 troopers and dark Jedi is simply addictive, and the force powers offer so many different ways to 
 dispose of you're enemies... It's enough to make someone turn to the dark side :-P
  
  Really is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, especially if you level up to 3 in the lightning and choke/grab abilities. 
 These abilities make quick work of any enemies that aren't force users, although force users can 
 use their lightsabers to deflect the lightning.
  
  The graphics aren't amazingly detailed, but they aren't terrible either. If you turn the speed 
 of the game down, and then use your lightning ability, you can see the individual lightning bolts 
 going out of your hands, so it's fun to watch in slow-mo.
  
  Storyline is fun. There are three tiers of missions that you can do, and you can do the missions 
 in any order. You'll always end up at the same place though. The only thing I didn't like was that 
 you don't choose whether you're going to be a good jedi or a dark jedi until the end of the game... so 
 you can't really do much in the way of dark or light actions throughout the game. Even though Kyle 
 (your master) will tell you that you'd better not learn so many dark force powers, it won't affect 
 the storyline any if you do ALL dark force powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast was a great game, so how do you improve on that? Well one of the biggest complaints 
 of Outcast was that you don't get your jedi abilities until about 1 sixth of the game in. So you 
 start out with a lightsaber this time, and get your powers short after. One of the features that 
 everybody was looking forward to is the ability to have a double-bladed saber like Maul, and having 
 two lightsabers. Guess what? You can't have those until about 1 third of the way into the game.
 
  
  One of the more drastic changes is the force power upgrade system. In Outcast you're powers will 
 gradually upgrade throughout the game. In this game you get one force point after you beat each 
 level. You spend your point on a light or dark force power. Each power has three levels. Your Core 
 powers, such as jump and push level up the same way as Outcast.
  
  The story isn't very good this time around. It'll help to have played the previous game, but that's 
 only so you'll know a couple returning characters. So it goes down like this: You're on your way 
 to the jedi academy when you get attacked by an evil jedi. These jedi start appearing all around 
 the galaxy and seem to be in the same group. So you're sent around the galaxy to investigate. Near 
 the end you get a choice between good and evil. You still play the same following levels, but your 
 enemies will be different, and there's an alternate ending.
  
  If you're looking for an action game, that's pretty simple minded and has a better than average 
 multiplayer section, Jedi Academy will be right at home for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darntay09
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars has always brought good gameplay to video games. I mean who doesnt want jump off walls 
 and wield a lightsaber. Jedi Knight is a exceptional series with intersesting characters such as 
 Kyle Katarn. In Jedi Academy you are a student attending Luke Skywalkers Jedi School. You start 
 with a okay customization in which you can create to attend this school. You are taught in the 
 force but you can upgrade what force power you would like. And what i like is there is two more 
 types of sabers; the staff made famous by Darth Mual and dual sabers. This game is definetly worth 
 the money and you should but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooemooseman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite old now but still really fun, the single player game i have to say i wouldnt 
 want to re play through it again, but the multiplayer is a different story. There are a viarity 
 of different games you can play like CTF and FFA, which are all very entertaining. The graphics 
 are great for the time period and very large levels full of things to do. One of my favorate games 
 i have ever bought and i always come back to it as it is so good. There are also many mods made 
 for it and can be enjoyed for ever with all the new things coming out for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Jedi outcast was one of the best star wars games i have played well here comes jedi academy. although 
 it can be a little too similar to jedi outcast, it defenetly brings you the jedi action your looking 
 for. there are new moves that give the play too much advantage (such as when you can move your 
 lightsaber very fast it makes the enemy die to fast) also the graphics are disapointing they look 
 exactly like jedi outcasts graphics yet the frame rate drops in some instances which shouldnt really 
 happen. the story is pretty good but not that great (not better then jedi outcasts) and rosh is 
 annoything!
  
  overall this is a great continuens of the jedi knight series, hopefull if they make another 1 they 
 think about a new graphics engine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papa_roachORAN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  when i first saw the demo in my friend's i knew i have to get him.
  it's quite an easy game but still fun.
  i thunk it's very cool that you start as a student jedi 
 (padawan) and claim your way up and can upgrade skills.
  
  i loved that you can choose between th dark side or the good side
  but i still think that you 
 should play the demo rent it first to see if you like the game.
  jedi knight : jedi academy it's a game that will magnetiz you to the computer for houres, even 
 if you dont like th genre.
  
  star wars: jedi knight 3: jedi academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a great online game that offers hundreds of hours of play, I played the game for 
 almost 2 years! The sad thing is, people dont play it as much as they did before, and Im guessing 
 will be basically dead by the year 2008.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The battles are action-packed and really make you feel like a JedI. there are all kinds of special 
 moves, such as backslash and Katas. And the different saber types are great. You would definitely 
 rather have an intense battle between someone with dual sabers and someone with a staff than two 
 people in strong mode on a single saber, mindlessly swinging their sabers and missing every time.
 
  
  The single player campaign is good, but not great. Its a little bit too easy and isnt very re-playable. 
 But it is still descent and there are a few fun levels included.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are fine, they arent horrible, and arent amazing either. There are a few visual 
 glitches here and there, but you live with them.
  
  Sound:
  
  The light saber sounds are great, they sound like real star wars movie sabers. The voice acting 
 is good, too. The script is well-written and performed well.
  
  In the end, I recommend this game to star wars fans or anyone who likes an action-packed, competitive 
 game. And for just $10, this game is a great deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, I really liked Jedi Academy, considering I love Star Wars!
  
  This game is pretty good in sound and graphics, players have voices, saying sometimes a few sentences. 
 Good variety of weapons, and REALLY AWESOME MUTIPLAYER! This game can be played single-player (main 
 quest game) or multi-player against other people, or computer people. I found many hours of enjoyment 
 in both single and multiplayer. Customize your own character, their species, skin color (cool colors 
 like blue for aliens!!) , clothes and your very own lightsaber. Many choices await you. Good storyline, 
 and character personalities, some non-playing characters you can really hate, like Rosh. Controls 
 are really good! You can have the option to change them to any key if you wish. This game happily 
 revolves around Star Wars, and Jedi and Sith, so it's a great Star Wars game. A must-play!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_DuMas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is incredibly underappreciated. For some reason people mention Jedi Outcast more frequently 
 than this, but in comparison that game is good but too linear.
  
  First lets get the bad points of this game out of the way:
  
  1. The first thing that comes 
 to mind is that this games needs a lot more options for the create a character mode. There is only 
 one or two combinations I play. An option for more combinations in a basic creation mode and an 
 advanced creation mode for people who want to mess with facial features would be much better.
 
  
  Same problem with the Lightsaber customizable section.
  
  2. Because of the emphasis on being a Jedi, most weapons are next to useless and unsatisfying to 
 use.
  
  3. Some levels are boring, Im referring to the speed bike level, it just doesnt work.
  
  
 Good Points:
  
  I was surprised at how well the controls work for a third person action game with a keyboard and 
 mouse. I have the force powers mapped to the numberpad section, with ctrl as walk and shift as 
 jump, 0 is force speed, Del. is force heal and numberpad enter is activate saber. Those are the 
 important keys that will be most useful to people, the rest is up to the person.
  
  The double sided lightsaber as used by Darth Maul is amazing and is my weapon of choice.
  
 
  This is my most played game on the PC. Its also got the most replay value I have ever witnessed 
 in a game. Those 100 hours or more is no mistake, I have completed this more times than I can remember 
 or just to play through my favorite levels. When Im done doing that I clear the level of enemies 
 then activate cheat mode and enter npc spawn reborn about 70 times and have a massive neo-matrix 
 epic battle (warning your PC must be quite competent otherwise this will crash it) .
  
  This might be old now but this is the Jedi simulator and in my opinion the best Star wars Game 
 to date.
  
  Anyone who is into Jedi's and Star Wars get this game, being on the PC, you could probably pick 
 it up for dirt cheap, which makes it a bargain.
  
  Enjoy.
  
  Oh and I know this sounds Geeky but try playing soundtracks Duel of Fates (from episode 2) and 
 Anakin Vs Obi-Wan (from Episode 3) from your Personal Stereo while you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funzers
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  jedi academy is yet another in the jedi knight series from Lucas Arts. While the addition of different 
 sabers (double sabers and double-bladed) and styles is a refreshing addition to this series, the 
 length of the game and its storyline left me unfulfilled. The levels are far to short and are quite 
 repetative and uninspired (especially when compared to its immediate predecessor --Jedi Outcast 
 2) . I do hope a Jedi Academy 2 is in the works to pick up (and expand) where this game left off. 
 While it does have a replay value, that value is short-lived. The addition of the multiplayer is 
 nothing more than a been there, done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Star wars Jedi knight academy is about a Padawan learner Jaden (you) who is learning to become 
 a jedi along with his/her new friend Rosh. In this epic adventure you have to travel to different 
 planets to complete your Jedi training. But there isn't only one side of the force you can use 
 your ability's for evil and to reack havoc, or you can use it to protect the Jedi and galaxy against 
 the sith lord Tavion.
  
  The game play is superior to any other star wars game as you can choose to fight with your lightsaber, 
 guns, or use your force ability's such as heal, drain and lightning. There are countless amounts 
 of enemy's from troops to sith lords to get the full feel of the star wars adventures, the graphics 
 are good plus the sound gives you the full Star Wars experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I can't for the life of me understand why Jedi Academy gets such a low score beside Jedi Outcast, 
 it's clearly the best in series.
  
  For a start, you're a Jedi from the word go, so you don't have to muck around with the frankly 
 awful first-person aspects of Jedi Outcast (although the first person mode in this game is greatly 
 improved) and the lightsaber is so much more versatile that you can use it and it alone pretty 
 much all the way through the game (which is hugely satisfying) . You've got a great deal more customisation 
 - from character model, to lightsaber hilt and style (including dual sabers and the double-bladed) 
 to the clothes you wear.
  
  Also, breaking the game up into 3 portions of 5 selectable missions (and a few on the sides) makes 
 for much greater playability even after the game, because you can break it up the 2nd time round 
 and do it differently. The light side/dark side choice ending is also a nice touch for this, although 
 going to the dark side makes the game significantly harder.
  
  Although one thing that I failed to recognise is how you and Rosh Penin suddenly become friends 
 half way through the game - the guy is a total douchebag from the start of the game, and your character 
 makes it known that he doesn't like him, so why the sudden turnabout? There's not a moment in the 
 game where you're meant to like him, so you'll be hugely tempted to finish him off when the opportunity 
 comes. Suppose that's meant to be the temptation of the dark side, but I hardly think that qualifies 
 as evil, the amount of times you'll use the force-grip-and-throw-off-edge tactic is a lot more 
 brutal but apparently that's fine....
  
  Maybe I'm looking too deeply into this. Ultimately, this is a well paced, hugely exciting piece 
 of work and well worthy of another sequel and your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Of all the Jedi Knight games, Jedi Academy is one of the best. And I'll tell you why.
  
  Gameplay- Perfect. This games plays awesomely. The weapons are sweet, the force powers are solid, 
 and the lightsaber combat is phenominal. The single player mode is alright but it doesn't nearly 
 compare to the amazing multiplayer mode, whixh you will become addicted to. There are also tons 
 upon tons of mods for this game and nearly all of them make the experience fresh every time. The 
 Clone trooper survival mod was (and still very much is) my favorite. The only drawback to the gameplay 
 of Jedi academy is that it gets kinda repetitive, but other than that, it's flawless.
  
  Graphics- Superb. The graphics on this game are sweet. The polygon count is high, the textures 
 are pretty good, and the framerate is smooth. It can get a little laggy if a server becomes full, 
 but overall, it's not terrible.
  
  Sound- Great. Despite the voice acting at times, this game is filled with wonderful sound effects 
 and beautiful music. Value- Valuable. This game takes the basic Jedi Knight formula and turns it 
 into a use the force like it's going out of style multiplayer package. In other words, it's worth 
 it. Tilt- Towards ten. I really, really enjoyed this game.
  
  If you're a fan of good action games... No, sorry, GREAT action games, do yourself a favor and 
 play this because ... you are not a Jedi yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is an excellent example of what can happen if you give the Starwars license to capable 
 people. Like it and its predecessor Jedi Outcast, Jedi Academy boasts an awesome combat system, 
 an engaging storyline and cool force powers. The story is not as good as Jedi Outcast, but it is 
 still pretty good when you compare it to other Starwars games. The combat system is great and the 
 lightsabers actually block incoming blows from another lightsaber or blaster fire. You can swing 
 your saber in many directions and throw it. In this game, Kyle Katarn, the main hero of all the 
 Jedi Knight games take a supporting role as you, Jaden, take on many varying missions. Instead 
 of a linear path you can choose what missions you will take. There are generally five missions 
 you can choose from and you only have to complete four of them before you are given the option 
 of returning to the academy. However you can still complete the 5th mission and recieve another 
 point for force assingnment. There are 12 different force powers. 4 light side, 4 dark side, and 
 4 core powers. The lightside poweres contain things like heal and mind trick. The dark side contains 
 things such as force grip and lightning. The core powers are granted to you as you progress and 
 contain things like speed and jump. The graphics are not the best, but they aren't bad either. 
 All in all this game is very good. Consider it to be one of the better Starwars games out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  The idea of the game is very good (an action star wars game is one of the things i like the most) 
 but the idea is not all, its how you make this idea to run as a program. the only problem I had 
 with this game is only graphical because the game always get stock when you have a fight against 
 a Jedi and then when the game start to run again you find your self without a head or other part 
 of your body on the ground with your character. but a year after i played this game battlefront 
 2 got to the stores (and it was every thing i wanted it had the graphics in it and the idea of Jedi 
 academy) .
  So basically it's a good game, don't buy it but if your friend has it barrow it from him.
  By 
 the way the gameplay is very good and easy to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newformz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this since day one and i have to say it rules your life! Multiplayer experiance 
 is the best ever, the way the community's and clans interact with eachtoher is the best i have 
 seen/experianced. The game is so well thought out and planned it takes a long time to master, sure 
 you can pick it up and play but multiplayer/online is a whole different ball game. The game is 
 just like the movie/story where you have to become a jedi master, getting to this rank in a clan 
 is very tough. Being skilled in this game will take up alot of time and dedication but once you 
 rank up you will really feel good from all the hard work you put in.
  
  I would love to see a modern version of this game, the same game but with better graphics (enhanced 
 version) that be real cool. Maybe in the future there will be a JKA4 or a mod using the unreal2 
 engine etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connor42
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  If you played the first game, then the sequel will feel familiar, but there are new features. It 
 is now possible to dual wield lightsabers and also wield a saber staff (The lightsaber Dart Maul 
 used in episode 1) . You can also use the force powers you can only use in the multiplayer in the 
 last game and use them in the sinleplayer. You play as a character named Jaden Korr, you can customise 
 your character with different species and choose from male or female. You can choose from the darkside 
 and lightside but not in a jedi manner, you can be as vicious as you want and still choose the 
 lightside. You start off with the light- saber right off the bat. When you start each mission, 
 you can add a point to your force powers. You have three sets of missions and five in each set. 
 Once you do your fourth mission, you can choose to either go to the academy or do the 5th mission. 
 This game is alot of fun so you'll probably find yourself doing the 5th mission. There's also some 
 vehicles in some missions but there isn't a lot of variety in them. The AI in the game is not as 
 good as the first one, the hardest difficulty in this game seems to be the easiest difficulty in 
 the last game. It still is a lot of fun to slaughter your enemies though, so its not like you won't 
 have any fun with the singleplayer. The game ends pretty quickly and can leave you wanting more, 
 but the multiplayer is what will keep you coming back. The multiplay-
  er is back with a new mode called Siege and this is alot of fun to play if you like objective based 
 multiplayer game but there's only three maps you can choose from and more variety of maps would 
 be a welcome addition, though you can download other maps for this mode and hope other people have 
 gathered around. The most popular mode is Free For All, though you will still find alot of fun 
 in other modes, but there's alot of clans so you'll find alot of no laming servers, but even with 
 these kind of servers multiplayer seems like the main reason to get this game. There isn't much 
 improvement in the graphics system, but the graphics still hold up and the lazers and space scene 
 still look great. Lightsaber's light can reflect off of walls, and there are marks on the body 
 when you slash an enemy. The sound is still as good as the last game and the voice acting is really 
 good. The lazer sounds still have there good sound and the music is just as same as the first one. 
 If your looking for a game where you can slaughter your enemies, then you won't be disapointed, 
 and if your'e looking for a game with a deep multipl- ayer you will enjoy this game. If your looking 
 for a game thats just Star Wars, you will be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a great improvement upon its predecessor, Jedi Outcast. Gone are the huge, monotonous 
 and often nearly impassable levels, replaced by relatively short and delightfully varied missions 
 (my favorite is the one where you ride the hoverbike) ; in are cool new combos, the ability to choose 
 between several types of lightsabers, lots of lightsaber dueling (which, of course, the whole Star 
 Wars thing is really about) and even the option of choosing the light or the dark side (sadly, 
 this only happens near the very end, and both variants are pretty much the same, except for the 
 final boss) . During the whole game I relied almost exclusively on my lightsaber and my force powers 
 (the dark side, of course, being my preference) , because they allow so many fun ways to dispose 
 of your enemies (why couldn't they do something like that in Harry Potter?) . That's right, baby: 
 this is the ultimate sublimation game (rivaled only by Postal 2 and, to some extent, Silent Assassin) ! 
 I mean, who (except for a healthy person with a high self-esteem, normal sex life and few psychological 
 problems) wouldn't want to cut off their enemy's limbs and then his head in quick succession and 
 watch it in slo-mo at different angles? And, thanks to the built-in cheat system, that enemy could 
 be anyone! Don't like Luke Skywalker? No problem: spawn him as many times as you like, and kill 
 him in every way you can think of. Or maybe you'd like to see how you'd do against ten Jedi at 
 once? Again, no problem. What more could one wish for?
  The drawbacks of the game are: the incredibly long loading time of a couple of levels; poor lip 
 synching of the characters (sorry, this ain't Half-Life 2) ; somewhat primitive (by today's standards) 
 graphics (but I guess that's the price of quick performance) ; general lack of aesthetics in the 
 surroundings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadskies
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  First of all, I felt the single player was horrible, a rather bad storyline, it just seemed to 
 try to mimic the greatness of the origional three movies. I hated it, played five hours and stopped 
 in the single player, I could not stand it at all. The multi-player kept me going though. The mutli-player 
 is very accessable and fun to use. It features 1 on 1 duels, and the mod community keeps it great. 
 The graphics in this game are pretty well done, quake 3 engine, but they are good, nothing perfect 
 but because of that this game will run on older systems quite well.
  
  The sound- offical star-wars stuff with music. I found it pretty good but at times it got soo repetive 
 that I just turned it off and blasted disturbed instead, infact when I play in multi-player I just 
 put in a CD, for I felt the music is to repetitive and just doesnt feel right, it doesnt even include 
 John Williams finest songs.
  
  The gameplay- It is awesome. The single player feels too shallow but the mutli-player features 
 some amazing fights. If the server allows it you can use force powers but it's just alot of fun 
 engaging in 1 on 1 intense fights, this is a game you will hold onto for the multi-player.
  
  Bottom line: DO not expect a great single player experience instead, get it for the multi-player. 
 This si the most fun i've had in a starwars game yet, it's multi-player is almost perfect if you 
 ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke1138
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If lightsaber fights and use of the force is what you're looking for, this is the game for you! 
 Fast action, terrific sound, and challenging puzzles make for a great overall action game.
  
  The focus is on action. This is not a roleplaying game and it is not a strategy game. Here 
 are a few of the highlights:
  
  - Broad but mostly linear gameplay. Each scenario places you in a familiar looking Star Wars location 
 which is big enough to explore but not so big that you get lost. The interior and exterior scenes 
 really capture the Star Wars environment. And yes, the graphics are not as sophisticated as some 
 other games but at the same time you don't need to upgrade your computer to play it.
  
  - Great sound. Terrific music from the movies and really nice dialog. Great use of sound to enhance 
 the overall game play. For example, if you sneak up on a room full of Stormtroopers, sometimes 
 you can hear them chatting about this or that. And if you move too fast, you'll likely hear one 
 of them say, Did you hear that? 
  
  - Fun puzzle solving. Sometimes you need to use the force to solve a puzzle, sometimes it's locating 
 the right switch to open a door, but in most cases they're not too frustrating and are solvable. 
 A couple of the puzzles required some checking into the walkthroughs posted on the web but you 
 should be able to figure most of them out on your own.
  
  - You only have yourself to blame if you die. With quick save ability and manual save ability at 
 any point in the game, you can save your last position before engaging in a fight or trying something 
 potentially risky to solve a puzzle ( I wonder if I can jump across that abyss without falling 
 into the chasm and ultimately becoming one with the force :-)
  
  - And of course the best part of all is the fighting. You can choose to fight with a saber or use 
 any number of blasters, thermal detonators, or other arsenal. Taking out Sandpeople from a distance 
 is great and all the spins, jumps and sophisticated lightsaber fighting is both great to watch 
 and play. You can decide if you want to role play the light side or dark side but for the most 
 part it doesn't affect the gameplay until the end.
  
  Overall slightly better than Jedi Outcast, only because Outcast forces you to use a blaster for 
 the first part of the game whereas this game allows you to use both blaster and saber from the 
 beginning. I played this game first and loved it so much I went and purchased Outcast.
  
  Outcast has the same great action, sound, and graphics with new puzzles and fights. I highly recommend 
 both.
  
  Personally I prefer the Jedi Knight games (Academy and Outcast) for their action more than the 
 role playing games like Knights of the Old Republic. KOTOR has some action to it as well but more 
 focus on the storyline than the action.
  
  For $10 in a jewel case, you can't get better value for your money than Jedi Academy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Soldier93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright now to tell you I didnt actually buy the game but I downloaded it and put it on 2 CD's. 
 Well even if u did buy the game it is amazing because of its storyline and gameplay. When I started 
 playing I was so amazed because you could customize your character and your lightsaber. And the 
 dueling is pretty cool and the special moves. This game is pretty cheap so you could just go to 
 BEST BUY and but it for like 10 dollars. Alright this is all I have to say, the rest is up to you 
 play this cool game. MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Trooper92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright now to tell you I didnt actually buy the game but I downloaded it and put it on 2 CD's. 
 Well even if u did buy the game it is amazing because of its storyline and gameplay. When I started 
 playing I was so amazed because you could customize your character and your lightsaber. And the 
 dueling is pretty cool and the special moves. This game is pretty cheap so you could just go to 
 BEST BUY and but it for like 10 dollars. Alright this is all I have to say, the rest is up to you 
 play this cool game. MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingviin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I accidentally got the first game, "Jedi Outcast", and i started to like it. Mostly because of 
 the lightsaber combat. First I thought that Jedi Outcast was the sequel to Jedi Academy, so i didn't 
 have any interest to it. Then I thought, that it would be fun to check out some screenshots here 
 at GS and when I saw, that you can choose your appearance and saber style, I was stunned. I bought 
 the game right away and I liked it alot.
  Speaking about the graphics - They could be better, but you have to remember, that it's an old 
 game. The lightsaber's are qute either way. : )
  The storyline is pretty mediocre. It could always be better. Really, really better. Even though 
 it wasn't the best storyline, it was really fun to slice Rosh to half (and slice Luke Skywalker 
 to half too, when using cheats and really pissed) .
  The voices were good. Nothing more. 
  I sincerely suggest this game to everyone, who has seen an episode of SW and liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucas325
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a great game many people complain about how the missions don't move along the story 
 very well but they aren't there for the story , they are there for your training, their main point 
 is to train you while helping discover information on the Disciples of Ragnos . In between the 
 mission tiers there are a couple mandatory mission though that progress the story . The ability 
 to control your force powers is great and further gives you a feeling of control along with choosing 
 your own missions and ,eventually , choosing good or evil which really puts you in control
  
  Multi player is also very fun the new mode, siege, is very fun it is kind of boring until you 
 figure out the maps and how to do the objectives though, another one of the downsides if siege 
 is that with the classes you can't controll your force or saber style, actually there is only one 
 map where every class has a saber and force but you have no controll over any of it except what 
 class you want
  
  Over all ,though, it is very fun and entertaining and a great game.
  
  i highly recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is another good addition to the Jedi Knight series games because it adds several new 
 features. Anyone who has played any of the earlier Jedi Knight series games will enjoy this one 
 (I have played the Jedi Outcast game for the Game Cube, see my review on that game for more information) . 
 It uses the same game engine but it still is good. The graphics are OK, the sound is good, and 
 the gameplay is good. This game even includes a bit of a KOTOR style ending. I would reccomend 
 this game for Star Wars fans and people who did the earlier Jedi Knight games and enjoyed them. 
 Also for people who like puzzle/first person shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanaru
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Yes... This is the best Star Wars game I ever seen (Actually, I just played 8 star wars game and 
 I finished 7 of them) . This game is so realistic. Single player story I think no very good but 
 u have found a lot of mod for Jedi Academy. U can find mods, models, maps for this game in Lucasfiles. com 
 and Gamespot and the other sites.
  Jedi Academy multiplayer game is not bad. But your forces limited. By the way... If you will play 
 with good players; it's really powerful. And bots aren't so stupid. ... MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Single player is excellent and the story centers around a sinle student who created a lightsaber 
 with no formal training, his past is never revealed but it doesn't matter, the game is mission 
 based with the player choosing from a pre-set of missions at the end of the mission set a story 
 mission will take place and the jedi will slowly advance in rank and force ability.
  
  Single player battles come in two teirs, ranged or lightsaber and the latter is the most deadly 
 but still, blasters come in useful in many locations but ultimately you'll be using the lightsaber 
 practically most of the game.
  
  I think multiplayer is the weakest part of the game, the lightsaber battles in multiplayer are 
 swing like crazy and hope since alot of the battles seem pretty random what hits and what misses, 
 there doesn't seem to be much player skill involved in the actually hits, which is unfortunate. 
 Ranged weapons in multiplayer often serve as backups when your lightsaber isn't working up to scratch 
 and other players are being more 'lucky' than you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm having some fun with this, mostly because lightsaber battles are one of the biggest gaming 
 rushes. However, after playing Outcast, this game doesn't have much more to offer. The levels can 
 range from merely good to very poor. For example, in one level you have to grab pieces to repair 
 your ship from the wreckage of another ship, and there are no enemies (other than almost invincible 
 sandworms you have to avoid) or other challenges, the hard part is figuring out what they want 
 you to do. As soon as you can figure out little things like how to stick the pieces back into your 
 ship and that you can only hold one at a time, there's nothing to do but run back and forth from 
 piece to your ship, and the pieces are easy to find.
  However, that's concentrating on the negative, and this is a decent game. The weapons vary well 
 (although they do too much damage in single player and not enough in multiplayer) the graphics 
 are good, and the lightsaber styles and moves are very much improved. The saber staff is a Star 
 wars fan's dream come true. Plus unlike Outcast, the game is very configurable; in Outcast you 
 had a single lightsaber and it had to be blue unless you used the cheats, you got your force powers 
 in a scripted way, you were always Kyle Katarn, and the level order was set (you couldn't pick 
 what order to do the levels in.) In Academy almost everything is a choice; you can even turn to 
 the dark side.
  Which brings us to the biggest problem with the game. Since you can choose so much, they can't 
 really build a decent story around it. Most of the levels are completely random. 
  
  One last note: In walkthroughs and even in the gamespot review, they say that grip is a great power, 
 while lightning is worthless. Nothing could be further from the truth. Grip can only be used on 
 one guy at a time, which would help in saber battles except for the fact that they can push out 
 of it. Lightning, on the other hand, is in fact worthless at levels 1 and 2. 
  But on level three, it's an instant kill on everyone but Dark Jedi and Bosses. It has a wide range 
 and can take out multiple grunts at the same time with one short tap. In fact, it's too good, and 
 I'm trying to limit my use of it. Even on your duel opponents it can do some quick damage when 
 your health is too low to get close to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I became a JK addict when I played JK II: Jedi Outcast for the GameCube. So, when I saw Jedi Knight: 
 Jedi Academy amongst a group of discount priced games, I decided to pick it up. Upon playing through 
 the first mission, I was not surprised to find myself in the presence of yet another superb Jk 
 game. The gameplay is tight, the soundtrack is the traditional Star Wars sound track that we're 
 so accustomed to, and the graphics are amazing for a PC game. The storyline mode is excellent and 
 very involving while the multiplayer mode is as challenging and fun as ever. The AI in the story 
 mode presented the perfect challenge for whatever level you're in. I quite enjoyed the easy to 
 use setup process for creating my own server. However, there were some small things in the game 
 that could've been improved. The character creation, while an obvious must for an FPS with the 
 JK name on it, was very bland and undetailed. Another problem I found was the controll setup. It 
 was very detailed and covered most every conceivable need in the game, but arranging it so that 
 the controls are in one accessible place is very difficult. Finally, the addition of the guns and 
 mines seem superflous in light of the fact that you can kill almost everything with your lightsabre. 
 However, none of these facts makes JK: JA any less worthwhile. If you can find it, pick up. It was 
 certainly the best $10 I ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyshinigami
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  The graphics is ok eventhough I tested it with no video cards at all. The saber battles are the 
 best part of the games and it also give the choice for having single, dual or double edged saber.
 
  The force powers are cool but they should let us master more than lvl3 so I dont need to cheat 
 for level 7 mind control force to control a rancor that I spawned and eat every enemies in front 
 of me XD.
  The boring part is, No matter how many times you beat the game, when you start a new game you cant 
 get dual/double edged saber from the beginning (unless you cheat) .
  The huge mod community for the game makes no one feel bored for playing the same thing all over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarwarsCJ
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  In this game Jedi Knight III: Jedi Academy, you get to make a character at the beginning of the 
 game. The different species are Male Rodian, Male Human, Male Keldorr, Female Twe`ilek, Female 
 Zabrak, and Female Human. Your characters name is ALWAYS Jaden Korr. You get a certain amount of 
 choices for clothes (mainly depending on which species you chose) . Then after you make a character, 
 you make your lightsaber. At the beginning you can only get a single bladed lightsaber but about 
 half way through the game, (a lil' more) , your lightsaber gets destroyed. So you make a new saber (s) . 
 You can choose a single saber again, dual sabers, or a double-bladed saber. 
  
  Online for this game, (if you get it for PC) , is free. It's really fun too because you can do all 
 sorta of game modes. Like FFA (free for all) , Team FFA, Dual, Power Dual, CTF (capture the flag) , 
 or Siege. Most of the time, I do FFA which I think is more fun if you just want to fight and learn 
 new techniques. (I'll put down most of the saber technigues in this review) . 
  
  Fight technigues are simple. Make sure on controls in the options menu, that when you press c and 
 hold during game, you crouch. With a sing bladed saber, you get three forms (when your online) . 
 Otherwise during the game you only get 1 form with a single saber until you become a Padawan and 
 add a saber style. Then if you choose strong red form, you get both yellow and red form. Same if 
 you choose fast blue form, you get both yellow and blue forms. To switch between forms is mouse 
 3 button (the roller) . A 1 hit kill technique with the strong red form is where you press ' w ' 
 or the up arrow, tap the spacebar, and press the attack button on the mouse at the same time. So 
 the button combanation is W+Spacebar+Mouse1.
  
  Heres all the combanations in an easier way:
  Strong Red Form single saber:
  W + Spacebar + 
 Mouse 1 "Lunging jump attack"
  Mouse 1 + Mouse 2 "fast spin attack" (works for every form)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Normal Yellow Form single 
 saber:
  W + Spacebar + Mouse 1 "Jump spin slash attack"
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fast Blue Form single 
 saber:
  C + W + Mouse 1 "Uppercut"
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Normal Yellow Form dual 
 sabers:
  C + W + Mouse 1 "Fast arm spin attack)
  Mouse 1 + Mouse 2 "Force lightsaber Spin"
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Normal Yellow Form double bladed-saber:
  C + W + Mouse 1 "3 Figure 8 spins"
  Mouse 1 + Mouse 2 "Saber/Kick combanation"
  
  I liked the sotryline, but some of it was pretty 
 hard. Some of the first levels were really hard. I mean how do they expect you to beat those hard 
 levels when you're a beginner? Some of the levels I chose were pretty easy. I can't remember them 
 all but some were the Wedge level, the Danger level, the Merc investigation, and the Jawa Sandcrawler 
 missions.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaster2k7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy puts you in the position of a character named Jaden, who is learning to 
 become a jedi. You will encounter smugglers, sandpeople, and tons of dark jedi. The lightsaber action 
 is better in third person than first person in Star Wars: Jedi Knight I. you can choose either your 
 lightsaber or all these different guns and nades. I personally just use the lightsaber. I use guns 
 on special occasions.
  
  The lightsaber action against dark jedi is really good. I think, in my opinion, that the lightsaber 
 action is better than Episode III on the PS2 as well as all the force powers you can use. You can 
 choose from light or dark side powers. Light has absorb, heal, mind trick, and protection. Dark has 
 grip (which is kind of like choke) , lightining, drain, and rage. I like all the dark side powers and 
 3 of the light. I don't use protection unless your on this one level where you really have to.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. When your saber touches the wall, it actually leaves marks and burns 
 for a short time.
  
  The sound is well done when it comes to sabers. The voiceacting was alright, but nothing special.
 
  
  The online play is awesome. Playing against other jedi online, fighting eachother with single, double, or 
 duel bladed sabers with the ability to use force powers is awesome.
  
  Overall, this game is worth buying since it only costs $10.00. This game is a fun game, and it will 
 kill lots of ours. I highly recommended this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought this game a couple weeks ago for my pc, you know how it is just a Star Wars fan looking 
 for a good Jedi simulator to get the thrill of fighting with a lightsaber.... you know how it is. 
 But anyway I beat it last week and was expecting this awsome ending and magnificent ending scene, 
 but I was left short. I love the game the game play is awsome and the graphics are decent and the 
 battle system in it is great! But it was just to short and lacked alittle in the story for Jaden. 
 I got the 2disc set and the second disc is just as the first, does it even have sugnificence? I 
 don't know. The game did fall short of what I was expecting.... don't want to sound like a broken 
 record on this. All and all the game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is your standared Star Wars fare but it works quite well, and the game's lightsaber 
 fighting steals the show. This game features the best real-time lightsaber fighting to date and 
 some of the battles look absolutely spectacular. The singleplayer artificial intelligence is commendable 
 if not excellent, but the bots you can fight in multiplayer wander around with little purpose or 
 direction. The singleplayer portion of the game is relatively short, but has lots of variety as 
 you complete missions of mercy on multiple different planets from the Star Wars universe. The story 
 line makes sense but is rather dull at times. The graphics are pretty good, esspecialy in the area 
 of character models and animation, but the environments can look a little washed out at times. 
 The game sports some very memorable missions including one where you flee from pursuing mercenaries 
 on a swoop bike slicing open any foolhardy mercs that get there bikes to close to your lightsaber. 
 Multiplayer can be very fun in Jedi Academy as well. The game comes with quite a few maps and multiple 
 well thought out gameplay modes for you to choose from. There are hundreds of great modifications 
 for this game from new player skins (Darth Maul!) to total conversions of how multiplayer works. 
 The mods freshen up the game and I have played almost 150 hours of this game.
  
  Pros: Great lightsaber combat, good graphics and sound, multiplayer is a good change from games 
 like Battlefield 1942, tons of great mods, and solid gameplay.
  
  Cons: Multiplayer AI stinks, storyline could use some help, and I'm tired of Star Wars music.
 
  
  Overall: A worth addition to the Jedi Knight series, If not the best of the Jedi Knight games. 
 Buy it if you can get it for pretty cheap. Get some mods for it and you've got a great game for 
 LAN parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvaderboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, when I first got it, was thought of by me as the greatest. As I played 
 through the game, one this got really annoying, there were way to many light saber fights. Yes 
 these are very fun and enjoyable, but by the time you reach the tenth in a mission, enough is enough. 
 The mission selection process is a nice thought but it still does not give you alot of freedom, 
 you have to do all but one at some poing anyways. 
  
  The good is that most of the gameplay is very good and enjoyable. There is also a good stroy to 
 back up all the fighting. Plus you can't beat the fun of level three force grip to a guy and throwing 
 him off a cliff or into a wall. The rest is basicly straight forward for the rest of the good things. 
 
  
  Other than that, the game is really good, and anyone who has not already gotten/played it should. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast was a solid game because it had an excellent story, and had considerable length to 
 it. Jedi Academy fixes one of Outcast's biggest problems, but also fails to do what Jedi Outcast 
 did right.
  
  In Jedi Academy you play as Jaden Korr, a new student at Luke Skywalker's Jeid Academy on Yavin 
 IV who you can customize before you begin the game. I'll get right to the point, the story in Jedi 
 Academy is practically non-existent, and just there for the sake of letting the player go on a 
 sight seeing trip around the galaxy through unconnected missions, and the occasional story mission. 
 The cheesy plot remains shallow, and uninspired right up to the terribly executed end.
  
  Jedi Academy plays the same as Jedi Outcast with one exception, you can now wield a double bladed 
 lightsaber similar to Darth Maul's in Episode I: The Phantom Menace, or dual lightsabers. In the 
 single player campaign, you cannot take advantage of this feature until the third and final tier 
 of missions, but regardless it is the first time in the series that you can use more than the standard 
 lightsaber type; not counting the numerous mods for Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. Unfortunately 
 the weapons are still underpowered.
  
  Jedi Academy also features better level design that presents more sensible methods of getting around, 
 and the atmosphere that Outcast's levels were lacking. Unfortunately the graphics remain unchanged 
 from Outcast; save lightsaber burn marks that can be made on enemies, and rag doll physics when 
 they die. The tired Quake III engine powers Academy as it did Outcast.
  
  The sound in Academy is so-so. The voice acting took a turn for the worse with both the male and 
 female main characters sounding wooden, but the sound effects and music are the same classic Star 
 Wars quality that you would expect in a Star Wars video game.
  
  Jedi Academy is an interesting sequel to Outcast as it rights some of what Outcast did wrong, and 
 wrongs everything it did right. Better level design, weak story, and weak voice acting. I would 
 recommend Jedi Outcast over Academy if you're looking for a decent single player experience as 
 it is longer, but Academy is better if you're looking for multiplayer lightsaber combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I had expected more from this game since I had played Star Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast before it 
 and that game is really good. I am not trying to say this game isnt good but it isnt great and 
 is way to short.
  
  Gameplay-9
  The gameplay is good but this game is way to easy. The length of this game is way to short. It 
 took me about 7 hours to beat it. At the beginning of the game you get to make your light saber 
 straight from the start of the game. Then you through training so you can become a Jedi. You are 
 trained by Kyle Katarn from the game I mentioned earlier. You will be sent on missions (obviously) , 
 but in this game you get to choose the missions. Then after you complete each mission you get to 
 add to your force powers, there are light side force powers and dark side force powers (the one 
 you choose effects nothing on which side you choose later) . The multiplayer in this game is really 
 fun. In the multiplayer all you do is go around and kill your enemys but it is still fun to do. 
 The replay value of this game is not very good.
  
  Graphiics-8
  The graphics in this game are average, not very good at all. The light sabers look bad. Most of 
 the different races are good looking but some look terrible. The senery looks like someone drew 
 it with no inhancement at all. The space ships are the best looking things in the game by far.
 
  
  Sound-8
  The sound is another average thing about the game. The voices are not vey good, they sound nothing 
 like real voices. The way it sounds when two light sabers hit sounds great. The screams of the 
 strom troopers when you cut off their arm or something like like is "entertaining".
  
  Value-9
  The value in this game is good but it lags durring multiplayer a lot (no it is not problems 
 with my pc) . Other than that there are no problems with the value.
  
  This game is definatly worth a purchase if you have friends that you want to play multiplayer with 
 or want something to kill seven or eight hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game is c00l dudes. Well the combat is great... excellent . The lightsabers are superrrrr.... man! 
 Well you are a padawan at the begining , going to Luke's Jedi Academy. After you do some heroics 
 (in missions) you become level 2 (apprentice) and after you become Jedi Knight. In the end you defeat 
 Mark Aragnos (a Sith Lord dead by 200 years who is resurrected) . Well the graphics are good. Sound 
 good. Game play g00000000000000d. Well you create a character at the beginning and you create also 
 a lightsaber. This game is played by many buttons. The force is with you. You have simple force 
 powers (jump, speed, sense push pull light saber offense, defense and throw ) , dark force powers (grip, 
 lightning, Drain, rage) and light side force powers (heal, protect, mind trick-c00l- and absorb) . 
 This is a great game which you must. You can also use weapons like blasters, repeaters, grenades 
 and many more. When you become Jedi knight you can choose a new saber. A normal one with all 3 
 styles : fast normal heavy or you can get dual sabers and double bladed. Enemies die super cool. 
 If you throw them into a wall at great speed and power with the force they break their backs. you 
 can do anything with the force and your lightsaber. Excellent game !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battleer
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow another Jedi Knight game and wow it play's a lot like the other one yep it's true this game 
 is a lot like jedi outcast it should actually have been an expansion imo but let's get to the revie. Gameplay 
 well it's pretty good like I said though it's a lot like Jedi Outcast's gameplay but with more 
 saber's you can now equip single duel and double bladed lighsabers the controls are still really 
 good with a keyboard and mouse also it's only a little bit more intense than outcast but back in 
 2003 there were more intense games out so it doesn't stand out very far. The graphics aren't that 
 great only a small improvemeant over outcast. The sound is still good just the same ol soundtrack. It's 
 got some good vaalue you can have a lot of fun with the multiplayer and there are still lot's of 
 servers open. Tilt yea the story kinda sucks taking a bit of a turn from the previous. So overall 
 you'll enkoy this game but it's a lot like Outcast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  When I say, "Definitely worth the price," I mean $10. I can see myself paying $20 for it however. 
 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a decent game that will keep you interested without getting you over-excited. 
 The multiplayer is decent and the single-player is so-so.
  The single-player mode is very linear, though Lucas Arts attempted to mix it up a bit by letting 
 you select 1 of 5 missions to complete. This doesn't accomplish it's task at all, as you will find 
 it benefits you to complete all missions anyway. The graphics are decent, but it does not nearly 
 make up for the lackluster combat system. Of course, LA didn't screw up the 1st person shooter 
 aspect of the game, but how can they? The light saber over-weighs the other weapons of the game. 
 You will find yourself relying on it most of the time. The combat system with the saber reduces 
 you to holding down the mouse button and running around in circles. With only a few types of attacks, 
 it really restricts the amount of fun you can have butchering your enemies. Plus, the auto-block 
 feature with the light saber reflects most lasers, making it the most sensible weapon to use.
 
  As far as character set up goes, it is very limited. You can choose from a few different races 
 and genders as well as a few head types. How exciting. Though the music is nice, like all John 
 William's pieces, the voice acting is awful. I had a difficult time getting into the linear storyline 
 when there is either an over-actor or under-actor behind the mic.
  The multiplayer can be fun, and provides you with a bit more variety of who you can be. However, 
 you will find yourself looking for servers without force powers as they tend to be more exciting. 
 The force powers in the game severely out-weigh the combat system in the game. In these servers 
 you will find people just force-grabbing people instead of getting into the mediocre action of 
 the light saber fights.
  All in all, this isn't really a terrible game, and for $10 it is really a good deal. But I think 
 Lucas Arts could have done a better job. When you look at Star Wars, you see this epic sci-fi legend. 
 When you look at Jedi Academy, you see a so-so game that has the feel that it was just put together 
 in a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  STAR WARS: JEDI KNIGHT - JEDI ACADEMY (2001) 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 6/7
  Fun Element: 5/7
  Camera: 5/7
  Traditionality: 
 7/7
  Atmosphere: 6/7
  MPAA Rating: 4/7
  Plot: 6/7
  Music: 7/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 8.4/10
  
  Genre: Lightsaber/Shooter Action 
 Adventure
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every three years
  
  + : classic star wars storyline with Luke Skywalker as head of academy, you can choose which 
 missions you want to take, not to difficult and complicated lightasaber fighting system, one two 
 or double lightsaber fighting styles, first person view for guns, second person view for lightsaber, 
 memorable music, you can ride different star wars vehicles, nice cheat codes
  
  - : some missions are a pain in the ass since you can't kill the boss before you come to the end 
 of the level, too many guns (true jedi knight doesn't use guns) , some useless force powers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predator1015
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  It's common knowledge that jedi outcast was one of the most popular Star Wars games ever. Well 
 at least for the PC. The next installment in the series is almost as good but deserved WAY more 
 publicity than it got. The levels are poorly put together and sometimes confusing. The Gameplay 
 is relatively easy once you get the hang of it. The graphics are obsolete now but at the time this 
 game was made it was extraordinary. The twist to this game was the fact that you no longer play 
 as Kyle Katarn but as Jaden Korr. A character that you create. This is not nessecarily a good thing. 
 Your characters character is shabby and poorly put together. Top it off with horrible voice acting 
 and you get just about one of the cheesiest characters in the Star Wars universe. Kyle is in the 
 game though. He follows you in many of the missions and helps. not much though. The AI is average. 
 They don't take cover and they will just rush you but their accuracy is quite good. Another diference 
 between Academy and Outcast was the fact that this time you start out with a lightsaber. You get 
 to create it although you don't get that much freedom to choose what it looks like.
  
  If all this sounds too negative then just keep in mind that the gameplay is very fun. With many 
 different force and lightsaber moves that you can upgrade in your arsenal, you might be able to 
 play this game through about 2 or 3 times before it starts to get old. If you have jedi outcase 
 then i wouldn't get this game. You'll have a lot more fun with outcast.
  
  Although there are many weak points in the game, the gameplay is still as solid as Outcast's and 
 is a worthy addition to the Jedi Knight series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paktam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game put us a a person (guy or gal) name Jaden who can create his own lightsaber without any 
 Jedi training. He also have some jedi power at the beginning of the story. In this game, you can create 
 your own character and build your own lightsaber. Choose your own crystal colour and also choose 
 force power after you complete each mission. As an apprentice, you'll be given missions to in order 
 to complete your jedi training.
  The graphic in this game is quite good. The lighting in this game is quite nice especially the lightsaber. The 
 sound system is good. While playing this game, you may hear star wars theme song, darth vader theme 
 song and others depend on the situation of the game. The gameplay is not so hard actually. While 
 playing the game, you'll get more force powers and become more stronger in your force.
  This game create a great storyline an the epic continues when Master Luke Skywalker gather all 
 the Jedi an train new Jedi in the academy. You'll be likely spend around 20 to 40 hours or 10 to 
 20 hours depend on the game difficulty you choose. If you are a fan of star wars, this is one title 
 that you shouldn't miss. So, don't miss it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Star Wars : Jedi Knight - Jedi Academy is one of the best  
 game ever. When you combine this with the Star Wars trilogy you really get a Masterpiece.
  
  The Story sets you into the roll of a young student who is going to the Jedi Academy to become 
 a Jedi ( No! Really? ) By the name of Jaden Korr. On the ship to there you meet a young student 
 Rosh Pennin (I think it's Pennin)
  . But on the way to there you ship is hit bu a beam projectile fired by a mysterious person.
 
  The good thing is that you have a lightsaber at the wery begeinning of the game. So you get to 
 kill a couple of howlers some stormtroppers and even a Sith jedi at the first level.
  
  The Game has an exellent story, magnificent graphics, outstanding sound and a rememberable gameplay. 
 The multiplayer is also a masterpiece.
  
  I never had so much fun as when I was driving a speed bike and wielding a lightsaber at the same 
 tame. So driving the fastest motorbike in the game world and cutting with the favorite wapon of 
 all times is abolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeljosh36
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all! I personally think George Lucas went all out on this game because it has 
 lightsaber action, force powers, and more! Jedi knight, Jedi Academy has a great storyline but 
 still gives freedom. You see, this game takes place after Episode 6 when Luke Skywalker opens an 
 academy of his own to help people connected with the force to become Jedi so he can restore the 
 Jedi Order. Your character (Jaden Korr) , is on a vessel on its way to the academy so he can begin 
 his training. The ship is shot down and the story begins from there. Elsewhere, people around the 
 Galaxy need assistance from the Jedi to stop mercenaries, crime lords, mobs, etc. You (Jaden) , 
 go and get experience from these missions gaining force powers, and fighting techniques throughout 
 the game. Eventually, you can obtain dual lightsabers, or even a double-bladed lightsaber made 
 famous by Darth Maul! Plus, guns will be provided for you too on every mission. I would advise 
 you to only use them if you can't reach your enemies. Also, the game is much more fun with using 
 the lightsaber!!! Since this game is on the computer, the graphics are not a problem. I have never 
 had a problem with the sound either, so this game won't cause any frustration with the quality. 
 Overall, this game is a blast!! Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicncrazy7816
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that will make any star wars fan go WOW 
  
  Gameplay
  the gameplay is the best part about this game, upgrading in the ways of the force, the awesome 
 flips and tricks you can do while in the air on the ground etc... is awesome. another great thing 
 is making your own jedi and watching him grow in the ways of the force
  
  Graphics
  the graphics in this game are impressive considering the low system requirements that this game 
 runs off of. you can really tell this is a true star wars dedicated game by the look
  
  Sound
  the sound of this game is so awesome, star wars movie tunes and the sound of lightsabers 
 hitting anything it touches is enough to drive any star wars fan nuts GREAT JOB
  
  Value
  you will want to play this game over especially if you can play multiplayer to impress people around 
 the globe with your skills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This adds to my SW collection. I have both KOTOR's, and the Galactic Battlegrounds with an ugly 
 SWG. This title was staring at me for some time now, but never bought it until I read somewhere 
 it was actually a great game. It surprised me the clean graphics it produces, with the original 
 music, and sound effects that come along with any SW game. If the NGE was supposed to be anything 
 great this is what it should have turned into if anything! Being Jedi alone I mean. Very easy to 
 maneuver, and hit targets. I like that your character blocks for you. You have numerous Force powers 
 at your disposal right from the beginning which is kinda cool, but even better if you were able 
 to advance, and get them from leveling. I don't care really. I really like the story, and fast 
 paced action. This is what SWG should of looked liked for all those NGE Suckers. Anyway I'd encourage 
 this in a heartbeat for all those who like the SW games. I actually bought mine from here using 
 the link that puts you to Best Buy. I bought it for $9.99 and some change for shipping. It's worth 
 having. You can't beat a cheap SW game like this where it's solely based around Jedi. Oh yeah the 
 races could have been more in depth though. Your limited to only 3 I think, and the attire your 
 able to pick isn't that great. The sabers have at least 6-7 I believe to choose from (hilts) with 
 6 colors also. Nicely done in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: townsenda1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of games in the Jedi Knight series and I think I've played just about all of them. 
 And of all the games in this series Jedi Academy is by far the greatest. I mean let's be honest, 
 what true StarWars fan didn't ever dream of becoming a Jedi and learning how to use the force. 
 If you said that wasn't you then your a liar. The game starts out with you choosing your character, 
 everything from color, sex, and even species. Next you get to choose your outfit and the hilt and 
 color of your lightsaber. As the game begins you are on a space ship that is taking you and other 
 students to learn the way of the force at the Jedi Academy with Legendary Jedi Luke Skywalker. 
 There is something different in you then the other students. You were able to construct your own 
 lightsaber without any help or knowledge of how to do it. During the single player game you travel 
 taking on challengeing missons and even meet up with characters from the movies. I won't spoil 
 which characters you find. Also, as you progress through the game, you can learn whatever force 
 powers you want. Both light and dark powers are available with three levels to each. Fighting techniques 
 are also learned as well as different light sabres. These include the dual sabers, staff saber, 
 and old faithful, the single lightsaber. 
  The multiplayer mode is also a lot of fun. Where you can choose from so many characters. Some of 
 the maps in FreeForAll, are huge. It would have been awesome to have some of the more famous stages 
 like in the orginal movie but we can't always have what we want. I also wish that there were more 
 maps to choose from. I think there are only about 6 or so. But I read that there are a lot of unlockables 
 in the game. I haven't gotten to many of them cause I haven't beaten the game yet. I'm sure we 
 will be able to unlock new maps. They have also added a Power Duels mode which is great tool. In 
 this mode you can have 2 jedi versus 1 more powerful jedi. It uses all the same maps found in the 
 "Duel" mode. This mode really challenges all that you have learned. If your not up to snuff, you 
 won't survive. 
  The gameplay is really amazing. Jedi Outcast didn't flow as nice as this game. The game looks beautiful. 
 It feels like the creaters at LucasArts spent a lot of time making the surrounding and environment 
 of this game look as real as they could. It's so great to look at. It makes you feel like you are 
 really in the game. You don't have those dark spots in the graphics. The cutscenes aren't too long 
 which is good so you keep your interest. 
  All in all the game is great and if you have friends the multiplayer is great. Single player has 
 a good replay value because of the ability to go dark and light. My first time around I went light. 
 I can't wait to go dark the next time. I know with StarWars Galaxies out there I see where you 
 might over look this one but don't. In this game you get to be your own person. It's as if you 
 were really in the game. So if your in the market for a great StarWars game look no further than 
 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight : jedi Academy allows you to play as a jedi apprentice that is trying to stop the imperial 
 army of storms and evil jedi's from ruleing the galaxy. You are able to create your character fromt 
 eh begining and add some force powers to him/her and adventure through the world of starwars.
 
  
  You start off as your ship is destroyed and is heading for a planet and it crashes, oviously you 
 survivbe, and now you must regroup and get to your destination. Later ony ou gain more experience 
 and gain better force powers to help you through the game. 
  
  Graphics are quite good but not the best of what we ahve seen of the starwars games.
  
  Sound 
 is awesome and does give the player a unique experience.
  
  Gameplay is quite simple but the battle do get a bit tricky as you have to fight against alot of 
 foes. Also some maps are hard to beat.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight 3. Compared to Jedi Knight 2, JK2 beats this if you are one seeking challenges and 
 good storyline. JK3's storyline didn't appeal to me, as it wasn't great, and you had to select 
 your own mission (sometimes a good thing, but doesn't really make you follow a story; which is 
 different from other games, but in this case it makes sense as you are searching for the Disciples 
 of Ragnos) .
  Whoever's played JK2 would know the feeling of discovering special moves by trial and error and 
 the sense of self achievement that comes with it. In this all moves are listed, and that removes 
 the challenge of discovery. 
  
  Multiplayer: this is better than JK2's. With dual sabers or double bladed, this gives a special 
 twist to multiplayer, and redeems the game from its mediocre single player. 
  
  Value 10 because it sells for cheap now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy has originality as far as the star wars series goes and has good gameplay to boot, 
 however you could almost consider it a half life 1 port if anyone actually used anything but the 
 lightsabre.
  (just a note: My opinions are based on playing through jedi master difficulty)
  
  Graphics: 
 6/10
  Nothing special as far as graphics goes. It was good for its time but it tends to have glitches 
 and jerkiness to it. The character models are unconvincing and tend to not fit the voices well 
 at all.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Impressive. Fair music from the star wars genre that doesn't play too loud so it doesn't get annoying, 
 however the game might've had a bit more immsersiveness if things like the last boss had finality 
 music rather than practically dead silence. Characters like Kyle tend to leave you a bit peeved 
 due to the pure cheesiness of their voice acting though.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Theres personalisation to your character, weapons, lightsabres and an oddly half-life-like interface. 
 The control scheme is well done and has a nice counter-strike feel to it that lets you really get 
 used to how you control your character and lets you respond to quick decisions. Its hard to even 
 bother trying to use weapons when you have the lightsabre since weapons tend to be reflected in 
 your face or do a third of the damage one lightsabre shot would do. Not to mention the graphical 
 half-life-like interface while in weapons mode gets annoying.
  Force powers are a good implementation that can add alot of personalisation to your character. 
 You can go light or dark force powers (though 9 times out of ten you're bound to go dark) . Being 
 able to simply do nifty tricks like firing lasers from your hands and pretending to be a sith makes 
 the force powers worth it.
  Sabre battles tend to be fine when vsing things like storm troopers, however when you get to sabre 
 battles with sith masters, you may find yourself using quicksave and quickload obsessively since 
 one wrong click can decide the match. Sabre battles don't consist of much more than clicking and 
 jumping back and fourth when you see an opening, however they give you the dramatic feel of a real 
 star wars fight to an extent.
  
  Overall, half life- er I mean star wars: jedi academy has originality, lack of thought in its plot 
 as well as corniness and fun replayable gameplay. If you're a star wars fan then you'll want to 
 get this game. If you're a fan of the first person shooter genre then you may find this game a 
 breath of fresh air with a nice sci-fi interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good star wars game mainly because of the mutiplayer being online. I played this 
 game online with my brother and we both really enjoyed the game also with the computers but its 
 better online.
  
  The graphics are not bad.
  
  
  The gameplay is really good because I like the idea of the game although I never really played 
 the single player before but the mutiplayer.
  
  Playing it online is the best about the game even though its hard beating the other people. My favourite 
 online game is free for all.
  
  There are alot of other good star wars games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlfrnt2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy for five minutes, I was hooked! I love how they executed 
 this game's storyline, ten years after the end of the emperor with an empire remnant, I love how 
 they just let you jump in and hack and slash your way through tons of storm troopers and enemy 
 sith cultists. The weakest point in this game was the character and lightsaber customization options, 
 there wasn't enough there to really make my character stand out from the others. Overall, I thought 
 this game was worth the money. It is deserving of a sequel, a rare find in a star wars  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vartan5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  A great follow up to jedi outcast. This game is well executed, with a decent storyline and great 
 gameplay. It's just simply very fun to play. Though the game might seem a bit repetitious at times, 
 not to mention easy, you will find yourself drawn back to it over time. The best thing about the 
 game is that it manages to capture the feeling of being a jedi. The saber moves are deceptively 
 deep, and the many fighting styles that the game offers for saber combat is welcomed. The customization 
 that the game allows for, both for the character, as well as for the sabers, is a nice touch. The 
 bottom line is that this game is just plain fun, and stands up well even after a couple of years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  this is such a cool star wars game which is long without cheats and there are thousands of cheats. 
 you can use cheats to get weapons change characters and much more. there are good force powers 
 lots of cool enemies you can get two lightsabers double sided light sabers and one saber. you can 
 choose your skin lightsaber colour and you can choose to be on the light side or the dark side 
 half way through the game. it is fun and some levels can be hard and you dont have to do the all 
 the levels to get to the next section. it is fun using guns and sniping with some guns. its easy 
 to learn but there are a lot of controls. you can throw your light saber there are lots of different 
 moves. so if you are a star wars fan or you just like jumping around and killing this is a great 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerk_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  This is, without a doubt one of the finest Star Wars games to grace the planet. First I'll go through 
 it's features.
  
  Gameplay 10: So easy to use and yet so difficult to master. The controls are so sharp and snappy 
 that with nought but a slight touch of the mouse you can send your saber flying and force powers 
 exploding out of your hands. It really gives you the feeling of a true jedis power.
  
  Graphics 8: Except for the occasional jagged edge the graphics are beautiful. They aren't super 
 Splinter Cell style graphics but they are what they need to be with virtually no clipping.
  
  Sound 10: Sound effects of the lightsabers are amazing. Just like the ones in the movies. The 
 music is delightful because it is enjoyable but isn't so in-your-face and loud as to distract you 
 from the actual game, just like in the movies.
  
  Out-of-the-Ordinary 9: The fact that you can play as both as a jedi and use the unique force powers 
 to fight such a wide assortment of foes makes it exhilarating. The fact that you can use a single 
 lightsaber (With three different styles) , two lightsabers or a double-bladed lightsaber only adds 
 to the extra out-of-the-ordinary features of this game.
  
  Singleplayer 9: Fun and exciting to play with enjoyable twist turns and well implemented movie 
 characters makes it a lot of fun to play. Unfortunately, like many new games these days, depressingly 
 short.
  
  Multiplayer 10: One of the most unparallel multiplayer engine I've ever played. With Free-For-All, 
 Team Free-For-All, Duel, Power Duel (Two-on-one super powered person) , siege and Jedi Master (Has 
 to be downloaded off the internet) there are limitless options. Siege is an incredible mode in 
 which you must complete objectives (such as blowing up a wall to rescue a robot on the Tatooine 
 desert level as well as having to lead your small force around a killer rancor) in a certain amount 
 of time or try to defend them. It is without a doubt the most enjoyable multiplayer mode I have 
 ever played.
  
  Overall 10: Simply put. Amazing. One of the top 10 games of this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radomu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is probably the best Star Wars Jedi action game ever made. 
 If you are looking for a large war like the Clone Wars, you would not find it here. This game includes 
 campaigns you have to beat on your own, though some missions has accompany. 
  You will never get board in the saber action agenst the Dark Jedi army and it isn't hard as you 
 think. You get to choose the hilt of your saber in the beginning and the color, though from the 
 middle, you get to use a twin saber or a double sided saber, the one Darth Maul had.
  It also has a great system that defends your from the blaster beams, almost all the time, which 
 is better the all the time. 
  Eventhough the gameplay is awsome, I think the campaign is too easy, compared to the last game, 
 Jedi Outcast. In Jedi Outcast, you don't get your saber and your force powers from the beginning, 
 though in this game, you get to have a weapon that is almost invincible to any blaster rifles that 
 the enemy grunts use. The online multiplayer isn't that fun because almost every server has a rule 
 called lamer, which you are not allowed to attack people with their saber off or just standing 
 there with a chat box up, unlike other multiplayers that has the rule to kill every enemy you see 
 in the game.
  Except all that nonsense, the single player is very fun and is hard to get board at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  STAR WARS Jedi Knight III: Jedi Academy is a worthy sequel to one of the greatest STAR WARS games 
 ever.
  
  This time, the game offers customization features and the ability to choose your own path. The 
 concept is great and works well. Especially when you choose to be light or dark at the end.
  
  The graphics are the same as before but better since I am playing this version on the PC because 
 some developers didn't want to put it on the Gamecube. The graphics are solid but still not the 
 greatest. But this one offers better textures and a sharper look.
  
  The story is no where near as good as Jedi Outcast but is still interesting. And there are two 
 different ending so the game has a reason to be played through twice.
  
  The gameplay is better this time around because you can wield two sabers at once or Darth Maul's 
 saber staff. This adds a great new way of slicing through those blasted Stormtroopers.
  
  One main problem I had with this sequel was that it was much easier than Jedi Outcast. It was almost 
 too easy.
  
  Anyway ... this is a great game that should be played by fans of Jedi Outcast, STAR WARS, or just 
 someone looking for a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_dode
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong, but the game is good for its lightsaber duelling and some good action sequences, 
 but the single player is disapointing, for one sole reason, you dont spend any time in the academy, 
 instead ur sent to various locations where u can apparently learn more about the force than at 
 the JEDI ACADEMY where all the training goes on. The game is generally too easy at some sinlge 
 player points especially since many moves can be repeated to kill everyone in the game. Since all 
 the complicated manoeuvres are explained, there is a very short learning curve, however it takes 
 a while to master the game, you can generally get through the first tier of missions before needing 
 to upgrade your style. The Academy could have been a place where new combos could have been learned, 
 instead of starting off with an array of advanced jedi maneuvres, a place where you can mock duel 
 with fellow students and gain experience for an attribute system of some sort where u can upgrade 
 ur strength, and speed perhaps. Now i move onto multiplayer, the game is Good but only because 
 of multiplayer, it involves continuous Light-Saber warfare on a variety of maps, and proves a much 
 greater challenge than the disapointing single player game. The multi-player is the only point 
 which redeems the game from its single player catastrophe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Being the 4th game in the original Dark Forces series, this is a follow up to Jedi Knight II: Jedi 
 Outcast. It is very similar to Outcast, and for the first time you're not playing Katarn. The name 
 Jadeen can be either a male or female... expect a 5th game in the Jedi Knight series, it's far from 
 dead. I've many mixed feelings about this game, so I decided to make it easy by breaking it down 
 into groups, starting with the worst.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CONS:
  
  Player customization wasn't diverse, the selection is very limited. The whole "design your own 
 lightsaber!" idea was too hyped up. I was actually expecting to build one from scratch, but instead 
 you just pick the handle look and blade color - some lightsaber construction that is. 
  
  My biggest issue with most, if not all, of Star Wars games is that it lacks the real feel of the 
 Star Wars universe, in lightsaber combat. What do I mean? You'll have the ability to wield a double 
 bladed saber or 2 at once, but I guarantee you that there will be times when an enemy is right 
 in front of you but he's still there, alive and well, after you've wildly slashed at him many times. 
 Somehow the lightsaber happens to miss him or it isn't long enough to reach, yet sometimes it will 
 work. Unpredictable and inconsistency. Another problem within the series is that you have to swing 
 to kill. Anyone who has played Outcast will tell you how frustrating and unreal it is when you 
 run up to a stormtrooper, swing and miss, yet he runs into your lightsaber and you hear this noise, 
 he's turning red in some places, but he's perfectly unharmed even when your lightsaber is through 
 the guy. In Outcast, there was a cheat you can put it for it to be realistic, so when you had your 
 saber out and ran into some guy, he'll die, which is what it should be, it's a lightsaber after 
 all. However I couldn't get that cheat to work for Academy. You have to swing to kill, and often 
 you can't predict what kind of swing it will be. I've experienced countless times when I'll execute 
 a move, like a slice, but I'll go into this long and dramatic cut that exposes me to enemy fire. 
 As for the lightsaber duels, it's brings back memories of when I was younger. Remember going to 
 the arcade and seeing someone bang the buttons as fast and hard as they can playing on some Street 
 Fighter machine? Yeah, duels can be like that. In the heat of battle, it's very fast and you hope 
 all the attacks you're doing hits the enemy, since you can't exactly pick what to do for every 
 swing. Messy. Perhaps one day there'll be one of those Duck Hunt things for Star Wars games, in 
 the form of a lightsaber hilt to fight better. 
  
  Bottom line, the worst of the worst aspects of this game is that the lightsaber action is not only 
 disappointing but frustrating and flawed. Lightsaber action was what I expected to be the forte 
 of Academy, but I find it very lacking.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PROS:
  
  Certain things are always in good favor, such as the music and the ability to go to various planets. 
 I liked how you can pick your own missions and force skills. You can pilot more things than just 
 the AT-ST, with cheats you can ride many other things. To make lightsaber combat easier to understand 
 rather than just hit fire all the time, hit TAB and you'll have a menu teaching you how to execute 
 certain moves, from lightsaber movements to acrobatics. Liked what you saw Darth Maul do in Episode 
 I? Well here you can do what he did with the fancy movements. It's kind of like console gaming, 
 especially fighting games when you have to memorize combos and execute them in the right way. Master 
 them and you'll have a variety of fancy moves to execute, but keep in mind that this is mostly 
 for visual purposes only. Most of the time, you'll probably just pick a devastating combo and keep 
 doing it until the enemy dies. The ability to wield dual sabers and a double bladed lightsaber 
 is very nice. There's a surprise at the end when you can pick which way you want to go, whether 
 remain good or turn evil. I won't spoil anything, but this made the game much better with multiple 
 endings. Turning to the dark side and fighting reminds me of the latter half of Episode III. If 
 only they made a game where you played as a Sith apprentice... I haven't checked out the multiplayer 
 yet, but I did give it a go with bots. It feels great, you can control the bots in terms of skill, 
 what they can use, what force level you are at, and many more. This makes for some great lightsaber 
 battles and or gun fights, will further the life of the game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  NEUTRAL:
  
  I'm not sure if the lack of Jedi training is a good thing. Having the name of Jedi Academy, you'd 
 expect to learn the ways of the Jedi in depth, but in reality the learning phase is even shorter 
 than what Kyle went through in Outcast. You are told of training after you complete a set, but 
 never get to participate in it. The missions you receive in the beginning are not what I'd give 
 to a recruit if I was a Jedi. On the harder difficulty settings, you'll be challenged and expect 
 to reload often, since your lightsaber and force skills are feeble. In Outcast once I got the lightsaber, 
 I used guns rarely. In Academy, I depended on weapons other than the lightsaber a lot, that's how 
 weak it is until you've reached the 3rd level in force powers, and the last set of missions. When 
 I used the saber to fight, I'd end up getting more hurt then if I used a gun. I don't know if this 
 was done intentionally and forced you to use guns. After all, Jedi viewed guns as uncivilized and 
 crude, they tend to use lightsabers predominantly; all the Star Wars movies suggest so. Also, the 
 game never explains how you have your own lightsaber at the beginning of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  I liked this game alot. I found that the similiarites between JA and JK were everywhere. I like 
 the engine, and the textures and shading are simply awe-inspiring. If you have never purchased 
 a star-wars game, and this is your first experience, I think you will be hard-pressed not to buy 
 another. Overall, the game-play is astounding, and the saber battles are so realistic that you 
 feel like you are controlling a movie as opposed to a 3-D rendered character. I also want to say 
 that one of the major failings of the first JK was that you had to wait FOREVER to get the lightsaber... alas, 
 Lucas knows which side his bread is buttered on and that little problem is solved. You have a fully 
 functional saber in the very first mission. If that isn't a great thing in itself, you have to 
 take into account that in the first installment in this series, once the saber was acquired, the 
 player needed nothing else to accomplish the mission. Now, it sometimes benifits the player more 
 to use the First-person shooter aspects of this game to overcome the missions. It isn't just going 
 in with sabers blazing now, you have to focus on what needs to be done... not necessarily who needs 
 to be skewered (but don't worry there are PLENTY of people that need to be skewered in JA!) . Also 
 the way that your force powers are upgraded is 100 times better now. I like the ability to chose 
 what i want, (the dark side is so ... appealing) and actually have my decisions alter the outcome 
 of the game. 
  
  Enough of gameplay. If you haven't checked out the graphics for this game, be prepared to be blown 
 away. If i can say one word, it would have to be "lighting." The lighting in this game is purely 
 astounding... be it from the environment, your saber (s) or from your force powers, the lighting 
 is breath-taking. Slower computers may have trouble running the high-polygon count graphics, or 
 keeping up with the pace of the all out saber-wars in the game; but if you are running a moderate 
 to fast computer, you should have no problem with the graphics or any problems with slowness for 
 that matter. Personally i have had no problems with either crashing or with lag-time. Overall, 
 i would recommend this product to anybody that is even remotely interested in either the Star Wars 
 universe or FPS/Action games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  When Star Wars: Dark Forces hit our shelves way back in the 1990's, it instantly became one of 
 the most successful Star Wars games ever. Whilst I have only ever played Jedi Outcast and Academy, 
 the series as a whole is one that everyone must aim to play at some point.
  
  Jedi Academy lets you create your own character from a selection of races and costumes to begin 
 life as a Padawan in the Yavin IV academy. From the offset we know there is something evil at work 
 due to the fact that the shuttle taking you there mysteriously crashes in the forest for no apparent 
 reason. Furthermore you find out that the Imperial Remnant (whats left of the Empire) is in the 
 area. From that moment on you become the centre of a plot to rebuild the ancient Sith Empire with 
 the seemingly inevitable ressurection of 'Marka Ragnos', the most powerful Sith Lord in history.
 
  
  Gameplay: The controls of Jedi Academy is pretty much identical to those of its predicessors. One 
 slight problem though is that almost all of the force powers have no key assigned to them and you 
 have to do it yourself upon the attainment of these powers. The storyline of the game isn't nearly 
 as gripping as it could be and is boring in places due to the fact that you can only begin said 
 storyline once you have completed 4 out of 5 missions from each training tier in your progression 
 as a Jedi. After each storyline mission there is yet another tier you must complete. The multiplayer 
 aspect of the game has been significantly improved on since previous titles in the Jedi Knight 
 series. Academy introduces even more classes and playing modes such as the new siege mode in which 
 you must collect items of vital importance whilst progressing through a huge map in order to win. 
 Whilst in later years the multiplayer aspect has begun to die off due to lack of interest and updates, 
 you can find the odd server still running that will provide you with hours of fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't exactly fantastic when you consider the same year Academy came out 
 KOTOR came out also. They are almost identical to that of Outcast but nontheless, they do not detract 
 from the overall feel of the game.
  
  Sound: The game features almost all of the tracks from the original Star Wars trilogy. Lucasarts 
 has managed to link all together in such a way that it climaxes in all of the right moments and 
 really adds atmosphere and originality to the game.
  
  Overall: Jedi Academy, whilst the boring tier missions can get repetitive from time to time, the 
 storyline towards the end becomes as epic as the trilogy itself. Because of the above explanations 
 and the aforementioned point, I believe the game is worth 9.0 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  After completing Jedi Outcast in a long storyline and a good one, I decided to get Jedi Academy, 
 why not? It should be good fun if it is a bi-product of JK2. So, lets get on with the review:
 
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : Gameplay is more or less the same as JK2, just a few minor changes like 3 extra 
 weapons and a few more lightsaber styles. Seeing as how on the campaign, you start of with a lightsaber, 
 you'll probably use it for the remainder of the short game. Multiplayer has been toned up nicely, 
 except admins of servers get stupid powers that if you don't obey their rules they will use on 
 you, which is downright annoying and lame.
  
  Graphics (7/10) : Nah, graphics aren't that good. You'll find that only cinematics have 3d characters, 
 but the rest of the time, it's just wavy and no time has been taken to make the Jedi Clothing seem 
 sleeker. Background visuals are horrendous, with an invisible wall where trees should be. Physics 
 are really bad, as on multiplayer, falling through walls is a frequent sight.
  
  Sound: (8/10) : Sound is bog-standard. Lightsaber sounds are in no way like the films and E-11 blaster 
 rifles sound like pop-guns. The background music is looped over and over again, where there is 
 no suspense in the music. No scary music, no action music. Very basic.
  
  Value: (7/10) : Listen Jedi Outcast players, you're not missing anything! Truthfully, it just looks 
 like JK2 with a few new weapons and fancy, yet impractical lightsaber moves.
  
  Tilt (8/10) : Nope, not much tilt happening in the game, the storyline is uninteresting and doesn't 
 make you want to see what happens next. We are always going to know that the Jedi are winning. 
 The only reason tilt got an 8 is because near the end of the game you can switch types of lighsaber 
 (single, dual and double bladed) , but I notice it is at the end of the game!
  
  So there was my review. Honestly, the game is quite good, but no where near addictive, and missions 
 make it seem like a chore. Stick with JK2, Star Wars lovers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_boy_del
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  What can I say,
  A great game a big fan of this game
  love how there are so many force powers and the choice to be good or evil
  great part of the 
 story! loved it!
  i liked the custimasation options it had like choosing ur face ur speices, lightsaber ect... 
 
  its allways kool to deflect blaster bullits right bak at ur enemys!
  but you also control an arsanal of wepeons tip: its not good to blow yourself up with a rocket launcher! 
 trust me! u may be laughing but......
  usally i give longer reviews but i can't be bothered, but hey if ur a fan of star wars games than 
 buy this one
  
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkPanthersown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Before I played this game, I thought it was just a rubbish game because my friend said it had five 
 short levels, THAT'S IT! When I decided to buy it for myself I realized after you beat those missions, 
 there were two more sets of missions including missions you do after you complete those missions. 
 Too complicated to understand that? Well the point is, you should buy this game.
  
  When you first start a new game, you choose your character from a variety of species, choose the 
 lightsaber color, and even the hilt for it. You can only get the single lightsaber for now, but 
 later you'll either get duel or double sided =) .
  
  You first play as a jedi student, training in Luke Skywalker's academy. Your teacher (master) is 
 Kyle Katarn (you probably know him from the previous games, Jedi Outcast, Dark Forces I and II) .
 
  
  At the beginning of most of your missions, you have the ability to choose to upgrade force powers, 
 such as lightning, force choke, protect, heal, and jedi mind trick. Throughout the game, you can 
 choose either dark or light force powers to upgrade throughout the game.
  
  On your missions you will fight classic enemies such as stormtroopers, dark troopers, imperial 
 commanders, sith, and even Boba Fett.
  
  Gameplay: Best part about the game, good lightsaber controls, good selection of weapons. A decent 
 number of levels to play from. It is a pretty fast paced game; you will not get bored! Near the 
 end of the game, you choose whether or not to become a good jedi, or turn to the dark side.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good in this game, even if it is a couple years old, and top 
 the previous game in the series, Jedi Outcast. Lightsabers interact with the environment (when 
 there's sand with a green lightsaber, the lightsaber turns somewhat yellow) , and have a realistic 
 glow. When the characters talk however, their mouth doesn't really move.
  
  Sound: All music in Star Wars is of the best (thank you John Williams) . When fighting, the sound 
 of the lightsabers hitting each other is realistic and awesome. The voice acting is top notch too.
 
  
  Value: With all these features, it is definitely worth buying it, even at a high price with all 
 of its replay value. You can get this game though, for only 10 bucks. If it is too easy, put the 
 difficulty to Jedi Master. Too boring? You can download skins such as Yoda or Darth Maul and much, 
 much more at jk3files. com.
  
  In conclusion, you'll definitely want to get this game if you are a star wars fan, and you should 
 give it a try if you aren't.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterKevosavi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  I picked this one up a while ago, and now I'm doing a review.
  
  The game is one of the best Stars Wars games I have played. You can pick your lightsaber style 
 and all that jazz. At the beginning of each mission, you get to pick a new force power, or increase 
 the abilities of one you already have.
  
  The graphics, sound, and gameplay are all great. Fighting with a lightsaber feels good and responsive. 
 I liked it how your lightsaber would leave marks on the walls after hitting the walls with it.
 
  
  Multiplayer is ok, and undergoes a few changes from singleplayer. When you use force speed in single 
 player, the world slows down. In multiplayer, you speed up. It makes it hard sometimes to know 
 exactly what you are doing when you are going 4 times faster than normal. Also, multiplay get repetitive 
 pretty fast, single player experience is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Other than the new story and customization options, Academy features a few tweaks to the old Outcast 
 engine. You can now ride certain animals and vehicles like a tauntaun or a speeder bike, but these 
 never quite control well enough to be much fun. Other things like improved character animation 
 and area lighting are less noticeable, but they help make the game look a touch better than its 
 older brother. 
  
  Academy gives you a lot more control over how you play than Outcast did, even letting you choose 
 the order in which you play missions, but the levels themselves are more straightforward and less 
 puzzle-ridden than Outcast's jump-happy maps. Some levels are creative and fun, while others are 
 just straight-line, kill-everyone missions. Even the "diplomatic" missions usually end up with 
 you just killing 50, maybe 60 people. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Jedi academy is based around the games title, the new jedi academy, led by master skywalker (luke) , 
 shortely after the destruction of the death star. 
  What makes this game so great is that you can create your own jedi, your lightsabre (choosing from 
 handles and colours) , style of lightsabre and your equipped force powers. All these minor details 
 will eventually lead to the ultimate choice, Jedi or Sith? which do you choose? It's all down to 
 you.
  
  However where this game really shines is its multiplayer. Picture this:
  30 Jedi armed to the teeth with explosives, force powers and lightsabres hacking seven bells from 
 each other in the space of... about... two minutes.
  Then everyone respawns and starts again. Genius, pure genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the most fun game i have ever played since jedi outcast. The sigle player levels 
 are awesomly fun but i would say for their time , that they are not quite as fun as the outcast 
 single player levels. They are much shorter though which is a good thing.
  The single player is fairly long and has far more replay value than outcast for you can change 
 your character each time and do different levels than you did last time. 
  The mutiplayer is this game is even better. There are looooooooadz of game modes with easy to find 
 and use servers. If you ever get bored of this game then you can download litrally hundreds of 
 thousend of skins, mods, game modes, levels etc... this game has everything, even its own spin 
 on water polo! 
  The graphics are sweet for the time, the gameplay its unmatched, sound is great, good dialog and 
 brillinat music and lightsaber noise. The value is unlimited. This game is just screaming to be 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarolPL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Gierka jest naprawde spoczko. specjalnie dla gry w sieci zakupiem to malestwo ale gdzie 
 nie wejde to mnie albo usypiaj albo wywalaj 
  BOICIE SIE?? zabawmy si czasem tak jak na Jedi i Sith'w przystao :D
  Bardzo polecam 
 gierke poprzednia cze jest zajefajna ale niebde si sprzecza ktra 
 lepsza. Academy ma lepsz grafe ale Outcast ma chyba ciekawsz fabue. przez prawie 
 dwa lata razem z kumplami na lekcjach informatyki jechalismy na ostro w multi 
  
  Sorka ale troszke dziwna ta stronka bo wymaga 100 sw na temat gry gada mozna godzinami 
 ale pisa mi sie niechce 
  
  jak kto jest ciekawy czy ta gierka jest czego warta polecam demo albo odrazu kupi 
 orgina jest tania ogulno dostpna i warta swojej ceny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_liquid_1985
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is super
  
  singelplayer mode is hot
  
  multi-player is even better to many form of fighting with llightsaber/ force powers
  
  trust 
 me this game will keep you on the point off your chair when playing multiplayer
  
  singel player exciting and fairly good to play out on the harder levels once you mastert all the 
 moves, then go and join a clan on the internet to learn moves not mentiont in the manual or in 
 game to become the treu master of the force be the one who will bring balance to the force
  
  and you can download millions of skins and mods to keep this for a life time
  
  im a like 
 a junky i need this game to never leave me
  
  Guido 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  You play as Jaden (the protagonist in Jedi Academy) . You're teacher Kyle Katarn has joined Luke 
 Skywalker as a teacher at the Jedi Academy and is from now on your master. 
  In Jedi Academy you can customize Jaden's character. You can be male or female, choose from one 
 of several different races, alien or human, wear different outfits. 
  
  You can see the improvements right from the start of the game. In Jedi Knight II Jedi Outcast you 
 could get your hands on a lighsaber only after a few levels and in Jedi Academy you get one right 
 from the start. Apparently, you've built your own lightsaber, which is abnormal because lightsabers 
 are usually built during training. 
  
  The use of force powers is available early in the game. You take on several missions (easy ones 
 at the start and harder ones toward the middle and the end) . There are three levels witch 5 missions 
 each. 
  
  The graphics are good but the environments could have used more detail. The lightsabers are very 
 colorful......... yes lightsabers because you can wield two individual lightsabers called dual sabers 
 or a saber staff like the one Darth Maul used in the movie.
  Jedi Academy sounds great so there's nothing more to say about that.
  Gameplay elements that 
 can be tedious, such as jumping puzzles, are limited, while the use of Force powers is accentuated. 
 
  
  Jedi Academy also changes how you progress your Force abilities. There are eight Force powers to 
 choose from: the light side abilities are absorb, protection, heal, and Jedi mind trick and the 
 dark side powers are life steal, lightning, grab, and Force rage. Each power has three levels of 
 improvement. Each time you finish a mission you receive a point, and you can distribute it in any 
 of these eight powers. 
  
  Also I forgot to mention that in some point in the game you can choose to go either to the dark 
 side of the force or the light side.
  Jedi Academy is a nonstop action ride that starts out on a high point and manages to remain there 
 for the entire game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  In early 2002, Lucasarts and developer Raven Software introduced Star Wars Jedi Knight 2: Jedi 
 Outcast, which was itself a sequel to the original 1997 hit, Star Wars Dark Forces 2: Jedi Knight, 
 which was a sequel to Dark Forces released waaaay back in 1994.
  
  Wow, thats a lot of sequels!
  
  Outcast was hailed for its real-time light saber battles as 
 well as its distinct and noteworthy storyline involving the exploits of notorious bounty hunter 
 Kyle Katarn, who has been the central character in both the Dark Forces and Jedi Knight games.
 
  
  Outcast stood out as one of the best games in 2002 and topped many best of lists for that year. 
 Now, Raven and Lucasarts are back to present the next chapter to this groundbreaking series of 
 games, Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy.
  
  Jedi Academy takes place a few years after Outcast. Diverging from past games in the series, Academy 
 revolves around a young Padawan learner named Jaden who is setting off to attend Luke Skywalkers 
 elite Jedi Academy, the setting for many events that took place in Outcast. It is here that promising 
 young force-users can come, learn the ways of the force, and eventually become Jedi Knights.
  
  The plot thickens when Jadens transport is attacked while on its way to the Academy, by a 
 group of dark Jedi that follow an insidious order called The Cult of Ragnos. This attack turns 
 out to be a diversion to distract Skywalker, so that agents of the Order may obtain Lukes diary, 
 wherein untold secrets of the Force can be found and put to use by the Dark Side.
  
  It then becomes the task of Jaden, his fellow Padawan Rosh, and their master Kyle Katarn, to investigate 
 this sinister new Dark Side threat and put a stop to its plans, whatever they may be.
  
  Jedi Academy features some notable improvements over the last game, Jedi Outcast. One of the most 
 prominent of these improvements is being able to fully customize your character. The game offers 
 5 different species to choose from, with certain species possessing both male and female personas.
 
  
  Players can customize the clothing of their character, selecting from different colors and designs. 
 Even faces can be customized, as can your trusty light saber. You will have the option to carry 
 a single saber, dual sabers, or a double-bladed saber. You can also select from an assortment of 
 hilt styles and blade colors.
  
  Jedi Academys mission structure features some customizability as well. The games roughly 25 missions 
 are presented in blocks of 5 at a time and are accessed via a selection menu. This menu allows 
 you to choose the order of the missions you embark upon. So if mission 3 looks better than mission 
 2, Academy allows you to pick mission 3 first and leave 2 for later.
  
  This sounds like it would make for a divergent game play structure. Yet the truth of the matter 
 is that most of these missions are designed to be flexible as far as the storyline goes. You can 
 approach them in any order and never have to risk disrupting the story.
  
  Missions based heavily on plot are usually assigned to you outside of the mission selection menu, 
 meaning that the game, while possessing a certain degree of flexibility in the order of its various 
 missions, is still relatively linear.
  
  Most of the time, you will really only need to complete 4 out of the 5 available missions at a 
 time. After the 4th, Kyle or Luke will usually inform you of urgent business back at the Academy, 
 giving you the option of choosing to complete the last mission or simply abandoning it to attend 
 the recurrent meetings that take place back at the Academy.
  
  This unusual level structure is a novel approach, but ultimately seems more gimmicky than useful. 
 It is obvious that the games designers intended for the game to possess a fair amount of flexibility 
 in its basic structure. To their credit, they have succeeded in doing that, if only in a limited 
 way.
  
  Gameplay in Jedi Academy takes place much like its predecessor, Jedi Outcast. Light saber battles 
 abound in this game, so expect to make good use out of that most trustworthy of side arms. Fans 
 of the Jedi Knight series will be pleased that one of the major issues many gamers had with Outcast, 
 namely the rather ho-hum start to the game, does not carry over to Academy.
  
  You may remember that in Outcast, Kyle was essentially without the Force or a light saber throughout 
 the first few levels of that game. Added to that tedium were nerve-wracking jumping puzzles and 
 an overwhelming number of storm trooper armies. This made for a rather poor start for Outcast, 
 which was saved only by the excellent missions that came later.
  
  Academy, however, does not suffer from such dreariness. From the end of the first cut scene to 
 the fall of the last boss, you will be swinging that saber and summoning the Force on everything 
 from the lowliest of storm troopers to seemingly unstoppable Dark Jedi.
  
  You will do all this battling in a wide variety of locales like snow covered wastelands, high in 
 the air above vast cityscapes, or inside the bowels of dank and seemingly endless tombs. The non-stop 
 action makes for a delightfully entertaining game that maintains its fun level from start to finish.
 
  
  To supplement this action-packed adventure, there are all new weapons and Force powers to go along 
 with the standard assortment from Outcast. Some of the new Light side powers are absorb and protect, 
 which serve to shield Jaden from injury by energy weapons and Force powers.
  
  On the Dark side, life steal and Force rage will draw life out of enemies or send Jaden into 
 a nearly unstoppable charge at the expense of some life energy.
  
  These Force powers are upgraded via a new selection menu offered at the start of each mission. 
 At the center of this menu are eight main Force abilities: push, pull, sense, jump, speed, saber 
 offense, saber defense, and saber throw.
  
  These core abilities progress naturally from their most basic levels to mastery as the game progresses, 
 and are not open for players to upgrade. Yet, the remaining 8 Force powers, 4 on the dark and light 
 sides, respectively, can be upgraded according to player preference as the game progresses.
  
  At the start of each mission, you will be given a single skill point for use in upgrading your 
 characters Force abilities in any of the 8 accessible Force powers. However, since your available 
 skill points are limited, players must chose whether to spread their skill points across all the 
 available Force powers, or dedicate them to a select few, thereby achieving mastery in those powers 
 they use with more frequency.
  
  Jedi Academy does look a bit dated in the graphics department. It uses the old Quake 3 engine, 
 the same engine used by Outcast. The two games are virtually identical in most respects as far 
 as graphics go, which may be a bit of a disappointment for some.
  
  Back in early 2002 when Outcast debuted, these graphics were quite good. However, nearly 2 years 
 later, after all the advances in graphics that have and are about to take place, Academys aged 
 graphics engine may not cut it for some.
  
  Yet, to developer Ravens credit, they have managed to craft some fairly intricate and surprisingly 
 pleasing environments with the limited resources available to them. You will find a wealth of fascinating 
 environments to explore and gaze upon, as well as some very cool effects carried over from Outcast.
 
  
  It is quite satisfying to experience this assortment of different effects and environments. Elements 
 like the soft glow of a light saber reflected off a polished floor, the grandeur inherent in the 
 ruined innards of an ancient Sith temple, or the endless stretches of a vast and ancient compound 
 stretching off into the distance are quite appropriate to the genre and look surprisingly good.
 
  
  The Q3 engine may not be the best or most up-to-date graphics platform out there, but in the hands 
 of skilled designers, it can still impress. The Q3 engine also makes for a less system-intensive 
 game, meaning those with older systems can enjoy Jedi Academy in higher detail settings with little 
 reduction in frame rate.
  
  Sound and music is one of those things in any Star Wars game that you just have to accept as fact 
 and move on from. We all know that there will be Star Wars music played over everything. That is 
 just a given in most SW games. There is also the predictable ping sound of blaster fire, the buzzing 
 sound of an activated light saber, as well as the tirade of crashes, pops, and sizzles one would 
 expect to hear from any light saber battle.
  
  Like in Outcast, your enemies will occasionally taunt you with endlessly repeating phrases like 
 Youre weak. and My master has taught me well. This can be quite annoying when having to listen 
 to it repeated dozens of times by your enemies!
  
  Actually most of the voice over work, apart from the voiceovers for Luke and Kyle, is annoying. 
 Your character sounds like either a surfer or a valley girl, depending on which sex you chose. 
 This is especially silly should you choose the masked, alien-looking being to be your character 
 for the game. Somehow, a very alien looking guy with every orifice on his face covered by complicated-looking 
 equipment just does not seem to mesh well with a surfer dude voice.
  
  The multi-player portion of Jedi Academy is much like that of Outcast, with a few important enhancements 
 added in. The basic death match and capture-the-flag modes are similar to Outcast, utilizing a 
 mix of normal weaponry and light saber combat against other Force users.
  
  A noticeable change in the DM and CTF modes over Outcast, however, is a new emphasis on dueling 
 and less on Force power tricks. You can still hurl your enemies off precipitous chasms for quick 
 kill in a DM game. Just dont expect to be rewarded for it.
  
  Two new modes, power dual and siege mode, offer something new to the mix. The first new mode, power 
 dual, involves a two-on-one battle between Jedi across varying arenas. The second, called siege 
 mode, involves class-based game play with objectives, such as completing a set number of tasks 
 in order to capture an Imperial base.
  
  This mode involves both Force users and non-Force user classes, where certain non-Force users do 
 demolition or heal injured players, and Force users attack enemies and provide cover for other 
 players.
  
  Jedi Academy is a quality game, made good by its obvious and welcome emphasis on action and the 
 rare ability to maintain its excitement level from start to finish. While some may be put off by 
 its dated graphics or lackluster sound aspects, Jedi Academy can more than make up for these supposed 
 faults with an addictive multi-player portion, a highly enjoyable single-player game, and a great 
 story that throws in some welcome twists and surprises here and there.
  
  As a whole, Jedi Academy is yet another fine addition to an already acclaimed series of games bearing 
 the name... Jedi Knight.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Omg this game's awesome despite its graphics.... Storyline maybe linear but immersive in the Star 
 Wars universe.... Become a sith or a jedi that is the question... Sith is faster but jedi is wisier.... 
 Choices are critical and at the end you will see if you are a real jedi or a true sith... The mix 
 of an Rpg and first/third person shooter makes the game fun and even funnier with powers. Multiplayer 
 created clans and community ( which I like) but poor gameplay and critical bugs makes my review 
 go down a bit.... The jedi has never been so laggy..... The sound though is magnificent... ALL 
 in 6 languages... The music rocks and the ambiance make you fell like a Jedi
  
  But now with its low price you can afford it don't ya? And please play it.... The game's not dead..... 
 yet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNT_Stuff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than Battlefront 2, and is much cheaper! I got this game on amazon. com 
 for $9.99! Mostly I go into the multi-player mode, and select solo and choose a map and all the 
 enemies, and play that, because for some reason, nobody goes to multiplayer on this game anymore, 
 its just an empty list... It is fun using a light saber and scaring people (yes, when you hit someone, 
 you see cuts) and getting a heavy weapon, and blowing everything up. Also throwing down mines, 
 and going really high and watching someone walk over it..... *BOOM* .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  The return of the Jedi Knight series through Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast was a supreme 
 success so I was always going to look forward to a new game and Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy 
 almost matches up to its prequel. You are a new Jedi in this game named Jaden (your character is 
 custom made in this game to add, so it is male or female) who has been recruited by Luke Skywalker's 
 Yavin Jedi Academy. After some event Kyle Katarn is your new Master and you are off to fight the 
 Dark Jedi sect from the previous game. Nothing has really changed from the last game except you 
 carry less weapons but that is in a way not too bad, although weapons are really insignificant 
 as your lightsaber is your first and best weapon. The gameplay, graphics, sound are exactly as 
 they were in the last game so there is no real improvement. The return of the good/evil endings 
 are back! This give you a good reason to replay at least one more time. This is a good addition 
 to the Jedi Knight series but it is too short and strays away from the story way too much, I cannot 
 help thinking that this should have been an add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  I think I've passed the game about 10 or so times. I don't know if that's because I am a great 
 fan of Star Wars or the game is simply great. I don't recall any bug in the game, except in multiplayer 
 mode which to my disgrace does not work for me. The game is very easy and the graphics are pretty 
 bad and old, but the sound (excluding the voices) are vey good. I love the gameplay and just go 
 through the levels slashing and killing stormtroopers and else. The character and saber customization 
 is a unique characteristic of the game, but it is contrasted withe the poor graphics and the short 
 selection of weaponry. To finish I'd like to say that the game is very short and the story follows 
 a straight line, only giving you a couple of alternative missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight II was a great game, the fight's between jedi and dark jedi (or sith) was truely a attractive 
 part of the game.
  So what does JK3 offer then?
  Well the first thing you notice, is how alike if not identical to JKII this is, which for how much 
 time has past between the game's, isn't a great feature.
  Okay, but then again we all know graphics don't make a game, only add to the re-creation of thing's.
 
  Gameplay wise then we look at JK3, hmm also very simlair to JK2, it's almost uncanny.
  But i hear alot of ppl saying it's not much diffrent to JK2, only with some extra's here and there, 
 well yes this is true, but why goto a new system, when the previous one work's just aswell.
  If your reading the above, and thinking noooooo it can't be true, well don't dispair.
  Yes JK3 
 is much like JK2, but there's also alot of fun to be had with it.
  We see the introduction of double bladed saber's, and also duel saber's, which has to be said, 
 we love them!!!!
  Also a few new jedi power's bless us with there presence, and the old one's return to, and the 
 legendary battle's between jedi and Sith's (or dark jedi) is still excellent.
  Hmm so we have established the single player mode of JK3, and most of us would agree it's alot 
 like JK2, with some extra's in it, but at the end of it all, it still play's great, and is great.
 
  Then unfortunatley, i come to the multi-player side of JK3.
  I really cannot understand the problem of having the same fighting phisics from the single-player 
 mode , implicated into the multi-player mode.
  I was hoping (along with you other JK fan's) to see the multi-player mode improved , and to have 
 some epic 1on1 jedi fight's online, but yet i was dissapointed, as it still play's the same, as 
 the original JK2 multi-player mode.
  Back to the single-player mode, now you can turn to the darkside, which is a nice twist.
  
 
  So good point's:
  Double bladed saber's,
  Duel saber's,
  Not have to play as Kyle Katarn,
  Some great fighting , in single-player mode
  
  Bad point's:
 
  Multi -player fight's, don't shine like they should,
  Felt there should of been slightly more,
  
  Something i would like to see in the next JK, is 
 the chance to hook up with a friend, and maybe play through level's together, or some bad ass multi-player 
 fight's.
  If you like JK2, then you will like JK3, if you have never played the Jk game's before, then you 
 will definetly enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  Maybe you noticed that my reviews are VERY short... that's just because I just don't know what 
 to say... about a great game like Jedi Academy! This game is probably one of the best Star Wars 
 games yet!
  
  The Good:
  
  - Great gameplay.
  - The most levels are intese and funny to play.
  - Combat is just plain fun.
  - Fighting with 
 a lightsaber is the greatest thing in the game.
  - Lots of replay value.
  - Force Powers. Love it.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Some bugs.
  - Some levels is a bit difficult 
 to complete. Loose ends...
  - Graphiv flaws.
  
  - Gameplay: Great gameplay. But not better than Jedi Outcast.
  
  - Graphics: It's a shame that 
 the graphics are like they are. But anyway it doesn't matter.
  
  - Sound: Cool sound effects. Background music is that cool...
  
  - Value: Lots of replay value. 
 I've already finished the game a couple of times.
  
  Jedi Academy is not a disappointment at all. I really love the game. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazeegamerboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  A pretty decent game. Not perfect by any means, but over all fairly good. I wish there were more 
 guns (a higher powered sniper rifle, maybe a mod for jango fett's twin pistols?) and the lightsaber 
 combat could use a little work ( I agree that it should be more than the occasional kick or flashy 
 move, most of it being slashing and chopping) . But they have mods for the lightsaber combat, and 
 if you're really ambitious you could try to make new weapons and import them into the game (much 
 easier said than done, if it's even possible) . Still these are minor complaints and there really 
 isn't anything wrong with the game itself.
  The gameplay is interesting enough that if you just bought it for the single player you'd get enough 
 enjoyment out of it to replay it several times. Most of the levels are well designed and well thought 
 out. There some spots that were confusing (like how to get to the boss on the last level- took 
 me like 15 minutes to find that one passage under the rock) but other than that it was fairly easy. 
 I like that you're able to choose your powers and their respective levels. I also like that you're 
 able to customize which keys you use.
  Overall, it's a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vornargithjack
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I should have played it when it first came out. Lucasarts has neverreally been know for breakthrough 
 games, but this one doesn't feed off the movies. I enjoyed it thoroughly as did my kid. It's too 
 bad the new movies can't be as entertaining.
  
  Some clipping occurs and AI is typical of the era, but gameplay was emersive and puzzles (although 
 similar to all 1st person action games) were creative in approach. Jedi dualing reamained up to 
 par with the previous release.
  
  With all the gun and guts shooters out there, it's nice to play something that isn't necessarily 
 a deathmatch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimblimp
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  After about a year or so, and writing an extremely harsh review for this game, I've decided to 
 come back and re-evaluate it. The first thing that pulls me out of the game almost immediately 
 is the story line, which, quite frankly, fills me with the urge to defecate. It's definitely no 
 Dark Forces II in that respect. I will give this game points based purely on the high potential 
 for fun when just screwing around with cheat codes. Beyond that, however, there's still multiplayer, 
 which turns out to be somewhat of a disappointment. If you ever feel the need to use it be sure 
 to download a bunch of good maps, as the ones included in the game just don't provide much in the 
 way of a rewarding multiplayer experience, at least not in my eyes. But yes, nearly the only true 
 value this game has is in the cheats, and even that gets old rather fast, despite the variety. 
 I wouldn't necessarily recommend it but if you enjoyed any of the earlier games in the series, 
 chances are it wouldn't hurt to check this one out as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenrush
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a game where you play as a young jedi in training. Throughout 
 the game, you will face a variety of unique challanges that include slowing down a speeding tram, 
 a planet that rains acid, and many others. You can create a jedi and customize his or her force 
 powers. You can use powers from both the light side (Heal, Mind trick) and the dark side. (Grip, 
 lightning.) the multiplayer is where the game really shines. There are numerous modes of play such 
 as capture the flag and saber duel. The multiplayer dosen't do anything innovative, but it is just 
 do much fun to play. If you are a Star Wars fan, I highly recomend you give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  gameplay is obviously a 10 as everything else. you slash enemies with lightsabers or cap them with 
 rifles. heres a definate recommendation: once you complete story level jump to a large level using 
 cheats from cheat planet. com (best cheat site) and then spawn enemies. spawn empiric storm troopers 
 on one side, and spawn a jedi on the other, set saberrealisticcombat 3 and watch the body parts 
 fly. its not bloody, but its funny watching a jedi massacre other people. spawn darth vader and 
 yoda and watch ultimate battles. even better download player skins and you can play as darth vader 
 and the storm troopers will actually fight with you! play even as yoda, a predator from the classic 
 movies, even rambo. buy this game for the cheats. screw the story. oh yah you can also spawn a 
 dark yoda with red eyes, hes hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight: Jedy Academy is the best game of jedi fight that exist today. May be it's not perfect 
 but the game is really great. The graphics are good; it doesn't have amazing graphics or great 
 views, but the texture level and the definition of the enviroment and characters are enough to 
 feel like if you were really in one jedi's knight adventure.
  
  The gameplay is good, you can fight with the classic laser sword or use other weapons as a laser 
 riffle like in a very good FPS, but it's obviously more fun to kill your enemies with your laser 
 sword or with some power force. The campaign is located after chapter 6, you are a student in the 
 jedi academy, where your master is Kail Katam, a padawan of Lucke Skywalker, and in the beginning 
 your jedi powers are very limited, but as the same time as you finish the missions you will increase 
 your powers and learn some new powers. About this you need to be careful to select the best powers 
 to become in a powerful jedi.
  
  It is true that in the beginning is so difficult to control the laser sword, but this is part of 
 the game, cause when you have a higher level it will be easier to control the sword and to do combos. 
 The music and FX are not enough to this game, there aren't bad, but i think that they must to be 
 much better, according with the game. The multiplayer option is good, but when you play a few hours 
 you will be bored. I thing that it would be better if you choose between the dark side and the 
 white side in the beginning of the game and not almost in the end.
  
  Finally, with all the games of jedi knights that exist today, y thing that this is the best one, 
 and a great one, but Lucas Art's still have a lot of work to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  Great game! I liked how the whole game progresses through. I also liked the option to turn to the 
 dark side or stay on the light. I felt that their was one thing missing though. That is not being 
 able to pick up objects and cast them at your enemies. You can only throw your saber at them. When 
 I finshed the game being on the dark side. It left me at a cliff hanger and needs to be told further 
 in a sequal. I would title the sequal Jedi Knight: Jaden's Empire. I hope Lucas Arts does a sequal 
 to this game. Anyways great game and cheap in price. I would recomend that if you like Jedis and 
 Star Wars you need to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindaugasx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  You may rerally call it a revolution in star wars! Star wars II jedi outcast is a great great game 
 with good story graphics and action, but this game has much more variations: because you may choose 
 witch mission to do first, pick a saber witch you want like the ordenary one-hand saber or dual 
 sabers and ap powerfulll lightsaber staff! Unlike in jedi outcast where your powers are raising 
 every stage outomaticly and always in the same way, here you decide what power to choose before 
 every mission. At the end of the game you must decide what side to choose: the dark (try defeating 
 all-the jedies and dark force users cultists) or the light and defeat the bad guys with your friends 
 from the academy. Your apperance is also sifferent. At the begining of the game you may customase 
 your closes and raise.
  The power are the same like in jedi outcast plus one of my favourite drain, dark rage, protect, 
 absorb and seeing (they are in the jedi knight II multiplayer) . This choosing the powers wich you 
 want force you to play this game again and again so you could try all the powers and game variations.
 
  
  So if you liked the jedi outcast, I strongly recomend you to try this game. or at least demo with 
 cheats!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  Good things: 1. great graphics 2. Not the boring same play again and again with the same player, 
 siber and powers 3. Interesting story
  4. Many secret areas and weapons 5. Music is great.
  
  Bad things: 1. You find some stupis bugs like in the jedi outcast
  2. Needs about 1Gb free 
 space 3. Multiplayer is pretty stupid with bots 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacardin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Why, oh why did this game rank below Jedi Outcast on so many sites.
  
  Perhaps the reviewers looked primarily at the single player experience. Yeah, the choose your own 
 adventure style really kinda does take away from the storyline, and not having a Star Wars character 
 as the main character probably hurt things too, but look at the improvements!
  
  First of all, without even discussing the staff or dual-saber options, the single saber (still 
 my favorite) has evolved. The blue style still sucks in duels, but yellow is much faster now, and 
 actually usable in a master duel now. Red is even slightly faster, though I'm not so sure this 
 was a good thing. Now red is powerful, and fast enough that people will use it more in duels. It's 
 also easier to control and activate the special moves. All the moves are easier to use.
  
  This is a huge interface improvement. Now, the staff and dual-saber options bring their own cool 
 new moves to the mix. The dual sabers are primarily defensive, can block most anything except red 
 single, and can activate a saber shield by using the force. With the staff, you get kicks and butterfly 
 attacks. This adds unprecedented strategy to the multiplayer.
  
  The visuals are a step up, with a lot more colorful backdrops and the sounds remain the same. Overall, 
 the designers wanted to focus on improving the sabering experience in this game, and that's exactly 
 what they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This is lucas arts sequal to jedi outcast. they fixed up a lot of stuff. First of they got rid 
 of the switch puzzels. They even make fun of it when you get a certan level and wait for Kyle Katarn 
 to say this "the elevators locked down and there is most likly a switch 9 floors up. Now that wouldn't 
 be right would it?" The gameplay is nothing new. You do get to use a daulbladed saber or daul sabers. 
 This adds a lot of cool new moves but they all look just about the same. You can also create a 
 charater. This is nice and there are multipble types from aliens to humans. The fainal new thing 
 to the gameplay is that you can upgrade force powers. You get to upgrade force heal, force lightning, 
 force choke, drain life, dark rage, force protection, mind trick, and force absortion. Near the 
 end you can chose ligth side or dark side, the endings are nealy the same. The graphics are pretty 
 bad. They characters look like they are shaking and the pixuls are very noticable. The sound is 
 not great. The music is sounds kinda like star wars and the voice acting, well lets just say it 
 all sounds the same. You don't get alot of value from this game. It can be beaten in 1 afternoon. 
 There is online but it isn't that great.
  
  8.2
  Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarjarguy5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good game, mainly because of the advanced lightsaber controls as well as the 
 moves incorporated with them. The moves give a unique feel and makes you feel as if you're actually 
 a jedi in the Star Wars universe learning the ways of the force. The three ligthsaber styles are 
 also very good. The graphics are also very nice, as Raven studios did a great job on animation 
 for this game and effects. The sound is alos good, but the lightsaber sounds could be a bit deeper 
 and sound more "menacing". All in all, I give this game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabretou
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is one of the finest Star Wars games ever made. Though not as in-depth 
 as Knights of the Old Republic or as immersive as Republic Commando, it is definitely a fun game. 
 Jedi Academy is excellent as far as gameplay goes. The player gets to perform console-style intricate 
 moves and wreak havoc on the unsuspecting and rather stupid AI. There is a vast difference in the 
 AI of the game. The stormtroopers and other insignificant enemies are weak and no hardly any tactics 
 (despite their excellent training) . The Dark Jedi, on the other hand are smart, though if you know 
 some tricks, taking them out is almost as easy as the stormtroopers.
  
  The game, for once lets you play as a raw recruit in the Jedi Academy. You, Jaden, have to go through 
 a variety of missions which add spice to the gameplay. In one mission you'll be battling a Wampa, 
 while in another, you'll be racing a Swoop bike at blazing speeds. The game also takes you to a 
 slew of locales seen in the Star Wars movies, such as the Mos Eisley cantina, the Wampa cave where 
 Luke was captured, and several other places such as Coruscant, Corellia, Chandrila and more.
  
  However, the game is too similar to Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast. The only changes are the new 
 lightsaber/character creation, the siege gametype for multiplayer, the vehicles and some minor 
 tidbits. It takes out the ability to play with a lightsaber in first person, too. It could have 
 been made much better, actually. The cutscene animation is horrific and polygons are low exactly 
 in the wrong places. But still, graphics of JA are good overall.
  
  The singleplayer of the game is, in itself fun, but the Multiplayer goes further. Saber duels are 
 engaging, and the addictiveness just increases every second. Now, with a large range of mods, you 
 can play as your favourite Star Wars characters. The standard maps are dominant in servers and 
 are good enough anyways.
  
  Overall, Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a fun and addictive experience recommended for 
 all Star Wars and third-person/first-person fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyLeviticus
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was good but it needed to be worked on a little more. I loved controlling my characters 
 force powers and the lightsaber. The Story was a little pissy. And some of the characters for example 
 Rosh Penin was a really crappy character and he cried like a baby, he really bore me out. I would 
 only reccomend this game as a rental It's not really worth buying in my opinion. I didn't mind 
 the story line but it could've had more work on it if the devs gave it more time. In my own opinion 
 I give this game a 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is very fun. You get to customize your character, your lightsaber, 
 and you can have two lightsabers or a double-bladed. That is the main reason why this game rocks. 
 It has the same old Jedi Knight concepts, but Jedi Outcast still stands superior. The graphics 
 are getting kind of outdated. The sound comes straight from the movies, so it is accurate. The 
 gameplay is the same old excellent gameplay you would expect from the second Jedi Knight. It should 
 take you a good 15 - 20 hours to pass. But if you are looking for a good Jedi Knight, I recommmend 
 getting Jedi Outcast. If you already have Jedi Outcast, I would recommend getting this game because 
 it still is great. If you are a fan of the Jedi Knight series, I recommend getting them both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darryl_Green
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay for those of u who are about to buy or just bought this game u need to read this reveiw because 
 this game has a few flaws. Though the game failed to give players and very dissapointed fans a 
 fun single-player campaign the mutiplayer makes up for that. Though I'm not a fan of Star Wars 
 but the recent craze about the new film Episode 3 came out i was in the store one day and decided 
 what the hell I'll give this a try and I'm glad I did, this game was really addictive to play online 
 and every once in a while off. But the main drawback about this game was the graphics the thing 
 that did look well done graphically was the lightsaber hilts everything else looked like **** Lightsaber 
 combat is also incredibly fun to play especially online with other players who are most times damn 
 near impossible to kill and the fights get pretty awsome to watch and learn new tricks off others. 
 Another great thing about this game is the amount of mods, models, skins, wepons, new saber colors 
 and blades, and maps u can get including tons and tons of content based on Episode 3 like the Mustafar 
 map and other films. To get all of this kick ass stuff go to pcgamemods. com, jk3files. com, and 
 SJCleveldesign. com to get new content to add in to the Jedi Academy experience (Warning do not 
 go to any other websites to get new content for the game only go to these 3 listed) . And by the 
 way if anyone ever wants to play me online in Jedi Academy go to the Episode 3 battles server.
 
  
  P. S. To really get your map list started and improve saber combat
  download these files (Trust me you won be dissapointed by what you get) .
  1. SJC Mappack Part 
 1 and SJC mappack Part 2
  2. Movie saberclash effects
  3. JA+ (plus) 2.3 mod and Forcemod 3 (III) mod
  4. Ep1 force sounds
  5. Episode3 sounds or Ep3 
 sounds
  6. Battle of Heros Duel music (From final duel between Obi-Wan and Anakin) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doggy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST STAR WARS GAME I"VE EVER PLAYED!!! you start of with a light saber! you start as 
 a jedi apprentice and you can become a jedi master! you start with a best friend! you start with 
 all that and more! this game is the best! when you become a jedi knight you can get 2 light sabers 
 a duble bladed or 1 normal. it run perfect on my xbox not a single glitch! it turely is one of 
 the best star wars games ever! it has 3 acts 1 the apprentice 2 jedi knight and 3 jedi master. 
 or sith master its up to you deside your fate good or evil jedi or sith you are in control you 
 are the master! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a great game if your a Star Wars fan and you have urges to swing lightsabers. Although 
 it lacks story, gameplay, and is limited on graphics it has a competitive multiplayer option which 
 is skill based combat and the customization ability of multiplayer and singleplayer is astounding.
 
  
  My opinion of the game is that it could've had a more complex story that had more decisions other 
 than the only one to be good or evil.
  
  The highlights of the game would have to be the Lightsaber customization and character cuztomization, 
 considering it hasn't been done before and the free fighting-skill based combat is unique to the 
 Star Wars games.
  
  What I personally look forward to is a blend of Knights of The Old Republic story and atmosphere 
 with Jedi Academy's style of combat. Though a mix of skill and stat with more choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowtrooper25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Live the dream -- become a Jedi Knight. 
  Welcome apprentice. I am Luke Skywalker, and it is my pleasure to inform you that you have been 
 chosen to undergo training in the ways of the Jedi. If you have ever imagined yourself as a member 
 of the Jedi Order, hearing those words, your dreams have finally come true in one gameStar Wars: 
 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy.
  
  
  Jedi Academy operates on a simple premise, step into the shoes of a burgeoning young Jedi, learn 
 from your master Kyle Katarn (star of the previous Jedi Knight games) , and become a true Jedi, 
 or give in to temptation and become a Dark Jedi. You may also customize your character, choosing 
 from one of five species, as well as their facial features and clothing. And of course, lets not 
 forget the part that many of us have dreamed of, the ability to build your own lightsaber. You 
 get to choose from nine different hilt designs and five different blade colors. As choice seems 
 to be the centerpiece of the game, Academy also lets you choose the missions you want to go on. 
 The praxeum (a. k. a. the academy) receives a number of requests for assistance, since there are 
 enough Jedi to handle them all, you can move through the game mostly at your own pace.
  
  
  From a graphics standpoint, the game is good, but it could be better. Character models are 
 a bit blockier than much of the new smoother action game models. The graphics dont really make 
 too much improvement over Jedi Outcast (the games predecessor) . They are, however, still believable 
 and dont get in the way of gameplay. As with every Star Wars game, John Williamss music provides 
 the acoustic ambiance. Sound effects are spot on and voice-overs do a pretty good job of moving 
 the plotline forward without sounding cheesy. The only real issues with sound are the oft annoying 
 insults hurled at you by your enemies and the occasional one person cutting off another mid-sentence 
 scenario. As far a mechanics go, controls become second nature quickly (mostly generic PC FPS controls) , 
 allowing you to turn your lightsaber into a lethally efficient killing machine. Collision can be 
 a bit glitchy at times; youre almost guaranteed to get stuck in something at least once in the 
 game. Poor collision is especially evident on the swoop bike level. You may find that you carom 
 off of nothing, likely because collision was set too far away from a rock or wall.
  
  
  The story keeps you looking for clues to solve a mystery about a strange cult known as the Disciples 
 of Ragnos. From the very first level you run into cultists and Stormtroopers just trying to work 
 your way to the academy after your ride was shot down. A hard first day of school indeed! Almost 
 all of your missions, no matter how varied, will have something to do with the cult and their possible 
 connections, all tied together with story-critical missions thrown in to further and thicken the 
 plot. Though you can choose your pathdark or lightit seems as though your choices have little, 
 if any impact on your destiny. It all comes down to one choice very late in the game. A choice 
 system more along the lines of the first Jedi Knight game or Knights of the Old Republic would 
 be an improvement, but the one choice method used in Academy works fine too. After all, how else 
 could you be a good guy and still get to electrocute people?
  
  
  Multiplayer mode offers up the same stuff that Jedi Outcast did, some deathmatch, duels, and capture 
 the flag but with one new addition and one new twist. Power Duel pits two weaker players against 
 one stronger player in an effort to create duels like those seen in Episodes I, II, and III. Siege 
 mode, available only online or on LAN, has players choose from one of six character classes and 
 complete objectives (or stop the other team from doing so) . Generally this involves the attacking 
 team completing one or more objectives to capture their enemys base while the defending team tries 
 to stop them.
  
  
  Overall, Jedi Academy delivers a solid game thats perfect for all types of Star Wars fans, or 
 just those that like non-stop action in their action games. It starts strong and ends strong with 
 an ending that leaves open the possibility for a sequel. If youve ever dreamed of being a Jedi 
 Knight, dream no more. This game delivers the total lightsaber-wielding Jedi experience. Oh, and, 
 just because Ive always wanted to say this,
  
  
  May the Force be with you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy 
  
  Score: 9/10 
  
  With the third installment in the Jedi Knight series (4th if you count the original Dark Forces) 
 the game has you playing a custom made character named Jaden Corr, instead of Kyle Katarn, who 
 you played as in the three previous installments. The game allows you to pick from 8 different 
 races and customize a male or female character (both with male and female voices provided) . Unlike 
 Jedi Knight 2, you start with a lightsaber in the beginning of the game and have the option of 
 switching to a dual sabers (two in each hand) or saber staff (the infamous Darth Maul saber) , complete 
 with several color options. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty straightforward except in certain situations, where the painstaking puzzle 
 of finding your next pathway comes up from Jedi Knight 2. Otherwise the game does what it is meant 
 to do, that is whoop alien butt with your lightsaber. The gameplay is incredibly fun, besides the 
 lightsaber there are your standard Star Wars themed weapons, such as Han Solos blaster, thermal 
 detonators, trip mines, a sniper rifle, a flak cannon and others. The game progresses in a linear 
 fashion, but you have the option of picking missions, after completing 4 out of 5 you will get 
 the option of doing a main plot mission or continue the smaller missions. The main missions are 
 much more difficult than the missions you get to pick. There is great variety among the missions 
 themselves. One has you taking on a rancor; another has you jumping from cart to cart on a train. 
 All in all the missions are very fun. 
  
  The more missions you do the more force points you get to spend on force powers. Both dark side 
 powers and light side powers such as lightning, grip (choke) , heal, and absorb. The neutral powers 
 advance automatically. The weapons are very fun to use, but there is nothing quite like whooping 
 some butt with the saber. The saber will be your primary weapon to use. The single saber comes 
 with three different stances and the move set varies with the stance. The dual saber is very effective 
 as you can throw it, unlike the saber staff which has kick as a secondary attack. Although you 
 can switch the dual or staff saber into a single saber at your whim. 
  
  The graphics are good, not nearly as good as some of the graphic powerhouses such as Unreal 2, 
 but it gets the job done. There is a great variety of locales to visit, and the visuals do not 
 get in the way of the game, the in game animations are superb, its a great felling watching a 
 body having been forced griped to death. But the cut scenes lack life and energy. The animations 
 in the cut scenes (namely the facial animations) are poorly done. 
  
  The audio, which is compromised mostly of John Williams work, is very nice. The voice acting is 
 excellent, each of the characters are great, Luke sounds like Luke, and Kyle has a gruff voice 
 that fits his character. Both the female and male version of Jaden is very nice. The female voice 
 is supplied by Jennifer Hale, the same actress who did Bastilas voice work in Knights of the Old 
 Republic. 
  The game has a very strong replay value do to its excellent multiplayer and variety of missions. 
 Multiplayer mode comes with CTF, Free for all, team free for all, duel, power duel (two against 
 one) , and an objective based siege mode, which is incredibly addictive. Siege has you playing roles, 
 such as scout, Jedi, or demolitions. 
  
  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a very well done action game, which anyone with a remote interest 
 in action games or star wars in general should check out. Its worth at least forty dollars US. 
 With this and Knights of the Old Republic out, Star wars or any video game fan should be happy. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 
  Graphics: 7/10 
  Sound: 9/10 
  Replay: 9/10 
  
  This game is one of the best ways to kill some spare time. With some practice, players should be 
 able to learn the nuances of the game and haul ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeman1987
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a solid action game that makes excellent use of the coolest weapon ever to grace 
 the movie or the gaming industry: the lightsaber. Unlike the previous Jedi Outcast, you have your 
 lightsaber for the entire duration of the game. The gameplay mechanics of the lightsaber are excellent 
 and a real joy to use. Add in 3 single saber styles and the option to use dual sabers or a two-bladed 
 saber later in the game, and you have yourself a great bit of action. Graphics are looking a bit 
 dated, but are still quite nice and atmospheric of the Star Wars universe. Sound is all you can 
 expect for Star Wars: all the great sound effects and music from the movies. Overall, highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick3333
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'll state everything that's good about the game (shouldn't take long) :
  
  1) Graphics are good from a technical standpoint. 
  
  2) Sound is pretty good as well, but 
 this is a Star Wars game so it kind of comes as standard nowadays.
  
  3) Combat is great and really fun: you have a vast array of moves at your disposal that you can 
 dispatch your enemies with, such as force grab, which is in my opinion the most fun you can have 
 with a force power. 
  
  4) The AI is quite good, as your enemies aren't completely stupid and can present a real challenge 
 and put up quite a fight, making it all the more satisfying when you decapitate them with your 
 lightsaber.
  
  Now, the bad points:
  
  1) The plot/ story is practically inexistant (it only serves to tie together the missions in a 
 clumsy way and give the whole thing a vague sense of purpose) . It's obvious that it was tacked 
 on, and, as another reviewer said previously, this makes the game feel more like an expansion pack 
 (and an unfinished one at that) than a full game.
  During the whole game at no point did I find myself immersed in the game. This is mostly because 
 the inexistant plot leaves the game feeling hollow and empty.
  
  2) The characters (including the main character) are bland, two-dimensional and uninteresting. 
 You really don't care what happens to any of them. That, along with the plot, is what makes the 
 game so much crappier than it could have been.
  
  3) The graphics are good, granted, but they lack a distinct charm and a star-warsiness that would 
 make this game much more immersive otherwise. The environments are bland and boring, and are really 
 far removed from the whole Star Warsy theme.
  
  All of this serves to make this game crap, if not for the combat, which is very fun in its own 
 right. That's the only redeeming part of this game, though. Kind of redeeming. Not really, actually. 
 This is why I gave it a bland, boring 7, because it reflects the game perfectly.
  Maybe I've just been spoilt by Star Wars games such as Knights of the Old Republic, but really 
 this is one big letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is the latest game in the Jedi Knight series, which was made very famous and successful 
 by Jedi Outcast. Jedi Academy is very similar to Outcast, though there are several shortcomings.
 
  
  Academy has a weak storyline. I thought it would be cool to choose your species and gender at the 
 beginning of the game, but was very disappointed to find out that no matter what choice you make, 
 your character will have the same name, the same voice for your gender and has exactly the same 
 dialogue.
  
  However, you do travel to many different worlds and some old favourites return, such as Kyle Katarn 
 and Luke Skywalker.
  
  There are several new force powers, and lightsaber combat is still exceptional. Many new enemies 
 feature, though most are relatively easy to defeat. Reborn Masters prove to be a challenge, however.
 
  
  Academy is solid and is worth purchasing, though doesn't quite deliver Outcast's great package. 
 
  
  Very fun and engaging, yet has some flaws which hold it back from its potential greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxxmom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is the newest installment in the Jedi Knight series, and it is the best thus far. 
 The graphics have not changed (unfortunately) and the gameplay is greatly improved.
  
  The gameplay has been improved in many ways. For one, switch puzzles are kept to a minimum, and 
 is replaced with more action. Another way the game is improved is the ability to make your own 
 jedi from the assortment of species, body parts, and colors. Last but not least, the story. The 
 story is the most improved part of this game. Toward the end of the game, you get to choose if 
 you want to go to the darkside, or stay a jedi. It's fun just to go back and play it over and over. 
 You don't have to keep your single saber either! Later in the game you get to choose if you want 
 dual sabers, a staff saber, or a plain single saber. This grealy adds to the variety and fun of 
 the game.
  
  The online multiplayer is just ok. You will have problems playing if you have 56k internet. On 
 top of that, everyone on there has come up with some stupid rule called laming. In which if you 
 kill someone without asking them to dual, you will get kicked or eventually banned. You can create 
 your own server, but you need cable or DSL and a powerful computer for it to run well. The heart 
 of the multiplayer experience are the maps and characters that are available to download. If you 
 can't stand the intensly enforced and stupid rules of the multiplayer, you won't find much in this 
 part of the game.
  
  The sounds are pretty much the same as in Outcast. The only difference is that you'll be hearing 
 a lot more light sabers clashing.
  
  Overall, Jedi Academy is the best in the Jedi Knight series and is worth picking up for the story 
 mode. However, if you are looking for a good multiplayer experience, I suggest you look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is the next game in the Dark Forces/Jedi Knight series of games. It has to stand up 
 to some stiff competition in it lineage. However, I am glad to report that it does so with style 
 and a lot of fun.
  
  Jedi Academy focuses on the period after Return of the Jedi. Luke and Kyle are trying to build 
 the ranks of the Jedi Order and have begun to usher in new trainees at the Jedi Academy. You play 
 as fresh Jedi recruit Jaden, and can do a fair amount of customization to the character. This is 
 one of the selling points of the game. You can be a male or female and of several species. You 
 can even pick the type of Lightsaber you use along with color and hilt eventually. 
  
  Jedi Academy plays a little differently in that you are a jedi padawan. It is not like Kyle having 
 to discover he is a Jedi or like in Jedi Outcast where he has to get his power back. You are a 
 Jedi with powers. After a simple training mission, you will start the main game which has you performing 
 the duties of a Jedi, protectors of the realm. You are given several missions that you can perform 
 while the main story is pieced together in the background of these missions. You will be perfoming 
 investigations, stealth missions, demolitions, and the like. The missions are varied and occur 
 on several planets. Planets that have not even been mentioned in the movies. Over time, you earn 
 Jedi powers and the aforementioned lightsabers and style. The missions are broken up by the main 
 storyline which will put you in a series of special missions that are related to the main story. 
 Then you go back to the day to day missions. It is a neat little structure that make you feel like 
 a jedi. The story has some good twists and it will keep you on your feet until the end. And expect 
 some nice guest appearances during the game. No spoilers here though!
  
  Graphics are good and are a step above Jedi Outcast. Lightsabers interact with their environment 
 and have a great ambient glow. The character models are fluid and move well, although there is 
 some clipping at times, but not as much as in Jedi Outcast. The enemies and locations varied and 
 look good, but feel a bit empty at times. Overall, the graphics are good though and still look 
 good as of this review.
  
  Sound in all Star Wars games is top notch. From the vaunted lightsaber sound to the voice over 
 acting. It is all top notch. Mix in John Williams score and you have another perfect thing. The 
 only problem I had with sound was that during certain loading sequences, it stuttered a bit, but 
 not enough to hinder my progress.
  
  As for the bad, it is a bit short. I finished it a lot faster than I did Jedi Outcast. I would 
 of liked one more round of missions before the endgame, but not a problem. Also, I did have one 
 or two desktop crashes that were fixed with the available patch.
  
  Overall, the game is a fine addition to the Jedi Knight/Dark Forces universe and hopefully we will 
 get to see a bit more from Jaden and company in another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 16, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast was one of those few licensed games that actually lived up to expectations. 
 The game started off as a seemingly average FPS but essentially became a 3rd person action game 
 once you got your lightsabre. It was definitely a memorable experience as finally you were granted, 
 in a game, the ability to storm through enemies armed with the force. Jedi Academy, the games 
 follow-up, strives to build on that gameplay mechanic with varying results.
  
  You start the game with customising your character  one can choose the character model (in which 
 they are not many choices) and later choose the lightsabre style. The gameplay has received some 
 improvement with a healthy addition of new moves and combos; however, they are still the assortment 
 of ranged weapons. In JKII, the ranged weapons seemed less useful and inviting once you got your 
 lightsabre and since you basically have a lightsabre right from the beginning of the game, the 
 same remains true for Jedi Academy for the entire game. The missions consist of large areas in 
 which the player must complete certain objectives. The problem is that none of the missions have 
 any relation to each other as they are supposed to be small tasks in order to complete your jedi 
 training (since you are supposed to be a student) . There is an underlying plot that only really 
 surfaces towards the end, but it almost has a tacked-on feel to it. The story is by far the weakest 
 aspect of the game and hinders one in truly becoming immersed in the game. You do have the ability 
 to choose light and dark paths but they change very little in terms of gameplay. Also, the choosing 
 of light or dark force powers has little effect on your character. One a technical note, the graphics 
 and sound are identical to its predecessor. JKII received good marks on those categories, but after 
 a few years, they are not very impressive. It seems that since the only real improvement made was 
 actually in the combat, it would logical to think that the meat of the game would be in its multiplayer.
 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Jedi Academy seems the only area of the interest since the single-player 
 portion is weak. The game initially seems that it offers a great degree of choice above its predecessor 
  character customisation, two different endings, choice of lightsabre, light/dark force powers 
  but none of these choices make any difference due to the story being so uninspired. The missions 
 feel patched together and therefore, resemble an expansion pack rather than a proper sequel. At 
 full price (although now it should be in the bargain bin) , this game is not worth it and should 
 only be considered by hardcore fans of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a great game. In this game instead of playing as Kyle Katarn 
 you play as a student at the jedi academy in Yavin 4. Your master is Kyle Katarn he teaches you 
 force powers as your master. Your first set of missions 5 missions (same with the second and third 
 set) , after you have completed four missions you will be given the choice to return to the academy 
 or complete the last mission in that set. The cool thing is that you start with a lightsaber, which 
 could later turn into dual sabers (one in each hand) or a staff (like the one darth maul used in 
 episode 1) . This game is highly recommended for star wars and action packed fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 7, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  This is a fun little arcade action style game with a few RPG elements to it (selecting force powers, 
 lightsaber style, etc) . It certainly won't wow you, but it had me entertained for the week that 
 I played through the main quests. 
  
  The game isn't very cohesive in terms of story. I mean, you choose from 5 or so missions per stage, 
 and then advance to the next set of missions. The overall story holding it all together seems pretty 
 weak, but oh well, the gameplay is still fun. While it is an FPS/3rd person action game, you'll 
 find yourself in 3rd person with your lightsaber throughout 99% of the game as the guns are pretty 
 useless for the most part, but hey, it's Starwars, you're a Jedi... that's how it should be.
  
  If you find it used or in a bargain bin and like Starwars and/or action games, it may be worth 
 a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Starting out, JA lets you actually choose and design a character, albeit within a small set of 
 selectable characteristics, like species, sex, facial, body, and clothing attributes. For those 
 Kyle Katarn loyalists have no fear, as the mercenary turned Jedi Knight of previous Jedi Knight 
 and Dark Forces titles returns, albet this time as your instructor at the Jedi academy run by Luke 
 Skywalker. You assume the role of Jaden Korr, a young force-sensitive trying to learn the Force, 
 its light and dark side, and the powers that come with being a true Jedi master. You also get to 
 build a personalized lightsaber, and can upgrade your Force powers during the course of your adventures. 
 In your own quest to join the ranks of the Jedi Knights.
  
  Starting out as a green padawan named Jaden Korr, you have to prove yourself in the Jedi way, and 
 you will be sent out on plenty of missions to learn and harness your powers to their full potential. 
 All of the game's force powers are available to you from the start, albet in their least powerful 
 form and gradually as mentioned before can be increased to their full effectiveness. There is a 
 full arsenal of guns and incendiary devices if you choose to fight that way in the old school Dark 
 Forces style too, but the most fun is had wielding a lightsaber slicing and dicing foes.
  
  The game takes place through a series of selectable missions which tend to last relatively long, 
 giving you plenty of playing time. There is a varied selection of Star Wars locales to keep the 
 game from getting repetitive with too many missions in similar terrain. Expect to see plenty of 
 the Star Wars universe including Tatooine, Coruscant, Corellia, and Hoth, and many other expanded 
 universe planets including Darth Vader's Palace on Vjun. The storyline is typical Star Wars fare, 
 this time involving a conspiracy by the mysterious Cult of Ragnos and the Imperial Remnant to spread 
 terror throughout the New Republic. Along the way you'll combat plenty of thugs, stormtroopers, 
 beasts, and of course evil force users. Everything is pretty much here, including the ultimate 
 decision of choosing to follow the light or dark side, and two different endings as a result.
 
  
  Control is standard first and third person fare with enough customization and playability not to 
 cause problems, but nothing to write home about either. Third person is still the default for lightsaber 
 combat, unliike in Jedi Knight I where you had the option. Between the PC and Xbox, the PC does 
 have the advantage of being able to bind keys to force powers for easier access, but some will 
 prefer the controller for moving about and attacking, so it's really a matter of preference.
  
  Aside from the single-player action, JA is made much more satisfying by having a well structured 
 and entertaining online mode. Designed strikingly similar to Unreal Tournament or Unreal Championship-style 
 levels, there is a bevy of online modes to keep you plenty happy. Free for All, Team Free for All, 
 Capture the Flag, and Duel return alongside a few new modes which add some excitement to the action.
 
  
  Graphically is little better than average. It's running the now outdated Quake III engine, but 
 it is well rendered, particularly the detailed world environments youll travel through. Character 
 models are relatively solid, but a few are on the small side, like the Imperial Stormtroopers, 
 who have been seemingly weakened beyond all reasoning to the point of almost nothing. Overall, 
 however, a good effort given the engine at Raven's disposal.
  
  It wouldnt be a Star Wars game without John Williams famous orchestral compositions. Sound effects 
 arent overly impressive, but the infamous snap-hiss the lightsabers make when ignited is dead-on, 
 and voice acting throughout the game is also done reasonably well, although some may hate Jaden's 
 voice by the end.
  
  Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy can be a bit too formulaic, but Star Wars fans will be able to ignore 
 the standard gameplay and get engrossed exploring and adventuring throughout the Star Wars galaxy. 
 For the non-Star Wars aficionado, it offers exciting single payer and stimulating online modes 
 which should keep you occupied long enough to warrant a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2004 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The singleplayer is divided into three parts, each consisting of 5 levels plus a boss level. You 
 may choose what order you wish to complete them in and even skip one of the levels in each of the 
 three parts. This makes it virtually impossible to become stuck on a certain level. I should note 
 that you are rewarded with force powers after each level, so skipping levels is not always a good 
 idea.
  
  As you may assume, you of course do play as a Jedi. You are not forced to use a lightsabre on all 
 enemies though, before each level you may select two guns and an explosive. The game is rather 
 fast paced and I do not imagine that you will become bored with the combat in it. As far as force 
 powers go, there are neutral, light, and dark powers. You get the neutral powers automatically 
 as you continue through the game, and you can select any combo of light and dark powers that you 
 would like. I should also mention that you create your own character. Custom species/gender, head, 
 clothing, lightsabre color, lightsabre handle, and you may unlock new lightsabre techniques and 
 styles later in the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are very good, and even though the game is now over a year old it still 
 looks great. The story is fairly interesting, not as good as the previous Jedi Knight games but 
 it should be enough to keep you interested. The multiplayer in this game is great, it is very fast 
 paced and if you can find a good server you can spend hours slicing up other players as a lightsabre 
 wielding Tusken Raider.
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game and even if you are not a fan of Star Wars this game is still 
 very fun. The only really bad thing that I can say about it is that the singleplayer won't take 
 you that much time to complete but it is still worth doing more than once. I also suggest the previous 
 Jedi Knight game, Jedi Outcast which is one of the best games I have ever played. I hope that this 
 review has helped you and may the force be with you always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 28, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  As much as I like this game, it isn't exactly as spectacular as some might have it seem. This is 
 coming from someone who trudged (with help) through the first Jedi Knight, creamed Jedi Knight 
 II (and loved it) playing for a year non-stop on Multi-player and beat JK3 in 2 days. This is the 
 THIRD in the Jedi Knight series but FOURTH in the Dark Forces series. As Jaden, and not Kyle Katarn, 
 you uncover a plot by a dark jedi & co. to syphon all the force power residue from all the planets 
 in the galaxy, and then unleash it to ressurect Marka Ragnos, an ancient Sith Lord. I don't care 
 who you are that is actually a pretty original story, but the Single-player's relations to that 
 story are rather attrocious.
  
  First of all, half the missions probably have no relation to the main storyline. It's not until 
 probably the third tier of missions (there are three tiers of five missions, with Story Missions 
 in between) that you finally start to combat the dark jedi reborn (from JK2, re-hired) . Of course, 
 I'm not saying that none of the SP's missions are good, in fact, plenty of them rule such as the 
 speeder bike chase, the sarlacc encounters, and a run-in with a bounty hunter. Overall, Single-Player 
 is rather entertaining but overall only just good.
  
  Multi-player is another story. First off I'll tell you that a pile of the new acrobatics from Single-Player 
 are gone. Yes, gone. Just like JK2, but because of the low value of this new addition, that won't 
 cut it. This isn't to mention all the maps that they could have kept from JK2, which were overall 
 much better than anything in this. It would have added more value and pleased some doom-sayers 
 about this game. The maps that there are rather mediocre, but the new siege mode steals it for 
 me this time. In Jedi Knight 2, Capture the Flag was all I played, now it is siege. There's really 
 just one problem in this mode. THERE'S ONLY 4 OFFICIAL MAPS! (one downloadable, not included) . 
 That is really kind of lazy, and that is what I'd say IF the maps weren't so awesome. To put is 
 short, this is the mode which tore a large chunk of Battlefield 1942 from my like (later to be 
 replaced by BF Vietnam) . The main attraction for many would be the jetpack-enabled Boba Fett in 
 Desert Rescue, with a hint of speeders and a rancor. However, AT-STs in Hoth Assault, gigantic 
 areas in Korriban, and starships in Destroyer also add to this wonderful mode. I'll be playing 
 this for awhile.
  
  All in all, I'd say that this game is good, but only to people who have NOT played Jedi Knight 
 2. Other people might want to wait until a Jedi Knight IV, and if there won't be one, get this, 
 because the small additions and exciting missions will keep you entertained for a long time (Single-Player 
 only took me 2 days) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2004 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed Academy, but the fact that I never touch Outcast anymore makes it all the clearer 
 that Lucasarts held out on us! This game is what Outcast SHOULD have been. Only a few months after 
 Outcast came out, modders created the ability to dual wield and fight with the staff. Academy added 
 some glitchy menus and clothing options, stole a game mode, and called it a sequel.
  
  The 3d engine is enjoyable, yet STILL running on the Quake III engine (modified = custom shaders) . 
 Many players found that "Force Push" was actually "Force Lag" in disguise, as it choked just about 
 every video card on the market. Nobody wanted to see the engine from Jedi Knight get used in Jedi 
 Outcast, so why would anyone want to see the Outcast engine used in Jedi Academy? It is an obvious 
 attempt at a few more dollars. Someone else's engine that is familiar to the devs... cheap and fast.
 
  
  I do enjoy the gameplay, and the stolen addition of Seige mode. The saber moves are flashy and, 
 though redundant, never seem to get that old. This game is more of the same, with more polished 
 action. Not much of a storyline, just added features that several non-professionals managed to 
 accomplish after Outcast came out.
  
  The sound is near-perfect. Great music and familiar blasters and sabers heard all around.
  
 
  I enjoy the game, but am disappointed by Lucasarts' unwillingness to move to a more modern 3d 
 engine for a franchise that has loyal followers. Come on, Lucasarts! Imagine if YOU had thought 
 up the source engine! (*tear in eye*)
  
  Lack of originality + suckers for Star Wars = 7.7
  
  Swami
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBaderXIII
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2004 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The Jedi knight: Jedi Academy game is a great game to play. The graphics are a huge improvement 
 over many things that I have seen. The weapon customization was pretty cool, with things like the 
 light saber. The AI is pretty good, though not overly hard. The Gameplay has significantly improved 
 over earlier games like Jedi Knight: Dark forces (1 and 2) . The sound really brings the game together 
 (added with the in-game-movies) . All in all the game was very good though while I feel it has a 
 few drawbacks none of them are big enough to warrant losing points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2004 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a very fun real-time adventure game that you can jump right into. The sound and 
 music is astounding, and the gameplay is very fun. I played this game before Knights of the Old 
 Republic, and that game threw me off with it's turn-based play. Jedi Academy really shines in the 
 customization of the force skills, character development, and re-play value. You can finish the 
 game on the light side of the force, and replay it on the dark side. Secret areas are also a challenge 
 to find.
  
  The built-in single player cheats are extensive, if you are into that sort of thing. Overall, $30 
 for this game is very much worth it... if you are a fan of Star Wars, you'll love the sound and 
 music of the game, making you feel you are in that setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2004 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a super addition to the Jedi Knight series. I'm not a big "shoot 'em up" person, 
 but because this game was set in the Star Wars universe I thought I'd give it a try. And boy was 
 it worth it! The storyline is solid as is the gameplay. The ability to use many different force 
 powers is probably one of the best aspects of the game. There's nothing like walking into a room 
 full of troopers and attacking them with a lightning storm. The graphics are really sweet, especially 
 when your character is using his/her lightsaber and force powers. Playing online is a really great 
 part of the game and adds tons of hours of replayability to the game. The storyline is also pretty 
 cool because you can choose light or dark side near the end, which gives the game more replayability. 
 I would recommend this game to any Star Wars fan who wants to spend hours slashing away at tons 
 of bad guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberzero-x
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 29, 2003 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game didnt impress me much. It was so lame I stopped playing it 15 minutes into it. The controls 
 are horrible you have a lightsaber but you control it by aiming it like a first person shooter 
 which is really annoying. The graphics suck too, everything is so blocky and the enviroments are 
 horrible. The AI is stupid too. I cant really name one good thing about this game. If you are going 
 to get a star wars game and your a big star wars fan then get Star Wars knights of the old republic. 
 Great story, memorable characters, plot twists, and deep rpg like gameplay and all the lightsaber 
 and force action any star wars fan would want in a game. It is amazing how much you can do in it. 
 It is open ended to the point where you can play through the game like 20 diffrent ways or perhaps 
 more. You can even choose between the dark side or the light side and you decisions can change 
 the entire plot at times. At the end if you want to be evil you have the option of killing off 
 half of your party members if you want to be a dark jedi. If you want a star wars game get Star 
 wars knights of the old republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReBuKe2991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2003 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I am ReBuKe!! Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a solid game. The only problem is that when you're using 
 your lightsaber, you're always in third person. (which is alright with me) Also, it has a multiplayer 
 version that you can use for playing online, (but there's nobody online cause it just came out a 
 month ago) and you can play against bots on any difficulty level. There is one problem with the bot 
 mode though, you can't use your force powers but the bots can. Maybe I'm just doing something wrong 
 but I'm pretty sure I'm not. There is one thing that makes this Jedi Knight game better than the 
 others. You start out with a lightsaber! No more playing the game for five hours and then getting 
 the lightsaber! This game is also better than the other games because you can choose the color 
 of your lightsaber and you can choose what your person looks like. There's three species for female 
 and three species for male.
  Lastly, you can choose what order you play the levels. It's not that exciting but it could change 
 the replay value (maybe) . It's pretty good for a first person/third person game. Especially if you 
 like Star Wars. Those lightsabers are awesome!! I would recommend it to any shooter lover. I would 
 also recommend it to any third person lover. I haven't beat the game yet so I don't know how long 
 it takes to finish it. Peace out. I hope you read my other reviews when I write them.
  This was written on November 23, 2003.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2003 6:25 am PT
Review:  Enjoyable single-player but too quick and too easy. Even on the second highest difficulty setting, 
 I got through the single player campaign in about 6 or 7 sittings for a total time played of under 
 15 hours. Only the final boss took more than two tries to defeat. (I think it took me four) . I 
 could have completed the game faster than that, as many enemies you can just run straight by without 
 fighting. Of course, I slugged it out with everyone, as I had heard the single player game was 
 a quick read. 
  
  The multiplayer game is fun, and they did do alot of tweaks, compared to Jedi Outcast, to better 
 balance the game. It worked for the most part and I think the deathmatch games are more enoyable 
 in this new version. (Although alot of Jedi Outcast fans tend to disagree) . 
  
  If you were a big fan of Jedi Outcast, Academy is probably worth your $45-$50. Otherwise, I think 
 you can find a better bang for your buck with other FPS titles. Granted, this is one of the few 
 that lets you use a lightsaber... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 20, 2003 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent advancement to the series both in gameplay and technology. It offers 
 all the traditional first person shooter thrills that any of them do. Its major flaw is the lack 
 of ambiant sounds, and a constant use of the same theme song nearly thoughout it. I enjoyed the 
 combat the most. Lightsaber combat was deadly and could go either way at a moments notice which 
 brought the combat to life. You never knew no matter how well you thought you knew the enemy if 
 you made one mis-step you were the one losing the arm. It was also well thought out and the game 
 response was excellent. It is one of the best Jedi oreinted games yet. Balance is the name of the 
 game with your Force powers. Light side and darkside powers are balanced nicely and allow you to 
 use all your favorite Force powers free from nit picky darkside point accumulations. Its more realistic 
 in all ways than most other games of the same calibur and genre. All in all Lucasarts produced 
 a fun game with at least a one time replayability. It was some what short, but for a veteran player 
 increasing the difficulty increases the game play nicely, and not simply overwhelms you. All in 
 all this is an excellent game I look forward to Lucasarts making more of the Jedi series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 25, 2003 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Don't play this game if you are expecting a faithful representation of Star Wars Universe, here's 
 a brief rundown on why.
  
  1/ Opening text-crawl mentions that your character has a lightsaber without any formal jedi training. 
 In hindsight that is the first warning sign that this game takes liberty with the Star Wars license.
 
  
  2/ One of the very first things you must do in the game is to chop down a tree with your lightsaber 
 in one slash. This kind of stretches your belief, but if Obi-Wan can slice through bone in a flash 
 then maybe, maybe lightsabers can sever thick tree trunks in an instant.
  
  3/ Your character can throw the lightsaber like a boomerang before being trained in the use of 
 the force. This is probably a fault of the game engine rather than a gameplay fault, but is a bit 
 annoying.
  
  4/ You come across a clearing with two stormtroopers. Remember this is a planet that houses the 
 Jedi Academy so there is no way stormtroopers could have got there without Luke Skywalker knowing 
 it. If that is not bad enough as soon as they see you they start firing at you - now I dont recall 
 in any of the movies where the Stormtroopers started shooting people for no reason. Maybe that 
 is the policy of the Remnant (aka Empire) in the post-palpatine days, to shoot first and ask questions 
 later. If so it wasnt exactly explained.
  
  5/ Kyle Katarn tells you that both the light and dark sides are open to you, but neither is actually 
 evil or bad. What determines that is how you use them. If it wasn't already obvious that this was 
 not going to be a faithful representation of Star Wars, then it certainly is now with that statement. 
 Stunningly after you complete the training course he tells you to never lose control of your anger 
 (because this will lead to the darkside) , yet he has already said you are free to choose darkside 
 powers. This is a MAJOR contradiction and god only knows how that slip through, and it gives the 
 impression that these early missions were given a rushed through plot.
  
  6/Upon starting any mission you are FORCED to choose two handheld weapons and either a Thermal 
 Detonator, Mine or Explosive charge. Two words, JEDI and LIGHTSABER? It's kind of stupid to have 
 to take handheld weapons when the movies pretty much show that Jedi dont use them!
  
  Basically if you want the faithful experience of what becoming a Jedi is like then the only choice 
 is the original game Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. On the other hand these new games are reasonably 
 good looking without being stunning. Sound is great, and they cant go wrong with the music (unless 
 they had chosen to do a rock version of Imperial March like was done in Force Commander, or a techno 
 version of the Star Wars Theme as was done in the Star Wars mod for Battlefield 1942) .
  
  Let's be realistic though, your only buying this to wield two lightsabers at once or a double-bladed 
 saber, right? The big letdown is that you are forced to use a single lightsaber at the start of 
 the game which is extremely frustrating because one of the big draws of this game is being able 
 to play a brand new character and decide on his/her looks and saber style!
  
  I don't think that it's possible to top Dark Forces II given that the two sequels have failed to 
 do so. There are some cool bits in this game though, like being able to use double-bladed sabers 
 and two sabers at once (eventually) , being able to select the order in which you do missions and 
 being able to slaughter several sand-people (which is great considering that in Attack of the Clones 
 that scene was missing/cut) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ouroboros-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2003 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Academy is a fun follow up to Jedi Outcast, but it's a bit too short to be worthy of a full 
 price tag. Academy would have made a great expansion pack.
  
  The combat is very enjoyable, and the different lightsaber styles help mix up the game a lot. My 
 only gripe (which I disliked about Outcast as well) is that I miss the many distinct bosses from 
 the original Jedi Knight. What made that game so fun was the anticipation of another great saber 
 duel at the end of the level. I certainly like the addition of more lesser jedi to keep things 
 challenging, but I do wish there were more boss fights to look forward to.
  
  Given the price, the length is probably the only thing really *wrong* with the game. I don't think 
 it took me more than 12 hours on the default difficulty. On the bright side, though, there are 
 two different endings to play out, but some of the early levels will feel like a chore to play 
 through again.
  
  Another gripe is that the plot overall didn't feel very epic. I liked the concept of giving the 
 player a set of missions with different goals, but I didn't feel they were integrated into the 
 story very well. It felt like you were given busy work while Luke and Kyle were busy handling 
 the important jobs. This makes sense in the context of the plot (you *are* just a student, after 
 all) , but it just didn't seem as interesting for a game. Again, this would be less of an issue 
 had the game simply been an expansion to Jedi Outcast.
  
  The graphics are starting to get long in the tooth, but they get the job done and are generally 
 polished. The cutscenes looked like they could use a bit of work, though. The video cutscenes look 
 horribly compressed, and the game rendered ones just weren't very impressive (if a game engine 
 doesn't render faces well, you shouldn't do lots of closeups in your cutscenes) . But the graphics 
 do not detract from the gameplay at all, which is really what's important.
  
  The audio is standard Star Wars fare and, frankly, getting somewhat boring. One mark against it 
 in particular is the music. The soundtrack is of course taken directly from the classic trilogy, 
 but with different pieces spliced together to give it a more original sound. Unfortunately, it 
 doesn't always come off well. In my opinion, Knights of the Old Republic for the Xbox (and soon 
 PC) set the standard for all future Star Wars games with it's excellent blending of movie soundtracks 
 and original music. Having recently finished that game, the music to Jedi Academy was that much 
 more unimpressive.
  
  All in all, though, I enjoyed the game, and none of the complaints I had kept me from having a 
 good time. I only wish it had lasted longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 23, 2003 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Very good game but could have been excellent but for the way that the force skills interact with 
 the game environment and the fact that it is STAGGERINGLY linear (when really the whole force thing 
 should give you multiple options for level solution) . Otherwise really very few things I can say 
 to criticise it. Its atmospheric, the combat stuff with light sabres is complex for those who like 
 it but works just fine if you don't fancy hours practicing chained combat moves. Looks nice (not 
 brilliant but nice) , sounds are like the movie - which is what you want for the game - although 
 the sound effects are a little dull. My only moan is that whoever designed the levels clearly didn't 
 talk too much from the outset with the person who designed the Jedi abilities. So later on when 
 the levels were nearly done and the level designer found out what the Jedi skills were and and 
 that they could (in many instances) allow the player to blitz levels or indeed bypass whole sections 
 then changed the rules so that they couldn't. So sometimes you can leap huge distances, great heights 
 etc and then sometime that fallen bit of masonry seems to be just, well, too slippery to get on 
 top of. Soemtimes you can knock down pillars and push boulders aside and then... sometimes you can't. 
 So overall a good game that could have been stupendous if the designers had actually followed through 
 on what the jedi stuff can do and set the game up to be flexible enough to allow that. Also a little 
 short? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2003 5:02 am PT
Review:  I agree with pretty much everything in the Gamespot review. This is not just a rehash of Jedi Outcast. 
 This is a great game!! If you like Star Wars or any of the Star Wars action games that have come 
 out, then Jedi Academy is a game that you simply can't miss. I liked Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast, 
 but it has a few big faults. I LOVE Jedi Academy! This game takes what was great about Jedi Knight 
 2 and emphasizes it, and it eliminates what was bad about JK2.
  
  In case you haven't played a Lucasarts Jedi game before, this is a game that gives you the look 
 and feel of being a Jedi Knight. You run around and do flips. You use the force to yank weapons 
 from enemies' hands or to push them onto the floor. You shoot lightning out of your hands. You 
 telepathically choke enemies like Darth Vader. You use a lightsaber to block laser blasts and duel 
 with Dark Jedi. Jedi Outcast did a wonderful job of capturing that look and feel of being a Jedi, 
 and I think that Jedi Academy does an even better job. This game is a sequel to 3 previous games, 
 but you don't have to play those games to enjoy this one (but I would recommend playing Jedi Knight 
 2 anyways) .
  
  At first glance, you think Okay, I've seen this all before. The graphics engine is somewhat outdated, 
 the guns are the same as the previous two games, and so are a lot of the enemies. But after you 
 play for an hour or so, you find that gameplay is substantially improved. The action begins immediately 
 (you start the game with a lightsaber this time) , and it never stops until the very end. There 
 are no annoying jump puzzles in this game, and no gauntlet sequences where you have to complete 
 8 impossible tasks in sequence within 15 seconds. Say goodbye to those 3D pixel hunts. The puzzles 
 are much easier, and there are very few of those annoying snipers. You simply jump in very quickly 
 and start slicing and dicing unfortunate enemies with your lightsaber. To put it simply, there 
 is a lot more fun and less frustration.
  
  The game does a great job of mixing up the levels to keep the game interesting. Just when you think 
 repetitiveness is creeping in, out comes a wildcard level that hasn't been done in the previous 
 two games. A perfect example of this is the thrilling speederbike level, where you are flying around 
 at 100 miles an hour and slicing enemies off of their bikes like it's a high-speed joust. There 
 are other unique levels, but I won't spoil them for you by telling you what happens.
  
  Unlike the previous games, you get to customize the look, race, and gender of your character. Throughout 
 the game, you get to assign light or dark force powers as you progress, like in Dark Forces 2. 
 After the halfway point, you get to wield a saber in each hand, or a double-bladed saber ala Darth 
 Maul. By the end, you are fighting an army of Dark Jedi and it never gets old. Near the end once, 
 I met two Dark Jedi waiting for me on a walkway high above a fiery pit of lava. I used Force Speed 
 to rush in and whack one across the gut before he knew what hit him. Then, I clashed sabers with 
 the other guy for a minute before finally using my Force Push ability to shove him off of the walkway 
 and watch him plunge to a ghastly death. 
  
  One of the faults of this game is quirky lightsaber controls. The lightsaber is still very hard 
 to control, and lots of the duels are mouse click-fests. That's a problem from the last game that 
 wasn't fixed. Where this game lacks the most is production values. Specifically, the sound. The 
 soundtrack is the same as in the previous Star Wars games, and it might start to grate your nerves. 
 The script and the voice acting are cheesy despite the talent, and voice samples get repetitive, 
 because there are so few. The graphics, on the other hand, are outdated, but the game makes up 
 for it by making all of the scenery bright, colorful, and unique-looking. The scenery varies from 
 the icy Hoth planet to the deserts of Tatooine, so it never gets repetitive.
  
  I like Jedi Academy better than Dark Forces 2 and Jedi Outcast. I like it more than any action 
 game that I have played in a long time (at least a year) . This is what a Star Wars Jedi action 
 game should be. Don't be put off by first impressions or so-so-looking screenshots. This is a superior 
 action game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagan02
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 22, 2003 5:05 am PT
Review:  After spending many hours playing Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast, I was execpting quite a bit from Jedi 
 Academy.
  
  I am VERY happy with the multi-player, after spending hours getting pissed off on Jedi Outcast 
 from repeated use of the 1 hit KO jump move of the red saber style and the Jump special of the 
 yellow saber style.. I was very happy to see it now takes force, so you won't see people jumping 
 around like drunken jackals using the red saber style jump move.
  
  And the single-player is ALOT more varried now, but really, really short.
  
  And the AI is 
 indeed suicidal, epscially on Multi-player, any place with a cliff they will run towards and jump 
 off, it's like they WANT to die.
  
  But the multiplayer is TONS of fun, get online, play, have fun, no more n00bs running around doing 
 special moves over and over, no more force choke abuse (not as much, force powers can't be used 
 as much in this one, you can still foce choke players off the edge if you have enough force reserves) .
 
  
  I am very happy with all the gameplay fixes, and I reccomend it to anyone that hated the saber 
 move abuse in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tektrader
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 22, 2003 4:41 am PT
Review:  As a sequel to one of my all-time favorite games... Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, I was really 
 looking forward to Jedi Academy. However, this game was basically, in my opinion, just an attempt 
 to capitalize on the Jedi Knight name. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's a fun game with lots of improvements. But the single-player (and multiplayer, 
 for that matter) replay value is completely missing. The game took roughly 11 hours for me to finish. 
 ELEVEN HOURS... FOR FIFTY DOLLARS!! That ridiculous. They (Lucasarts) tried to pawn this off by 
 saying that they "... wanted to make a game that would not be left unfinished...". Yeah, right. 
 Absolutely no excuse for this. As for the multiplayer, you can do almost NO special tricks that 
 can be done in the single player mode without using some of your Force reserves. For instance, 
 with a lightsaber staff in single player, you can crouch+attack+walk forward... which will create 
 a really cool (and really effective) twirling of the staff. And it's just a skill (which makes 
 sense... you are, after all, a Jedi Knight!!) . But in multiplayer, you have to spend Force reserves 
 to pull this off. Again, that's just one example. There are many more.
  
  Now granted, even if I'd known of the down-falls of the game before purchasing it... I would have 
 still bought it. I'm just a little miffed that Lucasarts didn't spend a little more time making 
 the game longer (value is king now-a-days!) . 
  
  On the bright side, some of the moves and animations for the main character are just unbelievable. 
 Really good job there. 
  
  Now it's time to sit-n-wait for Knights of the Old Republic!! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merlinx2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2003 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is good. But compared to Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, this game is a lot easier 
 and a lot shorter. I was hoping for a longer and more challenging game. I was surprised at how 
 easy this game was. My main force power was speed. You could go up against ten troopers without 
 a scratch using speed, and protect doesn't hurt either. Against the dark jedi, absorb and speed 
 were my pick. There are even many places where you can just grip and throw them off the cliff, 
 even the dark jedi. 
  
  The graphics were pretty much the same as JKII, but the different scenery was nice to see. 
  
 
  I don't see any point in choosing your missions, unless you want to complete the game even quicker. 
 You have to complete four out of the five missions to advance the story. I personally chose to 
 do all the missions, so I don't know if there is any difference in the overall game play.
  
  I did like the fact that you could choose between the light and dark side of the force towards 
 the end of the game. Actually I think the Jedi are harder to defeat than the Dark Jedi.
  
  All in all though, I had fun playing the game. Using the double light staff makes everything a 
 bit more entertaining. I'll definitely try again on Master level. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unrest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 16, 2003 6:06 am PT
Review:  The game is generally fun, but seems to kind of force a lot of the combat animations. They just 
 don't seem as smooth as they could be, which for me, kind of detracted from the gameplay a little 
 bit. I did run into one bug on the Mos Eisley mission where I couldn't get back to my ship... The 
 door simply won't open, and there is nowhere else to go on the map: believe me, I spent about two 
 hours looking to make sure I didn't miss something.
  
  All-in-all, though, the game seems like a solid entry into the series and will probably give a 
 lot of people a lot of fun. It's good to see that there was some expansion on the saber combat 
 by adding moves and combinations with force powers. Download the demo, try it out: buy it if you 
 like it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
