-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starcraft: Brood War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starcraftexpansionsetbw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 8,664 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brood War completely revitalizes Blizzard's everlasting real-time strategy game. 

 Expectations tend not to run high for add-ons and expansion packs; they're poor-man's sequels, usually 
 thrown together in the wake of the original game's success. But you figure that so long as the 
 expansion offers up more of what you liked about the original, it's good enough. Besides, at half 
 the cost, you can't really ask for much more, can you? According to Blizzard, you can indeed: Brood 
 War, the official expansion to the year's best real-time strategy game, contains all the care, 
 detail, and ingenuity of a true sequel, in spite of its unlikely guise as your typical supplement. 
 While that's not to suggest Brood War is a complete overhaul of the original, by continuing and 
 enriching Starcraft's story, and adding excellent new units and terrain, Brood War completely revitalizes 
 Blizzard's everlasting real-time strategy game.  

 Brood War doesn't look all that much different than the original Starcraft, although there's plenty 
 of new visual content. Fortunately, Starcraft's graphics have aged nicely, and the game still looks 
 great. Brood War's new units fit right in with the returning cast, and although the new snow terrain 
 is too bright, the twilight and desert tile sets are beautifully drawn. Meanwhile, the stylish 
 new intro movie and ending cinematics for each of the three campaigns are emotionally moving and 
 tie in much more closely with the larger story than the original Starcraft's cutscenes.  

 Brood War boldly improves upon Starcraft's unforgettable audio, with new music and sound effects 
 and a lot of new speech. Each of the three races gets a new music track, and all of it is outstanding, 
 particularly the orchestral Terran theme that eclipses the New Agey stuff from the original. With 
 the exception of the Dark Archon who sounds like he has laryngitis, all the new units in Brood 
 War sound every bit as good as the originals, and many of them have very amusing things to say 
 if you keep on clicking. Every surviving character from the original Starcraft returns with many 
 more speaking lines in most cases, and as in the first game, the voice acting in Brood War is first-rate. 
 With rare exceptions, the dialogue during mission briefings and during frequent in-game scripted 
 events is completely convincing and adds up to what's one of the year's best stories in any gaming 
 genre. It picks up right where the first game left off, and much like the original, the three plots 
 are brilliantly written to be both self-contained and deeply connected.  

 As you'd expect, the Brood War campaign is much more difficult than the original Starcraft campaign. 
 Nevertheless, the missions are far superior by design. They're heavily plot driven, with scripted 
 story events frequently punctuating the action. Occasionally your mission objectives will change 
 after you complete what you thought was the extent of your duty. At other times you'll be given 
 a choice of objectives, and your decision will directly affect the course of the following mission. 
 New units are introduced in context, and the scenario will teach you to use them by demanding you 
 take advantage of their particular specialties. It is worth noting, though, that the designers 
 start to run out of steam by the end, as the innovative scenarios that permeate the Protoss and 
 Terran campaigns finally give way to more straightforward against-all-odds Zerg-centric massacres, 
 although the story remains captivating to the end.  

 With Brood War, Blizzard took the opportunity to reevaluate the play balance of an already well-designed 
 real-time strategy game. The results are outstanding; seemingly minor but terribly significant 
 modifications to unit costs, damage rates, hit points, and build times suddenly make the game play 
 very differently, as units that were once ineffective (such as the Protoss Dragoon and the Terran 
 Goliath) are powerless no longer. In the end, almost every single unit in the game has been changed 
 in one way or another. Likewise Blizzard addressed the common complaint that Starcraft catered 
 itself toward rush tactics, where an early attack by basic units would often prove decisive, by 
 augmenting defensive structures to better handle small numbers of weak units. These changes to 
 the original units are included not only in Brood War, but in the Starcraft 1.04 patch.  

 At the same time, the six new units in Brood War demand serious consideration, as each race now 
 has the means to deal with enemy swarm tactics. Now more than ever, the player who just piles up 
 one type of unit will surely lose to he who combines his forces. The end result of all the changes 
 and additions is a game that feels much more strategic than before. The only consequence is that 
 Starcraft's interface, which demands that you carefully micromanage your forces, is ill-equipped 
 to handle the game's newfound complexity, and without some serious practice you'll have trouble 
 putting the specialized new units to good use. Moreover, if you're weary of the real-time strategy 
 formula that culminated in Starcraft, you may be put off that Brood War, when you get right down 
 to it, is fundamentally similar.   

 Nevertheless, if you liked Starcraft in the least, it doesn't take a great deal of thought to understand 
 that Brood War is essential. What with the superb campaign, the new units, the overhauled gameplay, 
 and dozens of new multiplayer maps, you have both a more-than-worthy successor to Starcraft and 
 one of the finest computer game expansion sets of all time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (176 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MaXiMuS3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Where to even start?
  
  This game is the perfect blend of action and micro-management. It is an instant classic. It never 
 gets old, because there are so many possibilities for battle and bases and whatnot. StarCraft was 
 amazing on it's own, and then Brood War made it even better! I have played this game for YEARS 
 with my family, and we never tire of it. I think that I can say safely that it is an RTS masterpiece.
 
  
  Blizzard really can't seem to go wrong, can they? The WarCraft series was a HUGE hit, and is living 
 on through the World of Warcraft online game which is qutie probably the most popular game out 
 there right now.
  
  I am looking forward very much to StarCraft II, even though they're doing that thing where they 
 split it up into different fifty buck games... the campaigns had better be AMAZING in order to justify 
 that though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Startcraft has got to be the best and most time consuming game I have ever played besides Super 
 Mario Bros. This game has supplied me with countless hours of entertainment and will continue as 
 Starcraft 2 gets released. Starcraft took me about 5 min. to learn and about a week to master! 
 This game is just a masterpiece. The best part IMO is you can play with your friends or family 
 on the same internet connection. There are time were the game ticked me off to the point I didn't 
 play for about a month but then I got over it and got even more addicted. My favorite race is Protoss, 
 I'm pretty sure a lot of others are too. Protoss is my favorite because of there overall pwnage 
 self! I would definitely recommend this game to anyone that is bored and feels like getting hooked 
 on something for a while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The great Protoss hero Tassadar sacrificed himself in order to destroy the Overmind of the insectoid 
 Zerg. The Protoss home planet Aiur is totally devastated after the Zerg invasion, but thanks to 
 Tassadar's great effort they had struck a serious blow on the seemingly unstoppable Zerg. Now when 
 the Zerg Overmind is no more, the remaining Zerg forces are cut off from their source for collaborate 
 thinking. This causes the agitated Zerg forces to randomly rampage through the galaxy. The remaining 
 Protoss fighters are struggling for survival. Soon the ruling powers of earth discovered the presence 
 of alien races in the sector where the Terran forces had established their bases after many internal 
 conflicts. Could the hostile aliens be headed towards earth? The human military could never allow 
 that to happen  thus more conflicts are about to break out!
  
  Starcraft : Brood War is the official expansion pack from Blizzard Entertainment to the award winning 
 real time strategy game Starcraft. You can easily start playing Brood War even if you haven't played 
 Starcraft before  If you want to experience the story of the game in the right chronological order 
 you can play the original campaign and then start with Brood War. But if you just want an awesome 
 strategy game you can dive right into that. Starcraft has extensive single and multiplayer options!
 
  
  The story in Starcraft : Brood War takes place only a few days after the events in the original 
 Starcraft game. The game is about brutal conflict and intrigue across vast galaxies between the 
 three races.
  The Protoss is a slender race who use very advanced alien technology and tactics such as mind controlling, 
 teleporting, psi-weapons, robots and energy shields. Generally The Protoss are intelligent but 
 conservative and value honor, beauty and life.
  The Zerg are an insectoid race who rely on vast numbers. They are vicious, relentless and always 
 fight until the death, hellbent on genocide. The Zerg hives spread through space through the flying 
 Overlords who oversee the otherwise unruly monsters.
  The human fighting forces are known as The Terrans. The Terrans utilize well known military tactics 
 and weapons such as foot soldiers, siege tanks and nukes. Because they are so much more fragile 
 than the alien races they are forced to use a defensive approach to the conflicts.
  
  The singleplayer campaign in this expansion offers an additional twenty six missions on top of 
 the thirty seen in the original game. There are six new units (three for each race) which adds 
 an impressive amount of depth to the already brilliant game  fact is that the way you play Starcraft 
 changed a lot thanks to the medics who can heal units, the lurkers who can attack from underground 
 and the dark templars who are invisible to the naked eye. This change is of course to the better.
 
  
  Each race have incredible strengths and some weakness  the only way you can figure out which race 
 you prefer is to try them all. It's quite impressing to see how well balanced the game is between 
 the races  and this was true even before the many balance fixes (patches) that have been released 
 for the game. It has gone from good to better, so to say.
  
  The game has a tendency to feel overwhelming the first few times you play it. It'll take some time 
 to learn what each unit is capable of and how to use them in the field of battle. But first you 
 probably need to learn how to build a base  what buildings are needed in order to be able to produce 
 the units you want to use. If you aren't discouraged by this you have a great chance to learn the 
 game. This is not unique to Starcraft though  many similar strategy games seem daunting at first. 
 One reason for this is that the computer controlled AI shows no mercy and will totally annihilate 
 you if you aren't building and producing fast enough and fighting efficient enough. This will take 
 some time to get used to. There aren't really any shortcuts here, you'll have to learn the hard 
 way.
  
  Starcraft can be played in many different ways. As mentioned, there's the singleplayer campaign, 
 but there is also special scenario maps that can be played either alone or in multiplayer. Starcraft 
 supports multiplayer on TCP/IP, IPX, Modem and Battle. net, which is Blizzard's online hub for multiplayer 
 games. Other game modes in include "Top vs. Bottom", "Melee", "Free For All", "Team Melee" and 
 the very special "Use Map Settings". The last mentioned is special because it has opened up the 
 doors to a myriad of user created content. Starcraft has an included Map editor which is very easy 
 to get into. Thanks to this users have created whole new ways to play Starcraft, and there is a 
 die hard community creating and playing these user created maps  here's everything from variants 
 to the now well established "Tower Defence" to very obscure games like "Matrix Defence", "TarPit 
 Defence", "Fastest Possible"-maps, "Simpsons", "Clayman" and it goes on and on.
  
  Learning the different races by heart is the first step in finding ways to defeat the various units 
 in the game. Above all Starcraft is about micro management of the units and knowing what unit you 
 can use to get the advantage over the enemy units. It's essential that you learn the most optimal 
 build order  that is to say in which order you build your buildings. Depending on what you want 
 to accomplish, the build order will look different. As you can tell, Starcraft is a very advanced 
 game to master  and while that is a great feat, it is also a high threshold.
  
  The controls are a pleasure to use. You use right-clicking to issue most basic commands such as 
 moving units and repairing buildings, mining minerals and so on. There are a bunch of hot keys 
 you need to learn to speed up performance with each race. Again, this can feel overwhelming but 
 if you spend some time at it, you'll see the benefits of it very soon.
  Starcraft requires you to keep multiple things in mind at one time. You can find yourself fighting 
 in two fronts at the same time as you need to build units and new bases. In an intense game you 
 need to make hard decisions all the time, and this makes all the difference between victory and 
 defeat.
  
  The graphics and animations are good. The game doesn't support high resolutions, so you won't be 
 able to fully make use of your widescreen monitor! You'll easily be able to distinguish the various 
 units as they all have their distinct look. The same goes for all the area effects and abilities 
 of the various units. In the singleplayer campaign there are very cool cinematic video clips that 
 portray important plot twists, or just add flavor to the Starcraft universe. While the graphics 
 in the game aren't that exciting as such, it's true visual potential becomes clear when you witness 
 dozens upon dozens of massive Battlecruisers roam across the landscape laying waste to everything 
 in their path, or when you see hundreds of Zerglings rush in to tear any living creatures apart.
 
  
  The sound is fantastic in this game. The soundtrack is very appropriate to the setting and is both 
 epic and gloomy. It's cool how they created a soundtrack for each of the three races. Every unit 
 has their unique sounds too. It surely adds to the feeling to hear your Marines scream and die 
 before the Zerg horde, or when you hear your Siege tanks start firing away with their artillery 
 cannons. All the units sound very cool and they did a great work with the voice acting. The sound 
 effects are simply great, and you can't really grow tired it.
  
  Starcraft : Brood War is a very solid strategy game. It has variety and there are a lot of different 
 tactics you can use with each of the three races. It's weaknesses are that it can be too overwhelming 
 in the beginning, and that the singleplayer campaign can feel a bit too much like a tutorial through 
 the whole campaign. The fact that you can play in many different modes, be it singleplayer, co-op, 
 team vs. team, or free for all, even with AI controlled opponents makes for some serious replay 
 value. The included map editor adds another layer of replay value on top of that, and Battle. net 
 works as a very solid and easy to use online service.
  This is a timeless classic that has pretty much everything you can expect from a real time strategy 
 game  lots of tactics, intense battles and variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianthe12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  think about this. wat kind of a corporation would sponsor a gaming team paying them 250k a year, 
 (salary only) with additional funds from advertising and fame? there is a reason for this. Because 
 this game is so PERFECT its incredibly popular. this game is the highest paying game with tons 
 of unique strategies. after 10 years of starcraft, it is still played today. SC2 will be coming 
 out later, but they are awfully having a hard time making better than starcraft broodwar, because 
 it is simply impossible. just because this game cant be recreated. adding units will unbalance 
 the 3 races in starcraft. by :GeNiuS [FcG]
  
  
  
  
  
  be coming out later, but they are awfully having a hard time making better than starcraft broodwar, 
 because it is simply impossible. just because this game cant be recreated. adding units will unbalance 
 the 3 races in starcraft. by :GeNiuS [FcG] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewspecks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Info: 
  
  This review entails both worlds of Starcraft and Broodwar. I am writing my review on the Broodwar 
 section because the expansion is what made the game great for me! I have now been playing SC for 
 more than 8 years and still find myself in competitive play online, and a sequel is in the works. 
 I don't want people to forget about Broodwar cause of SC2. They are different games and older PC's 
 play SC well and the price is low for anyone who wants to enter the world of StarCraft.
  
  Story to date: 
  
  I have played both the original and expansion many times over and still 
 love how the Zerg, Protoss, and Terran's the 3 races playable within the game feel and challenge 
 me as a player. SC is an RTS and a damn good one if you ask me. 
  
  The story is awesome and has gone as far as to have books written to continue the story. For those 
 of you who don't know what SC is about here's a quick exert. An ancient race known as the Xel'naga 
 in its divine glory finds a primitive race of creatures who become known as the Protoss. The Protoss 
 lose faith in the Xel'naga as their gods who helped them evolve and cause them to abandon their 
 efforts to create a perfect race. Xel'naga find another type of creature and starts over to create 
 the Zerg who in time learn of the Ancient Xel'naga hiding in their shadows. So created, to seek 
 perfection the mighty Zerg leader the Overmide attacks and the Xel'naga go missing to become just 
 another page in history among the Zerg and Protoss. Thrown into the mixed is a small group of Human 
 criminal banished from the (UED) United Earth Driectoret start their own civilization close to 
 the Protoss. Zerg learn that they were not the first race worked on by the Xel'naga and move across 
 the stars in search of assimilating the Protoss. With the Zerg close, kayos and destruction is 
 not far behind. An entanglement of lies and allies mixed within the 3 races leads to an uncertain 
 future. P. S With the expansion earth is bond to get involved. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Windows 95/98/NT
  Pentium 90 or higher
  16 MB RAM
  DirectX-Compatible SVGA Video Card
  
 Microsoft-Compatible Mouse
  Double-Speed CD-ROM
  (Quad Speed for Cinematics) 
  
  The game is more than 10 years old and to me the game still looks and feels great. Of course its 
 not in a 3D environment because of its age but the story and game play make up for its dated look.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  I love the sounds in SC. They really bring you into the SC universe. Each and very unit and character 
 has had a lot of thought into how the should work and feel! 
  
  Game Play:
  
  As I have said before SC is an (RTS) Real Time Strategy Game. You can play as 3 races Terran's, 
 Protoss, and Zerg in which you fight to defend or conquer a computer or player across volcanic, 
 desert, space, or ice maps to progress the story of each race. 
  
  Online Play:
  
  Fear not once you have finished the game. Online is where the action is. I have been playing SC 
 for more than 8 years online and there are still hundreds of thousands of people playing on line. 
 For those of you who are new this is where the greatest learning curve comes into play. It took 
 me about 3 months of competitive play to really master 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, and the rare 4v4's. Playing 
 against real people causes you to think and strategies your moves. I sometimes call SC modern chest. 
 Don't worry if you get tiered of 3v3's there are USE MAP SETTINGS where the community has moded 
 hundreds of maps to create a different game play experience.
  
  End:
  
  SC shows its age, but I still play it several times a week and its never to late to get caught 
 up and join the SC universe. SC2 is coming but online Battle Net and game play for the original 
 with differ enough to keep the experience alive. So come join the fun!!!!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworker1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is sure to make anyone happy.... forever. Being an amazing expansion it packs 
 the punch that Blizzard knows how to give, and being experienced in this style of game, Blizzard 
 of come to recognize what people want in a game. In this is just it. Being 10 years old Starcraft 
 still manages to give a feeling of... shall I say awesomeness and still offers that all around fun 
 that we "should" all want. From everything from the campaigns being different for all three races, (Zerg, 
 Protoss, Terran) to the fun online multiplayer that offers anything from regular matches to those 
 absolutely fun games, such as all those defense based games, and such more. The game play itself 
 for being 10 years old still is yet amazing for a game of such age already. I'm sure Starcraft 
 2 is going to be just as amazing, if not twice as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itaichi-666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  i dont ever recall a blizzard game being bad.... this is the best blizzard game out there..... nothing 
 beats starcraft bwi dont ever recall a blizzard game being bad.... this is the best blizzard game 
 out there..... nothing beats starcraft bw
  
  quote by reading review
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum.
 
  
  there is too much to say abut it and all of it is clean.
  
  first off made in 1999 i think. well anyways i rate this game a 100000000000mill/10!! this game 
 is so good. There is nothing bad about, it has funny phases if click the characters too much. its 
 got guns (WOOT!!) , tanks (DOUBLE WOOT!!!) , snipers and fighters, and two diffenernt allien races (AWESOME 
 TRIPLE WOOOOOOT!!!) you can do so much on this so so so so so so so sos os so so so so unbelible!!! 
 its so cool!!
  i dont a person who doesnt like it.... ok mabye i know some girls who dont like it 'sigh' the point 
 its amazing
  10000000000000000billion out of ten is my new rating.
  my next review will be about starcraftII so be preparied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolife982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  If anything could come close to the success of Starcraft, it would obviously be its expansion pack. 
 Whats cool about this expansion is that you basically call a whole new, full campaign to play as 
 well. It was about the same length as the original Campaign, and this time added some extra units. 
 Its been a while since I have played just the original because I always played with Brood War after 
 it came out, so I cant recall each and every additional unit that was added, but things like Lurkers, 
 Goliaths etc. come to mind. These units added to the seemingly unimproveable gameplay of the original. 
 The end of the story line leaves it PERFECTLY open for the new Starcraft 2, and I dont know about 
 anybody else who has ever played this game, but at the end of the campaign I was dying to get ahold 
 of the new one. Unfortunately, Blizzard made me wait almost a decade. But, with anything that Blizzard 
 does, they want it to be perfect, and I cannot wait. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjohn88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is amazing. Starcraft happened to be my first RTS game and my favorite as 
 well. I tried play the others, but nothing compares. Its gotten so big that in Korea its considered 
 a sport, and if you have ever watched the replays of the best Starcraft players you will know why. 
 The single player, although hard at first (when I was like 10) , is now just painfully easy after 
 you learn how to micro and macro at a mediocre level. I just actually played the single player 
 recently and even though it was easy the story line is compelling. Great characters really show 
 what their race is about, (Terran: power Protoss: honor and Zerg: The queen **** of the universe) . 
 All three races are very even. Whether you want to rely on positioning with terran, power with 
 protoss, or numbers with zerg, there are always different ways to counteract your opponent no matter 
 what race you are. The incredible balance sparked the online revolution as everyone wanted to show 
 their skills with their race and seeing how to tactically and skillfully out maneuver each other.
 
  
  Hopefully Blizzard is going to do Starcraft II right. This game really is a instant classic and 
 it would be a shame after 10 years the follow up turned out to be bad. But we will hope that Blizzard 
 will great another classic that will ruin college student lives everywhere with their painfully 
 addicting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 79th_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Soon after the release of the original game the powers that be decided an expansion set was needed 
 to further enhance the addiction of millions of people and so they came out with Star Craft Brood 
 War. Then the craziness begun, even more user created content was spawning all over the web, fan 
 fiction, campaigns, battle net you name it. 10 years after it all started it is still going strong, 
 that just doesn't stop amazing me.
  
  What Brood Wars brings to the table is the continuing story of our heroes and their crippled factions, 
 at the end of Star Craft there were no clear winners. The Zerg Broods were left without a leader 
 and going rampant, the perfect setting for the expansion pack and its new units and campaigns. 
 There is not much more to tell that hasn't already been told, this is truly an expansion pack since 
 the gameplay hasn't change much, with brood wars there were minor improvements to the gameplay 
 and AI. The difficulty level was hiked up a lot since Brood war is not an easy game, this game 
 is for people who are experts or use cheat codes.
  
  Graphically the game as not changed it's still pretty much the same, except that the game now assigns 
 a variety of colors for your troops when in missions; you no longer use the perennial blue color 
 when playing as the Terrans. The music is the same, not that there is anything bad with it, after 
 5 hours of gameplay it still is excellent. 
  
  There is only one flaw I can see in Brood War, and that is that it came after the original, Yes 
 it sounds illogic. Hear me out, when Star Craft came out it made such an impact that I believe 
 the expansion set just cant match, even though it is basically the same game but with improvements. 
 Bottom line is if you haven't played Star Craft you have to get it and if you have it, then also 
 get Brood War.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vTank
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft... where do I start? Perhaps with the single player campaign. I never really paid any 
 attention to the single player campaign and for good reason, it sucks in comparison to the multiplayer. 
 Don't even touch this game unless you are going to be going online. 
  
  You go on to say battlenet, what is there to do? A lot, and for players of all skill levels. I 
 said the difficulty is very hard because if you go online and start playing against other players 
 you will lose... a lot. I've been playing for years and I have various trainees, I follow them through. 
 It's a struggle to get better but it is also a fun experience.
  
  Really I think of Starcraft as many different games. There is use map settings which is where most 
 of the starters will probably spend a lot of time. Players make maps using the map editor and play 
 them online. There are hundreds of different use map settings games and most of them are immediately 
 addictive. There are also the melee games. There are a few different kinds of melee games. While 
 the main melee games are played on "low money" maps there are also "fastest" maps which are maps 
 where you basically get a lot more money than normal and don't have to make more bases to get more 
 money. No matter where you start out in the melee world you will be significantly challenged. Luckily 
 there are resources to help you get better. Many websites have massive archives of professional 
 replays so you can see how the best players tackle it and, if you train right, you could get up 
 to speed within a few months (but no where near solid) . 
  
  Starcraft is worth buying just for the many many use map settings maps there are available to play, 
 you won't believe the possibilities. For those of us who play melee more there will be challenges 
 and it will take a year or two to become a solid player. 
  
  So what makes this game so great anyways? Really it's just the strategy. There are literally hundreds 
 of strategies and hundreds of maps, each map having its own slant on things whether it is a huge 
 difference or small difference. There are three races to choose from, zerg, terran, and protoss. 
 They all play very different, especially zerg, and yet they are all balanced. No race is better 
 than the other, period. The game is 100% balanced, not 99.9% balanced. Why is that? Because the 
 map determines which race has an advantage. Some maps zerg will have a slight edge, others protoss 
 or terran. Regardless even with these slight advantages you won't really even think about them 
 when you play or notice them (with a few exceptions) . There are three main elements to the game, 
 economy, technology, and unit count. There are strategies that rush and try to set up a strong 
 economy while pressuring the opponent with large amounts of units, there are strategies that both 
 pressure with lots of units and use technology to their advantage, or use technology to buy time 
 to set up a good economy and then produce large amounts of units. Really the possibilities are 
 endless. I've watched about 5000 professional replays and I run into new strategies every day, 
 there are that many possibilities. 
  
  If you aren't planning on playing melee then this game will still be very fun just playing the 
 use map settings. If you do plan on playing melee prepare for a challenge and hundreds of loses, 
 but in the end it'll be rewarding. It is possible to make a living off this game but very few people 
 do that and you'll have to move to Korea if you want to make anything of it. This game is played 
 as a sport in Korea, there are people that play this game for a living. That sounds rather dull 
 but the audiences are massive and I can say honestly Starcraft is my favorite sport. The only reason 
 I can see to not buy this game if you are a fan of strategy is if you are already too deep into 
 another strategy game or you are waiting for Starcraft 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles194
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  y good but gameplay makes up for it and blizzard is making a star craft2. Its three totally differnt 
 factions but totally balanced factions bring a lot of variety to the game while its campaign is 
 very suspesful and good. The single player is pretty hard but expiernced players will be able to 
 beat it easily. Its world editor is also incredible just like all other blizzard games and of course 
 you can play battle. net for free online any time with thousands of others. You can try out other 
 peoples maps on battklenet or you can just play a normal game. Finally if you just want to beat 
 your friend or play with him you can do that too. This game easiliy deserves a 9.5 and the only 
 bad thing is that the editing isn't up too date even if it is great and the graphics are not at 
 all good because the game came out 10 years ago but still thousands of people still play it unlike 
 many games these days that can only hold your attention for a month or two you will be playng this 
 game untill starcraft2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyjh213
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep you entertained for hours. Some Koreans have been playing this game since it 
 was released.... IT WAS RELEASED IN 1998! Ok so it has nice graphics, a good story, nice online play, well 
 balanced races and nice voice acting. If you keep on clicking on your units they will say funny 
 phrases like the Protoss observer says "STOP POKING ME"! The three balanced races are the advanced 
 Protoss who have very strong units but they cost a lot and take a while to build units, the Zerg 
 who are a strange alien race who can make a ton of somewhat weak units very quickly and the Terran 
 who are in the middle, they have not strong but not weak units who aren't built incredibly fast 
 nor are built slow. The campaigns are also interesting to play and the story is great. You could 
 probably pick up the battle chest that comes with the original Starcraft and the expansion Starcraft: Brood 
 War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olympicheropaul
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I own over 250 video games. I have easily played over 1000 different games over the past 25 years. 
 Star Craft: Brood War is STILL the best game I have ever seen or played, and in my humble opinion, 
 is the greatest game of all time.
  
  What makes Brood War so great?
  
  Graphics: Not especially, although they were good at the time they were never anything to brag 
 about.
  
  Sound: The sounds and music in Star Craft and Brood War are spot on and are absolutely wonderful 
 at immersing you in the gaming experience. Sill, nothing in the soundtrack is as memorable to me 
 as a Halo theme, the Final Fantasy soundtracks, or the unforgettable verbal quips from GLaDOS in 
 Portal.
  
  Play Control: Well done, but not too different from its contemporaries. 
  
  So why all the praise? Why do millions of people around the world still play this 10 year old game?
 
  
  Answer: Good writing, great fun, and perfect balance.
  
  The Brood War campaign has a very engaging story as well as deep, likeable characters. You play 
 for the strategy and action, but the story does a great job of giving you a reason to engage in 
 the single player fun. Everyone should play through the campaign before jumping into the multiplayer. 
 It is not only a great learning tool, but it gives some background to the military characteristics 
 and cultures of the three races. 
  
  However, as any long-time Star Craft fan knows, the meat of this game is the Multi-Player. Whether 
 you are playing on-line or holding a lan party in the basement, it is hard to find more fun than 
 some Protoss on Terran on Zerg action. The new units and abilities in this expansion just add to 
 an already fulfilling and deep experience. The three races are brilliantly balanced, yet completely 
 distinctive. Each one gives you a unique way to play while never putting you at a disadvantage 
 against your opponents. A feat many games have tried to copy, but none have pulled off with the 
 same degree of success. 
  
  The game also comes with a wide enough variety of maps and game-types to keep you challenged, but 
 if you find yourself growing board with the developer's offerings you can always make your own 
 landscape to pillage. They map editor is easy to use and can really put a neat spin on the competition 
 depending on how you and your friends like to play.
  
  I am not one to overhype anything, much less a PC game, (99% of the games I play and own are on 
 consoles) but this game is the real deal. There is a lot of hype going on right now about Star 
 Craft 2 and its impending 2009 release, but if you haven't played the original or its expansion, 
 you owe it to yourself to pick them up. You will never find a greater gaming experience, especially 
 for under 20 dollars. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouriner
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is the best game I have ever played! And the game I play the most too!
  Even today, none strategy game is better! And every time a new RTS came I wonder if could be better, 
 but isn't.
  But it is only worthy today for the multiplayer... the single player is average.
  If you wonder 
 how depth it could get, I can say that even after 10 years is things to be discovered. It has the 
 biggest sets of progamers and tourneys in any game today! (In korea touneys prize is about 100.000 
 US dolars and finals could get +30.000 spectators)
  So if you want, you could spend the next 10 years playing and couldn't master it at all...
  The 
 gameplay is still the best in the genre! Probably because it is 2D! It is fast, accurate and gets 
 better and better with practice! It's very rewarding!
  
  So if you never played, try it. You wouldn't regret even today! 
  It is that great! No, it's 
 the best RTS game ever! If not the best game ever!
  
  Hope Starcraft 2 surpasses, but I doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XAntFreakX
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft brood war opens up a lot more story line, filled with old characters and new characters. 
 It will keep you interested throughout the campaign with wonderful strategy and content. Certain 
 characters will help you with your missions, and others the complete opposite. Its just one game 
 that will keep on going. You will always have a feeling of triumph when you win a battle with Jimmy 
 Raynor or the UED (United Earth Defense) , in the terran campaign. There is many new charecters 
 in each campaign. The protoss campaign is not as long as the original starcraft campaign, but it 
 still has almost as much great storyline. Brood War also opens up new and creative units that will 
 turn the tide of a battle to your favor. Such as the medic used in a squad of marines. "Its almost 
 like cheating." A friend of mine said. If you diden't like the original starcraft, this expansion 
 may fix the problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  What to say about a game that is as big, innovative, and revolutionary as Starcraft and it's expansion 
 Brood War? This game took PC gaming by storm and pretty took over an entire country of gamers (South 
 Korea) . So what made Starcraft such a great hit? 
  
  Well it combined many aspects of computer gaming and excelled in each field. Game play, balanced, 
 graphics, sound, storyline, level design, etc... 
  
  The game play is very straight forward and requires little time to learn how to effectively wage 
 war and manage your units. It has a simple resource collection, of which there are only two resources 
 to gather, and simple tech map based on what structures you have built that also allow access to 
 newer unites. Basically you simply gather resources, learn technology, defend your base while building 
 your force, and go out and kill. Simple game play that equals hundreds upon hundreds of hours of 
 fun.
  
  The units themselves are very balanced. All three races are very well balanced and yet all three 
 play VERY differently. Playing as each race is almost like playing a completely different game 
 with each since their abilities are so drastic from each other and yet.... still clicks so well 
 with the entire game. 
  
  The graphics were just complete amazing when Starcraft hit, especially the cinematics. Even today 
 the game doesn't look nearly as bad as other games that were released around the same time and 
 even after.
  
  The sound, music, and storyline are just top notch. Great music and sound and the story just really 
 grabs you and gets you into the game even more. You find yourself wanting to hurry up and finish 
 a battle just so you can see what happened or is going to happen to certain characters.
  
  This game is a pure classic and must for anyone! If by some reason you were in a coma, not born 
 yet, dead, or living under a rock and missed on this game.... then you MUST play it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarCraft-Klown
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  What to say about StarCraft.... more like What is there not to say?!
  
  StarCraft is A revolutionary game, one of the few out there I could give a strong 10... It hasn't 
 got a weak point, really. I've never played a better game, its the absolute best I've ever tried.... Aside 
 from the best game storyline I've ever immersed myself in (And I usually hate Space Age storylines) , 
 the gameplay is unbelievable. Choosing a race to play is near impossible, so I end up forced to 
 choose random, just because I love playing them all, they all have their advantages and weaknesses 
 (Example: Terran have nukes, but buildings hurt themselves when their damaged enough) . Units live 
 out their purpose beyond my usual expectations, sometimes I end up sending out suicide missions, 
 and end up destroying an entire colony. It's just completely outstanding...
  
  With Zerg speed, Protoss power, and Terran Technology, it's easy to say this game is near complete 
 balance... you gotta be good to win, thats why its so spectacular.
  
  Multiplayer, the strong side of WC3 is just as amazing in StarCraft. UMS maps are so creative on 
 Battle. net it'd make your head spin.
  
  Altogether, this is the best game on the market, an instant classic, masterpiece, and a revolution 
 in RTS gaming... It will be remembered for many, many decades... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a real time strategy game with plenty of variety, this is your game. Starting 
 off, Starcraft: Broodwar has been packed in with a whole new campaign for the three races: protoss, 
 zerg, and terran. Each of their campaigns lead you through the deep story where you will learn 
 your basic skills of Starcraft. The campaign isnt much since it is too easy, especially if you've 
 played the original. The game hasn't changed much from the original, but the graphics have been 
 improved slightly. You'll still experience the high quality speech from small scenes and when you're 
 playing by click on the unit. The AI has also been improved by a lot. This time around, AI will 
 be smarter, but it won't take too much affect on you.
  
  The single player (not campaign mode) is for you to test the skills you earned during the campaign 
 to work. You can experiment on which strategies are best here. You may even test out maps you made 
 in this mode. The Starcraft: Broodwar AI is designed to respond to how the map is made. If you 
 make a map that has too much money, AI will be easy. This is just an example. Blizzard has put 
 in tons of new multiplayer maps and the original map "Big Game Hunters" is back. This map was known 
 for its brutal and persistent computer AI which most Battle. net players practiced on.
  
  Veterans of the original Starcraft will remember the good campaign editor. Here, you can build 
 your own maps or even create your own missions! This is well done and is easy to use. Almost anything 
 you want to create can be made with this program which comes with the expansion as well as the 
 original.
  
  Brood War gives you the basic three teams to pick. The three races each have their own strong and 
 weak points. For example, terran firebats can burn the fleshy zerg easily with their high tech 
 units. Terran should be used only for experts since their units can't take too many hits and require 
 a lot of microing (doing a lot at once) . Protoss is in the middle. They're units are built to take 
 hits, but are expensive. The money is worth it since they have the strongest units in the game. 
 Zerg is recommended for newbies. They have cheap units which you can build in large bulk. Swarm 
 your enemies if you want, as they are good at rushing enemies. Your units are weak, but pack a 
 punch when sticking together and used the right way. Take this into consideration as most of your 
 time will be spent on the multiplayer. Battle. net is free and you can go against anyone from friends 
 to even strangers to test your skills.
  
  Overall, this game will keep you glued in until another real time strategy game developed by Blizzard 
 is out. Its outstanding new units and necessity for strategy keeps you coming back for more Starcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprozelth
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is not an easy game for beginner. Even if you completed the single player, you have not 
 even scratched the surface of multilayer. It took my about 3 month until I am considered not noobish 
 online. I started playing FPM (don't play this mode) which involves no skills at all. After a while 
 I tried low money map and that is when the game started to get fun. I started exploring new strategies 
 which improve my skill. The only part which I don't like about Starcraft is that how easy it is 
 for hackers to hack and how the people just call everyone hacker. That was just a brief story of 
 my starcraft experience. I won't reveal anything else and let you experience for yourself the 2 
 year orgasm. So go to the store and pick this up  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseboy666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Again, I can't say much that hasn't already been said about Brood War, but I will say this:
  
  IT'S MOTHER******* HARD!
  
  And that's ok. Blizzard obviously assumed that people who are 
 playing the 3 new Campaigns have beaten the first Starcraft without cheats (and if you have, I 
 salute you) the new campaigns continue the on-going story of the war-torn Koprolu sector, and the 
 war between Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. 
  
  Anyone who played Starcraft knows that by the end of it, things were looking pretty pear-shaped 
 for all the races, and this is reflected in Broodwar. The story gets much more desperate, and while 
 it may not be apparent (probably because of the character's smugness) the three races aren't just 
 fighting for kicks anymore, its for survival, (though that still dosn't mean you cant waste as 
 many of your poor units as you wish)
  
  Mission design surpasses that of the original, but by the start of the Zerg campaign it seems like 
 the devs were running out of steam. The Zerg missions are mostly comprised of "use this meagre 
 force and base to completely annihilate this overwhelming force CAUSE WE SAID SO!" While there 
 were missions in the original like this, I still find it kind of annoying that the missions feel 
 like your outnumbered, outgunned, and out maneuvered to the point of artificiality. 
  
  Despite that, there a great joy and challenge to play, and I'll take a good mission in Broodwar 
 over some Sudoku any day.
  
  By today's standards, multiplayer seems quite dated. There's a few things that I feel could be 
 added (seriously, is it SO HARD to make so that I can queue multiple builds when I select multiple 
 workers?!?!??!??!?!?!) and while these can and will detract a little from multi-player nowadays, 
 its still great fun. But beware, you could get your butt UBER-PWNED a couple* times and that wont 
 be fun. Just stick with it and you'll be surprised how much you can pick up. 
  
  So if you have starcraft, but not Broodwar, buy it now. The new campaigns are a great challenge, 
 multiplayer stands up well, and the units which I have failed to talk about until now are a much-needed 
 addition to the races. 
  
  As an expansion pack, Broodwar definitely delivers.
  
  *Hundred
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EE2lemmonhead
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War, is the only official expansion pack to Starcraft. After hearing the announcment 
 of Starcraft 2, I had decided to buy Starcraft: Battlechest. I had only played it once before in 
 my life. I was excited when I got it, but i wasn't thinking that it would last me quite that long (maybe 
 keep me going through the summer with some intense multiplayer games) . Boy was I wrong!
  
  Gameplay: 10: Brood War added 7 new units to Starcraft. For the Terran, it gave the medic, with 
 3 abilities (Heal, restoration, and optic flare) and the valkyrie missile frigate (I must say the 
 medic is much more useful, however that doesnt mean the valkyrie is a bad unit, it just doesn't 
 have much of a place in any 1v1 game, however in 2v2 it can be used frequently) . The protoss got 
 3 new units. The first unit is the dark templar, which is a stealthed melee fighter that was present 
 for a little bit in the Starcraft campaign but was never able to be used by the player. If you 
 have two dark templar, you can merge them into another unit called the dark archon, which has 3 
 abilities: Feedback, Mind Control, and Maelstrom. The last protoss unit is the corsair, which is 
 an air to air support fighter that has 1 ability called disruption web. The zerg got two new units. 
 Hydralisks can now morph into lurkers, which shoot subterranean spines which excel at destroying 
 infantry. They got a heavy assault air to air fighter, called the devourer, which evolves from 
 a mutalisk. The game also added three new upgrades, Charon Boosters, which increases the range 
 of the goliath's missiles for the terran and 2 upgrades for the zerg ultralisk: Chitinous plating (which 
 gives it better armor) and anabolic synthesis (which gives it more speed) . You may say, "That seems 
 like such a small expnasion pack, how is it so good if it barely adds anything?" Well the answer 
 is, each new unit fills a unique role that wasn't filled in the original Starcraft. The medic is 
 the most obvious one, which fixed the imbalance of Terran vs Zerg matches. One of the common Protoss 
 vs Zerg strategies today focuses a lot on corsairs and dark templars, which wouldn't be there at 
 all if it wasn't for brood war. Lurkers are a major anti-infantry zerg unit, which is a role that 
 the race lacked in the original game. The valkyrie has seen great use against zerg air units in 
 team games. Every new unit fills a niche which greatly improved the balance and strategical complexity 
 of starcraft, and without Brood War, starcraft wouldn't be what it is today. It also adds 3 Single-player 
 campaigns, which are a lot the same as the original campaigns except harder. Compared to campaigns 
 today, they are average, but still can be quite fun.
  
  Graphics: No score: I won't rate the graphics considering it is an old game, but i will say a little 
 about them. When the idea of starcraft was first conceived, they were using the same game engine 
 as warcraft 2. Many people complained about that, calling it "Warcraft in space" and blizzard then 
 created a new graphics engine. At the time, the graphics were pretty good. They weren't really 
 top of the line, like Crysis or Far Cry 2, but they were good. However, the good thing about the 
 graphics was that, even at a resolution of 640x480, you were able to distinguish all the different 
 units well, and, at the end of the day, that's what an rts gamer really wants.
  
  Sound: 9: Each sound was unique. If a unit was attacking your base, you instantly knew it was attacking 
 your base, which is important in such a fast paced game. The only real things that would confuse 
 you were that arbiters, dragoons, and photon cannons all make the same sounds, but it doesn't really 
 matter. If you are getting attacked, you know it. The game also has a very good original soundtrack, 
 which really gets you in the mood for the pace of the game.
  
  Value: 10: At $20 for the battlechest, you will easily get your money's worth, considering the 
 game has potentially unlimited replayability.
  
  Tilt: 10: I love this game, and will probably be playing it for a large portion of my life, even 
 after starcraft 5, brood of the xel'naga returns to the zerg-infested protoss homeworld come's 
 out.
  
  Overall: I'd give it a 9.8 if this stupid gamespot thing would let me, but... that rounds up to 
 10!!!
  
  gg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv46
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has always made good games. I own all non WOW blizzard titles and know them all well. 
 This means that I can easily say that Brood Wars is easily the best. It carries on brilliantly 
 from Starcraft and adds just enough to the game to take it to the next level.
  The new units fill voids that were definatly noticable in Starcraft, but still fit in as well as 
 if they were there in the original, especially the new Terran unit, the Valkyrie missile frigate. 
 I do not agree with the common view that they are a waste and are very effective at destroying 
 the zerg air units.
  The Protess Dark Templars see a welcome return, as they were present in the Starcraft campaign, 
 and some of the best Protoss ground assault units.
  Brood Wars is better than Starcraft, than any Warcraft and I would go so far as to say it is almost 
 on par with Command & Conquer Red Alert, which I believe to be easily the best RTS game ever.
 
  All in all, Blizzard will have their work cut out if they plan to make Starcraft II even half 
 as good as Brood Wars.
  
  273% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FernadoCR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  its one of the best games ever, i think that you feel addicted to this game, i play it since i 
 was ten and i still play it every day, its not a very difficult game, its well explained, and im 
 sure that starcraft 2 is going to be as well as its father, the original starcraft, try it and 
 you will see that what i said is not a lie. Its a very good multiplayer game too, it has very good 
 maps for play in LAN or Battle. net
  As i said, enjoy it because its one of the best games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  One has to admit that Starcraft has been a powerhouse of a game since it's inception into the video 
 gaming world. Ever since the game came out in 1998, the gaming world still has a lot of people's 
 hearts locked onto this one game. To improve and expand the universe, the most logical thing to 
 do was to release an expansion.
  Sometimes, expansions do little to improve or add to games. Generally, they add some units here 
 and there and a short campaign for nearly the full price of the original standalone game. Brood 
 War does not do this one bit. Instead, the game has a full campaign and somehow actually improves 
 the game play of the game so drastically, it's hard to imagine a more balanced game.
  Brood War advances the story of the original game with three new campaigns, one for each race. 
 There's ten levels each so that's thirty new levels with a few alternate missions in between depending 
 on what you choose to do for certain missions. Many of your favourite characters are back including 
 Jim Raynor, Fenix and others.
  The story is quite involving and still has all of the voice elements and acting from Starcraft 
 but adds a another new sense of urgency as the UED or United Earth Directorate plan to use the 
 Overmind for themselves. Of course, this doesn't go entirely as planned and a three way war is 
 boiled down soon to getting rid of Kerrigan, who has rallied her meager Zerg forces into a new 
 powerhouse.
  Each race has two new units, and though graphically the game looks the same, you won't miss a beat 
 as the frantic action continues. The Terran race gets the aid of medics which can heal any organic 
 unit and the Valkyrie, a massive air-to-air ship that has no equal. The zerg get to upgrade hydralisks 
 into lurkers that shoot spines when burrowed and can also upgrade the mutalisk into a devourer, 
 an air-to-air monstrosity that can slow down enemy attack rates with it's acidic spores. Lastly, 
 we can not forget about the race from Aiur, the Protoss get the use of Dark Templars, which are 
 always cloaked and do massive damage to land units with their blades and to heat up the skies, 
 they have Corsairs which are very fast and cause splash damage to air units while able to cover 
 the ground with disruption webs preventing ground units from attacking. There are also a few upgrades 
 to a few existing units such as allowing Goliaths longer ground-to-air missiles and giving the 
 ultralisks more armor.
  Starcraft was already a very balanced RTS game but with Brood Wars, the game shines even more if 
 that's possible. Don't get me wrong, when the expansion came out, a few things seemed to be out 
 of whack but with the continued support from Battle. Net, the game continues to refine itself into 
 the fine, immaculate version millions of people still play today.
  Music and sounds are virtually unchanged from the previous game but that isn't a knock since the 
 music was so memorable anyways. It's also hard not to get a little freaked out when you hear the 
 Dark Templar blade chop your marines away in one hit.
  Overall, the game is not perfect, but nearly and progamers can't get enough of it. If you have 
 Starcraft and for some unbeknown reason that I can't fathom still don't have Brood Wars, you must 
 go pick it up to see what it is all about. You won't, no... can't regret it. Simply said, this 
 game is still awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcktlnt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  This is more of a story than a review, but this is an awesome game, and I highly recommend it to 
 RTS gamers.
  
  It's been a while since I played the game. I mean I replayed it again during the summer when I 
 heard that Starcraft 2 was made, but too little playing on BNET and too many hackers so I couldn't 
 find a good game. Then all my friends only wanted to play versus computers so I had no way of growing 
 skillwise. But it is an extremely fun game. I found myself playing the modded levels more compared 
 to playing for games I paid for on the PS2. Great memories
  
  When it first came out, I didn't have internet access and I only played against the computers. 
 I sucked so bad then. After two or so years, my friend played on BNET and I started playing on 
 BNET too. That experience was so freaken amazing. I joined a clan and they basically taught me 
 the ways of harvesting, expanding, and macro management. Now I just need to figure out micro management.
 
  
  Seriously, if you haven't seen the Korean youtube videos, you are missing out on their mastering 
 of the micro management. Using one vulture to destroy 3 zerglings, or 1 marine to take on a lurker 
 or controlling 3 marines to kill 1 lurker without losing one single unit. *impressed* I CANNOT 
 WAIT FOR STARCRAFT 2! (Oh god... I hope my computer can handle that game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlie3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Aw... Starcraft... If you were born after 1992 or so and has never heard about Starcraft, I understand. 
 You have your pokemons and Yugiohs to worry about anyway. But if you were born between 1970 and 
 1990 and still has never heard about Starcraft, you shouldn't call yourself a hardcore RTS gamer, 
 EVER.
  
  What can I say? This game is like Adam Smith of the Economy or Karl Marx of Socialism, heck or 
 even Newton or Einstein of Physics. What I mean is that this game will echo and echo again for 
 decades if not centuries as long as people play RTS games. IT'S THAT GOOD. Starcraft created the 
 foundation of what every RTS game should be after countless trials from Blizzard and Westwood with 
 their Warcraft and C&C series, which were very very good games but had some flaws or didn't have 
 the "WOW" factor in them.
  
  If you like playing today's leading RTS games like Company of Heroes, C&C3, World in Conflict and 
 so on, try play this game, starting from the episode 1 campaign. You will see what every other 
 people who had been praising this game again and again saw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroPice
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The original Starcraft proved to be an innovative, complex, and deep rts, and brood war only expands 
 and complements on what the original game did so well. Starcraft was not broken and Brood war is 
 not trying to fix it, all in all this expansion proves to be a must have for rts enthusiests or 
 just gamers in general, and best of all you could probably run this game on a machine thats 15 
 years old! So if youve never played the original or you just feel like playing one of the best 
 games ever made with a few tweaks, brood war is a no lsoe situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hengif
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games that i have seen in years an to those of you who din't know 
 what RTS means it mean Real Time Strategie. the campaign Editor is common these days but more simpler 
 to mnuver and this game will work on any computers now adays so you don't have an excuse not to 
 buy it. This game is hard to master but its just really fun to play and it will have you playing 
 for hours on end but most matches only last 30 minuetes so even a quick game is fun. For instance 
 my brother also plays Starcraft: Brood War and we always love to see whose better i've only beaten 
 him once but i knew why so i will gain supremacy over him and plus after a while you can become 
 a player of your best race and dominate. For instance my best race is the Zerg and I know about 
 all the units. Also in the game there are three races Terran the humans, Zerg the insect race, 
 and Protoss the Advanced race each have there strenght and weaknesses and some fair better against 
 other but you can still be the best with only one race.
  
  From Starcraft player Hengf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3LL_Hunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  -basically, if you own a pc, and enjoy pc games, and have the original starcraft i don't know WTF 
 is wrong with you seriously, comon man. not owning starcraft is like eating bread when the peanut 
 better and jelly are in front of you. like how could you resist... anywho...
  
  -so basically the gaming is aw some, i love the campaign, for both but not worth playing twice. 
 
  
  -the golden egg in this game is the battle net FRICKEN AWESOME, its like xbox live for halo 3 but 
 for starcraft, i constantly am playing the custom games, and creating my own.
  
  -its so easy to create your own maps and games, it completely tells you instructions on how to 
 do it, i enjoyed so much i have 2 copies... 1 for each pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00kev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  NO
  
  Thats because starcraft is THE best RTS I have ever played. And still to date (2007) millions of 
 people are still playing on battle. net. And I'm one of them. The graphics are perfect for a game 
 like this, because you don't need some amazing super expensive computer to run this. I tried running 
 this game on a 1.0Gz computer with 64mb of RAM and it ran perfectly. The campaign is perfect and 
 the online adds unlimited replay value. I have been playing this game since 2001 and I still play 
 it today. Another great thing about this is the ability to make mods for it. And there is an option 
 online to play them with other people.
  
  This game is the best RTS that ever. The only game comparable to this is command and conquered 
 3. But that game came out about 9 years latter than this, and you also need an expensive computer 
 to run that. Thus making Starcraft one of the Best RTS's I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is really addicting with all the 1vs1-1vs7 games and the custom maps like helms deep 
 and crash rpg I can play it all day but. I say blizzard needs a report thing where u can report 
 hackers and get there A**es banned cause one there's a hack called oblivion which they can ban 
 you out of the game even if they're not the host of the game. Another reason is that the ppl treat 
 you like crap and when they find out someone's a girl they start saying sexually harassment stuff 
 to them like they'll rape her. This game needs improvement online. Ppl say runescape sucks but 
 at least it has good rules but instead of cursing they say noob way to much on rs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John__locke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War took all the brilliance of the original Starcraft and built upon it with new 
 gameplay balances, additional campaign missions, and new units for each race. One of the most significant 
 problems that faces any online multilayer game is that inevitably one race or faction is overpowered 
 compared to the others. Not so with Starcraft. Protoss, Zerg, and Terran all have viable strengths 
 and weaknesses even in high level play. There are many viable, good strategies for each race as 
 well, which is why the game is still played today. The game also includes a map editor allowing 
 for perfectly symmetric multiplayer maps to be created, and for maps that promote different strategies. 
 The map editor comes with several sample maps to help teach use of the powerful trigger editor. 
 The GUI for the game is seamless and intuitive, as well as flexible unit grouping and simple, clean 
 gameplay. It has a steep learning curve; simple to learn, difficult to master. Hotkeys for nearly 
 every in-game action allow for faster activation of unit abilities, as well as fast unit switching 
 for micro-management. The campaign drops you right into the thick of the aftermath of the story 
 from Starcraft. A new Terran faction appears, and the Protoss and Zerg work to recover from the 
 devastation caused by the destruction of the overmind. Including missions with variable goals and 
 difficulties for each race, including a secret mission and a final battle that will tax even the 
 most experienced of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cA-cerebrate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  What more is there to say, it's Starcraft! If any game is better than this, even SC2, then it defies 
 the laws of physics! However, in accordance with those laws, nothing is perfect so I give it real 
 close! Starcraft provides gameplay, story, and action all in proper balance. If everyone played 
 it, the world would be a happier place! With its dedicated fan following, Starcraft will likely 
 be written of as long as computers exist. Starcraft dares anyone to make a more well-balanced fun-filled 
 game. And if someone succeeds, then I'll rush to buy the game, with my last dollar if neccesary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Straight up, this is one of the most classic strategy games you will play. It barely ever gets 
 old, and when it does, you only have to take a break from it for about a week or two until it rejoices 
 to its best playability. With literally thousands of custom maps still in the making, you cant 
 run into the same game more than 5 times unless you want to. The community is still largely active, 
 so you will always have someone to play with. It is quite satisfying to go on a computer killing 
 rampage all by yourself and come out the victor.
  
  A must-buy for anyone that loves the RTS genre.
  
  The graphics are good, atleast considering 
 when it was made. It is also only using a 2D Engine, so don't get your hopes up after seeing Company 
 of Heroes.
  
  The Campaign is quite boring if you have the same attention span as I do.
  
  The Multiplayer is legendary.
  
  And, the price is very low, only costing about $20 Canadian 
 for Starcraft and Starcraft BW, and both Strategy guides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  
  Thats all i can say. this game is so much fun for any gamer. I play this game everyday because 
 it is soo good. This game came out years ago and people still play it today. I vote this best PC 
 game of all time because of its greatness. I have a problem with people who hate starcraft. It 
 gets on my nerves. If you have never played this game. THEN BUY iT. it is the best ever made. 10/10. 
 5 Stars. PERFECT. If you can think of a better PC game then plz tell me and ill take a look. From 
 what i see this is the best. The cream of the Crop. the cusp of the stuff. Just goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carenot15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  starcraft is one the games that shaped modren gameing. In many ways it is the best game every made. 
 Great online play, great editor ,tightly blanced, and just plan fun .In Korea it has been one of 
 the most populary games for the last 9 years this is the mother of all RTS games. despite the graphics 
 you can have hours of fun playing this game. If you are looking for hours opon hours of fun that 
 is extremly easy to run then get starcraft. besides starcraft 2 is coming so this will help you 
 better uder stand the sencond one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is classic, every1 should at least, know what StarCraft is, maybe no the 1st RTS game 
 created, but the 1 that made this genre 1 of the best.
  In my opinion: It owns:
  Command and Conquer... any
  Age of empires... any
  Battle for middle earth... both
  
  even 
 its brother:
  Warcraft... any
  
  the game has everything, good story, 4 the time- excelent graphics, Long enough n good dificulty 
 level.
  The multiplayer is adictive, just finish 1 game 2 start another 1 right away.
  this game is a MUST-HAVE for any person that can call him/herself a GAMER... seriusly
  Now all 
 we wait 4 SC2, it will rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lycan_Tiger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game ever. I learned to play since i was really little and it was fun ever 
 since.
  Sure graphics may be well... 2D and kind of blocky but thats not what matters. The characters are 
 very realistic in a sense that they show emotions. You could see anger on their faces, hear the 
 sadness in their voice, and tell that they are showing what they feel. Game play is also very exciting. 
 You can never tell what your opponent has planned (unless you are using something to spy on them) . 
 Online play is amazing also. You can play the traditional mine, build, fight or you can play a 
 variety of games made by ordinary people! Ranging from role playing games ,such as dungeons and 
 dragons and rps where you literally do what you want, to vast games on movies and tv shows. I highly 
 recommend this to people who like any kind of game. Starcraft online play (called battle. net) gives 
 you what ever game you what and all you need to do is have an imagination! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I'm not a serious Blizzard or Starcraft fan, so well, though I like Starcraft very much, Brood 
 War doesn't really suit my taste for an RTS fix. After tons of harrowing time spent on it, I find 
 myself pitifully exhausted during the ending credit sequence.
  
  As the name explains, Brood War features huge maps with ridiculously over-crowded enemy bases crawling 
 with nasty heaps of enemy units, crudely forcing you to mindlessly butcher your way to victory 
 even if strategic planning still exists. Because the maps are so big, the usual gamer may get tired 
 easily out of planning every strategy move for every assault in a single scenario. However, true 
 fans will find this their paradise. For me, it made me steer clear of RTS games for at least a 
 couple of months after Brood War.
  
  The new units only serve to add alternate options for your strategy without much direct offensive 
 help, as the new air units mostly counter each other off. The dark archons are more interesting 
 though. Once again, Brood War may not be ideally entertaining for the casual gamer, but is a gem 
 for dedicated Starcraft or RTS fans.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I liked this game and I am excited for Starcraft II. I liked all the armies and their units, but 
 my favorite has to be the Protoss. The Zerg were probably the only army I wasnt the best in. The 
 singleplayer missions were quite easy. They were interesting too, the missions I was best in were 
 the Tarrens and Protoss. I liked online play, but the only downfall was that a lot of the people 
 thought they were all pros and they don't think that everyone is even in skill and you can help 
 the new people because if you do that will get them good too. I let anyone into my games even if 
 they were new to the game. I still play this game to this day and I play the other Blizzard Classic 
 Diablo II: Lord of Destruction as well. This just goes to show you even if the games graphics aren't 
 the best they are still good in gameplay. I liked this game, thus it recieves a good score today. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirosway
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Perfect game! The best strategy game!!! great multi-player! The Campaing is amazing! play StarCraft 
 from 1998 until today! All games must buy this game and come to battlenet.... The battlenet of this 
 game has much more fun that others strategy games!!! I am the first man that buyed this game and 
 i dont regret the money that spent for this game!!! This game has very good graphics with very weak 
 system.... The gameplay is amazing, you cant know whay happen next like others games.... Also Sound 
 is fantastic... every unit has incredible voices!!! In conclusion the value for this game is very 
 big.... and it cost only 15 Euros!!! Buy it now!!! Trust me!!! LOok this!!!
  
  Star craft-System Requirements (PC) -
  Computer: Starcraft: Brood War requires an IBM PC or 100% 
 compatible computer, with a
  Pentium&reg; 90MHz or better processor. Your computer must have at least 16 megabytes of RAM.
 
  Operating System: You must be utilizing Windows&reg; 95 or later or Windows&reg; NT 4.0 or later
 
  to play Starcraft: Brood War on your system.
  Controls: A keyboard and a 100% Microsoft&reg;-compatible mouse are required.
  Drives: A hard 
 drive with 80 MB of disk space available and a double speed CD-ROM drive are
  necessary for installation and play. A quad-speed CD-ROM drive is necessary to view cinematic
 
  sequences.
  Video: Starcraft: Brood War requires a Local-bus SVGA video card that supports DirectDraw&reg;.
 
  You must have DirectX&reg; 2.0 or better installed on your system to play the game (DirectX 5.0 
 is
  included on the Starcraft CD.)
  Sound: Starcraft: Brood War will work with any DirectX 2.0 or better compatible sound card.
  
 To play the music during the game, your sound card must be configured for playing digital audio. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banestyrelsen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Starcraft/Brood War is is one of those rare games where all the necessary ingredients have come 
 together to create virtual perfection: the right idea of what a game like this needs (and doesn't 
 need) ; the right people to make it happen; the right commitment to see it through till the end. 
 The result is a game that's so polished it puts all other RTS games, if not all games, to shame. 
 This is not a strategy game for history buffs. It's not a simulation, and it's not aimed at people 
 who only play computer games that relate to their interests (such as WWII or sports) . This is a 
 game made for people who play games for their own sake. And what Starcraft delivers is incredibly 
 solid. This is an intensely competitive and fast-paced game. Starcraft is known for its excellent 
 multiplayer mode, however the singleplayer campaign is also state of the art. It's story consists 
 of fundamentally standard sci-fi elements, but it's executed extremely well, and the voice acting 
 is superb across the board, which gives the game a lot of charm. Starcraft is 2D. It runs at 640x480, 
 the same resolution as Warcraft II. Its visuals were considered obsolete already in 1998, when 
 Total Annihilation had already been out for a year. This is the reason why the reviews aren't more 
 favourable, and why Starcraft scored worse than Total Annihilation in most publications. PC Gamer 
 UK gave it 81%, and spent most of the text comparing it to Total Annihilation (94%) and Red Alert 
 (95%) , proving they just didn't get it. I since haven't read a single issue, and I've since been 
 proven right (100%) . SC has stood the test of time far better than any of those games, and is still 
 the best competitive RTS out there almost ten years on. The graphics aren't even bad. Artistically 
 they're amazing, just not high-tech. More importantly - and this is what PC Gamer didn't get - 
 Starcraft's graphics are FUNCTIONAL. They're not there to make the game pretty; they're designed 
 to help the player play the damn game. Starcraft doesn't sacrifice an ounce of gameplay to make 
 it more realistic or cool . No unit in Starcraft can be mistaken for another unit, even at a glance, 
 unlike e. g. Total Annihilation. This eliminates a whole heap of obstacles for interacting with 
 the game, something many other RTS-games are plagued by. Unlike most games today, Starcraft is 
 a game that was meant to be PLAYED, rather than watched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Usually expansions to games don't add much content. Starcraft: Brood War is however, an exception 
 to this. This new edition to the starcraft franchise adds many to the game. It adds new units for 
 each race as well as a fresh new campaign. As usual each mission in the campaign is varied in objectives 
 making for varied strategy use. The new units for each race also add more strategy and resource 
 management to the game. From the very first mission in the campaign to the very last mission the 
 games story grabs hold of you and never lets go. I have played the campaign twice in order to grip 
 the stories magic. The game also has battle. net as most blizzard games do to test your strategic 
 mind against another. The only complaint I have yet again is that there is still no improvement 
 in graphics which really would make the game virtually perfect. The graphics aside this game is 
 worth buying if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleStilkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was really good but still I thought they kind of lost it in some parts but still is a 
 really great game. Recommend playing especially Battle. Net REALLY FUN GAMES THAT PEOPLE MAKE like 
 defense maps and bonds and other cool ones. Other than then that I would say it is a really good 
 game and I would go out and get it if you own the original version of StarCraft. And now I need 
 to waste some space so I can submit this. Only fourteen more words, ten nine, eight, seven, six, 
 five, four, three, two, one. Yes. And now I can submit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  More thatn 10 years ago StarCraft firs appeared and toke the (small and still young ) games comunity 
 by surprise. Then years after you can still see televised game of it. Almost every game copied 
 a bit of SC's succesfull elements.
  Some say that this game did not make blizzard what it is today, that other games they produced 
 gave tham the much deserved reputation but i believe that it was this game that made it all happen. 
 The graphis are out of this world for the year it was done not only in game but also tha cinematics. 
 The races are extremly wel designed and balanced from buildings to costs , untis and abilities. 
 The story is complex and well put to play. I bet you can't say that about other RTS's, an to top 
 it all each unit has a counter from each of the other two races.... Multyplayer is great both fun 
 and chalenging, system reuqirements are very low ( it work well 10 years ago) . Almost no bug or 
 bad thing can be poited at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HannahAngel
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 31, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best 
 The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best The best v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  With the announcement of Starcraft 2 I thought it would be time to review a game that I have loved 
 and sometimes hated over the years. The graphics may not be as hyped as Supreme Commander but it 
 has in my opinion the 3 vital things for an rts. Now this game has everything an rts game needs, 
 strategy, re playability and a dedicated online fan base. This game has so much strategic depth, 
 that it makes me wonder where the rts games of the present went wrong. No race plays like the other. 
 If you play Protoss like Zerg well then your going to have a lot of problems. Now my only true 
 issue with the strategy of the game is the lack of unit combat. I'm just being picky. Yes I'm aware 
 the unit combat is still a new thing. I hope that the second Starcraft has unit combat. Now this 
 game is 10 years old and with people still buying it one must know that the online fan base and 
 re playability is amazing. Now online while fun, is very difficult. Difficult as in new players 
 will have to accept that they will lose a lot before they see a single victory. Thats only because 
 of the veteran players. Now I must admit I rarely see victories on my side. Yet I still love this 
 game. Sure I get frustrated but who doesn't. All in all a great game and I suggest anyone who doesn't 
 have it to pick it up and brush up those skills so you can have some fun when Starcraft 2 comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadkat
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Generic two word review: Great Game
  
  It possesses all the wonderful things previously incorporated in the original Starcraft:
  
 
  -Singleplayer is not the best, but it is enough to teach you basic strategies and is a fun experience. 
 Missions are easy to understand (that is, if you play the campaigns in order) and relates to the 
 overall story well. However, experienced Starcraft players should just skip this and get down to 
 the dirt, since if you already know the rules, singleplayer is pretty much pointless compared to 
 multiplayer.
  
  -Amazing multiplayer. After eight or so years of sitting on shelves, B. net Starcraft BW is still 
 very active, with hundreds of thousands of players logging on each day. Different modes fit your 
 mood; if you want a game with a team to work with, or if you want free for all game. Of course, 
 there are Use Map Settings maps to fill all the gaps in between. A simple (but effective) friends 
 system links you with people you know, and people you just met, instantly. If you happen to not 
 like B. net, there are other multiplayer options such as playing on a local network and linking 
 computers physically with a cable.
  
  -Graphics are something to be desired, but this was made some time ago, no? To me, it maintains 
 a simple, elegant feel, without all the overstuffed 3D. -Speaking of overstuffed, Starcraft, along 
 with BW takes up 115 MB of space. Quite an achievement for such a great game.
  
  Bonuses:
  
  -A few new units for each race to improve strategic experience.
  
  -Some balance 
 improvements to specific units.
  
  Also, just as a fun thing to know, Starcraft (now with BW) is a sport in Korea. Yeah. A sport.
 
  
  So, if you do not have this expansion (and its parent game) , get off your chair, go to the store, 
 and buy it. Can't really beat $10 for the battle chest (Starcraft, BW, and their respective strategy 
 guides by Prima) .
  
  Go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  You don't have to be a RTS fan just to love this game, this game is just awesome. Even though it 
 came out in 1998 it still had users still playing it. i can't say enough how much I love this game. 
 I gurantee you once you get your fingers on this game you will now be able to stop. So there are 
 3 races that you could choose from: The Terran which are the humans, The Zerg which are Aliens. 
 and finally the Protoss which are very advanced in technology. Each Race has its pros and cons 
 but you could figure out which one is the right on for you. Each campaign has it's own difficulty 
 but the game suggests that you start out with the Terran campaign since they are the easiest then 
 Zerg then Protoss. Each campaign is impressive. They have a very good story line and you will fall 
 in love with the story. Although Starcraft uses a lot of hotkeys but once you practice with them 
 you could be good. Starcraft uses countless amount of strategies you could use with your units. 
 So in conclusion this game is VERY GOOD. I have a very strong feeling that this game is going to 
 sit on the king of RTS games throne for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  While the game starcraft is really good this expansion pack made it even better. This expansion 
 pack extended the story and boy was it good. Gameplay wise it added new units to each of the 3 
 races. The CGI cutscenes look great and are a little improved over their appearence from the last 
 ones. I was dissapointed it didn't add any new races but it was still good enough. The game still 
 looks great without any graphical touch-ups and the new units really make you re-think some strategies. 
 The addition of units such as the medic for example, can make marines harder to kill because the 
 medics keep healing them making them have longer lifespans. Overall this is a great expansion pack 
 and made starcraft have more lasting power. It also showed that blizzard didn't just accidently 
 release one of the best RTS ever and that they knew what they were doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  StarCraft is arguably the best real-time strategy game ever. The single player mode of the game 
 is extremely boring, however StarCraft is awesome online! Blizzard Entertainment's Battle. net supports 
 both StarCraft and Brood War, Battle. net has friends lists, channels, ladders, stat tracking, customizable 
 profiles, live tech support, automatic updates that you can cancel half way through and continue 
 where you left off the next time you run the game, map-downloading, built in e-mail, works with 
 mods, and so much more. Well StarCraft isn't all that great unless you have Brood War, which comes 
 with new units and is required to play most maps. Other than Battle. net, StarCraft stands out in 
 the crowd of other RTS games for having the most players and for having "multiplayer Use Map Settings" 
 (or just UMS for short) . Use Map Settings completely changed real-time strategy, it lets you make 
 movie maps, defense maps, bounds, RPG maps, Role Play maps, Evolves maps, etc. StarCraft also has 
 several other modes besides Use Map Settings, including Melee, One vs. One, Free For All, Top vs. 
 Bottom, World Cyber Games, Ladder, Team Capture the Flag, Capture the Flag, Slaughter, Greed, Team 
 Melee, etc. StarCraft is also known for it's support as an official game of the  
 Gaming Tour [/URL] . So the SS Free's official rating for StarCraft is 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fronttrigger2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Plainly, StarCraft is my favorite strategy game of all time, bar none.
  
  The Brood War expansion pack only enhances the original. Each species gets a few new units and 
 new upgrades. Species are divided into three types:
  
  Terran - a human like species, Protoss - an alien like race and the Zerg - giant bug like creatures 
 ala the movie Alien.
  
  The premise is simple, build up resources and build up your army. The great thing is that now you 
 have more options of defense and offense. I personally prefer to play as Terran, but I can work 
 with Protoss.
  
  Graphics and gameplay are basically the same as before, meaning that they are great.
  
  This 
 is probably the best expansion out there, for any game.
  
  I could play this game for hours on end. Great game for the PC!!! A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigaras
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Original StarCraft was one of the first real time strategy games I ever played along with Command 
 and Conquer Tiberian Sun. Later I got the expansion for StarCraft Brood War and Firestorm for Command 
 and Conquer. In a few days I completed all Command and Conquer campaigns, tried another games like 
 Total Annihilation, Red Alert, Knights and Merchants, Age of Empires and so on, alongside playing 
 the never annoying StarCraft Brood War: I completed all the campaigns several times, played loads 
 of single and multiplayer scenarios, custom campaigns, even custom scenarios like tower defense 
 or galactic wars, created lots of my own maps and scenarios, even tried custom models and textures, 
 and after all these years of StarCraft I still LOVE this game and in my humble opinion it is the 
 best real time strategy game ever and the main advantage is TOTALY different playable races, what 
 i missed in WarCraft 3 later on. Besides, this game has superb graphics for 2D game, is perfectly 
 balanced for any race you play, has intelligent and addictive scenario (in fact, that was one of 
 few scenarios I did not hit skip during video playback) , perfect controls using and mouse, and 
 keyboard shortcuts and afterwards it s the best real time strategy ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_murr69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is am awesome game, and Starcraft Vroodwar is an excellent expansion pack, you can either 
 play the Story, and have 3 different story's to choose from just like the priginal Starcraft but 
 this time the story's are changed, or you can play online with people from all over the world, 
 either way your in for a large amount of fun, with a highly addictive game, the graphics might 
 not be the best in the world but it is still an awesome game.
  blizzard you did a great job with starcraft now hurry and release ghost, and if ghost is already 
 released i havent seen it on shelves but ill be looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  this game is really good except it is insuperior to the warcraft series no offense the gameplay 
 is fun with the races n stuff but the chat is kinda bad and the custom games are pretty crummy 
 but its still an overall good game
  ok so theres 3 races the terran the zerg and the protoss ok if you play this game you will notice 
 its like aliens vs predators the zergs are aliens protoss are predators and terran are human and 
 the gameplay can last hours but i recommend warcraft 3 or World of Warcraft more :/ this game is 
 a good cost it cost like 20-30 bucks for the battlechest has online play and a good story play 
 umm can last u hours the online play is free like all other blizzard games that run on battle. net 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvtSlayer1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a basic RTS at first sight and can be fun playing melee battles against your friends 
 or the computer; however, this game truly shines when you play use map settings online. People have 
 the ability to make their own maps and add in triggers which ends in many mini games within Starcraft. 
 There are rpgs, action, puzzles, and many more can be found within Starcraft. Starcraft's gameplay 
 value is the highest I have seen and I expect it will stay that way for as long as people play 
 Starcraft and new ideas evolve. However do not expect anything superb graphic wise as the game 
 is a little out of date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperDumbGuy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  I didn't really play the original Starcraft, since I didn't find out about this series until Brood 
 War was already released. Therefore, I wouldnt know much about what things were like before the 
 pack. But let's stick with what I should be focusing on; Starcraft: Brood War is an amazing game 
 that I spent hundreds of hours playing. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: This game has both single and multiplayer options. The single player has a great, addicting 
 story and all the missions are extremely challenging (thanks to cheats, however, things are much 
 easier) . The three races are Process, Terran, and Zerg, and each of them has their own story to 
 play through. After completing each race, there is also a short movie that looks amazing. The single 
 player is fun, but the main attraction, like most other games, is still in the multiplayer. To 
 begin things, I'd like to say that finding specific players is extremely easy and contacting them 
 is just as simple. Before you decide playing, there are a large number of modes to choose from. 
 There are two modes that I focus on the most. The first is Melee, which is just a normal versus 
 match. Each win and loss will count toward a ingame counting system. If players do not want to 
 risk lowering their scores by playing against experienced players, they can play against the computer. 
 In each match, a maximum of 8 players can join, which makes a good, fun match. The other mode I 
 focus on is called Use Map Setting. In this mode, fun games are made by people all over the world. 
 These games have specific missions to do and many are fun and extremely challenging. These games 
 range from Cat vs. Mouse to Impossible Scenario to Sex on the Beach. One such game that I just 
 LOVE in this mode is called Marine's Special Forces: SE. Its hard to explain it but it is a must 
 play. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics in this game is nicely done. The characters looks great and quite 
 detailed. The sound in this game is incredible. The music and the battlefield all sound amazing. 
 Each character unit have different things to say everytime you click on them. One secret dealing 
 with this is that when you click on them more than 4 (I believe) times, they say things entirely 
 different from what they usually say; usually, they act extremely annoyed by clicking on them so 
 much.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Difficulty: This game, like most other online games, range on the player. A novice will find this 
 game to be overly difficult, while a veteran will find this game to be quite easy. The single player 
 missions will also be quite difficult for new comers and even some more experienced players. Cheats, 
 such as power overwhelming , black sheep wall , show me the money , etc. greatly ease the single 
 player missions. These cheats do not, however, work on multiplayer mode, which make sense. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value: I spent hundreds of hours playing this game and I intend on spending more on it. Dont just 
 take it from me, however, hundreds of players are still logging on everyday! It is undeniable that 
 this game will last any player for a long time. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: This game is absolutely amazing. With the cheap price tag now adays, what do you have 
 to lose? I would recommend this to any RTS fan. A word of advice: if you are in school and cares 
 about your grades but cannot do well when you're addicted to a game, do not, i repeat DO NOT buy 
 this game. (FYI: my grades have noticeably suffered due to this game, but I am actually still doing 
 extremely well) . For everyone else, this game is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft was one of the most addictive games, wait what am i saying? It still is one of the most 
 addictive games! And brood war just makes the expereance more better with more units, a whole new 
 story, new heros, more maps, and better multiplayer. First we'll start with single player. You 
 might think its boring and just want to skip it. Well don't cause you gonna be missing a HELL lot 
 of stuff by doing that. The story is killer and the challanges never stop. Anything can happen 
 in this game. I beat both games but i don't want to spoil anything or too much at least. Then theres 
 the campain manager. This will allow you to make you own map and a game. I made a RPG with it once 
 and i played it. It was pretty good but here is where Starcraft gets its REAL kicks, the feared 
 multiplayer! This was amazing when i met so many people and they even made their own game and hosted 
 on the server ( i don't mean a REAL game i mean like a map game) . People make copys of diablo and 
 the best i've played would be Archon tag. So if you are planning on buying this game don't just 
 take it from me, read everyone elses reviews and u'll see even more good reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  game rules!! Im a big blizzard player, and this game is great some of the best multi player and 
 great for lan partys!!
  
  tho I am more of a Warcraft player, this is a great game.
  This is a sci fi game if you like sci fi stuff trust me you will like this this RTS is famous among 
 games and known for its races. this game is break from the other RTS's for its not the same old 
 WWII and renisonce of fantasy its a new sci fi classic.
  
  Go get the game. if you are a fellow blizzard player its like the warcrafts with 3 races
  
 
  the protoss-late game power-house units
  the terran-all around based unit good for any thing
  the zerg-early game rush
  
  Like warcraft 
 3 there are heros BUT ONLY IN SINGLE PLAYER
  Online there is not minigames like warcraft 3, it uses the same graphics base as the diablo games 
 so it looks like diablo 2 fun game it gets my 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  After years of playing this game, the moment of writing a review has come, and I want to thank 
 with my words all this game made me enjoy, but it's not going to be easy.
  
  This is for me simply the best game ever, and the demonstration of how big it is, it's the professional 
 teams all around the world. Blizzard made a fantastic balancing work with Starcraft, but the expansion 
 was even better balanced, and much more after years and years of patch balancing. I think I'm not 
 wrong if I say this game is as much balanced as a computer game can be.
  
  Probably the graphics doesn't look to impressive, but comparing to the games of 1998 it was something 
 absolutely spectacular, and still 8 years after, it perfectly delivers.
  
  The sound is still unmatched with nice musics themes and creature and character voices.
  
  
 I don't want to say this is the only almost perfect game, but most games should learn from Blizzard 
 and Starcraft about how a computer game should be done. (specially EA, who doesn't give a #@%&amp; 
 about his games (look what happened with Battlefield 2 or the horror bugs in Command and conquer 
 generals) .
  When giving the mark to a game that should be taking in consideration, otherwise, we are accepting 
 unfinished games, one of the biggest cripples of the industry at the moment.
  
  The Battle. net, is the best way to enjoy this game, to challenge via internet the best players, 
 although the level is extremely high, and it can be frustrating, but playing with your friends, 
 is one of the best gaming experience you can ever have. Possibly the best idea for someone new 
 is to play the whole campaign, and once you're skilled with the interface, and the 3 races, go 
 into Battle. net.
  
  It's really cheap to get this game now, along with starcraft, and possibly some book and other 
 stuff, so don't even doubt it, I never was a strategy lover, but Starcraft totally rocks!! Thank 
 you Starcraft, thank you Blizzard. FOR AIUR!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  It's an Expansion Pack but it is still good
  
  Brood War is an appropriate title for the new expansion for Starcraft. You continue in the StarCraft 
 universe as the three species, Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. As All three all-new campaigns unfold, 
 you battle Kerrigan, the self styled queen of blades . As the Protos attempt to reunite the remaining 
 survivors with the mighty Dark Templars and discover a secret to rid their lives of the Zerg once 
 and for all. The Terrans too, have their own battle for supremecy, as the United Earth Directorate 
 battles the new emperor and then turns their attention to Kerrigan who inturn is having her own 
 problems with the Zerg. This expansion includes 26 all-new Protoss, Terran and Zerg missions and 
 over 100 multiplayer custom maps. StarCraft: Brood War also offers six new units including Lurkers, 
 Valkyries and Dark Archons. Also included are new terrain types such as deserts, frozen wasteland 
 and the home world of the Dark Templars. The Macintosh version of the game will release early this 
 year. How's it Play? In terms of playability, it holds the same look and feel as the original Starcraft, 
 with the same mission briefing and playing modes, they have made minor adjustments to the units 
 and structures which levels the playing field somewhat when you decide to play multi-player. The 
 storyline picked up after the end of the Starcraft saga and each campaign has a unique feel to 
 it and goals within each mission you have are very specialized, not just your traditional stay 
 alive as long as you can and then beat the enemy. I liked the direction it went and felt the same 
 excitement I enjoyed when I first started to play the original Starcraft. Over all, it still grips 
 my attention and I'm still glued to the game and find it to be a great improvement on the original 
 Starcraft. Conclusion.... I give it a good two joysticks up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is crafted perfectly with you in mind. You can easily manipulate the battlefield 
 and take full control of your units. Use your &Uuml; ber micro or just send your units in and 
 lay waste to the opposition. Either way youre bound to have fun. It does lack in the ability to 
 select more than twelve units at once.
  
  Graphics: Although it is clearly dated now when it comes to graphics, this game once was the cream 
 of the crop for RTS graphics. Enjoy them for what they are worth and move on.
  
  Sound: Amazing sound, from the screams of death to the comical additions when you click on one 
 of your units far too much. Blizzard always steps it up when it comes to adding that little extra 
 in the sound department.
  
  Value: Both games, Starcraft and Starcraft: Brood War, just $19.99 how can you not go wrong. Plus, 
 you will be playing this nonstop on the free game servers thanks to Battle. net.
  
  Tilt: Come on its Blizzard, its good just buy it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhutch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I discovered this game about 6 years ago. As good as it was playing the single player campaign, 
 the multiplayer made it simply (to this day) unsurpassable. I got into so much trouble with my 
 girlfriend over this, I just couldn't help myself. As I write this, I am still trying to get some 
 more friends to play me online. Playing strangers is great, but beating friends is the way this 
 game should be experienced. I heard Starcraft Ghost will be released anyday now... well I am not 
 holding my breath. A timeless classic, that doesn't need any fancy, namby pamby frills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strider57
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Once I got this game, I loved it! And once I got my online account I played every day, and night. 
 One of the best games I've ever played, and it's still a popular game, I recommend this online 
 game. But the thing is that you don't really see this game on the shelves anymore... That stinks. 
 Still if you do get this game, once you play you are immeadiatly hooked and you feel like that 
 you will never stop playing but thats's not true! For me I got bored, so it's best if you take 
 a break once a while and don't whine about, "I want to play starcraft" Get off you're butt and 
 get some excersise you freaking internet geeks!!! You know who you are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMER_SIMPSON
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  if you havent read my starcraft review than i suggest you should because this is only of BroodWar 
 expansion.
  
  when you get the expansion you think "WOW THIS IS GREAT!" after all you should get your healthy 
 dose of starcraft in your life. the new units include:
  --TERRAN --
  Medic
  Valkerie
  --PROTOSS --
  Corsair
  Dark Templar --in origonal too. only buildable here --
  Dark Archon 
 --merged from DTs
  --ZERG --
  Lurker
  Devourer
  ----
  
  When this game gets boring after about a few years the battle. net servers are still active.
  
 Summing up this game is a great game for an average gamer and a perfect addition to an RTS player's 
 collection.
  I highly reccomend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshff8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is the best thing to happen to real time strategy. For those who don't know the premise, 
 you play as one of three races. The Terran are nomadic humans with powerful siege machines and 
 different types of infantry. The zerg are a bug like race that rip apart enemies and attack with 
 terrifying speed. And the protoss are the high tech aliens who have powerful units and specialized 
 abilities, but are expensive to create. The balance of these three races is immaculate, and you 
 are really forced to think deeply when playing the game in order to win. For a game made in 1998, 
 the graphics still impress me, mainly because of the many different death animations. The story 
 campaign is hard, but very fun for veteran players. Also, with its online mode, Starcraft will 
 keep you playing for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Starcraft: Brood War forr $4.99 pre-owned, perfect condition. I said to myslef the 
 guy that turned this in... is an idiot...
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a basic RTS, that has a lot new features, New storyline, New units for 
 Terran they added a medic and valkyrie, for Zerg they added the Lurker and Devourer, and for Protoss 
 they added the Dark Templar and the Corsair. A lot of new Hero's have been added so you can now 
 enjoy more out of the game. Tons of technical issues have been fixed with.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still the same, looks like they still stayed with the same engine. No 
 slowdowns, and can be played on a low-end PC.
  
  Sound: Voice's are killer! and the sound is 'literally' killer, guns sound like guns, and ships 
 sound like ships. The game was well built.
  
  I suggest that every gamer (RTS fan or not) to pic this up, not only is the game fun, but Starcraft/Warcraft 
 are somewhat a unique game, that every collector must have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  The good: Keeps Starcraft's awesomely fun gameplay, sweet graphics and sound effects, and introduces 
 so much more, like new units, three new challenging campaigns, and three new environments.
  
  The bad: ---
  
  Starcraft is perhaps the greatest Real Time Strategy game of all time, 
 perhaps the best game ever. You'd expect more of the same from its expansion set. And that is what 
 you get.
  
  Lets look at whats new. Starcraft Brood War introduces seven new playable units: two for the Terran 
 (the all important Medic and the sky ruling Valyrie) , two for the Zerg (the underground attacking 
 Lurker and sky mopping Defiler) , and three for the Protoss (the awesome invisible Dark Templars, 
 the all enjoyable Dark Archon, and the weak but underrated flying Corsairs) . These new units definetly 
 change all strategies and force new ones. Mind Controling a Drone or SCV with the Dark Archon is 
 just plain fun. Have a bunch of wounded Marines? Then, get a Medic.
  
  There are also three new campaigns. The first stars the Protoss (yes, the Protoss campaign is now 
 the easiest) , fleeing their home of Aiur to start a new life. The second is the Terran campaign, 
 but instead, you actually take control of the UED, and try to control the Overmind with Earth's 
 forces! The last is the Zerg, with Kerrigan struggling to fight off Zerg swarms going insane because 
 they are controlled by the UED. These mission are so much more challenging than the Original Starcrafts. 
 In fact, the original Starcraft Missions are a cakewalk compared to this!
  
  You also find three new map environments. The twilight maps have such a dark and creepy feeling 
 to them. You can fight in the Dark Lands of the Twilights. You can also fight in the freezing lands 
 of the ice planets, though the cold temperatures do not affect the Zerg : (. Or you can fight in 
 the scorching deserts of the Planet Korhal, which was bombarded by nuclear strikes. These maps 
 add a more realistic feeling to the game.
  
  Of course some things are never changed. The games amazing graphics are kept, the sweet sound effects 
 are still in (nothing like hearing many Marines firing their guns and hearing the screams of dead 
 Zerglings. And the gameplay is still as fun as it was before. Nothing like watching a nuke come 
 down on a group of Zerglings, and the bloody aftermath. 
  
  The three races are still as even as they were in the original. The Zerg are weak but have numbers, 
 the Protoss are powerful but expensive, and the Terrans are in the middle. Blizzard did a great 
 job making the three races so much different, yet so even. If you say the Protoss are cheap because 
 they're so powerful, think again. Being the Zerg and having the numbers could possibly even it 
 out or even give you an advantage. I can't even say one race sucks.
  
  If you have the Original Starcraft already, and do not have the expansion, get this right now. 
 There is so much different features added, and this is indeed one of the best expansions ever! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game... single play is challenging... ive only beaten the original without cheats.... right 
 now im on the 2nd campaign of terran on the last mission and its a bit hard... online..... theres 
 no stragety everyone ALWAYS uses 1 kind of powerful unit to win.... and they very expensive... like 
 for example an army of battle cruises.... all those scourges and devourers missle turrets will be 
 devoured in seconds.... and they called anti air..... and for zerg always suing ultralisks.... even 
 though they cant attack wir they will level up your base and all your ground units before your 
 air can take um out.... even siege tanks.... protoss.... several carriers.... a lot.... using an army 
 of scourges might work but not really... money maps should have never been created... it corrupts 
 other peoples minds and makes them use 1 kind of unit.... LOST TEMPLE that is a good map... since 
 theres a good amount of minerals... you s till wont be able to afford all those battlecruises and 
 carriers... well you could afford an army but in money maps while your attacking usually your base 
 is making more.... you think you got enough cash to make another army? i dont tihnk so.... a good 
 stragety early in the game for example... enemy units will be concentrated on zerglings while your 
 hydras attk from a distance... if you play starcraft and agree with me all the massing and stuff... and 
 you have no way to counter it... the only way to counter an army of bc's ultralisks and carriers... is 
 an army of hydralisks... sure they only got 80 hp but when fully upgraded theier attack str and 
 attack range will be great and armor will be fairly good.. plus they move fast! and they can attack 
 fground and air so any incoming ultralisks will be clobbered before they kill at least 3.. all bcs 
 will be killed cause slow rate of fire... yamato cannons are useless considering they only goy 80 
 hp plus they only cost 1 control and very cheap! in lost temple you can afford an army of them 
 at the same time while reinforcing them at main base! carriers interceptors may be destroyed or 
 most players ignore them and go straight to carriers.. add defilers with your hydras when killing 
 bcs and carriers will result in an unstoppable army... this review is long i know but you should 
 take it serooiusly... dont get me wrong... this is a great game ive played with my friends for like 
 3 years and still playing now.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_pride69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is an expansion to the Starcraft game. The game includes some new additions 
 to each race. There's also a new and great storyline that was really solid. Blizzard made it look 
 like the whole thing a masterpiece. 
  
  The gameplay was great. I still loved the graphics and it still looked cool. Even though they're 
 the same from the first one, it still is great to play the game. It's always exciting to play the 
 campaigns, and also siding with your favorite race. Who will win this time?!?
  
  Starcraft: Brood War is truly a masterpiece. Want an RTS game that's really worth playing and to 
 own? It's Starcraft. I suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeerRosh
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is a continuation of the original Starcraft. With the Overmind destroyed, 
 Kerrigan is in control of the zerg. Both Terran and Protoss do what they can to stop the Zerg in 
 their tracks.
  
  Each race has two new units, each making the game even more unpredictable. The Terrans can heal, 
 the Zerg can be even more disastrous, and the Protoss can control opponents minds. 
  
  The gameplay is more or less the same, yet your opponents have different strategies than last time. 
 They build up a little slower, but they attack much faster. Many a battle has been lost before 
 a single attacking unit is built.
  
  The storyline is, of course, much more dramatic. Yet the storyline compels you to play more... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greates rts series ever. Civilazation can eat their heart out. This game 
 is simply amazing.
  Gameplay 10/10
  The game is easy to play and learn. Also the Story is ver engaging with many plot twists and a 
 secret level that for shadows the next starcraft. Supposidly there are things called protosling.
 
  Graphics 8/10
  This graphics are not amazing but neverless good.
  Sound 9/10
  Many sound effects and some cool phrases that some units say if you press them many times.
  Value 
 7/10
  The replay value is all online with the many maps that people created. At 15 $ for the battle chest 
 this is the cheapest blizzard game.
  Reviewrs' Tilt 10/10
  This game is simply the best and easilest learned rts game ever. You must buy this game to expierence 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  One of the best strategy games of all time me and my whole family agrees on that. One thing that 
 makes this game fantastic is you are not just one race you can be one of three races at a time, 
 terran zerg or protoss. This game is very good for its time in graphics but compared to modern 
 days the graphics are not as good to the games made now days. Overall this game gets amazing reviews 
 by most people and i am not going to do any different because i like this game as much as anyone 
 else if not more than them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino316
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft Brood War is the expansion to the RTS that tens of thousands still play to this day. 
 The game is fairly old, dating back to the mid to late 90's. I have been playing this game for 
 5 years, and its like a drug. Its better than a drug. This is the best game i have ever played, 
 and i know if your a big rts fan you will love it. Tons to do in this, u can play map settings 
 games, such as sunken defence and team micro arena. The melee i feel is what seperates this game 
 to similar clones. YOu just have to play it to believe it. Online is very tough at first, but after 
 u practice a bit you should do fine. Blizzard set the standard so high for RTS games such as this 
 and the Warcraft series, no one has ever even come close to it, and no one ever will. A must buy, 
 no matter how old the game is. THis is a true classic, and be ready for a couple of sleepless nights. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  I had always heard great things about this game, but when i got it my expectations were greatly 
 exceeded, the main reason being how completely different the 3 armies/races are, there isnt a single 
 common unit to any army, yet they balance perfectly. The campaign is great while it lasts but its 
 the multiplayer that gives this game such long lasting playability.
  
  STORY - the campaign story line is excellent, intricate (its a loooong manual) but i wont go too 
 far into it as there isnt much i can say without ruining it.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND - dated mabey, but who cares i prefer the old style rts look
  
  GAMEPLAY - the 
 gameplay is out of its league, its so diverse, incorporating almost everything you could need in 
 an rts, stealth, base building, air and land assaults, sieges, squad building. having the 3 races 
 is great for the reason that you have to learn how to use them separately because they are so different.
 
  
  FIRST IMPRESSIONS - so much better than i expected
  
  LASTING IMPRESSIONS - best rts ever made IMO
  
  PROS - cheap, fun, just out and out brilliant, 
 everyone should give this game a try, few people actually dislike it, you dont need an uber computer 
 to play it, the single player is good enough on its own if you just use dial up.
  
  CONS - no naval units, AI is quite challenging at first, you need to at least have the basics of 
 micro managment to stand much of a chance.
  
  beware this game is very addictive, people have died playing it, many even make careers out of 
 it by winning tournaments.
  
  this game is definately worth your time, unless you strongly dislike rts in general but even still 
 you never know till youve tried it. C&C fans will also like this, its quite different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proud_Warrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game never really gets old because there is practically endless possibilities of games you 
 can join or create. What I mean by that is, if you have the internet there are always people creating 
 new games on Battle net under use map settings. One of my personal favourites to play on Battle 
 Net is Diplomacy. Thats one of the reasons people leave but always come back because there will 
 probably be new Use Map Settings games by the time you start playing again.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone despite the fact that its a little bit hard to get used 
 to but if youre used to RTS it probably wouldnt be that hard to pick up on all of the hotkeys 
 and what not. This is probably one of the greatest RTSs of all time so if youre a big RTS fan 
 you should really think about picking up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ennt1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was freakin awsome. Free multyplayer score! The campaign was really really 
 fun and the campaign editor and just really fun. But they could have expanted on types of soldiers 
 and new creatures and new types of machines, aircraft kool stuff. Over all StarCraft Brood war the 
 expansion to star craft is a great game. The missions were a little better an the game grows on 
 u. I stoped playin it for a while and started playin it again. More people should buy this game 
 and check it out today! But it would help if u had all the requirments for every thing on the planet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kniLLinkkniL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, other than this is just simply one of the best multi-player games for the PC. I 
 have spent many years playing this game now, it never 100 percent gets old. It might get boring 
 after the first two to three years, but then you take a year off, and get back into the game, and 
 still your beating all the newbies. haha, that was a joke. If you are familliar with blizzard games, 
 such as diablo and warcraft, and you have never played starcraft for starcraft brood war, then 
 I suggest you buy it. Don't worry about playing starcraft before brood war, just buy the expansion 
 and get going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Simply I can say abut this game only one word, ruler, revolutionary, legendary, one of a kind, addictive, 
 it`s the hardest drug!! Actually this was more than a word, but I can say positive words day and 
 night about it!! The greatest thing about this game is that I`m able to play it when it comes out, 
 and I do it still now! It`s atmosphere, it`s gameplay, it`s storyline, it`s overall game experience 
 is breathtaking and one of a kind, and I bravely say that this is the best strategy game ever, 
 and many people say that this is the best game ever!! 
  Starcraft    ALL !!
  So, let`s start from the begining... when I`ve played this for the first time i`ve played in multiplayer 
 with the protoss and it was cool. Later I`ve started the campaigns and I discovered that Starcraft 
 is more than a game!! In a review I say about Heroes 3 that it is a lifestyle, so Starcraft is 
 more than that !!
  When I firstly heard about what`s going on in Korea, sometimes in 2004, 
  I was purely stunned 
 and shocked becouse in those days I`ve abandoned a bit this game and I thought that SC is dead, 
 but I was wrong and I`ve 
  never imagined that a game can reach this level! From this moment I was 
  sure that SC will take 
 a part from my life. Again I palyed it day and night to improove my skills, to pump up my APM and 
 to learn all those tricks that only PRO gamers can do. In the past many people said, and I thought 
 it too, that this game do not need time, a game is about 10-20 minutes and this is all, but I was 
 wrong again, I`ve realized the fact that if I want to reach higher levels I must play 12 hours 
 a day, so I decided to play for fun, 
  becouse this is like football or like another sport, it needs talent 
  not only gaming !! I will 
 never become as good as Xellos or NADA :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  What to say about this game... Its just the best RTS game in history of all time..
  
  3 Races.. 3 Choices..3 ways to War
  
  The aciton is so fast paced, well done and just awesomely 
 fun, that ive been playing this game since 1998.. And even today there are still thousands of people 
 playing it on battle net.. Dont try to figure it out why.. just go buy the game.. The price is 
 so low that it worths every penny spend into playing that game.
  
  And to cover it all up.. The Story is very well done too and all of the 3 races are all well balanced 
 and are all fun to play with
  
  Thank you Blizzard for an excellent game 
  
  Graphics and music still ownz after all those years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Normally, I don't condone expansion packs, as they often add a few vital parts to a game that was 
 so-so to begin with (making up for past errors) , but Brood War doesn't work that way. Starcraft 
 was an absolutely wild game, and Brood war can be installed and run with Starcraft in the same 
 program, not in a separate program.
  Single player story mode really is a lot of fun, going through the individual campaigns of the 
 Terran, Protoss, and Zerg, you learn their individual reasons for fighting, and, if you played 
 Starcraft, an expansion on the original story. If you didn't play Starcraft, all necessary information 
 is given.
  Multiplayer modes are a blast too, as you can play against all your friends on your LAN network, 
 which can be quite fun. The only thing I don't recommend is sitting right next to your opponent. 
 It's kind of hard to hid your fleet or carriers when your speakers say "Carrier has arrived" every 
 couple minutes. However, that brings up another good feature. Starcraft: Brood War notifies you 
 of any attacks you may suffer, so that you can deal with them immediately.
  Overall, if I had to choose this game, or it's closest cousin, Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome, 
 I'd choose this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yohc_Smmit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I think that it is an excelent game. Superb game play due to its equal races. No race has any sort 
 of advantage over the other two. I never get bored playing it, especially with my friends. It's 
 a good idea to start against computer players before playing LAN games and eventually the Battle. net. 
 It's a guaranteed good game, it's been released for 8 years and yet it's still addictive. You should 
 really try it. You'll never get bored of it, for sure, there are millions of possible strategies! 
 Go try it! You won't regret it. I for one have played over 500 hours of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Broodwars is a great game, it put 3 completely different fighting styles into one game and made 
 them perfectly balanced. I have been playing Broodwars for at least 6-7 years now and Im still 
 loving it. Blizzard did a beautiful job with this game at the time. My hope is that blizzard goes 
 and makes a second one. And really takes there time on it. makes it perfect in its own way. There 
 isnt much that I can say about this game that isnt obvious so im just gona say that its a great 
 game. This game is way past its time but its still holding its own, its like the really old guy 
 in a war on the battle field thats wooping everything and your just like what the heck, how is 
 he doing that, my stuff is so much better. So yea its a great game if you havent played it yet. 
 Then let me just say that you have missed out on a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyhouse2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  For any one reading this and hasn't played this game then you need to stop reading and just go 
 and buy this game. This game is addictive because theres so much things to do and it never gets 
 boring its allway fun to play. 
  Theres three different types of classes to play as such as the Terran, Zerg, and Protos. Each one 
 of these has stengths and weakneses such as the protos which have armor so there harder to kill 
 but the weakness is when you build you have to build in a certain area. The terran have weaknesses 
 too such as that their the weakess of all the classes but the stenght is the terran can build anywere 
 but its good to build close to your main building. The Zerg's strenght is they have lots to of 
 things to do like the creatures you make con morph into more advanced creatures but its good to 
 stratagies what you do before advancing you creatures and buildings and thats there weakness.
 
  The gameplay takes the warcraft feel because it was supposed to be warcraft but in space. But 
 the wide variety of things to do can make you ever forget that it might be realated to warcraft. 
 
  The sound is very well done because when you gather items and build building and fight the other 
 classes is just amazing to hear. The voice acting is also top notch because they way they say the 
 dialouge and the feeling of it just makes it a great experience. 
  The graphics havent been improved from the first starcraft game but its nit all to bad because 
 the first starcraft graphics were pretty good but it would have been a good touch to see some improved 
 graphics.
  The online multyplayer is very good because anyone looking for a good challenge should definitly 
 get this game. I didnt play that much online because i always got owned but it doesnt mean that 
 i hated the online because i thought the online was great because of the great challenges you might 
 encounter.
  So anyone that likes strategy games or just likes computer games should definitly buy this game 
 i dont know why someone would not like this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coryperemsky
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I am combinding the original and expansion of the game in this review. First of all this is by 
 far the best PC game I have ever played and I have played it since it came out, which was quite 
 a while ago. Thus giving Blizzard much time to patch up problems and to even things out. Broodwar 
 is the most balanced rts game ever made but you must consider the amount of people who "hack" on 
 battlenet and how readily availabe and easy these hacks are to get. But if you play with the right 
 kinda people and maps you will be very satisfied. This game has great replayability as with most 
 rts games and every battle will be different. the multiplayer of this game is awesome and it works 
 well even with dial up. The difference between BW and the original is a few units and upgrades. (besides 
 the different campaigns) Do yourself a favor right now, if you liek pc games especially old school 
 goodness go buy this game now. Because there is way to much for me to tell you about... Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenVirus
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? After 8 years since it came out, people around the world still play it regularly. 
 If you go on Battle. net at any time, there is bound to be somebody on playing a 1 on 1 game or 
 an old-fashioned Use Map Settings game. For a game that was created in 1998, the graphics are decent 
 enough to make it very enjoyable to play. The gameplay is considered simple and straightfoward 
 compared to the strategy games that are created today. Of course, in order to master all the tactics 
 in the game, it requires time and a lot of practice. The sounds in the game are decent and the 
 storyline makes sense and is apparently a believable prediction of what may happen to the human 
 race in the future. Above all, the factor that makes StarCraft so popular is because of its wide 
 variety of battle and defense tactics. A strategy game will obviously require a lot of strategy 
 in order to win a game, and with StarCraft, you have a wide variety of tactics to use. Like I said 
 before, the game itself isn't that difficult to learn and the tactics are rather straightfoward. 
 Another good thing about the game is the Blizzard-created "Battle. Net" online multiplayer gaming 
 place. Not many of the games of its time provided such quality multiplayer service free of charge. 
 StarCraft definitely deserves a spot on the Greatest Games of All Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  i have owned starcraft ever scince it came out and then bought the expansion when thatt came out. 
 and i still play up to thisss very moment. it might be old but it still out beats most rts games 
 in its league. every thing about it is awsome. the teams the levels the character ect. its juts 
 amazing. never gets boring. if you do get bored of single player go online and battle in 1v1 2v2 
 ect or just man made maps. myself i have made a few maps and there great. there must be millions 
 of maps that people have made and they are just excellent. its not a hard game to play and its 
 a very hard game to get bored of. brood war cane out 1998 and you can still go to any electronic 
 game department and find it sitting on the shelf. it has to be the most popular game ever invented. 
 i have one more thing that i dont like. blizzard has to make a starcraft 2 with the same 3 teams. 
 marines, protoss, zerg, and another 3 or 4 teams. tha would just be awsome. i suggest that they 
 make a new one now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etherninty
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I can't count how many hours I played Starcraft and it's expansion pack Broodwar. But I can tell 
 you, it's a lot and I don't consider it wasted time, it was just plain fun.
  
  Why ? :
  -3 perfectly balanced races, looking and playing differently
  -Free on-line play... FREE! And 
 the service is good.
  -Great story
  -Gameplay
  -Community was great at first (now it's mainly bored kids, most cool people have moved to other 
 things)
  -Tournaments, this has always been big, specially in South Korea
  -Level editor
  Con:
  -The graphics were excellent in 1998, now they look a bit out-dated, but it's not what 
 this game is about anyways.
  
  I still have hope they will make Starcraft 2 so the community can rise again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Brood war is the expansion of Starcraft and it's definitely something you want to be picking up.
 
  It adds a couple of maps, new guys, and that's pretty much it. It might at first not sound like 
 it's worth it but believe me in the long run it's definitely worth it.
  It doesn't really change anything what the game used to be but it adds a couple of things here 
 and there. If you're currently playing starcraft, you should pick this game up ASAP.
  For what the game is worth and how fun the online play and everything is, this game is worth the 
 money without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Compared to newer strategy games of today, Starcraft is dated in terms of graphics and music quality. 
 However, Starcraft has managed to stick around longer than almost any game in the genre - so much 
 that I can still walk into a retail store and see the Battlechest on shelves.
  
  How did Starcraft outdo (or outlive) the competition? Endless customization options allow mapmakers 
 to create unique and fun user maps which are played on Blizzard's free Battle. net service. While 
 a lot of this is dying down in favor of other RTS games (such as Blizzard's Warcraft III) there 
 is still always a game to be played online with someone on Battle. net. This multiplayer element 
 is why Starcraft still shines, even after you have completed the single-player mode.
  
  The game truly is worth it - and if you find the Batlechest (game+expansion and guides) it is well 
 worth your $20.
  
  One of the most interesting things to think about is that during a time of copycat RTS games (Dark 
 Reign, Dune, Gender Wars -seriously!) this game managed to stand out from the competition and win 
 us over. Considering that people still buy the game today, Starcraft offers an experience like 
 no other.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grueza
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Starcraft est le meilleur jeu vido du type Tactique du rel temp (Real Time Strategy) . J' ai jou 
 au Starcraft ds que sa naissance en 1997 et je pense que je peux jouer au Starcraft jusqu' au 
 moment o personne ne le jouera encore. C' est le jeu vido que je prfre donc, je peux lutter 
 pour protger la vie de ce jeu!!! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft ! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft 
 ! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft ! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft !Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft 
 ! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft ! Je prfre de jouer au Starcraft ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rts_gamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is just too good just get it if u like rts. brood war improved over one of my favorite 
 games. the feature i like the most is new units. i know its been many years since the game has 
 come out but i just wanted to write a review for it. im not that fond of the campaigns but the 
 multiplayer gaming is what i like the most. its easy to get started. even though you will learn 
 how to play it real quick, its a complex game and will take few days, weeks, or even months (at 
 least for me :) to figure out how to play it real good against other players online. again i know 
 its kinda late to write this and maybe ppl forgot about it but i started again recently and its 
 great. lot of ppl still play online. plus its really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I've played every single one of Blizzard's games. I threw most of them in the basement when I first 
 played Starcraft about 4 years ago. I've had a Battle. net account for 2 years now, and I can't 
 stop playing!!! Even though it's a '98 game, the graphics are amazing, with many colors, textures, 
 shapes and sizes. The sound quality is amazing, an it almsot feels like I'm right there. The single 
 player is awsome, but the multi-player on B. net is even better. I know that unlike Warcraft III, 
 it can only support up to 8 players, but that still gives it an advantage over lag and all. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone. And I say, if you don't like it, there's something wrong with you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9JMR1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest RTS-games in the world.
  It's a very difficult game with a lot of challenges.
  Grafik: very nice work =) 10
  Sound: 
 Good voice characters and music you would like to listen to over and over again. 10
  difficuild: Sometimes it's almost impossible to clear a game and you can't change the difficulity. 
 7
  time to spend: You can spent hours on playing this game, there is always something new and you 
 got three new campgains to clear. 10
  
  Total: You got to play this. 9,7
  
  Now when im done with this im going to tell you something. 
  I promise you that you are going 
 to like it as much as i do when you have started it.
  
  Sayonara! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft brood war is amazing makes you think really fast and makes you react to the envirement 
 and what you do in it. There is three main groups in starcraft Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. You get 
 to play all of them in the missions that it gives you. The one that I like the most out of the 
 three is the zerg. They are awsome. I dont like the protoss because you have to have extra minerals 
 to build wariors.
  This is one of the best pc games that I have played and trust me when I say its one of the best 
 because I have played a lot of pc games. So you should at least try it out and see what you think 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Starcraft was superb by itself. With the addition of Brood War, it's expansion, Starcraft became 
 even better than it already was. A new campaign storyline brought more depth to the people and 
 places you got to know in the original and made them much more interesting. New units, such as 
 the Protoss Dark Templar, the Human Medic and Zerg Burrower made the battleground much much more 
 dangerous. Everything you've known and loved is back in action and in it's optimum form with Brood 
 War. If you own Starcraft, and I know you do... You need to add this on. It's a must, so do it 
 now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  en la madida de juegos de estragtegfia, cuando realizn una mejora de uniddades las expectatiovas 
 cambian y eso ocurrio en brood wars, las mejoras realizadas fueron espectaculares, y las unidades, 
 las batallas son de gran emocion y destresa... lo mejor de estos juegos son las mulitiples aplicaciones 
 en battalla y la mas emocionante la lucha en multiplayer eso es sumamente destructivo, recomendacion 
 juegen con alguin que sepa para que les explique y no hangan el ridiculo en el juego.
  
  la esperiencia en battlenet es lo mejora este juego y sus capacidades recuerden el uso del teclado 
 si desean una victoria segura eso les da mayor velocidad en juego y manejo de micros.
  
  buena suerte intentalo es bueno 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  An amazing addition to an already amazing game, Broodwar brings new units into the fray and allows 
 for even more customization in the map editor. This game [starcraft] is truly one of the best games 
 ever released for PC, and this expansion pack truly adds on great new things to a great game.
 
  
  New units add even more possibilities to the "Use Map Settings" mode that was a huge thrill for 
 players of the original starcraft.
  
  Starcraft: Broodwar will no doubt be on the top of the Gamer's play list for many more years to 
 come. I look forward to the 10 year anniversary comming closer, and I think this game may be on 
 some sort of record for longest popular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pot_Smoky_Ninja
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best strategy game ever made because of it's unique Battle. net feature which makes 
 the game 10 times greater than the storyline. This game must be bought! The difficulty depends 
 on how you play the game and which games you play. I prefer online gaming because it offers Use 
 Map Settings which the maps are made for any situation from Anime type of maps to Zealot Farm or 
 you could just do the classic which is 1vs1 or 2vs2 anyone online. I say to anyone who likes strategy 
 games or Sci-Fi sort of games you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  WOW! this game is awesome, i loved sc even without BW but this adds a whole new strategy to the 
 game.
  the main difference is the addition of several new units including the zereg lurker, able tyopo 
 burrow itslef and shoot spikes through the grouynd while cloaked, the corsair, able to fire a web 
 over enmy buildings and units too disable them temporarily as well as being strong AA units, and 
 the medic, able to heal ground units of all alied races such as marines, firtebats, zealots and 
 soo on.
  these additions have only made the game more stratedic and way more tactical, ok, there is still 
 the ability to do large scale attacks but more countermeasures need to be taken into account when 
 attacking zerg, a grond attack must always have somew sort of detetor with it to find thos blasted 
 lurkers etc.
  terran infantry attacks are now much more effective with the help of medics, healing marines in 
 the field wile you blatently put thhemn oon stimpacks as you know they can take the pain, iits 
 simply awesome. corsairs can noow disbale whole ranges of air defences allowing for dropships to 
 fly over and then take the base by the ground, all this adds up to make the game even more balanced 
 and even more fun.
  there is a whole new set of campaign missions too which are a great follow on from the originaal, 
 still hosting a great storyline and some fantastic twists.
  if you own starcraft or even if you dont, ii urge you to get this game, it only makes it much much 
 better than it origianlly was and seen as i gave the original a 10, this passes the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Mo_Dee1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game could quite possibly be the greatest game ever made. It has absolutely everything needed 
 to be a classic. A good story mode and an amazing multiplayer format, courtesy of Battle. net. 
 
  
  This game has three classic races that can please everyone. The Terran, who bassically are the 
 humans, my personal favorite. Another, is the Zerg. They are basically mindless little bug creatures 
 that arent very strong but there is so many of them that they can rush and over run. The Protos 
 are the high tech aliens that are very strong but their numbers are few, because they are so pricey. 
 
  
  So if you want an absolutely incredible game that will keep you hooked forever. Or if you just 
 love great action/strategy games, just go buy this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Starcraft is huge game, only weeks after its release it got a lot of feedback of what Blizzard 
 could improve on and it wen on and on. Now the game is getting the expansion pack and it offers 
 a lot for you.
  
  The story takes place after the death of zerg leader overmind, now that the entire zerg is free 
 from its control and the entire race is controlled by different celebrates which lead to several 
 civil wars, now is taken care of Sarah kerrigan, a woman that emperor Mansk betrayed during a cover 
 up mission. She has declared herself as queen of blades and the ruler of the zerg race. After the 
 entire wartorn sector is turn apart the earth goverment gets enough and sends its bes leagons 
 to deal with emperor himself and to kill the queen of blades herself, Together with his friend 
 Alexey and the furious Samir duran, general Dougelle have the entire earth in his hands and he 
 must save it.
  
  The story is even more played out than before and it is also more deep. Starcraft brood war is 
 a masterpiece and i never really belived that Blizzard would make it but the Starcraft is bigger 
 and better thanks to this add on. All 3 raced get three new units each, terrans have gets valkyrie, 
 a warplane that is specialised in air to air combat, they have also a medic that can heal other 
 infrantry units, protoss gets dark templar which can form dark archon and a new air unit that is 
 good to block out the definsive structures which will make easier to attack a base that is well 
 defended. Zerg gets a lurker unit that can borrow utself underground and shoot from there, they 
 also get a new support unit that can help from air.
  
  Battle net service that blizzard is using for multi player games is not much updated ffrom before 
 and now that each faction gets new units, blizzard will be forced to balance them as well to fit 
 in well with allready available ones. Muli player is where Starcraft was very strong and it is 
 where Brood war is strong as well, the overall game is noe deeper thanks to new units and now you 
 can do thousands of different tactics and strategies.
  
  Starcraft brood war is why pc gaming is strong, expansions is ment to extend on the original game 
 but it is not enough to simply put in new maps and units, they will need to fit in as well and 
 Blizzard have listened well what the comunnity said to them and now we have the result in our hands.
 
  
  Brood war, the best expansion ever to see the daylight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Your favorite races are back. The Zerg, Terran, and Protoss are back with new stories that interlock 
 and have twists, turns, and surprises. In addition to updated stories, there are new playable heroes, 
 units, buildings, and maps.
  
  For a bit of an example, one of the new Zerg units is a burrower. It tunnels underground and act 
 as an invisible spike unit that takes out grounds units quickly and effectively. Another one is 
 the Terran medic. When the computer uses these, there units seem to stay alive a lot longer than 
 you would ever expect.
  
  The difficulty factor is raised because you have to work with totally new strategies with the new 
 units.
  
  The graphics and sound are updated a little bit, but it is best seen in the cinematic events.
 
  
  The scenario/map builder has been updated as well with a number of new options and events to plan. 
 With the support of the online community, this is a game that will last you for weeks or months. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  I went into the store looking for something to buy that would provide me with a challenge and some 
 degree of enjoyment. Buying Star Craft Brood War was an exercise in restraint because I broke every 
 speed record known to man getting home to install the game. My anticipation for this game was so 
 great that I nearly broke the CD taking it out of the jewel case. Two days later I emerged from 
 my computer room a burned out shell of a new man. I have found the holly grail of gaming and it 
 was good.
  
  There is so much that is good about this game that I could never possibly type it all into this 
 review. If you love RTS gaming, then you must add this expansion game to your Star Craft collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yao1994
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  ive played the single player but i thought it wasnt that good. but when learnt the game properly 
 and i played it online.... it was AWESOME!!!!!50 aircrafts shooting shooting 50 aircrafts is just 
 awsome.
  
  the graphics was awsome for people back then. the effect of two templars fusing together is realy 
 good. explotions look pretty good.
  
  the sound is pretty awsome. just hearing the explotions makes you want to destroy another thing 
 so you can hear that sound.
  
  the gameplay, its one of the best you can ever find. there is just alot to do in Starcraft. sometimes 
 if u attack you and dont know that they are more powerful than u all your troops will be destroyed 
 and you will have to build it all over again. the gameplay just feel soooooooo good.
  
  this game is very addictive. but if you are playing starcraft and is about to go to school, work, 
 or any thing else, dont quit imediatly cause youll be pulled like a magnet to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play! I suggest you have high speed internet if you do get it though 
 because the highlight is th eonlien multiplayer. Even after 7 years after it's release, Brood War 
 is still a very popular onlin egame. Not as popular as World of Warcraft but still a very fun game 
 to play. The single player isn; t as a good as the original but the Zerb missions are better than 
 they were previously. It should also have more cutscenes but the voice acting is great! It sounds 
 real not all cartoonny. Great for a 1999 game and the music is spectacular. Also great for a 1999 
 game and very clear. The graphics could be a lot better but this is a game from seven years ago. 
 Not very many strategy games look great except World of Warcraft but th edetail in Brood War is 
 very good.
  
  The replay value is very high. I suggest that any strategy fan buys this game. It was my first 
 strategy game and I loved it! Who knows, maybe I'll play you online someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this expansion when i bought starcraft so i'v always played brood war when i'v played starcraft 
 but i have played the original and there are a few things brood war has added to the game which 
 makes it even more brilliant.
  
  1. Lurkers!! luv these guys unless ur against them. Put them in ur hydralisk army and the enemy 
 have something else to worry about!! they burrow and send lines of death spikes through the ground 
 and the enemy can't touch them unless they have some kind of sensor (comsat/observers/overlords 
 etc)
  
  2. medics...... heavily increase the firepower of an infantry invasion, they run around healing 
 your men...
  
  3. corsairs... these anti-air aircraft have a brilliant ability called distribution web wihich renders 
 every mechanical device within a cast 'web' motionless enabling you to gain those crucial extra 
 hits or sweep through a defence.
  
  there are a few more things added to the game which just enhace the game play and make starcraft 
 even more perfect!! it's just so good that you have to play it to find out the true greatness of 
 the game!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoSae
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Continueing the story of the last StarCraft game, StarCraft: Brood War introduces a variety of 
 new units. Clearly this is an improvement on the last game, the story is very interesting as well. 
 Each side can be given a number of new strategies from their units, the Zerg can burrow with Lerkers 
 and attack from underground. The Terran can heal their ground units with their medics. While those 
 are two new units for Brood War the Protoss have the rather cheap Dark Archon which has a mind 
 control ability. In turn all they have to do is captur an enemy drone or SCV and make a second 
 force, this is very annoying.
  
  The multiplayer is like the original StarCraft seeing as this is only an expansion. The loved campaign 
 editor still stands, probally the best map designer in all of game history. The single player mode 
 is as good as always, 3 episodes to play and unique CG for each team, unique endings as well. No 
 new RTS game has compared to the StarCraft series and when one comes, Blizzard will be ready to 
 release another one of this classic in the form of an RTS not like StarCraft: Ghost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Earlier in the year 1998 a astounding game came out in stores, and i was named starcraft. It was 
 a hit. Later that year, this game came out, and obviously, this game was a hit also. With all three 
 races using different buildings and units, your strategy changes with the different races you control, 
 letting you plan out your conquest differently according to your enemy. The gameplay is incredibly 
 addictive and fun, the sound, graphics, and everything is great. The multiplayer is fast-paced, 
 and many maps to play on. This is really, a great addition to the game of the year starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrrinth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Compared to newer strategy games of today, Starcraft is dated in terms of graphics and music quality. 
 However, Starcraft has managed to stick around longer than almost any game in the genre - so much 
 that I can still walk into a retail store and see the Battlechest on shelves.
  
  How did Starcraft outdo (or outlive) the competition? Endless customization options allow mapmakers 
 to create unique and fun user maps which are played on Blizzard's free Battle. net service. While 
 a lot of this is dying down in favor of other RTS games (such as Blizzard's Warcraft III) there 
 is still always a game to be played online with someone on Battle. net. This multiplayer element 
 is why Starcraft still shines, even after you have completed the single-player mode.
  
  The game truly is worth it - and if you find the Batlechest (game+expansion and guides) it is well 
 worth your $20.
  
  One of the most interesting things to think about is that during a time of copycat RTS games (Dark 
 Reign, Dune, Gender Wars -seriously!) this game managed to stand out from the competition and win 
 us over. Considering that people still buy the game today, Starcraft offers an experience like 
 no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is still a great game to get and play but as for me I would rather play the origanal Starcraft 
 . Broodwar is not that different from Stracraft in the fact the only thing that is truly diefferent 
 is that they added on a couple of characters for each race. But again as for me i dont really like 
 the characters all that much. I would say that if you like more of a high tech characters you would 
 like Broodwar better than the origanal. Still i would have to say that is one of the best RTS ever 
 made and i still play them on and of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HHH_The_Game00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft is a beautifully designed war space game which creates a mood to the player making the 
 game much more enjoyable. Extensive requirements for each different building make the game more 
 challenging and more competitive in a multiplayer situation. The single player mode isn't without 
 its charm, but in the end, the games strong point lays in its most addictive multiplayer mode, 
 which enables players to use a variety of maps (even maps you or other users may create) against 
 either computers, or other gamers, or both.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is flawless, the controls are easy to use, and the attacking requires strategy for 
 precision attacks. The computers can be hard or easy, they can also be set. Though some players 
 may make for an aggravating online experience through cheating or backstabbing, it keeps you on 
 the edge of your seat and prepares you for a full out challenge in the end. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in a game such as this simply have no effect on how the game plays, 
 though they are decent. The graphics deliver enough to satisfy the eyes and make for a climactic 
 battle in most instances.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound fits the game perfectly, the music is calm but also adds some suspense to the game as it 
 is almost an eerie calm. Attacks and missile shots all sound as they should, and the timing is 
 good.
  
  I would recommend this game to people who are experienced in the gaming world, as it does require 
 a fair amount of skill, especially when you begin online play. Though it is fun for all gaming 
 experiences, I recommend getting use to the game by playing through one player mode before going 
 and doing anything else with it. 
  
  Great game, fun for all ages, fun for hours, addicting fun.
  
  Buy it, play it, and you will 
 love it. Guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forthelight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Broodwar actually takes strategy. The more you practice at this one the better you become. 
 The gameplay is smooth. You can set up a LAN with Broodwar and devote a summer to it's competetive 
 gameplay. The graphics are still sharp for how old the game is. The only problem is, it is a bit 
 out dated and they need to make another expansion or else produce Starcraft 2. The game is of the 
 most fun I have ever played and I have spent more time playing this than any game ever. You must 
 buy it if you have never played. -Paxman- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0diablo0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  this game cannot be beaton by Wow or anything like that this game is just too good!!! welll done 
 blizzard on your greatest game to date and probably ever!! (hopefully Ghost will be amazing too) 
 it is march 7 2006 and iam still playing it more than any other game i have for the pc p2s or psp!! 
 it's just too good!!!! iam gonna be the first one in line at best buy the day ghost comes out screw 
 school iam skipping for it!! i guess this has to be 100 words so iam just typing so i can submit 
 thia lmao! by the way did i say this is the best game to ever be on the markety?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLSNiPeY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Melee was all i played in the begginning... was fun and became pretty good at it... but 
 once i played UMS maps it just made me play SC even more... Made it More FUN
  
  Graphics: I think the graphics on this game are good for an old skoo game... I hope another SC 
 comes out with lots of upgrades...
  
  Sound: I dont listening to the sounds at all.. dont need em nore do i like them... just listening 
 to muzik while playing....
  
  Value: Its a game worth having... its always fun... theres always new maps...
  Still a good amout 
 of gamers online playing...
  
  Review: GREAT RPG GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gobythebear
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  It has the rts genre down perfectly. The three races in the game are perfectly balanced.
  
 
  Story
  
  Good enough story. The intro cutscene is nice but it's a shame theres so few cutscenes.
  
  
 Graphics
  
  Considering that this game is almost 10 years old it still has decent enough graphics. They are 
 a little bit cartoony and if they make a Starcraft 2 hopefully it will have slighty more realistic 
 graphics.
  
  Sound
  
  The machinegun fire sounds ok and so do the death screams of the various races. 
  
  Value
 
  
  One word. Online. You can create your own maps and some of them are really good. There are still 
 plenty of players to play against. 
  
  Overall
  
  It gets a 9.8 because even today it remains one of the best if not THE best rts around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyber04
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I have had the starcraft series ever since it was relesed in 1998. and i still love it, after almost 
 10 years its still fun, how? i dont know, blizzard is good at making there RTS's .
  
  Anyways
  
  Graphics: Graphics dont matter much in a RTS but for the time this game was released 
 they look pretty good, there not choppy or bugged in anyway - just nice and smooth, good for the 
 time.
  
  Sound: the sound is good, you can hear the difrences between difrent units and each unit has its 
 own little personal attitude.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay rocks, smooth playing, good stuff, GOOD EVERYTHING SC FRIGGEN ROCKS IF YOU 
 HAVE NOT BOUGHT IT ITS ONLY 10 DOLLARS!! GET IT GOD DAMN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is great. It's old and very popular. Most impressive 2D Real-Time Strategy 
 ever known. Brood War extends the story told in Starcraft, beginning with Protoss Dark Templars 
 and ending with Infested Kerrigan's fury, leading Zerg to the victory and killing other races. 
 Brood War adds new terrains for Campaign Editor, new units and upgrades to use and a bit more strategies 
 than in original Starcraft. If you are a Starcraft fan you must have this expansion. For Starcraft 
 veterans SC Battle Chest would be an amazing idea. Battle. net is a great place to test your skills 
 and it's #1 place for SC and BW maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is probably the best PC game out, it has amazing graphics, excellent sound 
 effects, wonderful voice acting, a flawless online server, and a very original and excellent single 
 player campaign mode.
  
  It's plot is amazing, and the controls are very easy to get used to... The concept is simple: Pick 
 one of the three races (Protoss, Zerg and Terran) build up your army and economy and then attack 
 your enemies.
  
  This game has a lot of great features that I don't know where to begin explaining.
  
  1.-You 
 can make your own scenarios and campaigns using the excellent Blizzard's Starcraft Campaign Editor 
  (Or StarEdit ) .
  
  2.-Battle. Net  is a great online server that allows gamers to make their own profile, earn stars 
 by winning melee battles, play different scenarios, Chat with other gamers, make your own ''clans'', 
 and you can even make friends there.
  
  3.-An excellent Single Player campaign, with one of the best plots a game has ever had.
  
  
 4.-A lot of different unit types each one with their own abilities and uses.
  
  5.-Amazing voice acting, excellent graphics, and beautiful visuals.
  
  6.-It's concept will 
 attract mature gamers, kids, girls, parents, and almost every type of casual / hardcore gamers, 
 it will be appealing to RPG, Racing, Fighting, Strategy, Golfing, Card Battle, Puzzle, Action, 
 SideScroll Action, Sports fan gamers.
  
  7.-UNLIMITED FUN!
  
  Overall: Starcraft: Brood War is a masterpiece of a game, Blizzard can't do better... oh wait Warcraft! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  This was pretty hefty for an expansion pack, with a significant amount of story as well as unit 
 additions, making it feel closer to a sequel than an expansion.
  
  It definitely is a solid continuance of the Starcraft story, pursuing Kerigan and finally encountering 
 people from the long lost earth, which in this reality, is a pretty big deal.
  
  The gameplay overall didnt change a whole lot, and in the case of a great title like this, is 
 a good thing. Due to this being an expansion one didnt really have to overhaul anything, just 
 add, which in the case of such a highly lauded game, was probably the best possible decision, as 
 well as the most sensible to continue the series.
  
  The music, which Ive always adored is back in full force with it's subtle mid-90's rock guitar 
 riffs and all.
  
  I was debating going the GS route and scoring this game a little lower than the original, but to 
 be honest, this deserves the same top 10 score I gave the original, because not only is it more 
 of the best RTS action Ive played, but it also is the best and most robust expansion, due to it's 
 full sequel nature, jam packed into what was marketed as an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis619
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  Yo this is the best game ever created period. And its name is StarCraft..... This game has it all. 
 The graphics are pretty good, well maybe not as good as the games that come up right now, but remember 
 that this game was released at 1998. For that year those graphics are amazing and are still good 
 now. The sound effects are hot period. And now the gameplay......... DAMN      Gameplay is ....... well..... 
 I gotto get a dictionary to find the right word to describe it. I will probably never come acros 
 such gameplay again, its Superb A+++. If you havent played this game, u have to get it NOW!!!!! 
 This is the Father of all the real time strategy games
  I am beggin "Blizzard" to come back to the starcraft world and start working on StarCraft 2. Trust 
 Me you be making allot more money then you are making with WarCraft right now. my email luiscallo@hotmail. com 
 and The name is Luis AKA "LC' Dog" One of the biggest fans of "StarCraft" and "Blizzard Entertainment". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasdlooper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Some may say there's not enough of it but Brood War is a great game.
  
  All my friends who have tried Brood War and the all-time-classic "Starcraft" have been hooked from 
 day 1. We are hoping that Blizzard will continue further expansion to this now household name.
 
  
  Anyone who loves strategy games will find this game uniquely unmatched. 
  
  The variety in the units and storylines are as good as the original's and the cinematics do their 
 job by add more to the storyline.
  
  Blizzard has perfected what very few developers have been able to create, a sequel that's is as 
 entertaining as the original and leaves you coming back for more.
  
  I absolutely loved this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonypsp300
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  THIS IS TRULY A MASTER PIECE WORTHY OF BEIGN CALLED STARCRAFT AND IT SAYS A LOT ABOUT THE QUALITY 
 OF THE GAME WHEN 8 YEARS LATER PEOPLE ARE STILL CALLING IT THE BEST PC GAME EVER. EVEN THOUGH THERE 
 HAS BEEN A GREAT ADVANCEMENT IN GRAPHICS THIS GAME WILL NEVER BE SURPASSED IN OVERALL QUALITY OF 
 GAMEPLAY AND STORYLINE AND OF COARSE ONLINE PLAY. ALTHOUGH IT HAS BENN A LONG TIME SINCE THE GAME 
 FIRST WAS RELEASED IN 98 I PREDICT THAT THIS GAME LIFE STILL HAS A GOOD 10 YEARS MORE. 
  
  
  THIS IS TRULY A MASTER PIECE WORTHY OF BEIGN CALLED STARCRAFT AND IT SAYS A LOT ABOUT THE QUALITY 
 OF THE GAME WHEN 8 YEARS LATER PEOPLE ARE STILL CALLING IT THE BEST PC GAME EVER. EVEN THOUGH THERE 
 HAS BEEN A GREAT ADVANCEMENT IN GRAPHICS THIS GAME WILL NEVER BE SURPASSED IN OVERALL QUALITY OF 
 GAMEPLAY AND STORYLINE AND OF COARSE ONLINE PLAY. ALTHOUGH IT HAS BENN A LONG TIME SINCE THE GAME 
 FIRST WAS RELEASED IN 98 I PREDICT THAT THIS GAME LIFE STILL HAS A GOOD 10 YEARS MORE. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JINTHEAZN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the world. This game....... IS THE BEST GAME EVER MADE IN HISTORY OF VIEDO 
 GAMES IN THE HISTORY OF ITSELF. Starcraft changed my life. Starcraft got me stragiht As in my report 
 cards XD. Really it did. This has changed it. Well not exactly best game. But THE BEST MULTYPLAYEr 
 game. 
  T
  H
  E
  
  B
  E
  S
  T
  
  G
  A
  M
  E
  
  F
  O
  R
  
  M
  U
  L
  T
  Y
  P
  L
  A
  Y
  E
  R
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  if u read this far. Please just turn back and stop wasting time.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  u are stupid -.-
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  THE best game
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  OK STOP 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  U WIN
  
  
  
  
  
  
  not
  
  
  
  Melee is very hard if u play with the pros of the pros.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  THE 
 BEST F**************** GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmalatestinic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard's done what very few developers have been able to pull off - a sequel that's every bit 
 as entertaining as the original and leaves you wanting more. 
  
  Brood War is a great game - only there's not enough of it. 
  
  Everyone I know who has tried 
 this and the Mother Ship (Starcraft) has been blown clear away. People are clamouring for more 
 and praying that Blizzard will revisit the Starcraft universe and I'm at the head of that mob. 
 
  
  Anyone who loves strategy games will love this game - guaranteed. I've sold this game and less 
 than a year later rebought it just to get another shot at playing it again. 
  
  The variation in units and storylines are as good as the originals although the cinematics are 
 a little skimpy for my tastes. 
  
  There's plenty of room for more ... hint BlizzardQ!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  Amazingly smooth textures, especially on the water. It has outdone EVERY game produced before it's 
 release. There are animations for fighting, animations for unit production, etc...
  Sound: 10/10
  It sounds very realistic, with the effect of sound diminishing as you move your 
 screen away from the battlefield. VERY impressive, especially for starters in RTS.
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Any real-time game has the advantage of having limitless possible scenarios, 
 so the replay value is certainly there. However, I find that having only 3 races isn't exactly 
 enough variety, even for a real time game. Thus, the 9/10. On the other hand, this game IS very 
 immersive for the first 50-100 hours, especially for first time RTS players, since each race has 
 individually specialized units.
  Overall, compared to other RTS games in the market as of 1998, SC: Brood War is one of the best 
 you'll find. It's main competitor would be the Age of Empires series, which is in another genre 
 of itself, SC being more futuristic, and AOE being more realistic and historical, so there isn't 
 truly a close competitor for SC: Brood War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  New units, more areas, more insanity as the war goes on between the 3. This is a great expansion 
 and its well worth playing. More badass character to play and much more deeper story line than 
 the first but it still has the RTS classical goodness of just kicking some serious ass online. 
 I really don't know what to say but it is a must play! The mods that are made for the expansion 
 are great and it only gets better. There is nothing better than an RTS game that lets you make 
 your own games. I've played this game for years and only this game so if this game can keep me 
 entertained for that long than its definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  tis i gotta say is one of the best game ever made in d history of games. It doesnt have d best 
 graphics but the game is seriously addicting. The races are almost like perfectly balanced. d ability 
 2 play on internet is awesome n no matter how bad of a comp u have, u can still play it since starcraft 
 has extremely low requirements. U can play n play but u'll never get bored outta tis game! I gotta 
 say blizzard made a masterpiece rite here. I can't wait till d next 1 comes out!!! i'm gonna try 
 2 buy it like d 1st day it comes out!!! It's tat adiciting!!! Trust me once u play it u wont stop 
 n u will become addicted 2 tis game n i promise u, unless ur a reely retarded guy, tat u wont regret 
 playing tis game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurielovsko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  I love starcraft games... when I first played it I tought "This game needs something". When I bougth 
 the Brood War expansion for the starcraft game I got amazed by the new contents. Not only does 
 it include a whole bunch of new units, but scenarios, missions, and a definitive ending.
  I think that Blizzard did a notch with this expansion. And for me it's one of the best expansions 
 for a strategy game.
  
  If you want a real, fun, and challenging game, you should buy Starcraft with the Brood War expansion.
 
  
  All of the starcraft fans should have this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Grotesque and chitinous behomeths galore hovering about the skies, beasts with carapace with their 
 frames etched with blood- their eyes crimson and drunk in such stupor of greed and lust, of what 
 such that of the darkest of revelleries as if to decree- that of ragged proportion. And beneath 
 the shifting sands, vagabonds and vagrants unto catacomb. There are men clad in synthetic, carbonate 
 armor also. They stand their ground, hidden behind their palisades, after cohort of cohort of zerglings 
 surge forth. And then up above in the ether lay the mysterious and silent Protoss, cautious with 
 Pride running through their veigns. The chronicles of Starcraft: Brood War art such of what art 
 such that of ominous lore.
  
  After the success of Starcraft, with a huge mos mairovm of acolytes and such held in thrall to 
 its majesty, came the expansion pack. The expansion pack, however, should be considered a new game 
 in its entirety- new campiagn, new units, new maps, more soundtracks, and more terrains. in the 
 campaign, it begins after Tassadar's death and destruction of the Overmind, and chronicalizes the 
 succubus' rise to power as queen of the Zerg. The remaining broods create a new Overmind which 
 must be destroyed for her to wield absolute imperium. She gets the help of Raynor and Felix by 
 pretending to be free from the pestilence of the Zerg's influence on her. She later kills Felix. 
 At the end of the campaign she is queen, but a threat far greater than her is introduced- the Hybrid. 
 (Perhaps the new campaign if they make Starcraft 2.)
  
  The gameplay features reign supreme here. The new units for the Terran are the medic and valkyrie, 
 the Dark Templar, Dark Archon, and [] for the Protoss, and new mutations for the beasts for the 
 Zerg. (Hydralists can now mutate to be a catacomb behometh and shoot spikes from the ground.) There 
 are new maps such as one completely of ice, one underground, one in a space ship yard, and another 
 in a lava planet. There is new music such as for the Terran, Zerg, and Protoss, ranging from brooding 
 Despair to one of adrenaline rush, with each representing the particular mood of the scenario. 
 All this and more is Starcraft: Brood War.
  
  Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  
  this is a cool game with decent graphics and sound but the real cool stuff is the sides you can 
 play as. The terran are human (although they look like hicks from farms (haha) , but dont get me 
 wrong they are very advanced technology wise. Then there is the extremly advanced protoss who are 
 aliens. Then theres my favorite race the zerg, these are aliens that are less advanced but they 
 make up for it with cheap units that still pack a good punch. They are completly biological, so 
 no machine or metal tanks here but they got a biological tank (its called an ultralisk but it looks 
 like a giant four legged animal with big teeth and sharp blades) . The campaign is really interesting, 
 and the skirmish mode keeps you coming back for more. 
  
  The only problem i have with this game is it has alot of lag when you play for more than 2 1/2 
 hours, like the disk overheats or something... my computer is brand new $2000 windows xp machine 
 and it runs more graphically advanced games just fine for as many hours as i want. 
  
  if you guys know why it lags up please feel free to send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafs_ducks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  as i already said on my other review... this add-on is even better.. better than the first.. same 
 gameplay but more units.. still the same amazing game.. you can't never get tired of starcraft..
 
  
  Gampleplay- As i already said, they added more units to all three race which made the game fun 
 to even more fun.. if your the type of person that likes to be kept all day and night away from 
 family, friends and work.. this game is right up your alley.. 
  
  Graphics- even though the graphics is a little bit better.. it didn't change much.. but still great 
 graphics for the late 90s
  
  Sound- The sound track and the characters voices are totally awesome..
  
  If you haven't gotten 
 this game yet.. don't just sit there.. go out and buy this game right now.. it won't disappoint!! 
 BEST GAME EVER MADE!!! Holy Moly.. hurt like crazy.. 9.8 out 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Undead-Souls
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I love Starcraft for this reason. It's a fast pace RTS unlike other RTS's where it takes forever 
 to figure out what the hell u are doing.
  
  *In the original Starcraft, the game practically walked u through missions therefore giving u a 
 specifically good idea how everything works.
  
  In Starcraft: Broodwar, I love the additional units. I bet everyone enjoys the addition of Dark 
 Templars to the Protoss's Gateway. Which you couldn't make in the original Starcraft. Also for 
 the Zerg, you can mutate a Hydralisk into a Lurker. Even though when mutated. The Hydralisk loses 
 it's ability to attack air units, but the most unique thing about the Lurker is that it attacks 
 while burrowed. There are other additional units in the game, but I'll let you discover them yourself 
 :P
  
  The graphics are pretty much no different from the original, but "Who Cares?!"
  
  The sound is great if you have some good speakers. You can hear noises you couldn't hear in the 
 original ;)
  
  This game is great... The online play is as fun as ever... Campaign Editor got more interesting. 
 The main point I'm trying to get across is that this game is just plain fun, and I hope everyone 
 enjoys it as much as I do.
  
  Hope Blizzard decides to make a Starcraft 2, because they pretty much left a sequel open. I mean 
 c'mon!! Just can't leave the story hangin' like this.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  There are only a couple games I can count in quality that are better then this game, but none that 
 can surpass the shear number of hours I put into this game. This was a huge addiction to me, as 
 I am sure it was to many many people. This is the one game that I could still play today, 3 or 
 4 years after I last was addicted to it and still have a blast. 
  
  Absolutely every thing in this game is perfect, all the units are balanced perfectly. All the powerful 
 ships are expensive and slow to build and the cheap units could still kill the powerfull ones. 
 
  
  The on-line is the best online I have ever played, sure the player base is a bunch of whiny 8 year 
 old kids, but the multiplayer is still a blast. I never played competitively in the game, but I 
 am sure that I could have at the height of my awesomeness. You can not only play some good ol' 
 regular multi-player against people, but this also has some of the best user made mods made with 
 the limitations of the software taken in mind. 
  
  The # 1 mod I played on Starcraft was easily the LOTR: Last Alliance Theta, if I remember corectly. 
 Sure there were tons of cheap moves to the game, but if you were smart you would not fall susceptible 
 to them. It was like a game of chess, it was all in who could move the fastest to get the killing 
 blow. I had a blast in that game and probably played 10-20 hours of just that mod, and when it 
 was popular and you got a bunch of pros at it, I have never played a better mod
  
  I did'nt talk about the game play a lot because, well it's perfect, simple as that. 
  
  The 
 sound is great for it's time, and some of the things that the soldiers say are down right hilarious, 
 if you keep on clicking on them that is.
  
  Graphics are also very good for it's time, 1600 units on a game map on one time? Crips that's a 
 lot, even now.
  
  Now the only question is, where is the Starcraft II? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard attempts to please Starcraft fans and keep the game interesting with this release, but 
 can be summed up as the introduction of a few new units and landscapes, nothing spectacular. The 
 medic was a welcome relief and the lurker made the burrow option more appealing. On the box it 
 says how you can use the terrain to your advantage, such as hiding units in the shade of a tree. 
 My attempts to do so only fools humans, try doing that in single player and you'll forfeit whichever 
 units you try to ambush with - the AI is too smart to buy into that. If they can only make a strategy 
 game where things are actually in proportion, when a soldier isn't half the size of a tank, for 
 example. This is hard to play as always, and most people found the single player campaign impossible 
 to finish without cheats. It is too hard, or most people don't possess the skills from the guys 
 at Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great additions; sounds remain good, especially voice acting; even more challenging AI; storyline 
 and characters as memorable as original; engaging and addicting multiplayer
  BAD: Multiplayer overrun with "money maps" and cheaters; game mechanics becoming outdated
  
 
  Brood War is a great expansion. I remember back in these days, nobody ever expected much out of 
 expansion packs. They were usually just shallow excuses to make more money. Occasionally one would 
 come along that greatly expanded onto and improved the original. Brood War was one of these, and 
 since this one came out, it seems that almost everybody knows what to do in an expansion set.
 
  
  Brood War adds several units to each of the three races to balance is out and fill the holes in 
 gameplay that existed before. Three new great-looking terrains were introduced to this game. Because 
 of the new units, multiplayer is even better than the original. While multiplayer is a step up, 
 custom single player games vs the computer are better than ever, as the difficulty of the AI opponents 
 has been beefed up. Brood War is just as addictive and replayable as the original, if not more 
 so.
  
  The single player campaign expands greatly on an already epic and fantastic storyline. The great 
 cast of the original delivers another stellar voice acting performance in this game, and the great 
 sounds of the original return, with a few more sounds and a new song for each race to complement 
 an already amazing array of sounds and music. The storyline goes through ups and downs as mistrust 
 and betrayal runs hot, major plotlines unfold, and the greatest power struggle science fiction 
 has ever known occurs (okay, maybe an overstatement, but it's sure close) . The new characters are 
 as memorable as the original, and the storyline is, once again, the true definition of epic.
  
  Although my actual gameplay tastes for this game have been worn out after 5 years of playing 
 it nearly nonstop, my interest in this game will continue until the day I die. The universe and 
 atmosphere in this game are great, and many great memories have come from it. A truly classic game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUBULA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  StarCraft, I remember hating this game so much because I saw someone play it before at a party 
 and when I notice how the screen moves fast and all I thought maybe I would get motion sickness 
 so I tried my best to avoid this game, boy was I wrong, one of my friend's talked about this game 
 and I said yeh? that screen moving game? lol we talked and talked and I finaly gave myself in!
 
  
  He told me the online fetaure that was in the game... something like Battle. net similar to diablo, 
 warcraft etc, I joined battle. net and saw all people talking about stuff,,, so my friend made a 
 game and I joined it... I picked Zerg and I didn't know what the hell that means LOL! he picked 
 terran so he started the game? whats going to happen?!
  
  I started with four workers, known as drones I gather minerals and guess what...? that totally 
 changed the way I look at this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It's great!!!!! I am now so advanced in 
 the game now (know all the basics)
  
  So yes,,,, you should buy this and tell your friends about it!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is THE best game I have ever played. It has kept me entertained for a very 
 long time. The single player campaign is great, and the story line is not bad. However the real 
 fun comes from Battle. Net, the multiplayer portion. I bought the game around 6 years ago, and I 
 STILL enjoy playing it. The melee games are exciting and very competitive, and the huge possiblities 
 with the Campaign Editor to make complete unique maps (called Use Map Settings) makes it almost 
 a different game everytime you play. You will not regret buying this, unless you completely hate 
 strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untame_Zerg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard Entertainment has really done it this time around. With the release of the Brood War Expansion 
 pack, they have made a huge income. 
  The Brood War Expansion introduces many new units, including the Medic (Terran) , Corsair (Protoss) , 
 the Dark Templar (Protoss) , Dark Archon (Protoss) Lurkers (Morphed Zerg Hydralisks) , Devourers 
 (Morphed Zerg Mutalisks) , and more upgrades for your power-hungry units.
  The Terran Goliath now has an upgrade for increased missile range, for instance.
  After the first 
 campaign (Zerg) , the game pumps up the difficulty substantially. The first Protoss mission requires 
 you to escort Zeratul (Dark Templar) to a Warp Gate on Aiur.
  All in all, if you own the origional Starcraft, like it, and want more single player missions and 
 excellent online multiplayer gameplay, buy Starcraft: Brood War Expansion Pack (Also available 
 in Starcraft Battle Chest) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KumbackKid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  honestly one of the best rts' i have ever played graphics 4 its time r great you get 2 have the 
 perfect amount of units, unlike warcraft great game every rts player should buy it you can get the 
 first and the expansion pack in a set for only $20 SO GO BUY IT!!!!!!
  
  The whole premise of the game is where and evil army the ZERG are invading the humans (terran) and 
 a very old alien race (protoss) its actually a 3 party war but in some cases allies will be made 
 (and will also be broken) its easy to just start playing but to actualy be a competitor you have 
 2 play for a while online AND BOY is the online play exciting never gets old with the constant 
 new maps that players are making honestly its a great game everyone should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yosevuk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) (coming 
 soon) (coming soon) (coming soon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incabobcrane
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to state that this is my first review, and I must say I am very exctied about 
 expressing my opinion.
  
  But aside from that Starcraft Brood Wars (SCBW) is a game that is beyond great, in my eyes, it's 
 legendary. I know I may be gushing about this but I can't help express my highly addicted nature 
 to this game. 
  It was the first PC game I ever played and to this date, it has still retained its glorious first 
 place in all the games I have played. ( I rent about three games a month for the past six years, 
 you do the math.) 
  
  But enough of the introduction, first.
  
  
  The gameplay on this was incredibly innovative for its day and age. The most notable feature of 
 this is the balance of units. It's so precise that any race that you are, you have an equal chance 
 at winning as your opponent has. (provided that your both newbs or veterans, no insult intended) 
 The three races of The SCBW universe is very immersive, each of which have there very own campagin 
 and story.
  The Three races are...
  
  Zerg - A biological or "Xenomorph" race comprised of assimalted creatures from other worlds. (For 
 you Halo players out there the Zerg are the more evolved form of the flood) The Zerg orginated 
 from a group of an epitomized peoples know as the Xel'naga. These peoples created the Zerg, (Also 
 know as the "Second Born") And gave them - as The Overmind (the supreme zerg ruler, a large brain 
 as it were) stated - "Purity of Essence." But these zerg are mindless creatures of destruction 
 without "cerebrates" Which are sort of like the centeral computer to process each indivdual "brood" 
 what to do. The Overmind is just several cerebrates formed together and run's all the cerebrates.
 
  
  The Zerg's main tactic is qauntity over qulaity. The prefect example:
  The Zergling. A dog like creature it's the swarming unit. It may be the weakest unit in the game 
 intended for attacking. But the fact is, the Zerg build using Larvae which can transfrom into any 
 unit that the zerg can be. But instead of producing one unit, it produces two units per larvae 
 and it has the second fastest build time in the game (next to workers of course) So, when produced 
 in mass numbers, the Zergling - due to its incredibly fast attack speed and movement - can tear 
 down even the toughest of oppenents, all you need is a lot.
  
  But, even the Zerg have counters. Tis' the glory of SCBW. 
  
  Every single unit has a counter, 
 like an example...
  
  Zergling   Firebat (Terran)
  Zergling   Zealot or reaver (Protoss)
  Zergling   Lurker (Zerg)
  
  Even though Zerg is not 
 my favorite race to go upagainst it is still a mind blowing race.
  
  Next on the list...
  
  Protoss - A group of peoples whom have grown beyond the need for meaterialistic things. The 
 are such an evolved race that they use Psionic energy for everything. From powering weapons and 
 sheilds, to communication and sustanince. The protoss do not have mouths, for they have no need 
 of them. 
  The Protoss too, were created by the "Xel'Naga" As they were the "First born." The Protoss however, 
 were not to the Xel'Naga's specifactions and labeled them a disgrace. This however, lead to the 
 near destruction of the Xel'naga shortly after the creation of the Zerg. But The Protoss were not 
 without there own problems. A New form of unity had arisen in the Protoss world called "The Kahala". 
 This infinte wavelength of psionic energy would connect each and every protoss mind. But Some would 
 not accept such a radical change and were banished from their homeworld "Aiur." These who did not 
 accept the "Khala" were called the "Dark Templar." These people were nomadic until they settled 
 down on a planet known as "Shakuras." These people, now banished from auir have come back in Brood 
 War to assist against the Zerg nemisis...
  
  And Finnaly, our distant cousins, 
  
  Terran - In lemen's terms... Human beigns. Earth had rid itself of war and all countries turned 
 to allagience as the United Earth Directorate, Or UED. (That's why this is a game and not based 
 on any sort of fact) But aside from politics on the know overcrowded Earth, Us humans went out 
 into space to search for other planets to colonize. Two planets were suitable.
  Tarsonis, planet showered with cliffs and rocky outcrops, and Mar Sara which is basically a bigger, 
 habitable Mars.
  But who would join the army? Well, no one had too! Save for the convicts of course. These convicts 
 were pumped up and trained to be Marine's, your basic assualt unit with an auto rifle,
  A firebat, a person with flamethrowers planted on his arms,
  A medic... well pretty self explanatory... 
 usualy female :)
  or finally, a ghost. And Wicked ass spy that can... NUKE!
  But as careless as us humans can be there were still the rebels about... such as the "Sons of Kohral." 
 But when we run into the Zerg and Protoss... well, all hell breaks loose.
  
  So those are the Three races and a bit of background information. But all in all, the Balance is 
 by far the BEST part of this game. With all the Upgrades and research this game requires the most 
 intelecutal tactics to defeat other people about batttle. net
  
  
  Although this game as of right now seems to have bad graphics as it were... about a decade ago 
 when this game was produced, it wasn't the best of graphics... but the cinematics were incredible. 
 At the time, they were (as far as I know) the best out at the time.
  
  The graphical problems are slim to none at best. The simple, yet intuitve design of the sprites 
 used were enough to impress me.
  
  
  I'm not a sound freak... But I'm smart enough to know that the sound score on this wasn't short 
 of AMAZING. I swear I can't get the sound the protoss music when your playing out of my head...
 
  
  
  Well... not sure what this is for... so yeah... its worth it's weight in gold...
  
  All in all I think that this game is incredible. Dispite a longer learning curve that usual, 
 it's by far the most addictive and easily the most immersive game I've ever played.
  
  -Incabobcrane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_homes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Lets start things off with the new units in starcraft brood war Terran's new units are Medic, Valkyrie. 
 Zerg is Lurker, Devour. Protoss Darktemplar, Dark Archon, and Corsair. An excellent expansion to 
 add on starcraft. The online mode is just amazing! its the same thing about starcraft origional, 
 and so are the use map settings. The extra patches that they add on starcraft online is just fantastic, 
 i think the pinging is new, and the computers get way harder, and thats a good thing. The story 
 mode for Zerg, Protoss, and Terran is Amazing, if you own the game you must play it if your internet 
 gets disconnected, and if it doesnt stick with the online mode. You can spend as much time playing 
 this ofcourse and if you want to face me my username is G_homes =) .For a conclugion i say for 
 you to go out and buy Blizzards best game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camerjoe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok i know some basic terran, prottos, zerg like the terran if you want good defence make binkers 
 with guys with seige tanks there too and misslie turrents it will be a good defence the zergs zerglings 
 are awsome when all their stats are lvled up full they kik a$$ they take on gioloiths like in secs 
 the prottos there really strong there really good against zerd there zealots are really strong 
 against zerg the terran fire bats are good against zerg but with alot of hyderlisks they kik battle 
 criusers a$$ well i know more hints but thats all ill say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  The word masterpiece best describes this game, it is still a legend that lives and will continue 
 to live. when star craft released, there weren't any strategy games close to star craft and even 
 now it's hard to find strategy games that are better than star craft!
  What makes the game so great! Well firstly the graphic's were 5 years ahead of any other strategy 
 game and even now the graphics are prety good taking in fact that the game is this old, the sounds 
 also onw of the best components of star craft even now, but the gameplay is really waht makes it 
 stand out from the rest. Three races perfectly balanced, every one with it's unique technology 
 and tactics. 
  While the campaign was very interesting the multiplayer is what makes the game to played by millions 
 all over our planet.
  
  In short this game is just perfect and canot be matched by no other strategy game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  seriously does an expansion get any better? NOT ONLY does it add a few more characters but it adds 
 a whole new campaign, how many games do that. But the campaign isnt the thing that brings it over 
 the edge its the characters and the amazing depth the bring. All the new units give the game that 
 extra edge. The way you can change this game to fit the way you wanna play with map editore and 
 USe Map Settings is absolutely amazing. This addon is a must have for any StarCraft fan and for 
 those people that dont even have the first one, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta010
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War Is One Of The Best Games For PC That I Have Ever Played! I Will Explain To 
 You Why If You Read On. I Will First Tell You The Basics To The Game! Well, There Are 3 Different 
 Races That You can Fight With, They Are The Zerg (Big Bug Type Things) , The Terran (The Humans) , 
 And The Protoss (Alians Type People) . My Favorite Is The Terran, Then My Second Favorite Would 
 Be The Protoss, And My Third Favorite Would Be The Zerg! The Strongest Race Would Be The Protoss. 
 The whole Story Line Of This Game Is That all The Races Try To Defeat Each Other For Power. The 
 Terran's Main Reason For Fighting Is For Power And Freedom, And When I say Freedom I Mean So That 
 The Zerg Or The Protoss Don't Destroy Earth Or Should I Say, Take Over Earth. The Protoss's Main 
 Reason For Fighting Is For Freedom And So That They Don't Get Taken Over By The Zerg Or Terran. 
 The Zerg's Main Reason For Fighting Is For Power And To Destroy And Take Over All The Other Races 
 (Terran, And Protoss) . That Is The Story Line For This Game! Now Go Out And Buy It To See If You 
 Like It! I Really Like This Game! I Said It Before And I'll Say It Agian, Starcraft: Brood War 
 Is The Best game For PC I Have Ever Played! Blizzard Entertainment (Developer And Publisher Of 
 Starcraft) Is One Of My Favorite PC And When Starcraft: Ghost Comes Out, Counsle Game Making Company 
 That I Like! So, If You Have Any Questions Or Comments Eaither Post A Comment, Track Me, Send Me 
 A E-Mail At DragonballZVegeta@inbox. com, Or My MSN Messenger E-Mail And IM Address Which Is nickrt2001@hotmail. com 
 Thanks! C Ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgethiss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  I know that anyone who hasn't got the game by now, probally knows what it is about, well to say 
 the least this game is amazing. 
  Replay Value: Through the roof, this game has the best replay value of any game I have ever played, 
 honestly. I have been playing this game for 5 years. And I'm still not bored with it... in fact 
 I want to play right now. The truth is, though, that the game is half as good without the internet, 
 and the expansion.
  Pros: Internet play never gets old.
  Great game with plenty of dimensions.
  100's of possible strategies.
  Difficulty varies (there 
 are experts online and there are newbs)
  Cons: Sometimes people can hack the game and screw it up for everyone
  Rated T for teen, should 
 be rated M, because online play.
  I really can't think of anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Keeping in mind that this game was released in 1998 I have to say this game is the best Real Time 
 Strategy game Ive played. The graphics are good, and the sound is well chosen. But the game play 
 on it is what makes a diference. It set a standard to all RTS games out there. I was not a big 
 strategy game fan until I met starcraft. Its fun, its simple, and its easy to learn. But what 
 can be simple, can also become dificult and nerve wrecking. To the point that a second can make 
 a diference between a win or loss, where positining can decide that game, and where experience 
 speaks louder. Multiplayer games vary from a plain, 1 on 1 to 4on 4 to 8 player free for all. The 
 game has its missions, which are great fun, and you can play versus the computer itself, or various 
 computers. This game is just perfect gameplay in my opinion, I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcv
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is the most balanced rts I've ever played. It has 3 completely different races 
 that completely equal to each other. Remember Warcraft II and how the orcs and humans were basically 
 the same race? Well not this time. Between the Terrans and their balance, the Zerg and their overwhlming 
 numbers, and the Protoss with their awesome technology, I don't know wich race I like the best. 
 This game makes it fun to chose random when you're playing on battle. net because you can enjoy 
 whichever race you play with. 
  Warcraft III is very good in all, but I still prefer Starcraft over it, hands down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andystark
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Nothing really has come close.
  
  StarCraft, with its expansion Brood War, is the premiere RTS game -- and still is, 7 years after 
 it was released. It is the bar by which all other RTS games are measured.
  
  Its short learning curve, fun gameplay, and strategic depth all add together to make an incredible 
 game. The storyline is well thought out, and very well presented with in-game cutscenes and cinetmatics 
 at the end of each campaign. The new units added to each of StarCraft's three races are each useful, 
 blanaced, and fit the 'feel' of the original game. When I go back and play original StarCraft (without 
 Brood War) , I feel as if a part of the game is missing -- that is how well Brood War fits melds 
 into the SC universe. Any RTS fan that hasn't play this game should pick it up immediatly. I think 
 you can find it for $10-$20 (that is, both SC and SC: BW together) these days. I assure you, you 
 will be playing it for a long time to come.
  
  I'm still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  what makes this game great is battle. net. You can play use map setting games that are way different 
 than melee and theres alot of those map makers. But some of the people arent newby friendly. Alot 
 of strategy is needed to succed in battle. Many diverse units make the game great and the sound 
 effects are awesome. A good recommantion if your computer is not so good, so you will be able to 
 run this game. Nice 2-D graphics and effects. Really Really fun, has tons of replay value, a good 
 game if your more into gameplay than graphics. . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TelNasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is the most balanced rts I've ever played. It has 3 completely different races 
 that completely equal to each other. Remember Warcraft II and how the orcs and humans were basically 
 the same race? Well not this time. Between the Terrans and their balance, the Zerg and their overwhlming 
 numbers, and the Protoss with their awesome technology, I don't know wich race I like the best. 
 This game makes it fun to chose random when you're playing on battle. net because you can enjoy 
 whichever race you play with. 
  Warcraft III is very good in all, but I still prefer Starcraft over it, hands down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Brood war adds some new features to oringal SC. There are now 4 races, the Zerg, Protss, Terrans, 
 and the Counter Terrans. The counter terrans have some great new units like the Marine, Ghost Marine, 
 Fire Marine, Water Marine. Along with some great vehicles: Tank Marines, Bike Marines, Submarine. 
 All these new units are great. The story line is equally as cool, a girl named Kerri with red hair 
 who lost her homework one day decided to kill everyone she can find. Unforunatly there is no Counter 
 Terran campigns but you couldn't ask for more with such a great new race
  
  Zerg use units like Puppy which is like puppy only really pissed off and with claws, there's also 
 a "Hydra" which I thought was like GTA: SA's hydra but i was sadly mistaken. It's acutally some 
 kind of polar bear looking thing that throws up a lot and kills things. There's also a wolly mamoth 
 in the game but they spelt Mamoth wrong and put in Ultralisk.
  
  The protoss are like Jedis in Star Wars. They are so cool and dark and mysterious. They have cool 
 swords and lasers too, zing zing i'm shooting my laser pistol at you!! Zing Zing. Unforunatly there 
 is no appearnce of Obi Wan Konobi or Anikan which brought the game down a little bit.
  
  The terrans are like the Counter Terrans only Terranized. They only have 1 marine which kind of 
 sucks. But they have tanks and firebats, medics etc. Also all they're buildings can lift up in 
 the air like a helicopter. Woooosh!! Woooosh!! It moves cool cause it's a helicopter.
  
  All the races are well balanced except for the cool-o-meter in which case th Counter Terrans take 
 the cake. SC: BW is a great game and so is the first one (Although no CTs) so I suggest buying 
 both. In a package deal you can get it for 20 bucks now it's a great deal. And with online the 
 possiblites are unlimted with the map making tool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_like_toast
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood war is without a question the best real-time strategy there is. This game has 
 the major components of what makes a rts standout from the rest of pack. So lets get down to what 
 those are. The obvious start is gameplay, though that is mostly the same for any rts. The basic 
 concept of building up your base so you can build your army as well as upgrade it to make it stronger. 
 Fairly simple and normal there. However do to the way the build structure works out makes for some 
 added strategy as well as other things to. The next thing that makes Starcraft such a great game 
 is what is forgotten in almost every rts since the days of Starcraft and Red alert 2, a story line. 
 That is one of the best and most overlooked parts of Starcraft the story blows away the next closest 
 rival (most likely warcraft) . The story gets you hooked and begging for a sequel, we are all still 
 waiting blizzard. Now as for was this game is still better or as good as the new rts like warcraft 
 3, Rise of Rome, Warhammer, and LOTR, is online gameplay. Plain and simple due to the balance of 
 the game and the people out there making maps this game is still thriving online. With Blizzard 
 still patching the game it helps keep the hacks to minumum not to mention can you name any other 
 video game that is a national past time, like Starcraft is for Korea. All in all this is a game 
 that any person that loves rts most have in their collection, and anyone looking to try an rts 
 this is a great start. After all for $20-30 u can get the Battlechest version @ most stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taiwanesealn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a real time strategy game with plenty of variety, this is your game. Starting 
 off, Starcraft: Broodwar has been packed in with a whole new campaign for the three races: protoss, 
 zerg, and terran. Each of their campaigns lead you through the deep story where you will learn 
 your basic skills of Starcraft. The campaign isnt much since it is too easy, especially if you've 
 played the original. The game hasn't changed much from the original, but the graphics have been 
 improved slightly. You'll still experience the high quality speech from small scenes and when you're 
 playing by click on the unit. The AI has also been improved by a lot. This time around, AI will 
 be smarter, but it won't take too much affect on you.
  
  The single player (not campaign mode) is for you to test the skills you earned during the campaign 
 to work. You can experiment on which strategies are best here. You may even test out maps you made 
 in this mode. The Starcraft: Broodwar AI is designed to respond to how the map is made. If you 
 make a map that has too much money, AI will be easy. This is just an example. Blizzard has put 
 in tons of new multiplayer maps and the original map "Big Game Hunters" is back. This map was known 
 for its brutal and persistent computer AI which most Battle. net players practiced on.
  
  Veterans of the original Starcraft will remember the good campaign editor. Here, you can build 
 your own maps or even create your own missions! This is well done and is easy to use. Almost anything 
 you want to create can be made with this program which comes with the expansion as well as the 
 original.
  
  Brood War gives you the basic three teams to pick. The three races each have their own strong and 
 weak points. For example, terran firebats can burn the fleshy zerg easily with their high tech 
 units. Terran should be used only for experts since their units can't take too many hits and require 
 a lot of microing (doing a lot at once) . Protoss is in the middle. They're units are built to take 
 hits, but are expensive. The money is worth it since they have the strongest units in the game. 
 Zerg is recommended for newbies. They have cheap units which you can build in large bulk. Swarm 
 your enemies if you want, as they are good at rushing enemies. Your units are weak, but pack a 
 punch when sticking together and used the right way. Take this into consideration as most of your 
 time will be spent on the multiplayer. Battle. net is free and you can go against anyone from friends 
 to even strangers to test your skills.
  
  Overall, this game will keep you glued in until another real time strategy game developed by Blizzard 
 is out. Its outstanding new units and necessity for strategy keeps you coming back for more Starcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  The original Starcraft was a RTS masterpiece, ground-breaking and addictive. Brood War adds lots 
 of content and value, improving nearly all aspects of Starcraft.
  
  Brood War has a new campaign for each species, with several new units and many new maps. Other 
 than the new single-player missions and storyline, which is actually quite good with an unexpected 
 ending, Brood War's changes are subtle but effective.
  
  Graphics and sound have not been improved, yet they still remain excellent, they never were an 
 issue. The overall balance of Brood War is much better now, the Protoss have been improved with 
 a unit called the Dark Templar, who made an apperance in Starcraft, though they could not be built. 
 Dark Templars are a very useful Protoss unit, and the races are now realtively equal.
  
  Brood War didn't need to make many changes to be a great game, as Starcraft was excellent. The 
 subtle changes that are made are good, and Brood War is a must for any Starcraft fan as it will 
 ensure much more playing time with its new maps and missions.
  
  If you're any sort of Starcraft don't miss Brood War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  Starcraft was probably one of the best games released in the 90's as far as PC games go. Now the 
 expansion pack is released, Starcraft Brood War, it is pracitcally the exact same game as before 
 but thats not pratically a bad thing. This expansion pack packs the same great gameplay as Starcraft 
 1 and adds a few more excellent features.
  
  Starcraft was remembered for these great battles between like 20 warrios and it was just frantic 
 action and it never got old ... now the expansion pack it the stores and it is expected to deliver 
 the same great gameplay as the original and it does. Once again this game is an RTS just like its 
 counter part, it has a campaign that follows where the last game left off and packs in a few new 
 features. Now the humans have medics to help out there ground forces like marines, the zerg now 
 have lurkers which are mutated from hydralisks and can burrow underground and attack people from 
 underground and are really superb for defending a base against ground forces, and finally the Prottos 
 have Dark Templers which you may of seen in the last game, they are very tough invisible swordsman 
 who clobber anything that gets in their way. The story is kind of the same as the original, you 
 play around 12 levels for each species and it is just as interesting as the last game. Also, there 
 is a new human force that actually is from Earth which is neat because like Earth humans are in 
 the game. The online multiplayer is back and still remains a strong point of this game, with the 
 new units you will have a great time playing with or againt your buddies or just practising againt 
 AI controlled bots.
  
  Starcraft Brood War is literally the same game that was released some time ago, but thats what 
 you expect from an expansion pack. So if you love Starcraft then this is the game that you are 
 looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisdumb
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War 
  Years after the game is released I still get giddy when I go to play it. It is just, literally, 
 the best game ever created. The gameplay is perfect, the tech aspects are fantastic, and the fun 
 you will have playing this in years to come is infinite. It's an RTS that kills all others. Nothing 
 can compare to it. It's almost hard to review this gift from the gods because there are no words 
 great enough to describe it. I seriously have never had more fun in my entire life than when playing 
 this game. If you don't at least spend a few straight months playing it your life will seem less 
 whole. After experiencing this you won't ever go back to another RTS again, or even other types 
 of games, because you will be too busy playing this. There is only one word to describe this game. 
 That word is "Perfect". If it was possible to grade this game above a perfect 10, I would, to balance 
 out the reviews so this game gets the 10 it deserves. As it is although it's graphics aren't revolutionary, 
 it makes up for it and more, so it recieves 10's across the board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoeonip
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 13, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Expansion packs for games are in many ways analogous to movie sequals. Every once in a while, there 
 is one that can truely do justice to the original, but in most cases, they are sad, half-hearted, 
 money-milking iterations that humiliate the original. Starcraft: Brood War is by all means one 
 in the rarer category, an expansion that not only does the original game justice, but improves 
 on it in many ways. 
  
  Brood War brings a total of six new units into the Starcraft universe. While the game manual for 
 the game is expectedly skimpy, as it is an expansion pack, it imitates the original in providing 
 background information for all of the units, a nice touch that helps maintain the streamlined efficiency 
 of the Starcraft storyline. What is incredible about the new units is that Blizzard was able to 
 maintain the zen-like balance between races that was apparent in Starcraft. Granted, all of the 
 new units are highly specialized units and spell-casters, they bring to each race greater versitlity 
 and balance, and more ways to offset each unit. For instance, the Zerg recieve the Lurker, which 
 brings to them even greater ground power, while the Terran recieve the Medic, a unit that greatly 
 increases the vitality of early game infantry. 
  
  Meanwhile, Brood War's single player storyline picks up right where Starcraft left off. Without 
 divulging any spoilers, I can say that the game brings in some new memorable characters, as well 
 as remembers those that were lost before and during the storyline. The voice acting is superb as 
 usual, and three new audio tracks were added to the game; one for each race. Brood War's campaign 
 is significantly harder than its progenitor's; it assumes that you have already completed the original 
 game and wastes no time on introductory or tutorial missions. Mission types vary between the two 
 main types of either base building or moving a limited force through an installation. However, 
 Blizzard does a good job of making several permutations to the base-building variety to keep the 
 game from getting dull, for example, in a few missions, you control two races. Overall, the single 
 player campaign is just as solid as Starcraft's, with a story just as engaging, although slightly 
 lacking in mission type variety. 
  
  Overall, Brood War is an expansion worthy of the legacy of Starcraft and a "must get" for anyone 
 who enjoyed Starcraft. 
  
  
  For further reading about Starcraft, refer to my review here: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/starcraft/reader_review. html? id=2813046
 
  
  
  Cross linked from: http://www. epinions. com/content_179874139780 (epinions. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxpimp18
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  StarCraft is the best RTS, and this is the icing on the cake! Brood War adds a lot to StarCraft, 
 while not changing it too much to hurt the experience! The expansion pack adds a whole new single 
 player experience, whole new units, and more! The new units are really cool, my favorite being 
 the Zerg Lurker, its burrows underground and shoots spikes at its enemies! The game is still balanced 
 very well, and feels incredible to play! Its a blast, great fun the entire time! Must have for 
 any RTS fan, get the battlechest, it is incredibly cheap, and you WILL NOT regret it! Best expansion 
 pack ever, enough said! Adds alot to the already amazing StarCraft! Get it, NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Only_Spitz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best expansion packs I have ever seen added to any game. Brood War offers many 
 new maps, levels, and men. If this game had come out later in date, I would have to say it would 
 be a perfect 10. I do not rate it that now for the graphics, while they may be good are not the 
 greatest.
  
  Gameplay: So many aspects of Gameplay that needed to be looked at. First off I will talk about 
 the basics and what you do in the game. In SC you basically will create buildings, create men, 
 upgrade them and depending on what you are playing, multiplayer or single player, you will go from 
 there. In multiplayer, while there may be many Use Map Settings maps, there are also the regular 
 Melee maps in which you would either attack computers or any opponents you may have. In single 
 player, you start out as one race and complete all the missions that are necessary and then once 
 finished you will move onto the next race. The next aspect of Gameplay would have to be the races. 
 In SC there are three races and they are Terran (Human) , Zerg (Low-Evolved Alien) , Protoss (Highly-Evolved 
 Alien) . The Terran are humans that are advanced in time and now have even heavier fire power. In 
 the game their specialty would be heavy fire power, and this would include Nuclear Bombs, aka Nukes. 
 Then there are the Low-Evolved Aliens, called the Zerg. The Zerg have a special way of building. 
 You do not just have one man create all your buildings, in fact there are units called drones and 
 they morph into the buildings. Also though there is a material that grows with you buildings and 
 only buildings can be built on it. The best strategy for Zerg is to get lots of units as fast as 
 you can, even if they are the weakest and out number your opponent at their own base. Then the 
 last race is the Highly-Evolved Aliens known as the Protoss. The Protoss are advanced for they 
 have come to the evolution of over shields and even cloaking technology. They even have templars 
 which can fuse into two to make an Archon. The best strategy for the Protoss would be not to attack 
 too quickly but build up your powerful army and wait for an attack on you. There are new units 
 from each race, but I will not spoil that for you, you can find those out on your own. So if you 
 look in the aspects of the SC Brood War, it is a great game both online and off. It is fun to be 
 able to go online and play up to 7 other players from around the world. Then once you get the hang 
 of it, I would recommend you try to play some of the Use Map Settings games. These are different 
 types of maps created by users and there are may types. So this is a game that is almost perfect 
 in every aspect.
  
  Graphics: These graphics may have been great in their time, and they were. But since we do not 
 live in that time anymore, the graphics do not seem as great. So even though the graphics still 
 may be good today, they do not reach perfection, but do reach pretty close to it.
  
  Sound: The sound is SC Brood War is spectacular. Their is both music and great sound effects in 
 this game. The sound effects are great for each race has their own. From the shooting of their 
 weapon to the sound of them dieing is superb. With these sound effects you will know exactly what 
 is going on in the game, even if you are not looking at the screen. Then there is the music of 
 the game and it is also great for each race has their own. So the sound for this game is uniquely 
 perfect.
  
  Value: The value of this game is perfect in every aspect. Just look at it, it has everything you 
 need. It has great gameplay in both single and multiplayer, the sound in it is great, everything 
 about the game is great, it is a very addicting but fun game, and you can spend hours and hours 
 playing this game. So the value of this game, it's perfect.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: In my tilt towards the game, I give it a definite perfect 10. Ever since I have 
 bought this game I have played it every single day I could for it is so fun. I have been playing 
 almost for four years and I still love the game. It is an awesome game that I could not believe 
 someone would not like. It does have everything a game needs and those needs in this game are perfect. 
 So is it worth buying, I guarantee it is. You will spend hours on this game and after that you 
 will want to spend some more on it. So as long as you play, the longer you play, the more entertainment 
 from this game you will receive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheavydrinker
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:34 am PT
Review:  There's really not much to say about Brood War. It is probably the Greatest RTS game ever. WIth 
 it's incredible single player and even better multiplayer one might think this game is great. THat's 
 not including the campaign editor and team maps... If you like strategy, you will love starcraft. 
 One downside... a lot of cheaters but they've all moved to warcraft anyway and Blizzard bans 'em 
 like every 2 months. There are not as many cinematics as SC, but the depth of the story, and the 
 enhanced and balance changes more than make up for that. The reason I give this game a 10 is because 
 it excells in Gameplay (with balanced races, and interesting strategies) , Graphics (amazing lighting, 
 etc.) , Sound (the music is just classic) . The great atmosphere this game creates is something you 
 have to experience to believe. Starcraft Brood War is a game that and PC game needs to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chAzN93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  Blizzard came out with Starcraft, one of the most successful games and my personal favorite. Broodwar 
 the expansion to the game of the year comes out with new features to the game. They bring in 2 
 units to each race (Terran, Zerg, and Protoss) 1 air and 1 ground unit. Many more upgrades for 
 the units were created.
  
  Gameplay
  Starcraft is the best RTS and is a classic. You build your own base and make units to kill your 
 enemies. The addictiveness survives for years because of online play. The three different races 
 are very different and they allow you to have a different gamestyle. The new units allow a new 
 style of gameplay. 
  
  Graphics
  Same as the original. superb and unbelieveable. For its timedefiantly the best. 
  
  Sound
 
  The music works perfectly with the environment. Also, the explosions, gunfire, and sounds of the 
 dying units match perfectly with the gameplay and grapics.
  
  Value
  Unbelieveable gaming online and offline makes this game perfect. Ive been playing this game for 
 6 years now and I still love it. Probably the best game ever.
  
  Tilt
  Starcraft is a classic RTS and the best RTS ever. Blizzard makes the greatest RTSs and they will 
 keep u entertained for years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGnome55
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  THE game that i still play now on february 8 2005... THE game that i got a good 5 years ago... THE 
 game that is so amazing and so much fun... if you don't get the point yet... im saying that this 
 is one of the all time greatest RTS games ever made... if u do not have this game get it... NOW! 
 it doesnt take long to get used to... its hours... and when i say hours i mean hours of fun... the 
 graphics arent bad... theyre obviously not great seeing as how this game was made years ago... 
 online there are so many types of games you could play... If you have friends go online with them 
 and backstab your allies!! :D so much fun its unbeleivable.. if you dont beleive me look at all 
 the other reviews... "Starcraft [Brood War] ... The greatest RTS made... ever :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Opinions about Brood War are divided for some reason. The only people who don't prefer Brood War 
 over Starcraft, I have observed, are people who are afraid to change and as a result haven't spent 
 enough time with the expansion to appreciate it. Quite simply, if you enjoyed Starcraft's single 
 or multiplayer, then there is no good reason not to buy Brood War. 
  
  The new units and various new upgrades perfectly seal the holes in the races that were present 
 before, rushes are less prevalent online, although they are certainly the preferred means of disposing 
 of your enemy. (After all, if your enemy is susceptible to that attack, and you have the gaming 
 knowledge to supplement with a good after-rush game, then why not use that tactic, right?) All 
 in all, the expansion makes Starcraft seem like a more balanced play experience, and the more skilled 
 players who permeate the Starcraft websites seem to agree with me. 
  
  I send the same recommendations for Brood War that I did with Starcraft. Buy it. Use it as the 
 barometer by which you gauge all other RTS games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Entih
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, there is a game in each genre that shouts out, a game that somewhat mutates 
 the everyday formula, causing a gaming evolution (I am writing this review for game and expansion) . 
 Although used by previous Blizzard games (Warcraft particularly) , this formula is different species. 
 Starcraft was the first to introduce not one, not two, but three whole species, not to mention 
 their respective three whole playing strategies, and the nuts and whipped cream, three completely 
 different tech trees, storylines, and unit types. I know what you are thinking, "Wow, three? I can 
 hardly count that high!", but a recent game, Warcraft III, did one better with four (the undead 
 seem oddly similar to a cross between zerg and protoss...) .
  
  The gameplay, though sometimes monotonous in how you must find the best given strategy, is highly 
 deserving for quality and variety. The graphics, albeit 2D, compare with modern visuals with astonishing 
 results. The sound, too, is so highly impressive. The characters speak and crack jokes (each unit 
 that speaks has a few, usually 3-8, funny lines if you click on them over 5 times) In a nice and 
 believable manner, true to the situation (or mental instability, if you include Mengsk) . The game 
 itself is a solution to boredom in a good satisfaction ratio.
  
  One of the best inclusions in the game was the editor. Is it not every story maker's dream to see 
 their story come to life in some way or form? Using editors for games is just one way that this 
 dream is realized. It allows you to create maps and entire campaigns, with briefings (text, or 
 even self recorded audio if your that into it) included. Overall, the editor can be used to make 
 maps to share, or just plain for self satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownSurvivor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game let's you know for sure why Blizzard rules the PC market with an iron fist, immersive 
 detail, memorable charicters, replayability out the wazoo, and the subtle humor and little joke 
 that make this game an instant classic appealing to the hardcore gamer and the clueless newbie. 
 Just the normal games and ladder add so much replayability it's staggering. And the fact that the 
 strategies are so modular and the forces and economy aspects are so easy to control, but so complex, 
 it let's you create thousands of different strategies depending on opponets race, your race, the 
 map, and dozens of others. One thing I really loved about it was the fact that you could make some 
 compplex strategies right in the heat of battle that don't require massive amounts of micromanagement, 
 or just constant clicking. It's simple, fast-paced, and so modular. You can create so many different 
 kinds of maps with the powerful in-game map creator and triggers options. This is definately not 
 a game to miss, whether you like the Real-Time-Strategy genre or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2004 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Starcraft: Brood War is the best RTS of all time. No other RTS will ever be as good as Starcraft. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Where to begin? Starcraft is a classic RTS. You build miners, gather resources, upgrade 
 technologies, build buildings, and assemble an army with which to wipe your foe out of memory. 
 
  Starcraft is never, ever tedious, though. The addicting fun it provides lasts for years. It is 
 still played online and offline by thousands of gamers. This is because it has an awesome strategy. 
 The AI is intelligent, and the unit balance is superb. 
  There are three races: Terran, Zerg, and Protoss. The Terran are humans, and as such have what 
 humans would (in some sci-fi world in the future) have. They specialize in huge machines that dish 
 out tons of firepower. 
  The Zerg are a truly unique race. They resemble insects, and play in the way you'd think an insect 
 would. Your buildings all mutate out of a drone, the basic harvester. The strategy of the Zerg 
 is not brute force, but rather enough units to easily overrun the enemy with numbers. 
  The Protoss are hyperadvanced technologically. They have shields and cloaking technology. The Protoss 
 strategy is more a balanced approach, using their advanced technology to overcome everything.
 
  It is this unique balance that makes Starcraft: Brood War constantly fun, online and off. The 
 computer's AI is good, but not perfect by today's standards. Online, however, the real fun begins. 
 Playing with up to 7 other players, you can have veritable bloodbaths of war, hundreds of units 
 duking it out for control. Games can last for hours. 
  The Gameplay of Starcraft is truly perfect in every way.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, for its 
 time, Starcraft was the best. The graphics are not outdated, but still acceptable. 
  
  Sound: The music of this game is great. The tunes are different by race, and the sound effects 
 are absolutely superb. From the marines screaming in pain as they get blown apart to a Zerg Hydralisks 
 attack, the sound effects match perfectly with what is going on onscreen.
  
  Value: Hundreds of hours of enjoyment? Check. Great single player? Check. Great multiplayer? Check. 
 Yup, perfect.
  
  Tilt: Easily the greatest RTS of all time, Starcraft: Brood War will keep you entertained for as 
 long as you continue to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adgal98
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game has been one of that which remains active after many years of its launch. The Brrodwar 
 expansion gave to Starcraft the elements necessary to level out the different civilizations of 
 the three species.
  
  Broodwar is so up-to-date that was one the main games at the World Cyber Games 2004, after almost 
 6 years of the release date!!
  
  I'm playing it right now at the office with some co-workers and I started again to play on Battle. net 
 and there are rooms still full with people from around all the wworld.
  
  The additions in the expansion worked very well. The Zergs were the best beneficiated, since they 
 were the less powerfull, although they are relatively cheap in resources and fast to build. 
  Protoss didn't need to much help. Even so, the Dark Templars are cool to engage an early ambush 
 (ok, rush) . The Corsair is not as cool as it sounds... but look well.
  Terrans were helped a lot with the medics, so now your marines are very powerfull and cheap.
 
  
  The sound, effects, dialogs and overall the music was very well improved to make you fall in love 
 with this game for years and years.
  
  It's not an Starcraft 2 on sight, but when that would be announced, thousands of players will be 
 very appreciated.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:21 am PT
Review:  As old a game as 1998's Starcraft deserves a mention for a very simple reason: it is still being 
 played today. The low system requirements and timeless gameplay given to the original by the expansion 
 pack Brood War make Starcraft the most preferred network game of computer labs of all educational 
 institutions around the world. It is important to note that the original Starcraft seemed a mere 
 Warcraft II clone with fictional space setting, but the expansion Brood War set it apart by critically 
 improving some balancing issues and adding a few key units to each race. The biggest improvement 
 was the downplaying of the importance of rushing strategy (= quickly building up the first ~10 
 units and attacking enemys base) by increasing the hit points of base structures. Other minor 
 but important adjustments of unit costs, damage rates, hit points, and building times had enormous 
 influence on how the game plays. Consequently, every unit type in Brood War is significant, and 
 successful armies of the game would have to consist of different units as opposed to the original 
 Starcraft's dominance of strong units of the same type. Another impressive feat of Starcraft is 
 the single player game which presents the campaigns of three races of Terran, Protoss and Zerg 
 in progressing difficulty, while at the same time the three races match up equally when played 
 against each other. Terran plays pretty much like a regular race in an RTS whereas Protoss units 
 are strong and expensive (enabling them to avoid area-specific spells better and benefit from surprise 
 drop attacks) and Zerg are small and cheap (enabling them to multiply to for example attack enemy's 
 workers better) . There are a lot of special abilities, spells to use and tactics to employ: a quick 
 attack-, a sneaky invisibile-assault game, a late-game full attack game, and variances of these. 
 With better players who know well how units match up against each other and how to defend rushes, 
 patience is often the key and strategies such as systematically attacking your opponents' workers, 
 building complete counter-armies for your opponents' favorite unit types etc lead to sucess. The 
 multiplayer games allow up to 8 people to take part on a single map, and besides the usual skirmish 
 mode Capture The Flag and Greed are available. Thus, while Starcraft is the perfectly game for 
 the universities and schools that are not much into upgrading their computers, it does have a feature 
 which might annoy the fans of later generation RTS-s - micromanagement. As Starcraft features many 
 area-of-effect spells that can avoided by controlling units manually, assigning hotkeys to unit 
 groups and maneuvering units fast during battles is an important part of being successful. Looking 
 back at the history of games, micromanagement remains the characteristic part of Starcraft, since 
 in the RTS-s of later years developers have seriously cut back on it.
  
  15 (19) /20 - Based on 5 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Excellent for 1998.
  3/4 ACCESSIBILITY 
 - Most Starcraft fans would frown on it, but the space theme makes it unattractive for some (not 
 that the orcs are much better, but still, at least they have normal weapons) .
  2/4 PACING - Say what you will, I think that campaigns are rather repetitive and boring; especially 
 because the base has to be built up from scratch almost every mission. 
  3/4 INNOVATION - At surface there was no innovation, it still plays a lot like Dune 2 or Warcraft. 
 In reality Starcraft is one of the biggest multiplayer cult games ever.
  3/4 IMMERSION - Network gaming gets you far more immersed than single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadoDragon56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 11:15 pm PT
Review:  In this expansion there are new units:
  Terran = Medic, Valkyrie.
  Zerg = Lurker, Devourer.
  Protoss = Dark Templar, Dark Archon, Corsair.
  
  This is an excellent 
 expansion, and is a nice add on to the original storyline. It is almost identical to the original 
 except it has new units, new campaigns, and bug fixes.
  
  If you have the original i would highly recommend buying this expansion, it adds a lot of new strategy, 
 making the game harder for novices, and easier for experts. It also adds a lot more fun. Its a 
 bit faster paced too. If you dont have the original, i would recommend buying the Battle Chest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badfellah
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2004 11:50 am PT
Review:  The units completely changes the game, in a very good game that is. It brings a new dimention to 
 the strategy part. It is really great!
  
  The new medics makes the Terran much better. And the other races also gets a great inpact by these 
 new units. They are so well thought out. There just is nothing like it.
  
  The expantion to Warcraft 3 was also great, but not at the same degree. This one has it all. I 
 would almost say that the game can't get any better, but we all know it can. To me it is a classic, 
 and many other games will be infected with this. They will just have to look up to it, the game 
 world will benifit of this game.
  
  Quite simply a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant130
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  WOW this game is amazing... it is my favorite pc stradegy game of all time. Now you may think "man 
 he must not have played very many but believe this when i say it i have played at least 20 different 
 stradegy games, but this one tops them all, and its the second oldest one ove played! (C&C is the 
 earliest) I have many advanced pc stradegy games like C&C Generals and Empires: DofMW, with amazing 
 graphics, but Starcraft tops them both. 
  
  The races are so different and yet they are so balanced, you just have to play it to see it. The 
 game is awesome just you vs. someone else, but where the game really stands out is the multiplayer. 
 You have this campiagn editor, and there are so many alterings of the game, its just unbelievable. 
 Ive seen a custom game where you are the Masterchief and you have to fight off the flood from an 
 oncoming attack, and it still uses the Starcraft characters (although you can lter their names.) 
 The campaign editor possibilities are literally endless.
  
  I have many advanced games on my pc and Xbox including Far Cry and Halo, but i still find myself 
 playing this game the most. Yes that's how good it is. Even if you have a kicka$$ computer and 
 you want to play games with astounding graphics, i would still check out this amazingly different 
 and balanced stradegy game.
  
  PEACE OUT PPL!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberzero-x
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2003 3:05 pm PT
Review:  wow all i can say is wow this is defintely the greates strategy game ever made great story good 
 voice acting but just ok graphics but who cares about graphics when you are playing such a great 
 game each race is very powerful when used right and there is no inferior race the zerg (creepy alien 
 mutants) terran (humans) and protss (cool alien guys) are all good in each way and they are so diffrent 
 from each other and fun to use i find myself using a diffrent race every time i play the terran 
 are all about machines and everythings technical sorta like the scvs (builder/resource harvester) 
 build the bases and buildings with the zerg its sorta the opposite they have no technology and 
 are basically brain less and are all controlled by the overmind they make units from hatcheries 
 and they start out as tiny worms and instead of spawining them from a building they come out themselves 
 and you have to click on one and pick what it should evolve into so basically in zerg if you have 
 plenty of resources you gonna win most of the time so basically they start out slow but then you 
 should build a bunch of hatcherys and you can spwn like 20 units at a time ive seen people doing 
 that with like 75 hydralisks and they mass you base so if you fighting zeg you gotta rush them 
 with the protoss which are currently my favorites they have the most advanced technologie and they 
 warp their buildings in intead of building them or spawning them wich is a major advantage so your 
 little guy can start warping in their structures and then go back to work and they are really bad 
 @$$ even there weakest units kicks @$$ 
  those zealots are the games best early character and protoss usuall start off pretty strong although 
 their units are much more expsensive than the others wait this is more of a strategy guide than 
 a review... wahtever you must get this game if you like strategy games or not peace out 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
