-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Hidden Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/startrekhiddenevil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 98 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Presto Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hidden Evil is yet another in the long line of Star Trek games that fail to deliver on the potential 
 of their license. 

 Creating a truly great adventure game based on Star Trek is no easy task. First, there's the issue 
 of paying God-knows-what for the license. Then there's the problem of trying to please the fans, 
 many of whom have strong, and disparate, convictions about what an interactive Star Trek experience 
 should be like. Finally, you've got to pull off a tricky balancing act: You must provide enough 
 gameplay to satisfy serious gamers (who'll be first in line to buy the game) but not so much as 
 to alienate the rest of the millions of Star Trek fans - many of whom are presumably gaming novices. 
 It's a tough job all right - and if you need proof, just look at all the failed attempts over the 
 last four or five years. And so, it comes as no huge shock that Hidden Evil is yet another in the 
 long line of Star Trek games that fail to deliver on the potential of their license.  

 However, this isn't a case of a developer failing to achieve lofty goals; instead, many gamers will 
 walk away from Star Trek: Hidden Evil with the uneasy feeling that developer Presto Studios didn't 
 even give it a good college try. Not only does Hidden Evil include just a handful of gameplay features, 
 but it also manages to botch what little there is to actually see and do.  

 Hidden Evil doesn't seem so bad at first. You play as Ensign Sovok, a human raised by a Vulcan caretaker, 
 who joined Starfleet Academy when he failed to qualify as a student in the Vulcan Science Academy. 
 After being assigned to a base created by Starfleet to monitor the creation of a Son'a colony on 
 the planet of Ba'ku, Sovok is ordered to assist Captain Picard in his investigation of some mysterious 
 relics discovered on the planet. Once there, you're faced not only with uncovering the mysteries 
 of an ancient civilization, but suppressing a rebellion by the newly arrived Son'a - only to find 
 that those nasty Romulans have also shown up.  

 As you guide Sovok around the planet and through the underground excavation areas from a constantly 
 changing third-person perspective, you'll probably be impressed by the rendered background scenery 
 and crisp character graphics. While the lack of an auto-aim feature makes combat an awkward affair, 
 it's not a big problem, because there's only a moderate amount of gunplay during your time on Ba'ku. 
 You'll also have to solve a couple of interesting puzzles in order to free Picard from a sticky 
 situation and put an end to the Romulans' plans for galactic hegemony.  

 But that's not to say you'll think Hidden Evil is gaming nirvana during your stint on the planet. 
 The character animation during dialogue sequences is singularly unimpressive, the rapidly changing 
 perspective can be disorientating at first, and even the most forgiving Trekker will wonder why 
 Data and Picard are supposedly featured in the game when in fact you see them for only about 90 
 seconds. Even so, the mix of problem-solving sequences, action sequences, and lush background graphics 
 is good enough during this first segment to give you hope for the many hours of gameplay you might 
 assume will follow. In fact, Hidden Evil plummets like a rock the moment Sovok departs Ba'ku. The 
 rest of the game takes place on a Romulan space station and on the Enterprise itself. At this stage, 
 gameplay consists almost entirely of navigating mazelike ship interiors, incapacitating guards 
 with phaser/disruptor fire or Vulcan nerve pinches, collecting pass cards, and shooting critters. 
 Maybe that wouldn't be so bad, if it were fun and it lasted more than a few hours. But the bitter 
 truth is that it's rarely fun or engaging - which means you probably won't mind when it all abruptly 
 screeches to a halt with one of the weakest endings ever slapped onto the tail end of an adventure 
 game.  

 Maybe it's a good thing Hidden Evil is so short - at least that means a few tolerant souls will 
 get to see the whole paper-thin story. But combat against the aliens roaming the space station 
 and the Enterprise is essentially an exercise in desk-pounding frustration. Sovok turns so sluggishly 
 you'd think he'd been drinking defective synthahol, and you'll curse as you watch him take unrelenting 
 punishment as he slowly wheels to face an enemy and squeezes off a feeble, and often errant, blast 
 of phaser fire. Letting you use the Vulcan nerve pinch seems like a great idea, until you find 
 yourself constantly bumping into your intended victims because of the clumsy (and nonconfigurable!) 
 control system. And furthermore, the only real puzzle left at this point is at the end of the game, 
 and solving it is more a matter of trial and error than a test of your deductive skills, because 
 there's no hint given to the solution.  

 Perhaps the biggest reason Hidden Evil fails so utterly is because it never fully takes advantage 
 of all the characters and devices that make it a Star Trek game in the first place. There's only 
 one instance where you actually interact with Data and Picard; the rest of the time they're merely 
 voices you hear over your communications badge. You use the tricorder just a few times and almost 
 exclusively in the first few hours of play. Combat is uniformly uninteresting - it feels more like 
 a cheap way to camouflage just how shallow the gameplay really is, rather than a vital and enjoyable 
 part of the experience.  

 As the wholly unexciting events in Hidden Evil draw to a close, and you behold the game's weary 
 and uninspired finale, you'll think it was either shoved onto retail shelves before it was finished 
 or that it would never have been a good game anyway. In any case, although Activision and Presto 
 Studios might have intended to satisfy both hard-core gamers and Trekkers who are just casual gamers, 
 the end result will leave both kinds of fans with a bad taste in their mouths that's likely to 
 linger for a long time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  Most players and reviewers seemed to be rather disappointed by Hidden Evil, but I found it to be 
 an atmospheric and enjoyable diversion in the minefield known as Star Trek games. Although a little 
 bit on the short side and problem solving of a gentler nature it contains some rather beautiful 
 environments often combined with very suspenseful music, and the inclusion of Patrick Stewart and 
 Brent Spiner bring life to the otherwise forgettable cast of NPCs. The action sequences weren't 
 too taxing and added a welcome change to the pace. However, an interest in the Star Trek universe 
 is a prerequisite to fully enjoy it, others should simply give it a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Hang on, i need to catch my breath...
  
  WORST GAME MADE FOR STAR TREK!!!
  
  This game fails every single point in exsistence...
  
  I love star Trek and in fact it is a 
 very good show and makes you think. But this game makes you think of how bad this game is...
  
  You start off as Data running around recieving orders from Captain Picard, all kinds of baddies 
 are shooting at you, your camera is going every which way and you die so easy. you will also be 
 faced with stupid puzzles you need to get through to end the mission. 
  
  The graphics are short lived because of the 300 foot tall birds eye view you see of Data or whoever 
 you shall play. The baddies however think they are all that and will hide remotely while you stand 
 in the middle and get bumbarded with fire.
  
  Don't do this again star trek...
  
  Strengths:
  -the captiavated end
  
  Weaknesses:
  -THE WHOLE DAMN THING!!
  
  Question:
 
  "Will this curse live on forever??" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
