-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Dominion Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekdeepspacendw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 238 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Gizmo
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 10, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
When it's working properly, Dominion Wars still just ends up feeling like a really slick series 
 companion rather than like a full-blown strategy game. 

  If it's not one thing, it's another. The curse that haunts Star Trek computer games may or may 
 not have had anything to do with the state of Dominion Wars upon release, but whatever the cause, 
 the game could have stood a few more weeks in the engineering bay. Lockups, crashes, bizarre video 
 effects, saved games that disappear for no reason -- all of these issues plagued the game when it 
 hit store shelves. Judging by the list of fixes, the problems with the initial version were even 
 more extensive. Strangely, some users are reporting more problems after the patch (if that's even 
 possible) , but for most gamers Dominion Wars v1.02 works pretty well from a technical standpoint. 
 Unfortunately, the simple gameplay is a bit more problematic.           Dominion Wars faithfully 
 recaptures the style of the show...    

  Dominion Wars is set in the familiar Deep Space Nine universe, and it lets you control up to six 
 ships of various classes and play through the war in Alpha Quadrant from either the Federation 
 or Dominion sides. These campaigns consist of linked missions that earn you credits upon completion, 
 which you use to purchase more powerful ships, more skilled captains, extra crew, new weapons, 
 and what have you. While the missions are interesting, and the storyline does a good job of developing 
 the television series (as the Federation, for example, you'll have to initially abandon Deep Space 
 Nine and then eventually mount an offensive to recapture it) , it suffers from a lack of continuity 
 (in that captains killed during a mission are still available for future missions) and a linearity 
 that makes replay unattractive. This linearity wouldn't be such a problem, except that Dominion 
 Wars has no skirmish mode except for multiplayer, and this leaves gamers, who prefer to play solo, 
 with little reason to return after completion.   

  Dominion Wars shares some gameplay elements with Interplay's Starfleet Command series, but whereas 
 the Interplay games are really hard-core strategy games set in real time, Dominion Wars feels more 
 like an action game. This is because Dominion Wars doesn't even attempt to model the level of detail 
 present in Starfleet Command. As a result, you're less involved in micromanagement and thus have 
 more time to plot general fleet strategy. The odd thing is that even with so many ships under your 
 control (up to six, as opposed to the maximum of three in Starfleet Command) , there really isn't 
 much specific fleet management capability apart from grouping ships -- there are no formations, for 
 instance. While you can slow Dominion Wars down, it clearly wasn't meant to be played at a crawl: 
 The cinematic nature of the game, with its tremendous explosions, moving cameras, and dramatic 
 flybys, loses a lot of appeal if played much slower than the default speed. This is clearly why 
 Dominion Wars went light on the strategy, since trying to manage the details of six ships with 
 the game's interface would be a disaster, especially since you can't pause to give orders.   

 
  This movielike quality is probably Dominion Wars' strongest point: The graphics, music, sound 
 effects, and camera direction all build an excellent atmosphere, which carries the game along quite 
 well for a while. But once you get beyond that, the strategy elements start to wear a little thin. 
 The game apparently compensates by making some of the missions quite difficult so that you'll have 
 to defeat forces far superior to your own. Equipping your vessels with extra goodies like upgraded 
 shields and extended phasers helps, but that happens between missions. General ship strategies 
 (like circling the enemy or sniping from long range) can be assigned to individual vessels, but 
 those who want to micromanage a battle will find themselves frustrated. Those who like good documentation 
 will likewise be frustrated, since the CD booklet that tries to pass for a manual is embarrassingly 
 thin.           ... but it's marred by technical problems and simplistic mechanics.    

  For a full-priced game, Dominion Wars feels a bit hollow. The lack of skirmish mode is a notable 
 problem, although the game does come with a copy of Star Trek: Starship Creator Warp II, which 
 can be used to design new Defiant-, Galaxy-, Akira-, and B'rel-class starships for use in multiplayer. 
 However, these are the only classes that can be imported, and once again they are useless if you're 
 not planning any multiplayer games. Furthermore, the technical issues with the game extend to importing 
 starships, and even with the patch, this tends to cause problems. You can also use Starship Creator 
 Warp II to script your own custom missions. Even so, when it's working properly, Dominion Wars 
 still just ends up feeling like a really slick series companion rather than like a full-blown strategy 
 game.   

  Dominion Wars does a nice job of capturing the feel of the Deep Space Nine universe, and the show's 
 fans will find a lot to like about it as a result. But gamers who are interested in a general space 
 strategy game might find the strategy elements a bit thin. If you're a big fan of Deep Space Nine 
 and just want to fight for the future of Alpha Quadrant, and you also have some patience with potential 
 technical problems, Dominion Wars is worthwhile. But if you want a comprehensive space combat strategy 
 game, you should look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: drummer_1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
 Coaster from hell. Coaster from hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlsonAJ
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. 
 don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. 
 waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. 
 waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. 
 complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. 
 don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. 
 waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. 
 waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. 
 complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. don't buy. complete dud. waste of time. waste of money. 
 don't buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralCaesar25
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I am forced to agree with most of the other reviews. I have had a great many problems with the 
 game. Some times the entire screen freezes and locks up on me and I am positive that it is the 
 game. When playing the campaign at least after an update several months ago the audio track for 
 the mission descriptions was off from the scrolling text. I must admit that I highly anticipated 
 the release of this game.
  
  I found the graphics to be impress for a game based on a Windows 98 system. I love the 3-D view 
 of the ships and their targets. I did not like the made up ships for the game. Honestly, I do not 
 think they is a scene in the series were there is a Saber class starship. I believe they first 
 appeared in the Star Trek First Contact. The most common ships in DS9 the series during seasons 
 6 and 7 was Galaxy class, Akira class, Excelsior class, Steamrunner class (only toward the end 
 of the 7th season) , Miranda class, and a few other select class starships.
  
  I feel that the options for the player fleet should have been defined as the following.
  Class 
 1 - Miranda class starship (Wrath of Khan)
  Class 2 - Steamrunner class starship (Final Season of DS9)
  Class 3 - Excelsior class starship 
 (Undiscovered Country)
  Class 4 - Akira class starship (Developed for DS9) Class 5 - Galaxy class starship (TNG) I also 
 found the plot to be undesirable. I think the game would have played out much better if the war 
 was divided into two sections and two campaigns. The Dominion plot would be the first half where 
 they are dominating and then the Federation plot starts when they attempted to retake DS9. I do 
 not like playing the characters or ships or the plot for that matter of the TV show. I would have 
 preferred to play in battles that were discussed in the series or in the major battles like retaking 
 DS9 or assaulting the first Cardassian planet. I never like games were I am playing as a series 
 character I prefer to make my own story line and not be confined to the plot of the TV series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesBeast666
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game many times in the past on an older machine I was surprised that such graphics 
 could be squeezed out of such archaic hardware. The visual treat however was not matched with gameplay. 
 To be honest it was a little boring. It seems that in order to lengthen the game the developers 
 reduced the amount of damage weapons could do, thus making battles last for longer. In theory this 
 is good, from playing Bridge Commander were battles are many and swift, a long drawn on battle 
 full of tense moments would be appreciated by many, in its execution however it falls flat on its 
 face with the user only playing to see how the story ends.
  
  The story itself is the usual Star Trek guff, bla bla save the universe etc. It does indeed have 
 plenty of atmosphere that rings true to the series by using sound effects and voice acting from 
 the show.
  
  As good as some aspects are, the game is horribly bugged particularly on newer systems. To look 
 at the screenshots you would be forgiven for thinking it was an XP era creation while in fact it 
 seems to have been made for Windows 98.
  
  With Microsoft pushing d3d API's down everyone's throat theyve almost killed off Glide. As a result 
 you will have little chance of playing this truly average game on a modern machine.
  
  I've tried compatibility, patches, various settings being tweaked even a glide wrapper, but to 
 no avail. Your only option may be to find an older card, like a tnt2. But the question is, is it 
 worth it. In my opinion no, not unless you are the most diehard of fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ns12b
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Although it doesn't compare to the newest Star Trek games, it is definitely worth playing. The 
 gameplay was good, and the graphics were surprisingly good for the amount of money I had spent 
 on it. With 2 campaigns, it keeps you busy. Not to mention its online multiplayer could easily 
 keep you addicted for many months to come. If you are a long term player, this is not the game 
 for you. But if you are searching for a month or two of enjoyment, this game is most likely for 
 you. No doubt there was more they could have done, but I was satisfied if not surprised at the 
 amount of detail packed into a small game. Picking you captain, you ship, your upgrades, etc. As 
 I said before, it is not the best game in the Star Trek legacy. However, it is worth the play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyappleboy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game several years ago and it was fun, yet a bit laggy at times. After getting my new 
 pc (3.4Ghz HT, 1 GB DDRAM, X-300SE PCI Express Graphics Card, 17" LCD) this game was really fun. 
 This game runs very smoothly and is a lot of fun. The Graphics are pretty good for such an old 
 game. Though there are a few little bugs in the game this is still a pretty fun game. My other 
 complaint is the sound which is less than good. The effects are bad and really could have been 
 done far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjschla
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 13, 2004 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Great star trek capital ship combat game -- if you don't want the level of micromanaging that the 
 starfleet command series offers. The visuals are good for a star trek game (which, as you all know 
 isn't exactly a compliment) . The ships take damage and the weapons fire looks cool. I enjoyed the 
 federation missions, which were quite tough at times... and sometimes too easy, and am now working 
 my way through the dominion campaign. Sometimes I play multiplayer with a friend and throw in some 
 bots. Multi is ok... but you won't play it for long.
  
  Like starfleet command, you earn credits or prestige to buy better ships, captains, extra crew, 
 and "devices", like quantum torpedo upgrades or extra disrupter power. Your captains gain rank 
 and experience so they can pilot larger ships in later missions. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
