-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Galaxies: Episode III Rage of the Wookiees
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/starwarsgalaxiesrageofthewookiees/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Structured and story-driven missions.
 Space mining.
 Cool new loot.
 Star Wars Galaxies has never been better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs need to be ironed out.
 Dated visuals.
 Cybernetic parts look like crap.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 742 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Sony Online Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     May 5, 2005

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Wars Galaxies is in the best shape of its life right now, thanks in no small part to the recently 
 released Episode III Rage of the Wookiees expansion. 

  Like most massively multiplayer online games, Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided has been in 
 a constant state of change since it launched in July 2003. Significant additions to the original 
 game have included, but certainly aren't limited to: vehicles and mounts, player-created cities, 
 new dungeons, and a series of quests for Jedi wannabes that, although lengthy and challenging, 
 are infinitely better than the original system that required you to obtain "holocrons" and master 
 multiple professions (from a list of 30) until you found the one that would unlock your second 
 character. The most significant addition to Star Wars Galaxies since its launch, though, was undoubtedly 
 the release of the Jump to Lightspeed expansion pack last year, which finally let you fight battles 
 in space and, just as importantly, travel between planets without having to stand around waiting 
 for shuttles.  

          Grouping for missions is actively encouraged in Star Wars Galaxies nowadays.     

  
 More recently, Star Wars Galaxies has benefited from not one, but three significant updates in 
 the form of the controversial Combat Upgrade patch, the unimaginatively though accurately named 
 Publish 17, and, of course, its second expansion pack, Episode III Rage of the Wookiees. For the 
 record, we're of the opinion that all three of these updates have played a part in making Star 
 Wars Galaxies a better game than it was a little more than a month ago. The Combat Upgrade, for 
 example, made previously redundant combat professions viable again, balanced the previously overpowered 
 classes that were able to solo just about anything in the game, encouraged group play by defining 
 combat roles for different professions more clearly and by awarding as many experience points to 
 grouped players as to soloists, and introduced new armor types and armor restrictions that made 
 battlefields full of players in nothing but composite armor a thing of the past. The flip side, 
 unfortunately, was that many players found themselves with equipment that was no longer useful 
 or that they weren't even certified to use anymore.  

  Our own experience logging in for the first time after the Combat Upgrade wasn't nearly as smooth 
 as we'd hoped it would be, for example. A message relentlessly flashed up on the screen every couple 
 of seconds to tell us that we wouldn't be able to move our character until we reallocated our skill 
 points. So we no longer had more skills at our disposal than we were entitled to under the new 
 system. As we attempted to equip our trusty T-21 rifle another message flashed to tell us that 
 we were no longer certified to use our favorite weapon. Also, an attempt to summon one of our master 
 creature handler's many bioengineered pets resulted in yet another message flashing, stating something 
 to the effect that we could choose to either reduce their stats to bring them in line with other 
 animals in the game, or that we could keep their stats the same but have their "level" change to 
 reflect their vastly superior-to-anything-in-nature attributes. The latter option appeared to be 
 the more attractive given how much money we'd invested in our BE pets, except that the new levels 
 given to the pets would make them impossible for us to control. We got under way eventually, but 
 not before we noticed that our character was now subject to some pretty severe movement-speed penalties 
 simply because he carries a ranged weapon and chooses to wear composite armor.  

  It's not surprising, then, that the April 27 Combat Upgrade didn't prove popular with many Galaxies 
 veterans, and that the player populations on some servers have dwindled as a result. Ironically, 
 though, the number of players with Jedi characters is increasing all the time, making the once 
 unusual and secretive Force users (and to a lesser extent, their lightsabers) quite a common sight. 
 Incredibly, when walking around with wounds that demand medical attention, you're as likely to 
 be healed by a passing Jedi with healing skills as you are by a doctor -- at least that has been 
 our experience of late. Fortunately, Jedi players who use their powers too overtly become profitable 
 targets for bounty hunters, which not only makes the bounty hunter profession one of the most interesting 
 in the game at this point, but also ensures that the majority of Jedi are suitably discrete.  

 
          Multipassenger vehicles are a welcome and long-overdue addition to the game.     

  Much less controversial than the Combat Upgrade was the recent Publish 17, which, in addition to 
 numerous new quests and bug fixes, introduced multipassenger vehicles to Star Wars Galaxies for 
 the first time. Three of the seven multipassenger rides in the game are speeders that you've been 
 able to ride solo for months previously, while four of them are new. The six two-player rides are 
 definitely a lot of fun, but the most useful of the new speeders is undoubtedly the V-35 SoroSuub 
 Carrier that lets you cruise the surface of your chosen planet with no fewer than six passengers. 
 An additional passenger seat would have been welcome given that player groups are now limited to 
 eight people, but it's highly unlikely that you'll ever find yourself in a group where more than 
 a couple of players don't have their own ride.  

  The lack of vehicles or mounts in your group is even more unlikely to be an issue on the wookiee 
 planet of Kashyyyk, incidentally. Because like much of the content that's been added to Star Wars 
 Galaxies since its launch, Episode III Rage of the Wookiees caters primarily to experienced players. 
 That's not a criticism, but if you're thinking of playing Star Wars Galaxies for the first time, 
 you should know that the latest expansion's content is not designed for you, and it won't even 
 be accessible to you until you have your own hyperdrive-enabled ship.     

  Unlike every other planet in Star Wars Galaxies, Kashyyyk cannot be reached via shuttle or even 
 by using your own ship's instant "travel" command. Why you have to fly to Kashyyyk manually (or 
 at least using your autopilot) isn't clear, particularly since the space that surrounds it is no 
 more dangerous than the areas around other planets. The fact that you can't take a shuttle to Kashyyyk 
 does mean that you'll need the Jump to Lightspeed expansion to play Rage of the Wookiees, though, 
 and you'll find a lot more space missions in the expansion in addition to those on the wookiee 
 home planet's surface. Rage of the Wookiees also introduces asteroid mining to Star Wars Galaxies, 
 which gives crafters, and any of you more interested in making credits than enemies, a good reason 
 to get up into space.  

          Kashyyyk doesn't afford you the same level of freedom to explore as other planets that 
 you'll visit.     

  The surface of Kashyyyk is very different to that of any other planet in Star Wars Galaxies, not 
 only because its treetop villages are far more interesting than the scenery anywhere else in the 
 game, but also because your exploration is far more controlled. On other planets, you can literally 
 go wherever you want, because even the least powerful speeders are able to scale near-vertical 
 inclines. On Kashyyyk, however, much of your exploration is limited to networks of valleys and 
 rivers, and you'll invariably run into an invisible wall if you attempt to stray too far from the 
 obvious routes. This is actually a good thing, because although the Kashyyyk "theme park" is anything 
 but linear, it's far more structured and story-driven than any other location in the game, and 
 it certainly wouldn't be a bad thing if some of these traits found their way onto other planets 
 in the future.  

  Kashyyyk has only one starport, and you won't find many of the facilities that you take for granted 
 on other planets anywhere on its surface. What you will find, though, are a series of instanced 
 adventure areas in which you'll encounter new characters and creatures. You'll get to choose which 
 faction (the wookiees or the trandoshan slavers) you want to side with, and you'll complete some 
 occasionally varied (though most still involve either collecting, delivering, or killing stuff) 
 quests in order to get your hands on all-new loot. Like just about everything in Star Wars Galaxies 
 post-Combat Upgrade, many of the missions on Kashyyyk aren't impossible or even unreasonably difficult 
 to complete solo. However, doing so is incredibly time consuming, and it really begs the question 
 of why you're playing a massively multiplayer game in the first place. The instanced areas on Kashyyyk 
 are somewhat unusual, though, in that there are only a limited number of instances for each one 
 (numbered 1 through 6, or 1 through 10, for example) , so there's no guarantee that you won't encounter 
 other groups of players once you've chosen a number and gone inside. Enemies that are killed respawn 
 quite quickly, though, which makes playing solo more difficult and means that the activities of 
 other groups won't necessarily impact your own.  

          Much of the loot you'll find on Kashyyyk isn't available anywhere else in the galaxy.  
    

  Much of the loot that you'll be acquiring as you play through Kashyyyk's various zones takes the 
 form of decorations and furniture for your home, assuming that you have one. There are some more 
 interesting goodies you can get ahold of as well, though, including ship modifications; profession-specific 
 rewards, such as an egg that hatches into a level-65 mount for master creature handlers; new ships, 
 including a Jedi starfighter; clone armor; and cybernetic limbs, which don't look nearly as good 
 as those in the  Star Wars  movies, frankly, but which offer performance enhancements such as improved 
 weapon accuracy. You might also end up with a cybernetic limb if you die on one of the galaxy's 
 less-developed planets without creating a clone of yourself. Although, these limbs are detrimental 
 to your performance rather than beneficial, so you end up paying for expensive surgery when you 
 want them removed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 1
Date: May 11, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  What's the point in a multiplayer game with no players SOE called it the CU/NGE, the Combat Update/New 
 Game Enhancement, and it drove nearly everybody out of the game. Nobody plays this game anymore 
 because it is horrible. BUT, people who will never play again and haven't played in years still 
 have houses and structures all over the place that are abandoned ghost towns. (I have three, I 
 quit too)
  
  Here is a quote;
  "Over the past month, countless longtime Galaxies players have quit playing the popular online 
 take on the ubiquitous film franchise. Their grievance: a controversial, sweeping redesign of the 
 structure of the game that they say has ruined the fun -- and made irrelevant the years of work 
 they have invested into their in-game personas. 
  
  "It's now a shoot'em-up game for adolescents, not at all conducive to our play style," says Carolyn 
 Hocke, a web technician for Saint Michael's Hospital in Wisconsin, whose character A'thena was 
 mayor of an in-game city on Tatooine and owner of a bustling shopping mall. "People who we grew 
 to know over the last couple of years are gone. Cities are ghost towns, guilds are gone. My galaxy 
 is gone, my game is gone.""
  http://www. wired. com/gaming/gamingreviews/news/2005/12/69816 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When this expansion pack first came out it was a great one. It added a new planet, a new space 
 sector, new quests, new loot, you name it. The only thing it didn't have were new player species.
 
  The planet, Kashyyyk looked beautiful and still does. The quests were fun and really brought some 
 life to the game. The paths were a bit of a pain but I didn't really mind them too much. I think 
 the paths fit pretty well with Kashyyyk, actually, though paths wouldn't for any of the other planets.
 
  Of course, this was all before the NGE hit and ruined everything. This is a good expansion pack, 
 there's no doubt about it. However, it has one major problem... it has no replayability. Once you 
 complete all the quests on Kashyyyk -- which should take a few weeks -- there's no reason to ever 
 return. Once the quests are done there is no reason to ever go back to Kashyyyk. In my opinion 
 that's a waste. And no, since the expansion pack launched the Devs haven't added any new content 
 to Kashyyyk. Some bugs have been fixed, but no new content which still means there is no reason 
 to return.
  
  Before the NGE this expansion pack was optional, but once the NGE hit you were pretty much required 
 to buy this expansion pack if you wanted to level up and a somewhat more reasonable (though still 
 extremely painful) rate. Perhaps yet another bad marketing ploy by SOE.
  
  All-in-all, before the NGE hit, Rage of the Wookiees is a good expansion pack and was a lot of 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 30, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  In comparison to WoW or guild wars this game is just plain awful.
  
  I used to play this game on a regular basis until the combat upgrade came out which kinda killed 
 the entire community.
  
  What i don't understand is why they are carrying on this game with expansion packs. The developers 
 money would be much better off spent producing an entirely new Galaxies from the ground up.
  
  They could use the experiences from this game (which looks dates and still lags even with top 
 system specs by the way!) and the experience of playing the other more modern MMORPG's to build 
 a much more stable, less clunky game which with its star wars licence would attract loads of gamers.
 
  
  Imagine WoW but with star wars characters! It would be a blast.
  
  Please avoid this game and stop giving money to a developer that doesnt listen to its fans and 
 is trying to cash in on a dated looking, dated playing dated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Like ToOW, this expansion pack adds new content using the same graphics and sound design. The amount 
 of content is a little disappointing. I did everything in about three days of hardcore playing. 
 There were some annoying bugs that prevented me from going some places as well. Unfortunately, 
 you need to buy this expansion if you want to level up through the mid levels. The loot in this 
 used to be great but SOE made better loot in ToOW to entice people to buy it. If you are a hardcore 
 fan and/or SWG gamer, you'll definitely need/want to pick this up. If you are just starting out 
 in the game, play a while before you fork over $25 for something you might stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sekak
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  The "Current" game as it stands is NOT worth buying. Rather than the previous 32 professions, the 
 game now consists of only 9. All others have been deleted.... The game now restricts players to 
 only one profession, so that you may never change your desired gameplay unless you delete your 
 character... Previously you were allowed to drop/change your profession. Everything that is advertised 
 for this product is a Lie. Commercials for the game advertise the game prior to the "New Game Enhancements." 
 The game is quite pathetic now, there is no thinking involved with this game AT ALL Anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Arioch-
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  I thought this expansion would introduce another world for us to explore as we wished, what we 
 got is a world that largely allows you to only walk on pre-made paths and not really explore at 
 all.. you cant walk over hills etc.
  
  Also, very little graphic-wise was brought in and no improvement to sounds that I noticed.
  
 
  Other than some almost enjoyable (at times) quests and a few new weapons... this expansion brought 
 very little to the table other than a sigh and a bit of aggravation.
  
  Not bad, but far from good... and since expansions generally improve a game.. I gave it a lower 
 score than I would have if it had brought more to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaMuWarloc
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  Please, please, please look to other reviews before purchasing.
  
  The NGE (new game enhancements) introduced in November have driven hundreds, thousands from the 
 game. Entire player cities and guilds have been abandoned.
  
  SOE went ahead with the NGE launch, complete with horrendous, game stopping bugs. The vast majority 
 of the existing bugs were reported pre-launch of the NGE, and yet the game went ahead as scheduled.
 
  
  Practically every quest of this now 'quest based game' is broken. A new player will reach lvl 30 
 in under a week if they somehow manage to get through the bugged quests. Once done that there is 
 no content whatsoever. There has been no foresight or planning for mid to high lvls (30-90) . Player 
 economy has been practically nerfed overnight. Melee attack classes greatly outbalanced by ranged 
 attack classes. 32 player character professions whittled down to 9 with the NGE.
  
  Customer service/relations absolutely horrendous. Forum moderators continually ban and delete people 
 for voicing complaints with the NGE. The Dev's have continually lied about game fixes, the greatest 
 being promises to fix the old system while they were in secret creating the NGE.
  
  This is a horrendous catastrophe of what was once a great game. Do not waste your money, and most 
 definately do not buy without contacting people who have played the gave over the last two years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehosiphat1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies has been ruined. Do your homework and look to other sites to confirm the vast 
 condemnation of the NGE (new game enhancements) . SWG-NGE is a totally different game than it was 
 prior to 11/14/05. The game is awful and unplayable after level 30. The first 30 lvls are pretty 
 linear and all characters are exactly the same now. No profession variations now. The new content 
 promised is actually less content since most of the old quests no longer offer xp (experience points) . 
 You must buy the expansion to have any hope of xp but you have to be CL65+ (combat level) to suceed 
 there. Anyone between CL30 and CL65 is lost. Anyone CL80 has only the expansion to play and only 
 if they didnot play it before the NGE. If so then they are out of luck. Dont waste your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottyboyyyy
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome but that is where it stops. This game is aweful to play since the numerous 
 upgrades have taken away from character creation and experimentation. I have been playing SWG for 
 over 2 years and I have learned that the developers and upper management do not care about their 
 player base or their opinions. People are leaving the game in record numbers and the interface 
 which used to be great is nearly impossible. Tons of bugs and characters that HAVE to group in 
 order to survive. the casual gamer will find it hard to improve their character since you cannot 
 solo anything worth while and the hard core gamer will never be able to get past the bugs and questionable 
 controls. It used to be a 10 but is far below that number now. stear clear of this one. It is a 
 shame that the Star Wars saga is ending. The Chancelor did not drive the Jedi to extinction, the 
 developers and upper management killed off everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawtubb
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  With the introduction of the NGE on November 15th, the Starwars Galaxies that we have grown to 
 love has been destroyed. Instead of 38 vast proffesions and the ability to customize your character 
 within any of these professions, there are now only 9 proffesions which are all compleatly identical. 
 The previous combat system was turn based, fun, and involved strategy. The new combat is to fast 
 and involves no strategy. Combat consists of holding down your left mouse key and the UI is very 
 difficult to use. I would recomind avoiding this game as it is unstable, and is constantly undergoing 
 drastic core changes without much notice to the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokair
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Yes it was good when it came out but as of NOV 15 2005 the game hit a wall , its over , look at 
 the SOE star wars starer kit (reviews are very Bad) , DO NOT read the offical game reports about 
 how exciting it is to have this NGE (New Game Experiance) they are lying , buy Battle front two 
 and play that on line you will have blast. Also rumor has it that game is being killed as of february 
 of 2006. 
  
  I hope I saved some one the greif of getting this soon to be departed game. 
  
  Lokair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realker
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  this is unacceptable for so many people who has been around for years like myself. This game used 
 to be a part of my life like 2 hours a day, this is something really special cause in a busy day; 
 who finds 2 hours to do anything?? well i did, with my busy schedule i always found a way to play 
 it and also live my social life. The reason i have said this is; this has turned into a child play 
 now, its like a lolipop you give to a kid to shut up!!! This game used to be special cause there 
 was a huge adult community including myself and my guild that shares, enjoys, had fun and live 
 together, sometimes it was an msn to talk to friends, sometimes it was a hard grind to accomplish 
 something, sometimes it was the help you give to your friend and sleep less, sometimes it was a 
 meeting point for a raid, sometimes it was just a place to hang but now all is gone!! nobody will 
 ever need to inerract with each other anymore, its kotor online now everybody living a dream and 
 alone, whats the point of making it online now?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosefire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I joined this game right after Rage of the Wookies came out, and I have to admit it was a hard 
 learning curve. The tutorial in the beginning got a bit lost at times and was very long. I didnt 
 see full interest until i found a good guild/city and was being player-player taught. After that 
 the grind to lvl 80 was a sinch with the players I was with and it was a blast. The city part of 
 this game and the amount of craftsman professions made the game more interesting and allowed a 
 different aspect to the game. I guess what made me lose interest in it was after I became jedi/jedi 
 in training there wasnt much else to do but PvP and you couldn't make a new toon in the same server 
 either. All in all a great game and looking forward to getting back in it with the new exspansion! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elidhgon
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I've played Star Wars Galaxies since its launch, I've been through the bugs, the lies of SoE, all 
 the crap they've pulled - and yet still continued playing. Why? Because of the community in the 
 game - because of the people playing. After a year of playing, there was one thing I did in-game 
 - PvP - and one thing that kept me PvPing, my guild. We survived the CU, and made it through. We 
 were one of the only PvPing guilds to continue through the CU and be dominate. When I finally start 
 liking the CU, BAM - NGE. Did we ask for an FPS? Show me who asked for an FPS, please. SoE has 
 lied to this gaming community since launch, and they've finally just burned all their bridges. 
 Entire guilds that have been around since launch are dying and moving to a different game - SoE 
 continues to claim the player base loves it. Smedly has the balls to say he has posted many threads 
 and answered questions - Smedly's stats on the forums: 1 post since registration. Wow, very involved, 
 Smedly. They lie to everybody, they destroy the entire game, and they're going down with the ship. 
 However, I'm jumping off the Titanic thank you very much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  The Rage of the Wookiees expansion pack for Star Wars Galaxies is a great addition to the game. 
 It provides an entire new planet to explore along with new space sectors to go along with it. There 
 are about 100 new quests added to the game for players of all levels and professions to try their 
 hands at. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good. Nothing about it has changed since the core game was released.
 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics for an MMO.
  
  Overall Experience: It is a lot of fun to explore the homeworld of the wookiees and to work on 
 completing all the new quests that take place on Kashyyyk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pontesi
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 16, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies recently reached an extreme low with players fed up of the current system. Yet 
 with the announcement of Rage of the Wookies, the second expansion to the original Star Wars Galaxies 
 series, to coincide with the release of the final Star Wars movie and the much anticipated Combat 
 Upgrade (CU) , a few old players stuck around. Have they been rewarded? In a way, they have.
  
  On the aesthetic side, I've not been impressed. I loved the way the game looked pre-CU. I loved 
 the look of the old toolbar at the top but instead it has been replaced by quite undistinguishable 
 art. I have problems remembering which icon is which. The old icons looked straight-forward and 
 they should have stayed that way.
  
  Now, the game has been given a face lift for one reason. Not to cater for the current subscribers 
 but rather capture the Episode III loving mob who have seen the new TV advertisements for the game. 
 Yes, it's the same old hackneyed play by the publisher we have seen many times before and guess 
 what? It has worked.
  
  On my main server (Starsider) in particular, I have noticed a rapid amount of new players and certainly 
 a lot more population in the big cities. Yet to keep the older players happy, Sony Online Entertainment 
 (SOE) have allowed older players to respec their skills - this basically means that you can trade 
 some of your skills to another block of skills e. g. brawler skills to marksman skills.
  
  Personally, I was aiming to become a bounty hunter post-CU. Yet after this allowance of respec, 
 many a player has pushed their skills to the tilt of Bounty Hunter. Now, because of this the Jedi 
 are under more pressure when being hunted by Bounty Hunters and the Jedi are now referring to these 
 new Bounty Hunters as "respec noobs". Now I don't mind being called names but I'd rather not anger 
 the Jedi players (as it's not in their nature) so I've decided to master Marksman, master medic 
 and master scout before I take a stab at Bounty Hunting. There are far too many Bounty Hunters 
 now so I believe it's best to wait for the storm to calm. May I also add, I have not made a respec 
 with my character as I don't find this little addition very helpful to the game.
  
  The combat upgrade has improved and diminished the fortunes of some veterans (unfortunately, my 
 character has suffered a massive combat downgrade) yet on the whole, it will be better for the 
 game in time. One controversial feature though is the wound system. If a player fought so much, 
 they would acquire wounds which could easily be healed by even less experienced medics or themselves 
 in a medical facility or camp. Now unfortunately, they can only be healed by Jedi or Doctors. Finding 
 a Doctor can be very inconvenient. The only other option is waiting 5 minutes for 5 of the characters' 
 wounds to be patched up in a player camp or a medical building. Coming out of context, my character 
 usually contracts a couple of hundred wounds at times and you should be able to imagine how hard 
 it is to find a celestial being, riding down from the heavens on their Swoop Speeder, to heal my 
 wounds.
  
  So now that the slightly controversial part and my personal opinions are out of the way, now to 
 review some of the new features! Naturally since the name of the game is Rage of the Wookies, it's 
 only fitting that Wookies appear as a result of the expansion. The game opens up a new world; the 
 Wookie homeworld Kashyyk. Offering 100 new varied quests, a new planet to discover and plenty of 
 Episode III links, the game is worth buying for this lovely little planet. 
  
  Now what Episode III links may you ask? Without spoiling much, watch the Rage of the Wookies TV 
 spot and you will no doubt see two faces tinted with the light and the dark side. Despite the game 
 being set between the original Star Wars and The Empire Strikes Back, continuity has never been 
 a factor in SWG. Yet there is a perfectly good explanation why two popular wielders of the sabre 
 do appear in the game.
  
  The in game music is once again a perfect little SW universe tie in and makes you feel part of 
 the world. The sound effects have made quite a lot of improvement, leading to some varied environmental 
 audio.
  
  In conclusion, Rage of the Wookies expands the grand universe of SWG. The virtual immersion that 
 it is hyped up to be, it is not. What it is, is a must need for any Star Wars fan whether you are 
 Hardcore with a capital 'H', or nonchalantly swirling through the motions with your inebriated 
 buddies using homemade lightsabres. Enjoy Yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuerdar
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 16, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  I came back to Star Wars Galaxies after being turned off by the initial release. The game has improved 
 significantly, but the declining number of players causes real problems with the economy and game. 
 Last night, on the planet Rori, I spent over an hour running around and saw a grand total of three 
 (3!) other players.
  
  Since SWG relies solely on players crafting upgrades to the starting equipment and higher level 
 equipment, the lack of players is creating a real problem in finding new spaceships, weapons and 
 armor, since there are no longer enough players trying to learn those crafting skills.
  
  Healing is problematic also; the game requires you to find a player to heal your wounds, or to 
 remove battle fatigue. If you are lucky you will find a bot some one has made to do those tasks, 
 but if you are on the wrong planet, or no where near a major city... :- (
  
  At least the annoying speeder sound effect in the cities has been toned down, but the Star Wars 
 Cantina song gets old real fast. However, they now have a feature (which I haven't tried) which 
 allows you to play your own song collection instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing SWG for quite a bit now and it's one of the best. There is always something new 
 to see, do, or kill. My dude is a smuggler who enjoys killing space pirates and long walks on the 
 Naboo water front. Play through the long tutorial and then make an identity for yourself. You can 
 be a musician/singer, a doctor, a miner, an imperial, a rebel, almost annying you want to be in 
 the Star Wars universe. Although I wish that you could train to be a pod racer, that would be AWESOME. 
 Get on that for the next expansion Lucas you crazy nerd you. What's different with Rage of the 
 Wookies? Who knows besides a new planet and a free rideable lizard (if you buy it through the online 
 service's direct download) . Quite frankly who cares, cause the universe expands on it's own almost 
 everyday it seems. Any, it's great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
