-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek Starfleet Command: Orion Pirates
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starfleetcommandorionpirates/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Taldren
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 1, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Orion Pirates has an impressive amount of content for a stand-alone expansion, so it's great for 
 new players. 

  When Starfleet Command Volume II was originally released late last year, one of its most highly 
 touted features, Dynaverse II, was not functional because of some last-minute changes by the company 
 originally providing the service. Dynaverse II is a semipersistent universe where you can travel 
 through the universe as any one of the races in the game, engage in battles with other players, 
 and work your way up to getting new and more powerful ships. Fortunately, the development team 
 eventually got around to releasing a patch that fixed the Dynaverse II problems, among other things, 
 but the damage was done, and Starfleet Command Volume II's most intriguing feature went largely 
 unnoticed by the gaming public. The new official expansion to Starfleet Command Volume II, Orion 
 Pirates, includes a fully functional Dynaverse II mode out of the box, and it also contains new 
 skirmishes, a new race, gameplay improvements, and basically all of the features of the original 
 game. You don't need the original game to play it, either. Orion Pirates has an impressive amount 
 of content for a stand-alone expansion, so it's great for new players; but ardent fans of Starfleet 
 Command Volume II will merely find more of the same, making it more difficult to justify purchasing. 
           Orion Pirates uses the same single-player interface as Volume II.    

  As the title indicates, several pirate factions have been thrown into the mix along with all of 
 the other races from Starfleet Command Volume II such as the Klingons, the Federation, the Romulans, 
 and others. Unfortunately, these pirate factions are really different from each other in name only 
 since they all have the same interface, the same types of ships, and the same overall objectives 
 as all the rest. The only substantial differences between the pirate factions are the excellent 
 captain voices used to indicate which faction you're a part of and their diplomatic relations with 
 other races. The addition of a rogue group focused solely on economic prosperity is excellent for 
 role-playing in the Dynaverse, but it would've been nice to see a little more variation between 
 the factions.   

  The single-player modes in Orion Pirates are for the most part exactly the same as those in Starfleet 
 Command Volume II, but there have been some changes made. In the skirmish mode, where you can jump 
 right into a premade scenario, you can now select from numerous missions immediately, including 
 the Wrath of Khan, in which the movie's final battle scene in the nebula is played out within the 
 Starfleet Command setting. The expansion offers a large number of new skirmishes that are genuinely 
 fun even if they may be a little too difficult to play through effectively at first. Since the 
 skirmish mode has received such a significant boost, most of your single-player experiences will 
 probably be spent there since the campaign mode still suffers from a poorly designed interface. 
   

  Like in Starfleet Command Volume II, Orion Pirates uses the same color-coded hexagonal layout to 
 represent the galaxy and the factions that are in control of particular areas of the map. On the 
 right side of the interface, there is a list of the factions that you can click on to reveal your 
 current diplomatic status, and on the left side, there are general options for viewing the map, 
 as well as gathering information on events that occur within the galaxy. The major problem with 
 the interface is that all of the information appears within a single screen, so you have to constantly 
 maneuver in between the map screens, the news screen, and the general diplomacy screen to find 
 suitable missions for your ship. The campaign mode also has some general design flaws. When you 
 start a new campaign, your ship is supposed to be placed in an area of space with easy patrols 
 or similar types of missions for gaining some prestige points -- used for upgrading ships -- early 
 on. But, in fact, many of the early missions can be incredibly difficult, and since you're not 
 given any detailed information on the mission beforehand, retreating becomes an all too familiar 
 practice.           The pirate factions add weapons and ships not found in the previous titles. 
    

  Orion Pirates' best feature, a working Dynaverse II, uses the same interface as the single-player 
 campaign, which is unfortunate, but the difficulties of switching between information screens are 
 somewhat easier to deal with since you receive a constant flow of information from other players 
 within your faction on a small chat window underneath the main screen. Some problems are still 
 prevalent, such as the lack of detailed information before entering a mission, but again, it's 
 not quite as annoying since other players can accompany you on missions. Otherwise, Dynaverse II 
 works surprisingly well, and it's fun to watch factions strategically move across the map and to 
 engage them in battle whenever they overstep their boundaries. The addition of playable pirate 
 factions only makes this mode more diverse and entertaining. If the Dynaverse seems too open-ended, 
 you can always take on opponents in a skirmish-style setting with the GameSpy player-matching program 
 packed in with the game.   

  As a stand-alone expansion, Orion Pirates has plenty to offer. The game has all of the features 
 of Starfleet Command Volume II -- such as the full single-player campaign, skirmish, and tutorial 
 modes -- and it adds new skirmishes and playable pirate factions. More importantly, Dynaverse II 
 works fine right out of the box and adds a great amount of replay value to the game. But, if you've 
 played plenty of Starfleet Command Volume II, then you may want to avoid Orion Pirates -- the graphical 
 quality is the same; music tracks for the pirate factions have been added, but all others are the 
 same; and the gameplay still relies on micromanagement of various ship systems. As such, while 
 Orion Pirates might not be completely satisfying for fans of Starfleet Command Volume II, it's 
 clearly better overall, and a great opportunity to get into this engaging strategy series for those 
 who passed on the previous installment because of its shortcomings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Valloy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  First sorry my English.
  The great thing about this game is about the starships being blown up. Ok, you will never find 
 out the Enterprise itself but we have a lot of Constitution class ships out there. Not mentioning 
 the Mirandas.
  Of course, there are the other races but instead of a Bird of Prey, will be hard to imagine that 
 Cap. Kirk is there begging for mercy.
  Talking serious now this game has a lot to offer, many weapons, many ships, some tactics and you 
 just have to show some patience. It is not like Tie Fighter or Wing Commander but instead it is 
 more about a real time chess match with nice guns. And good news, you do not have to be so smart 
 to enjoy it, unless you are playing on-line.
  Just try to play out with all races! Do not be afraid about the ship weaknesses once there is always 
 one way to win a battle.... or run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xextreem
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Well i rember that i play always the lyran space i like the big esg special if there is the lance 
 esg onboard this ship :D Well it take some time to learn the basic bad if you like to be the hard 
 way of the game try to play mutiplay game and do slugfast :D . Well even today i play always 1 
 match take me 30 min to defeat the enemy but i like it . The single play well its hard and i must 
 agre that when you play a long time in your campaign the game well get slow even crash some time 
 to time . But its word to try it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Man I cant even count how many hours I spent on this game. The game is about the star trek universe 
 that is currently at war not only with the Interstellar Concordium but the Orion pirates as well, 
 who have now come out of just general raids and now are on full scale attack against the other 
 races of the galaxy. I think that they did a good job with the pirate ships, I especially liked 
 the engine doubling, which saved my fleet many times I remember. I think they should have had more 
 missions for the regular races as well, but overall it was a solid game. The only thing at the 
 end was when the game went really far the game started to get really slow and the game would freeze 
 alot. Thats is the unfortunate sad part of it, but you have to have alot of patience as well. Also 
 I liked the Skimirsh mode, especially the USS Hood mission, which I constantly play still even 
 to this day. But overall, I think this is a good game, and a must for star trek fans out there. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
