-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Republic Commando
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/starwarsrepubliccommando/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Thrilling campaign from start to finish.
 Squad commands are fun and intuitive.
 Excellent visuals and sound effects.
 Good teammate AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is short.
 Multiplayer isn't that great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 1, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A well-paced, albeit brief, single-player campaign will keep adrenaline junkies thrilled from the 
 first dropship landing to the final dust-off. 

  When you think of Star Wars, the first two things that likely come to mind are probably Jedi and 
 space combat in X-Wings and TIE fighters. So logically, a Star Wars game that features neither 
 element would feel like it's missing something. Right? As it turns out, Star Wars Republic Commando's 
 laserlike focus on squad-based, military-style combat makes it a refreshing change of pace for 
 Star Wars games. Its well-paced, albeit brief, single-player campaign will keep adrenaline junkies 
 thrilled from the first dropship landing to the final dust-off. A pedestrian and unimaginative 
 multiplayer mode is the only notable flaw in a game that otherwise plays, looks, and sounds fantastic. 

          You lead an elite squad of commandos on a variety of covert-ops missions.     

  Star 
 Wars Republic Commando, as the title suggests, puts you in the shoes of an elite trooper during 
 the height of the Clone Wars. You don't have a proper name, aside from "Three-Eight," but nonetheless, 
 you're tasked with commanding Delta squad on tough covert ops stretched across three different 
 campaigns. The three other commandos of Delta are also numbered. They are: 07, 40, and 62. Despite 
 the impersonal monikers, each member of your squad has a very unique and likable personality, and 
 this comes across through the entertaining chatter each will dispense over the course of the game. 

  While you're a clone, like the millions of other republic soldiers, you and your squadmates have 
 been trained to be a little better than the other photocopies of Jango Fett. This means you'll 
 also be outfitted with better weapons and armor than the regular soldiers you'll be fighting with 
 periodically through the campaign. You'll start out with a standard assault rifle, but over the 
 course of the game, you'll be introduced to special attachments that turn this same weapon into 
 a sniper rifle and a grenade launcher. You'll also be able to pick up weapons from fallen enemies, 
 ranging from heavy repeating blasters to submachine guns to rocket launchers. Should you run low 
 on ammo, there's a laser handgun that recharges and never runs out of shots. But what's more fun 
 than this is getting up close and personal with melee attacks. Melee strikes are powerful, and 
 they count as one-hit kills on most standard opponents. So even if you do have plentiful ammo, 
 you'll find yourself frequently stabbing Geonosian bugs and Trandoshan mercenaries in the face, 
 mainly because it's both fun and extremely effective. Rounding out your armament is an array of 
 grenades, like thermal detonators for soft targets and electrostatic grenades for mechanical enemies. 

  The interface and gameplay conventions in Republic Commando borrow some of the best elements from 
 excellent games like Metroid Prime, Halo, and Freedom Fighters. There a visor overlay onscreen, 
 for example. This gives you useful information, such as the position and condition of your squadmates, 
 instructions on your next objective, and the obligatory ammo counts and health meters. You can 
 also switch to low-light mode to enhance dark areas. The helmet conceit isn't just an excuse to 
 have all these meters onscreen, however. You'll get some nice graphical effects to remind you that 
 your character does have a bit of glass in front of his face. So you'll see blood spatter on the 
 visor when you engage in close combat. There are also situations where droids or jammers will cause 
 static to appear on your screen, reducing visibility.  

  Like Halo, you and your squadmates are protected by personal shields that will deflect a certain 
 amount of incoming damage. This lets you step into the line of fire for a while before forcing 
 you to duck back into cover to wait for a recharge. Should you take any real damage, however, there 
 are plentiful bacta stations scattered along your campaign routes that you and your squadmates 
 can use to restore health. Their placement can feel contrived at times, such as on a separatist 
 droid ship (Why, exactly, would droids need a substance designed to restore health to organic life-forms?) , 
 but the game even manages to poke fun at itself there. From time to time, your teammates will remark, 
 "Whoever left that bacta station there deserves a medal!" In the event that one of your squadmates 
 goes down, he or she's never dead... just incapacitated. You or one of your other squad members 
 can revive your fallen comrade with a device that acts much like a defibrillator, shocking the 
 person up off the ground and returning the person's health status to half. What's great is that 
 the game doesn't end if your own character gets incapacitated. Your screen goes blurry and red -- and 
 you can't move -- but as long as at least one of your teammates is still up, you can command him 
 to revive you.  

          Blood spatter on the visor is a great effect in close combat.     

  Despite that creative 
 aspect to the game, Republic Commando's most important design conceit is your ability to command 
 your squad. There's a single command button to keep things simple, and it can be used on contextually 
 sensitive areas on the battlefield. These include rock piles or debris that can be used as protected 
 sniping positions. Or you may direct a teammate to hack a computer console to open a door or shut 
 off automated defenses. Turrets can be manned by you or your squadmates, and you can also have 
 your team breach doors or blow holes in walls with explosives. You'll also command your teammates 
 to make use of bacta stations or revive fallen comrades on the field. There are also other commands 
 that let you both direct your squad to concentrate fire on a single enemy or form up. The squad 
 command controls work great on either platform, with the PC version getting some commands mapped 
 to function keys for easy access.  

  It's comforting to note that the inclusion of these squad commands doesn't mean your teammates 
 act like idiots without you ordering them around. On the contrary, they are fairly intelligent 
 about following you around, finding their own cover, and, most importantly, killing the enemy as 
 you encounter him. Certainly, taking advantage of your squad commands and asking your teammates 
 to man turrets or sniping positions makes every encounter easier. But in many cases, you can get 
 by without doing so, at least on the medium difficultly level.     

  The single-player aspect of Republic Commando takes you on three distinct campaigns during the 
 Clone Wars-era of Star Wars. You'll invade Geonosis, along with the rest of the Republic army, 
 investigate a derelict starship, and assist the wookiees in fending off Trandoshan slavers on the 
 planet of Kashyyyk. The campaigns are paced extremely well throughout the game, offering up new 
 and interesting challenges at just the right junctures. Whether it's hunting down and assassinating 
 a Geonosian lieutenant, fending off endless hordes of super battle droids and droideka, or escorting 
 a highly ranked wookiee, there's never a dull moment in Republic Commando.  

          The excellent campaign throws a number of different challenges at you.     

  The missions 
 are heavily scripted to provide exciting pitched battles, some of which will see you as the aggressor 
 and others of which will require you to defend areas from attack. This also means the game is fairly 
 linear. So it's obvious which paths you'll need to be going down, and you won't be doing a whole 
 lot of backtracking. But at the same time, nary a minute goes by without the blasters and rockets 
 firing back and forth at full tilt. The only downer is that the fun doesn't last long, as most 
 players should be able to tear through the campaign in fewer than 10 hours. It sure is an exciting 
 ride while it lasts, though.  

  The game does include a multiplayer aspect on both the PC and Xbox platforms. Unfortunately, the 
 multiplayer isn't nearly as creative or exciting as the campaign. There are standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture the flag modes, along with an assault mode that's basically the same 
 as one-flag CTF, with one team attempting to carry a special item in to a capture area in the other 
 team's base before the timer runs out. There are eight maps total, which are designed for four 
 to 16 players. Many of these maps, however, are just derived from specific parts of the single-player 
 levels, although there is one special level that includes some zero-gravity areas that provide 
 extra amusement. Those who've played a lot of shooters won't find much in Republic Commando they 
 haven't seen before. So if you were looking at this game specifically hoping for a great new multiplayer 
 experience, you're probably better off sticking with other alternatives.  

  Fortunately, the presentational values don't disappoint like the multiplayer aspects do. Star Wars 
 Republic Commando looks fantastic on both the PC and Xbox, with excellent character models. The 
 armor on each commando is extremely detailed, so you'll see the dents and dings that you'd expect 
 of battle-worn gear. The game also animates extremely well, with the commando models exhibiting 
 a lot of the same mannerisms (like the way they hold their weapons and breach doorways) you'd expect 
 from highly trained operatives. The location-based damage on all enemies allows for a lot of variety 
 in how they die, and the animators took full advantage of this. You can blow limbs off droids or 
 Geonosian bugs. You can take the head off a droid, and you'll see it fire wildly in a circle before 
 falling over. Hit a Trandoshan in its fuel backpack and he'll rocket wildly into walls and ceilings. 
 Toss an electrostatic grenade at droids and they'll shudder with a blue electric glow before exploding 
 into scrap. The varying environments also look great, whether you're in the forests of Kashyyyk 
 or deep inside the guts of a techno-union ship on Geonosis.  

          Character models exhibit great detail.     

  The sound effects are extremely vibrant 
 in Republic Commando. The various weapons all have great, punchy sound effects, and there's constant 
 chatter between your squadmates and your adviser, which is both entertaining and useful to the 
 mission at hand. Most of the time, you'll be so engrossed in the sounds of battle that you'll hardly 
 take notice of the music, which borrows from traditional Star Wars themes but also includes some 
 original tracks, ranging from pounding rock to choral pieces that fit the game's militaristic scope. 

  If you're a fan of Star Wars or action games, Republic Commando is easy to recommend. The single-player 
 aspect combines the elements of this generation's best action games with an added flavor that's 
 all its own. The campaign offers nonstop action from start to finish, making the game easily one 
 of the most enjoyable and memorable Star Wars experiences in recent memory. Our only caveats are 
 that the campaign won't last you long, and the multiplayer is merely competent, which doesn't make 
 the game stand out in a crowded market of first-person shooters. Even with that in mind, the quality 
 single-player experience of Republic Commando should not be missed by anyone who fancies him- or 
 herself an action game aficionado.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (223 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ragnos43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  RC ( rebubblic commando) is a amazing and addictive game. The story offers somthing new as your 
 taken away from all the main battles, and thrusted in some stuff no normal clone will ever have 
 to do. But your no normal clone. You play as delta 38 an elite commando. Also by your side you 
 have sev, fixer and scorch. Each of them has a distinct attitude that you'll notice more then once. 
 Now about the gameplay. This game is a squad shooter. Your the sqaud leader so you (of course) have 
 to lead your sqaud to victory. You can give 3 different basic sqaud commands at any time. "Search 
 and destroy" or "Go out and do your own thing and a lot of enemies". "Hold that position". And 
 "Form up" or "Follow me aroud and cover me". But these are not the only things you can tell your 
 sqaud. At specific areas there will be a location that has a icon that singles things like "Snipe 
 here" or "blow this door open" you get the idea. At first you'll think this limits your tactics 
 because the game is telling you where to put your men. But thats not the case. At some areas you'll 
 have a lot of options on what to do. Also the game requires you to adapt to situations so you'll 
 have to move your men around constantly. Depending on what kind of player you are will depend on 
 where you want to put your men. Speaking of your men the sqaud AI is the most impressive I've ever 
 seen (and thats a lot) . They'll only do somthing stupid if you told them a stupid order. Enemys 
 aren't quite that smart, but they are very agressive. Since you can't take a lot of blaster before 
 you go down it provides plenty of challenge. If enemys get to close you can always ram a wrist 
 knife into the're face for an instant kill (yes a knife that pops out of your wrist) . The game is 
 very hard. But when you do go down your teamates can revive you and vice versa. This can happen 
 as many times as it needs and the only way for you to really lose is for everyone to die. Its not 
 that realistic to die 4 times in a row and keep on fighting, but without it it would be impossible. 
 1 problem is the same button to order your men to do somthing is the same button to do somthing 
 yourself so if your not right where you need to be you'll end up telling you men to do it instead 
 of yourself. The game has a lot of sharp writing that will make you laugh oud loud more then once. 
 The action is fast and crazy. Enemys manage to jump you just when you let down your gaurd (don't 
 ever let down your gaurd) . Enemys range from trandoshan slavers to battle droids to flying (and 
 slightly annoying) genosions to scavinger droids that latch onto your head. Weapons are awsome. 
 Even standerd guns like machine guns rocket launchers and snipers feel cool. Thats not to say the 
 more esoteric guns don't feel fun to mess around with. There are 4 kinds of grenades. Regular, 
 EMP grenade, sonic grenade, and flash grenade. The 2 biggest flaws with RC is that the campaign 
 is pretty short and the multiplayer isn't that great.
  
  Despite its problems RC is a must buy for tactical shooter fans and star wars fans a like. Its 
 solid, fast, and difficult. And if this review didn't convince you you can download the free demo. 
 Just type gwn. com to google and pick the first one there. And trust me it will be more then enough 
 to prove to you that star wars republic commando is game worth having.
  
  please read my other reviews and read other peoples review about this game (I didn't say EVERYTHING) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned_Flandish
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games have always been a mixed bag. While there have been fantastic Star Wars games like 
 Star Wars Jedi Knight II Jedi Outcast and it's sequel, Jedi Academy, there have also been abysmal 
 titles such as Star Wars Chess and Star Wars Monopoly. Thankfully, Republic Commando is one of 
 the best Star Wars games out there.
  Republic Commando uses the Unreal Tournament 2004 engine. However, without prior knowledge of that, 
 you never would have guessed. The folks at Lucasarts have successfully transformed an engine that 
 was originally meant to run fast paced shooters such as UT2004 into an excellent squad based shooter, 
 adding all sorts of great elements that weren't included in the original engine.
  Speaking of these elements, they really do add a lot to the game. On the easier difficulty levels, 
 you might be able to go through the different levels running and gunning until the very end. However, 
 once you start to raise the difficulty, the game will force you to use the squad commands to survive. 
 Your squadmate AI is fantastic, and unlike in some other games, they'll actually do what they are 
 told.
  The single-player is sort of like a three pronged attack. It has action packed gameplay, great 
 squad based elements, and it also does a great job of maintaining a Star Wars feel. This is even 
 more impressive, considering that the Republic Commandos were never really explored in the movies 
 or in the Expanded Universe prior to the game's release.
  The production values are excellent. The graphics were excellent for their time and Republic Commando's 
 music and sound is top notch. The single-player levels are all very entertaining, the levels, while 
 not as varied as you may expect them to be all have their own unique feel. Especially with their 
 objectives. The story rolls along nicely, and it's a really difficult game to put down until you've 
 beaten it. However, some of the battles that take place in Republic Commando seem to lag on forever. 
 If there is one problem with the single-player, it's definitely this. Most of the battles involve 
 super battle droids coming out of dispensers that drop from space. They'll keep on spawning unless 
 you can destroy the droid dispenser. It's pretty important to destroy it quickly too. The super 
 battle droids can take a ton of hits, and after a while, it starts getting really old. However, 
 this shortcoming is made up for, the boss battles are excellent.
  Despite a great single-player, Republic Commando can't really be considered an AAA title and here's 
 why. The multi-player. It's that simple. It's just terrible. The multi-player maps are all pretty 
 uninteresting and there are some serious weapon balancing issues. The selection of modes is pretty 
 standard. You have your deathmatches and your team deathmatches. You also have a basic Capture 
 the Flag type mode. There is also a game type known as Assault. Assault is fun for about five minutes 
 until you realize how unbalanced the maps are for one team or another.
  In general, I'd avoid the multi-player, if you're looking for a Star Wars game with excellent multi-player, 
 I would recommend Star Wars Battlefront 2 or Star Wars Jedi Knight Jedi Academy
  All in all, Republic Commando is a solid title. If you see it in stores, I'd recommend picking 
 it up. The great single-player is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The clone wars is now becoming a more explored area in the universe of star wars, TV shows and 
 video games are focusing theses events. Well here is one game that is gonna focus the war all through 
 the prespective of clone troopers. This is Republic Commando. The story is plain and simple but 
 the characters is what will make it memberable. U are the leader of delta squad, which 4 man team. 
 Ur character does not make any personality but it has been made that way to make it feel like u 
 r the leader of the team. The other 3 guys are sev, a deep voiced guy that loves war and blood. 
 Scorch, the fuuny guy that normally makes jokes and follows along. And fixer, he is a respectful 
 soldier but sometimes forgets he's not leader but he's normally the one who will stay alive the 
 longest. This is a first person tactical shooter like rainbow six so u do objectives and kill stuff. 
 Its alot like halo and metroid prime, u have a visor that u see through and objectives come up 
 through them and blood and weather effects will effects ur visor. The halo part of it is that u 
 have rechargeable shields and ur melee hit is powerful and the shooting feels simular. Unfortunetly 
 the graphics are not that great, the sound effects, music and voice acting is really good but the 
 textures and models need work. Sometimes ur men will get in ur way and take the shots and u might 
 kill them on mistake. The controls are a little trickey but once u have them dowm u will know what 
 to do. The game is pretty short yet it is fun to play so u will more likely play it again after 
 u beat it. Republic Commando is a good PC or Xbox shooter but has its flaws.
  
  Story: 7.8
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Graphics: 6.9
  Controls: 8.3
  Re-play Value: 9.0
  Overall: 
 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  There are only a few games that can capture the imagination. In the epic galaxy of Star Wars, a 
 veteral squad of clones will fight their way in order to save the galaxy and win the Clone Wars, 
 beating droids, monsters and who knows what else. Welcome to Republic Commando.
  
  The story is set between the second and the third episode: you command the Delta Squad, made up 
 by you, Scorch, Fixer and Sev. Through the game you will travel across the galaxy, killing many 
 bosses of the Trade Federation and destroy not only droids, but many more scary creatures lying 
 behind you. In the end, you will suceed, but paying for this will be a due.
  
  Nonetheless, the campaign is one of the best I have ever experienced in an FPS game. There is tilt, 
 thrill and the enemies are very hard nuts to break. You will need something like a talent in shooting 
 games to endure till the end, even in the easy difficulty. What will steal your heart is the squad 
 and everything which has to do with it. You can command them perfectly well, giving a variety of 
 orders to them. They are also very helpful and vital sometimes to beat certain stages of the game. 
 Luckily, they are not full of sluggish AI design of the previous years.
  
  What the game lacks is a good online mode: you will find it bitterly difficult to get into the 
 atmosphere of multiplayer, while laggy servers and a poor variety of online action won't help at 
 all. It doesn't mind, even if this game deserved something better there. The campaign is too thrilling 
 to be fed up with it, even if you struggle to win, the story is amazing.
  
  What is also amazing, fabulous, extraordinary is the graphics. They happen to be thrilling, being 
 almost perfect, especially if your system is top-notch. Even if it is not, lower settings don't 
 make a significant difference. In fact, lower resolutions offer the same great visuals as the higher 
 ones, but they don't demand such high system requirements. The only problem here is that some certain 
 nVidia graphics card won't run the game. But I also think that there is a patch which can fix these 
 problems.
  
  Don't lose the chance to play this good first-person shooter. Star Wars Republic Commando will 
 not only offer you a unique campaign and visual experience, but if you play it, you will be more 
 likely to beat most games of the same genre much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisgetecra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I love star wars so after I had seen the films I was desperate to play the games and Lucas Arts 
 have been brilliant at producing them I have played star wars games like Battlefront 1 and 2 (hoping 
 for a 3) Star wars episode 3, Empire at War was a little lame but you cant have everything now 
 can you. they made the right dissension to make a game just for the clones and what am game. commanding 
 your squad through a number of tasks is so fun that's why I'm giving it a 10. all in all a brilliant 
 game with non stop action it had me on the edge of my seat at every corner. I hope that anyone 
 that has not played it plays it soon or they may have just missed out on an incredible bit of gaming. 
 The graphics are great for when it came out so I really hope somebody plays it also it is not what 
 you would think droid because its not easy gaming and the droids are hard to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a great FPS that had me playing for several hours. Republic Commando 
 places you in the shoes (and complete armour) of Delta Three-Eight or "Boss" who leads Delta Squad, 
 a group of specialised clones who are tasked with taking out vital points and people in the maps. 
 On you team is Delta Six-Two or "Scorch" who is a pyromaniac that loves blowing things up, Delta 
 Oh-Seven or "Sev" who is a grim sniper that shows no mercy to his enemies and delta Four-Oh or 
 "Fixer" who specialises in hacking terminals. Your team battles through several different locations 
 in areas shown very briefly in the films. You face swarms of different enemies ranging from standard 
 battle droids, Super Battle Droids, Destroyer Droids, Trandoshans and Magna Guards. Each different 
 enemy has their own way of annoying you greatly; SBDs are difficult to take down, soaking up fire 
 like a sponge, destroyer droids who use their shields to great effect and magna guard who are so 
 acrobatic it's almost impossible to draw a bead on them. There are a variety of fun weapons you 
 can use, from the standard blaster and its many attachments for sniping and anti-armour, you can 
 also pick up weapons dropped by the Trandoshans, which are very crude but really effective. You 
 also have a blade attached to your wrist that pops out and once you attack someone there is a lovely 
 amount of blood or oil on your visor to award you for getting so up close and personal. The campaign 
 can be finished quite quickly, but there is some multiplayer for extended playtime. 
  All in all, Republic Commando is a great FPS that uses the Star Wars license to great effect and 
 gives you a different perspective from the many games that let you only play as a Jedi.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  A great FPS set in the STAR WARS universe. You play as a clone, in a tactical team going through 
 a chain of missions. As any SW game the setting is either on a spaceship, desert, jungle or swamp.
 
  As the leader of the team you can command the other members as you wish, this being done by a 
 very easy to use engine. You can command them to duck behind a crate, or one of them to open a 
 door and the second one to throw a grenade in real quick, to shoot certain targets, use certain 
 weapons, mounted weapons etc.
  Each of them is focused on a weapon or class. One is a sniper, medic and a couple more (i played 
 the game a while ago i don`t quire remember all of them. you`ll figure them out as you play.)
 
  A great game full of wonderful places, effects, voice acting and pure fun. I strongly recommend 
 it to every fan of a good FPS or SW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djm_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant game but the length 
 of the game lets it down as its The game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall it 
 is a brilliant game but the length of the game lets it down as its too shortThe game has brilliant 
 graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant game but the length of the game lets it 
 down as its too shortThe game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant 
 game but the length of the game lets it down as its too shortThe game has brilliant graphics, brilliant 
 controls overall it is a brilliant game but the length of the game lets it down as its too shortThe 
 game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant game but the length of 
 the game lets it down as its too shortThe game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall 
 it is a brilliant game but the length of the game lets it down as its too shortThe game has brilliant 
 graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant game but the length of the game lets it 
 down as its too shortThe game has brilliant graphics, brilliant controls overall it is a brilliant 
 game but the length of the game lets it down as its too shorttoo short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  I'm a big Star Wars fan and when this game came out, it didn't deserve so much hype when it should 
 have. It's an amazing game with amazing graphics even on the lowest resolution and it still looks 
 great. Throughout the whole game, it's an edge of your seat experience. You expect the unexpected 
 and it keeps your heart racing. What I love most about this game are the AI's. This game has one 
 of the most smartest AI's ever made. So realistic and they got your back throughout the whole game 
 just like a real-life team should. A lot of other AI's in other games are really dumb and stupid 
 especially the AI's in Halo, for example, when you ride on the warthog and your in the gunner seat, 
 the driver keeps going around in circles and flipping over everything causing you to lose your 
 target and they're always in the way. Star Wars Republic Commando exceeds the limits in FPS and 
 hope they'll return with a 2nd installment. Wonderful game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Like I said in the previous it is a great game. The only thing that needs a bit of improvement 
 is the multiplayer. But besides that this game is almost like halo in the campaign mode, just star 
 wars based. I think that the voices and sound effects are very good. Along with the campaign it 
 makes sence in the star wars order of things.
  
  I put this game in with the best on gamespot, this game is worth the money you pay for it. I cant 
 believe this has to be so long. i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i think this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdderBoba44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando offers star wars fans an excellent squad based shooter with impressive graphics 
 and decent gameplay.
  
  Commando breaks the star wars mould because of its unique perspective of conflict in the Star Wars 
 universe. The action is gritty, sinister and sometimes creepy, to represent what warfare is REALLY 
 like, not what the films show i. e. the perspective of battle for the jedi. This means that Republic 
 commando transforms the genre from being mainly a small child's past time into the teenager bracket. 
 While it's no Halo killer Commando is definately a fun game to play.
  
  This is mainly because of its innovative squad based system. Orders can be issued by just one button 
 on the keyboard. Furthermore the AI are not wholly dependant on your input but can often fend for 
 themselves (although on hardy difficulties that is curtailed somewhat) . This means that the game 
 isn't just the player running around feverishly trying to keep their AI teamates alive, meaning 
 players genuinly feel at the head of an elite squad. Furthermore dying is no longer a problem, 
 as your squadmates can help resucitate you if you are wounded, while regular bacta stations can 
 replenish your health. The game is all about combat and does not require the player to spend half 
 the time running around looking forh health.
  
  Furthemore little details in the game add to the combat's realism. If you melee a droid for example 
 a splat of oil temporarily fills your visor. Indeed the game looks very good with excellent use 
 of shaders and shadows which only add to the games realist feel.
  
  Not only is the game fun to play and to look at but also your fellow squadmates are acutally enjoyable. 
 They do really add entertainment to the whole process of killing. The voice acting and foley effects 
 used are top class from the jokes constantly made by Delta 62, to the squelching run of the Trandoshan 
 slavers, it all contrasts nicely to make a very decent atmosphere.
  
  This is not to say that Republic commando is perfect. The campaign is disappointinly short with 
 only 3 locations on offer. There isn't much of a story either as the game mainly consists of running 
 through different locations, with different objectives from assasination to merely surviving. Commando 
 prefers to focus on its characters and gameplay rather than expert story telling.
  
  Commando also suffers from a lack of variety. Pretty much every mission is advancing from one area 
 to the other, killing all enemies and rarely does the player get to do something other than merely 
 shooting everything in sight. Turrets are deployed sporadically, but really the use of turrets 
 is now common place in the FPS genre and isn't that special. While you can use demolition charges 
 and sometimes other pieces of equipment they can only be used to destroy a specific target unlike 
 other games such as Halo or Call of Duty. Furthermore there is no combat in ships, tanks or vehicles 
 of any kind (apart from once when you fire a tank's gun) . This means that really, Commando does 
 not deviate from the safe shoot em up FPS stand point.
  
  However Commando is still a fun and enjoyable game. While it does not deviate hugely from many 
 other FPS games its squad system, realistic graphics and solid gameplay makes it a must have for 
 all star wars gamers. If there was one sequal that Lucas Arts should make, it should be a follow 
 up to this excellent shooter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_SithGod
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros: It's awesome to be free from hearing "jedi" this and "sith" that all the time. 
  
  It doesn't take much HDD space or even a decent video card (Heck, while I'm getting the last of 
 my money for my new PC, I'm running it on a laptop with an ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 mobo chipset) , 
 it's just gotta have some power. Don't forget the RAM. And as a plus its online its absolutely 
 free!!!!!
  
  Cons: Short. It's been (I think) three years since SW: RC came out. I've been expecting an expansion 
 or SW: RC II, just because it left a Halo 2-esque (unnecessary) cliffhanger. I won't spoil anything, 
 but just expect a cliffhanger that Star Wars Battlefront II might be able to fill for you on Single 
 Player
  
  Other Thoughts: As mentioned before, expansion or sequel is needed.
  
  Also, make sure to turn your squad vocals to max variety. The squad is quite talkative for a tactical 
 FPS about commandos. As well if the game just wasn't enough for you and need more i suggest to 
 get the books
  http://www. amazon. com/Triple-Zero-Star-Wars-Republic/dp/0345490096/ref=pd_bbs_sr_4? ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1219989228&sr=8-4 
 
  
  http://www. amazon. com/Hard-Contact-Star-Wars-Republic/dp/0345478274/ref=pd_bbs_sr_3? ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1219989228&sr=8-3
 
  
  http://www. amazon. com/True-Colors-Star-Wars-Republic/dp/0345498003/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2? ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1219989228&sr=8-2
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  theres a lots of star wars games in every game you play as a jedi (its fun :D) but in this game 
 you will play as a republic trooper commando... great first person shooter and it has a good story..
 
  
  anyway let me show you the good and the bad in this game,, so lets start:
  
  the good: the game has a good gameplay when you can order your unit troopers what to do 
  (attack, hide 
 and more) its really fun.. you have some cool weapons.. futuristic weapons and you can take your 
 enemys guns.. and the last thing: a good graphic the game looks nice and really cool to look at 
 when you will see this game in pictures im sure you all will want to play it also
  
  the bad: here is what i didnt like in the game.. 
  "to short" i finished this game in a day that 
 was the worst thing in the game.. if the game was longer it could have been even better... 2) the 
 other thing that inst that good is the multiplayer mode it could be really booring
  
  REPUBLIC COMMANDO: WORTH PLAYING GOOD GAME BUT TO SHORT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Empire981_
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome i like commanding the troops and destroying stuff, i think sev looks awsome.
 
  i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i
  i i i i i i i i i i i why does this hav to be so long, i dont hav that many things to say. i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phstacey2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic attempt by Lucasarts to create its first Tactical First Person Shooter. 
 This game gives a different perspective on the Clone Wars, as a Commando Trooper you fight on the 
 Republics side against the Trandoshans and the Trade Federation by sneaking in through the back 
 door and throwing a spanner in the works. 
  
  This game is really immersive, starting with a brief overview of your upbringing in the Clone facilities 
 on Kamino, followed by an introduction to your awesome squad mates, then a briefing on board the 
 ship as you travel to your drop zone. The surroundings and graphics are pretty good, although probably 
 not the best ever seen (especially with the release of games like Crysis and the like) they're 
 still very nice to look at. 
  
  The story line brings the first person action to life, as the Clone Wars develop and your services 
 are required on several different missions (there is still an incredible amount of potential for 
 the storyline in this sense, which is one of the great things about Star Wars) . Your squad mates 
 also get into some trouble, enabling you to have a bit of solo action fun as well, but be warned 
 there is not a lot of stealth in the game as you might expect from a tactical FPS. But the full 
 on shoot everything is still great fun, especially with the handy gizmos attached to your gun, 
 which, with a roll of the mouse wheel, can become a grenade launcher, sniper rifle or standard 
 assault rifle (oh, and you also get a rechargeable pistol) . Ammo can be a bit limited, especially 
 when on the harder difficulty, but thats when your squad mates come in handy.
  
  In terms of tactics, the interface is very simple, there are various tactical positions marked 
 out throughout the area, which you can assign your team mates to at the click of a button. You 
 also have actions such as regroup or halt on easy to hand F1 to F4 keys. All this makes the tactics 
 very easy as well as very fun. One bad note on this though, is that friendly AI is still very stupid, 
 for example: if you assign one of your squad mates to a grenade or grenade launcher position, whilst 
 another squaddie is taking on a difficult enemy up close, the other will still throw grenades (and 
 in most cases the squaddie will go down first before the baddie does) . But don't worry too much 
 if one of your team is incapacitated, you can assign one or your team mates to go and revive him 
 or do it yourself.
  
  So overall, this is a brilliant fun and easy (in terms of learning controls) game. The only major 
 draw back is that the story delivers a killer cliff hanger ending, but Lucasarts still hasn't delivered 
 a sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dRn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game, it was only for 15 minutes, before i felt like i had had enough.
 
  The bubbly character models and restricted controls, reminded me all too much that this was a 
 console port.
  
  But when i bought the best of star wars bundle i decided to give it another try - and i was not 
 disappointed.
  Sure the graphics and the controls still wasn't up the the PC standard, but after the fist few 
 levels i no longer focused on that.
  
  To sum it all up, the mix of the simple squad mechanics, the engaging star wars themed story and 
 FPS game play all came together and made this a very enjoyable game.
  
  Maybe it just came to me at the right time, but i remember having played another squad based game 
 not long before, Freedom Fights, and maybe that left hungering for more of the same kind of action. 
 Beyond that those games don't have much in common, but the had enough to get me hooked.
  
  So, if you like star wars, shooting and blowing things up, want to have some squad based action 
 without bugging your friends - then republic commando isn't the worst you can choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pridak123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first Shooters i really played. This also one of the best shooters I have ever 
 played. This game is sooooooooooo much fun. Yes, the game could have been much longer, but either 
 way, this game was very entertaining from begining to end, and you never got bored. The squad controls 
 work very well, and the voicing is good, and you'll find your self laughing at some of the comments 
 of you team members. This game is also very challenging. The combat never gets old, and shooting 
 the yellow packs on the back of the trandosons is fun as he*l. The multiplayer is very fun and 
 addicting. I played it for hours on end and i never got bored, not once. the only way i got off 
 is if i had too. The maps are all unique and fun, and pumping a load of plasma from a shotgun in 
 someones face is very entertaining. Only bad thing about online are the Noobs who use the AA. ARGH! 
 They still piss me off. This game is still my favorite shooter, and possibly game of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I am a Star Wars fan, always been, but this game simply amazed me. 
  When my friend told me about it, I wasn't sure if I should play , but i gave it a go.
  
  The 
 campaign is great from begging to the end, you can't stop playing, it suck you in. Controlling 
 the commandos is also a great thing, and the personalities of the commandos... too bad campaign 
 was short, but i finished it a few times.
  
  Graphics: Well nothing really great or big like crysis, but good graphics Indeed, 2005? you wouldn't 
 say that, too well made. The scenarios are also very great and enjoyable... the view from the eye 
 of a commando... really damn great.
  
  Sound : Oh my god, I loved the sound Effects, the Voice Acting, you're playing and your commandos 
 , Scorch is always with the jokes and stuff. Sev is always making fun of Scorch, and counting Kills, 
 he has the "deadlier" instinct . And then we have the Fixer, he is the "good-guy" , the serious 
 one of the team.
  Voice Acting -  Ownage
  Sound Track -  Even Bettah
  
  Gameplay: Very good, we can send the commandos to do stuff, if we dont tell them anything they 
 cover themselfes so not to die. Lots of weapons and stuff. AI is very good Commandos and the rest 
 .
  
  
  
  The only bad thing of the game is Multiplayer, it is not that great, dont follow the game, it's 
 more like a Deathmatch game, but if it had some coop game modes and stuff... woah!
  
  
  Waiting for a Sequel lots of ideas for it, like a Empire Commando 
  ~SPOILERS AHEAD~
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  At the end of the game Sev got captured, noboy knows by who, but the war started, so we may expect 
 lots of his clones for an Empire Commandos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Play as Boss while you command a squad of 4 as you, the team leader, fight against the Separatist.
 
  
  In Republic Commando you are in control of a team called: Delta Squad. You are the team's leader: 
 Boss. 
  
  You command three other commandos; all of them are funny in their own way. I'll start with your 
 Demolition expert, Scorch. He loves to blow things up, and hey, who doesn't. 
  
  There's your computer geek, Fixer. 
  He specializes in hacking computers, and downloading music 
 videos from Youtube.
  
  Last but not least, Sev. He's your trigger happy companion, oh, and he loves to shoot stuff, like 
 me. 
  
  There are three locations you play in.
  
  The first one puts you on Geonosis, fighting against the Separatist, and their Geonosion friends. 
 
  
  The next one puts you on a deserted Republic Gunship fighting off some trandoshions. When will 
 they learn?
  
  Finally, the last one puts you on Kashyyk, helping out the walking carpets known as the Wookies.
 
  
  Although the campaign is funny and thrilling from start to finish, it's sad that the campaign was 
 short. I would've liked to shoot the heck out of a Jedi or Sith. But they fill in the void with 
 General Greviouse's Body Guards.
  
  There are many weapons to choose from in this game. You start with your standard assault rifle. 
 Then, when you get deeper into the game, you'll find a few attachments to this weapon such as a 
 Sniper Rifle and my favorite, a grenade launcher. You can also pick up weapons from enemies that 
 you've defeated, ranging from shotguns to Wookie rocket launchers. (Keep out of reach from children.) 
 If you're low on ammo, you have a pistol that recharges and never runs out of bullets. Yes, I ripped 
 that from Gamespot's official review of this game. What are you going to do, sue me? You're also 
 equipped with a knife that is not only fun, but is very effective.
  
  You can also command your squad to do almost anything; you can have them jump on a turret, setup 
 a sniper position, hack computers, and more. I would say planting explosives, but that's my job, 
 because that's how I roll.
  
  Also if one of your teammates gets incapacitated, don't fret, because you can always run over and 
 revive him yourself or command another squad-mate to it for you. This makes the game's difficulty 
 just right. 
  
  Sadly, Multi-player in this game isn't that good, there are probably three modes of play and that's 
 it. I would've liked it even more if there was a co-op in the story that would change everything.
 
  
  So if you are a Star Wars fan and have a strange desire to blow things up, like me, then this game 
 is for you and any first-person shooter fan. 
  
  If I had a choice between this game and a hot super model, I would pick this game. Because, you'll 
 have fun even longer with this game then with a super model, it's true. I give it four thumbs out 
 of five. 
  
  P. S. I would've used stars, but they were already taken.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukujack
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS!!!! It is fun from begging to end it had a awesome ending I hope there will be 
 a second one! It had a cool story unfolding throughout the game. I loved the music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i didn't expect it to be as good as it was, i just thought it would be 
 another game you fight mostly by yourself, with no gore or anything like the rest, but i was wrong. 
 The game featured some fun moments where you may have sent one of your men to destroy a droid dispenser, 
 and covered him, or gone yourself and have all your men cover you. The game also had some impressive 
 animations, and some gore of course and by that i mean alien blood and that none of it actually 
 red, like how you can blow the head off of an enemy with a sniper, break his jaw, or if he's wearing 
 a backpack full of liquid oxygen send him flying half a mile in the air only to come crashing down 
 through the trees to his death. The multiplayer was alright, for some reason it seemed to have 
 a lot of slow times where everyone else was just jumping around,. Overall i think the game was 
 great, and highly recommend it even if your not a star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  === Story ===
  
  Enter Delta 38, an commando clone trained by the Republic. He is the lead of an elite squad with 
 members: Delta 07, Delta 62, and Delta 40. The squad must complete many many sub-missions within 
 three main territories: Geonosis, The Prosecutor (a ship) , and Kashyyyk. These missions take place 
 between the events of Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith.
  
  ***** Quick Review *****
  
  Republic Commando rocks. Balanced weapons keep the action tense 
 and the architecture of the levels makes for some great tactical fire fights that reward careful 
 teamwork over blind blasting. The soundtrack is very "Star Wars"; epic sounding scores with choirs 
 and classical to build up the military feel. The replay value is great too, because it's easy to 
 load any favorite sub-mission and start from there. From start to finish its a blast to play and 
 the action never stops. Play this game!
  
  Some minor Gripes:
  --- Why didn't the developers allow switching viewpoint between the different squad members like 
 Rainbow Six? Maybe they wanted to preserve the "personality" each one has? It would have been cool, 
 but doesn't hurt the experience since theres' so much action.
  --- It would have been nice to be able to issue commands to a specific squad member. Instead, an 
 "open" member (one without any specific orders) is assigned to do the next task. This works well 
 and keeps things simple but targeted squad orders could have been a setting to toggle on / off.
 
  
  ***** Detailed Review ******
  
  === Good Pacing ===
  Each section is divided into many small sub-missions that never feel too long and have well placed 
 auto-save points. The gameplay is very linear and objectives are written in big text on the HUD 
 but by no means does this take away from the action, rather it ensures the player is never confused 
 on what to do next.
  
  === Fun objectives ===
  The squad will perform many sub-missions. Some are very simple and a others more important to the 
 story which will have the squad destroying droid production plants, rescuing Wookies, gaining control 
 of a lost ship and aquiring launch codes for an enemy vessel to name a few. None of them feel pointless 
 and since the sub-missions are short, they don't drag.
  
  === Good Team AI ===
  For the most part, the squad members are intelligent and will be very helpful along the way. Of 
 course they do dumb stuff from time to time, but this doesn't happen often. For the most part, 
 they'll use cover well and will wait for their leader if they go too far. Squad members don't run 
 out of ammo, but will pause at times to simulate "reloads" to add to the realism.
  
  === Cool Squad Commands ===
  Using a simple one button interface, the player can give a wide 
 array of orders to squad members such as taking sniper positions, lobbing grenades, defending an 
 area, hacking a computer terminal, taking meds, using a turret, concentrating fire, reviving a 
 fallen squad mate, breaching a door, and placing a detonator on an object. This is done by pointing 
 at certain objects, which light up and describe how they can be used. Pressing the command button 
 issues the orders. Adds tactical maneuvers without adding complexity.
  
  === Enemies ===
  Enemies range from battle droids armed with blasters, Super battle (SBD's) , shielded quad-blaster 
 destroyer droids, giant spider droids, General Grevious's Guards, various Geonosians (a bug-like 
 race) , various Trendoshans (lizard-men) . There are other dangers such as enemy-controlled turrets 
 and mines that require defusing. All the enemies are balanced to be very powerful but attack in 
 low numbers or weak, but swarm the squad.
  
  === Death isn't the end ===
  Instead of dying, squad members are "incapacitated" and can be revived (but not to full strength) 
 by any surviving team member which takes about 6 seconds. When the player (leader) falls, 2 commands 
 are available: Continue Orders, or Revive. There's also "continue from last save game" option available. 
 It is possible to lose missions by dying in solo sub-missions (there are only a handful of short 
 ones) or if the entire squad is incapacitated, but this rarely happens (on normal mode) . 
  
  === Hand Weapons ===
  Most players will stick to 4 basic weapons of the squad, the DC-15s 
 sidearm blaster (weak, but no ammo needed) the DC-17m Blaster Rifle, the Sniper Attachment and 
 Anti-Armor Attachment (grenade lobber) .
  
  The non-squad weapons include Trendoshan "shotgun" and "machine-gun" type weapons, Geonoshian "laser 
 guns" and Wookie rocket launchers / bowcasters. These have their uses, but the three main "squad-issued" 
 weapons are the most useful and widely available.
  
  There are also turrets of different styles: rocket launchers, beams, explosive warhead and blasters. 
 Also, there is an awesome melee punch attack, where a retractable blade sticks out of the players 
 fist and slices up anything in the way.
  
  === Explosives are really fun and useful ===
  All the grenade types: Concussion, flashbang, Electrical (temporarily disables droids) and Sonic 
 (a sticky motion-detecting bomb) are awesome and its almost always great to find more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bew199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  No game has been made quite like this. Think of Halo combining forces with Modern Warfare, now 
 note the game can have it downs in other players eyes... but in my oppinion flat out rocks. Wanted 
 to play as a clone in first person killing droids and aliens left and right? Wanted an action game 
 with a bit of strategy? Wanting awsome maps, weapons, and button layout? Wanting this game? I would 
 hope so! Also if you want something like COD 4 or Halo without being a fan and staying a loyal 
 lucas arts fan go with this though im looking for people online due to beating the game... Buy 
 this and go online PLEASE... I hope this changes soon! I know I'll log on every now and them pm 
 me on game spot and I'll arrange a time with you to play together :P
  
  Overall: 9.5
  Graphics: 9
  Story: 10
  Weapons: 9
  game layout (how its play/ controls) : 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moony101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was unsure of the controls and the way I should play it, but later 
 on it became an instinct based game where you order your squad of unique commandos around and help 
 them complete missions as their commander. You get so used to it that you feel you actually are 
 there and immersed into the star wars world. This game is one of my all-time favorites because 
 of the campaign and missions you are to complete. You have to play through most of the levels twice 
 because you don't know whats coming next until it hits you. The squad members each have their own 
 personality that is really fun to get into because in the game you look for what they could do 
 by their strenghths. The music is great and sometimes spooky (the abandoned ship) , the gameply 
 leaves you guessing what you should do next, the characters are awesome, the levels are realistic, 
 and you get drawn in the more you play it. If you like video games and star wars, GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jusik
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than people say. I think it is just the right difficulty, although the 
 SBD's may be a bit more difficult than they should. If you loved this game like me, don't worry 
 if they don't make a sequal, there is a seires of books by Karen Traviss. Although the main characters 
 are not in the story, They are good books. ( Okay go ahead and panic and worry and fret if there 
 not going to make a sequal, I'm doing it too!) the graphics are fairly good. And thank goodness 
 for windshield wipers! i love vibroblading enemies but than thier blood gets all over your visor. 
 I like games that are challenging. I only played this game for my first time two days ago, but 
 i was in love with it before I started playing, okay mabye not quite, but after the first battle 
 droid, and geonosian thats when i fell in love with it. I was planning to order it and i did last 
 night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Overview:
  
  Ever get tired of all the voodoo mysticism in Star Wars? Massive scale futuristic wars, and yet 
 most of the time your stuck behind the rose colored glasses of a Jedi. Well, prepare to enter the 
 blood-soaked helmet of an elite republic commando, bred and trained for the grittiest, most difficult 
 missions any clone soldier would ever face. You look through the eyes of RC-1138, nicknamed Boss. 
 You are the leader of Delta Squad, the Republic Commando squad consisting of four members. Each 
 of your other three members have their own voice and personality that, throughout their many one 
 liners through the game, give extra atmosphere while playing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Probably the best part of the game, and something that made me buy it over Doom 3. The enemies, 
 though many would disagree on whether they're that powerful in the movies, are well balanced and 
 force you to think about how you use your squad. Realistically, this game is much more difficult 
 than Halo, and at times you're frightened trying to think of how to overcome the impossible odds, 
 luckily, you have other people to do the dirty work. This game utilized quick tactics, nothing 
 too complicated, to ease the trip and in fact if you use your squad correctly, the game practically 
 plays it self. Unlike most games in which winning and losing are set on how well you can aim and 
 which weapon you're using, in this game battles are won and lost by your decisions as Delta Leader.
 
  
  Although the maps are rather linear, this is a good and bad thing. The developers had very limited 
 time in putting this game together, so when making the maps instead of focusing on making them 
 open, they focused on more important things, like arranging what little map space they had in such 
 a way that the atmosphere you feel when you're being attacked is unique and intense. They arranged 
 the levels economically so you had a feeling that where you positioned your squad had a direct 
 effect on the battle's outcome. All in all it makes for very intense battles, and a very war torn, 
 brink-of-despair atmosphere.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Saying they're probably the best graphics LucasArts has ever had isn't saying much. They're great, 
 the explosions are excellent, the physics are eye candy (especially when you shoot the gas-packs 
 on the trandoshans) and I've already mentions how cool the atmosphere is. One thing I have to mention 
 while I'm talking about graphics are there were no cut scenes, and frankly I didn't mind. There 
 are still some very excellent images to see, such as the destruction of ships, the republic fleet 
 moving in, etcetera. The developers didn't rely on cutscenes to show you what you were looking 
 at, you could see everything you needed to see from your visor.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound, again like everything else, had an impact on atmostphere. First of all, the music they 
 chose enforced certain feelings throughout the game. During battles, loop-songs could be heard, 
 sang in ancient Mandalorian funnily enough. I personally got the feeling like I was a hero in an 
 anime movie.
  
  Apart from music was foley, something no one pays attention to that has a subtle but powerful impact 
 on the game. When you hear your character moving, you get an impression of the texture of the jungle 
 floor, when you here yourself being surounded by insects, the sounds are realistic. It was a nice 
 touch if nothing else.
  
  Story:
  
  Staying with the current trend, the game ended abruptly. There are three campaigns, and althrough 
 the first two progressed well with absolutely explosive climaxes that made you gasping for air. 
 The ending of the third, and therefore the ending of the game left you puzzled, and all though 
 the last level was very difficult, the last five minutes were a breeze. All in all, it makes you 
 hope they come out with a sequel.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  These days it seems developers can spend a couple days and make a playable multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 at times seems like it's just a rush to get the BFG, camp up on a wall and blow everyone up who 
 comes close. It's not all that bad, and in fact Capture the Flag and Assault are very fun. It also 
 utilizes blast shield and elevators which can come in strategically handy. At its potential the 
 multiplayer is very enjoyable and intense, but at regular use your teammates are found screwing 
 with the elevator, people are opening the blast shields when you'd be most vulnerable, and the 
 only reason you can't score is because there's a guy perched up top with an AA gun.
  
  All in all, I'd saying this is one of the best games to come out this year despite what I've mentioned 
 above. And I am hoping for an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando (RC) follows in the footsteps of Rainbow Six: Las Vegas and other tactical 
 shooters. What makes it stand out is the fact that this is one tactical shooter that WORKS!
  
  First, the audio, graphics, and interface are flawless. Throughout the game, the sound was 
 solid and I never ran into any graphical bug. Now that's quality designing. For the interface, 
 it was genius to design it in such a simple way, that makes commanding 3 squad mates easy and rewarding.
 
  
  The gameplay is one of the strongest points in this title. It's all fast-paced action with a few 
 breaks in between. As I said before, this is a tactical shooter that really stands out. If you're 
 into managing 3 highly trained republic commandos, this game will dwarf any others. It's hard to 
 find fault with the current controls except that you will feel like a lumbering tin can compared 
 to other action shooters like Call of Duty.
  
  The storyline here is set during the Clone Wars era. Star Wars followers will be be able to catch 
 references during the game. Not much can be said about the story except that it's just too short 
 to keep you happy. You could easily finish the game on normal difficulty within 10 hours.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game falters. When you have tried other titles, RC feels like a black 
 sheep. There's not much tactical choices in multiplayer. Hence, don't expect too much from that 
 part of the game.
  
  Overall, RC is a title worth your money. It has a solid single player campaign, and makes tactical 
 shooting simple and rewarding for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting a good game so I was pleasantly surprised by how much fun the game was. It is 
 action oriented, but manages to innovate with the squad control commands. The problem is, much 
 like halo2, the fun ends all too quickly.
  
  
  The good:
  -Extremely fun straight action shooter. I found it more enjoyable than HL2 or halo2.
  -Enjoying 
 single player campaign
  -Nice graphical touch with the visor (a la Metroid Prime) but its functionally useless
  -Innovates 
 by introducing squad control-very easy to use, and extremely useful
  -Has the immersive orchestra star wars music
  -Can run very well on low end PC's
  
  
  The 
 Bad:
  (note: minor flaws)
  - The game didn't have a proper story; it could have drawn so much from the star wars universe 
  but it didn't. (Not to mention it leaves you with a cliff-hanger)
  - Sound effect, the guns aren't that loud -- i. e. they don't sound like real weapons.
  - Poor 
 damage response, sometimes you don't even know you are getting hit. (unlike modern FPS games where 
 you get blurry vision or get ringing in your ears if too close to an explosion)
  - A. I. while generally ok, can do dumb things at times by ignoring certain squad members completely, 
 or get stuck in a corner, or on each other.
  - Weapons lack imagination and tactical useless. Sure you'll use a sniper rifle or rocket launcher 
 now and then, but 90% of the time you'll be sticking to your trusty blaster from start to end.
 
  
  
  The Ugly:
  -The game is too short; can be finished in 10-15 hours. 10 hours for those of you who are good.
 
  -Multiplayer doesn't offer much
  -Game doesn't have a ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sand-which
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  This Game Takes You Deep Into the Clone Wars, as a Elite Republic Commandos. The Most Deadliest Units 
 on Earth.
  With The Unreal Engine 2.0, the game Gives one Awsome  Perfect.
 
  I Hightley Recomend This Game Cuz This Game Is One Of The Best Games I Ever Played.
  
  *Important-This Game Has A Realistic Game Play. So If u Have 1st person Motion Sickness thing dont 
 Even think of keeping Ur Hand On this. If U do dont give the game bad ratings and etc..... cuz of 
 it ok!!
  
  Gameplay!
  
  This is a Squade Based game.
  
  The Player Is In The Republic Commando Delta Team. U Will Be The Team Leader.
  
  U Have 4 Players 
 Including You-
  
  *Delta 3-8/Boss (the player) -Team Leader.
  *Delta 4-0/Fixer-Tech Specialist.
  *Delta 0-7/Sev-Sniper.
  *Delta 6-2/Scorch/Demolution Experpt.
 
  
  All of These Commandos Kinda No Every Thing From Tech to Demo.
  
  U Have To Think About Ur Teams Health and U Can Order Them To Go Snipe, Fire Anti-Armor Weapons 
 In Certain Places, If U make The Right Dicition the mission Will Be Much Easier.
  
  We Have To Fight Against Trandoshan and Separatists. Game Features have been included in 1st Persons 
 games like Metroid Prime, Rainbow Six .
  Head-Up-Display (HUD) makes you feel like in Metroid Prime, Squade-Based order system is pretty much 
 siilar to Rainbo Six.
  You Can Give Ur Team Several Orders. Such as, Hold Position, Search and Distroy, Recall. The Player 
 Only Can Take 2-3 weapons. Dosent make much difference cuz there are attachment to the main gun 
 (DC-17m) . Such as
  
  Sniper Attchment
  Anti Armor Attachment (kinda Like a grenade Launcher)
  
  U also many other weapons like trandoshan 
 weapons, wookie's weapons, separatists.
  
  Multiplayer!
  
  thu multiplayer features the modes such as-
  
  *Deathmatch
  *Team Death Match
  *Assault
 
  *Capture the flag.
  
  A server can hold upto 32 players
  
  Thats All I Have To Say, But to tell how awsome This Game Is "i dont have any words to explain".
 
  
  IF U HAVENT BOUGHT THIS GAME STILL GO NOW AND BUY!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is a first-person squad-based tactical shooter that uses the Star Wars license 
 in a great way even if you won't wield any light sabers! Your squad is a team of 4 Commandos in 
 which you control "Number 38" and the other 3 are AI controlled. You can assign them commands by 
 pointing to certain locations and clicking the according keyboard button (Default is F) . It's a 
 nice system and you'll use it a lot to setup your squad in offensive or defensive positions.
  
  The graphics are really excellent and makes a great use of the Unreal 2.0 engine. The level 
 design can sometimes be a little bit too "corridoresque" but you'll get to duke it out in wide 
 open spaces (big hangars for example) .
  
  The sound and music is typical Star Wars game stuff... which means it's excellent.
  
  The action 
 is relentless and you will constantly order your squad to attack certain things, cover you or splice 
 a command post. There's a couple of challenging spots but once you get the hang of it, you'll be 
 ok.
  
  The Single-player campaign is divided in 3 big sections which should take 2 to 3 hours each to 
 complete. The whole game should take you 8 to 10 hrs. It's somewhat short but it's a bargain for 
 10$.
  
  I had a blast with this game and you should check it out if you like tactical shooters and / or 
 Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cayden
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  The enemies are transposed from the movies to the game with great success. Tactical battles are 
 quite fun, and will keep you and your squad on your toes. Be sure to set your squad up on the abundant 
 special maneuver points throughout the game. The system requirements are very modest for this visually 
 vibrant game. The weapons and locations are make you feel immersed in the Clone Wars. 
  
  Some drawbacks: the game ends way too quickly (though not as quickly as Deus Ex Invisible War) ; 
 maps usually linear; no vehicle combat. One weird thing that you will quickly excuse is that the 
 clones all have different voices (if they were clones then wouldn't they all sound the same?) . 
 If Lucas Arts ever makes a sequel to this game there are many things that could be improved, but 
 overall a good one to have in your collection.
  
  TIP: found this game on the shelf at Walmart for $9.99!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterSmacker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Of all the Star Wars games I've played, and heck, all the games I've played, Republic Commando has 
 the best singleplayer campaign I have ever played. In this wonderful campaign you command three 
 squad members and you are their leader, a Republic Commander. Now the way the game plays out might 
 remind you of Halo. One, you have a shield. Two, you are practically super. But really, who cares, I 
 don't. There are three missions. On your first go at the game it could take you 2 hours for the first 
 mission. The second could take maybe an hour and a haft. The third could maybe take you another 2 
 hours to complete. In this game you have also the option of multiplayer, which, I have got to say 
 is not the best. Why? Because there are only about 6 maps and about 8 weapons. But don'y let that 
 get you down it's still really fun. All in all Star Wars: Republic Commando is a great game, and if 
 you don't have one, GET ONE! IT'S  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_general
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  So in this game you take control of a clone of jango fett (the bounty hunter from star episode 
 2 atack of the clones wich is also known as boba fett's dad...) named 38 .
  You are part of delta squad also known as the republic commando. Actually you are the leader and 
 you have other 3 teammates wich are coded 07 the fiercest hunter, 40 the computer nerd...... um 
 expert and the one that allways listens to the orders ( Spoiler: trully a nerd and beside an idiot 
 because in the end one of th teammatse dies because of him) and 62 the explosions obsesed and the 
 one that makes all the jokes. 
  Let's talk about the graphics: they are not bad... you know the lights reflect on the armor and 
 things like this but it still haves bugs. Actually when i played for the first time i've played 
 it on my old computer wich haved as graphics card an geforce fx 5200 and i could ply it but on 
 the lowest sttings. For great performance i would recommand an graphics card at least geforce 6600 
 or ati x700. But if you want somthing great than try an geforce 7800 or an ati x1550. The gameplay 
 is intuitive and there is an thing called team commands. With these commands you can send the team 
 to search and destroy everything that moves, than you can order them to regroup or hold an position 
 or concentrate fire on single enemy and other things. Another cool things is that here you dont 
 have medpacks that you pick up or something like this. For healing there is an thing named bacta 
 dispenser wich is not portabale and it can be found in key locations of the game. Now lets pass 
 to the A. I.. So the A. i. is pretty nice but there is one cool thing that if you throw a grenade 
 to some spacial-lizards-mercs named trandoshian they kick it back to you. Imagine that you are 
 so happy that you throwed your last grenade beside an trandoshian aand that he will die and than 
 boom!!! the grenad is kicked back right into your face and you are... dead. Ah and even the dead 
 is cool inthis game. Like in prey whem you die you dont actually die. You enter in some kind of 
 coma and you can order one of your teammates to help you. then they come with some kind of portable 
 bacta dispenser and they give you life... .
  So even if this game is not the best from al the star wars games it's an personal favorite and 
 i recomend it to every star wars fan or fps fan because as is sad even if its not the best its 
 something new.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiquidFlame_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I used to only play Star Wars Battlefront. When I got found the game in the "Best of PC" pack for 
 Christmas I was like: "OMG!" The controls are simple to memorize. The graphics quality of my Nvidia 
 6600 graphics card are amazing. You can catch every detail. Personally, it's like Halo clashed 
 with the Metroid Prime 3: Corruption game for the Nintendo Wii. I like the fact that when you die 
 you can get assisted by one of your squad, although if you are the last one left you are basically 
 eliminated. The missions are great, and the feature to command the entire operation is gripping; 
 because whether your blowing a barricade or commanding a sniper mission it's all in your control. 
 The online play through Gamespy. com is good. Although, I don't see many servers anymore. The storyline 
 is excellent as well, and the introduction might just be my favorite part. The game can't be rented 
 except maybe through Gamefly or something but it's not worth renting it. Just BUY it! I can almost 
 100% be sure you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando is one of my old games and I think it's the time for me to write a 
 review ;)
  
  First of all, the single player campaign is just thrilling . The story, the maps, the background 
 music make some parts of the game scary, so you really feel you're part of the story, you never 
 know what's going to happen. We can compare the single player campaign with an amazingly well directed 
 action movie.
  
  Gameplay is great, as the squad leader you have many commands and things you can order or do by 
 yourself, though most of them are not well explained in the game, so you should find about these 
 yourself.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The idea of putting the helmet on your screen like you are inside it 
 right now, and all the blood splats that fall on it show a special touch of 'originality'. The 
 Star Wars creatures are realistic, and the environments are well designed.
  
  Sound ... well, what can we say ? The dialogues in game are great, specially on levels you're all 
 by yourself when one of your squadmates starts screaming . Sound effects are basically the same 
 you see in all star wars games and movies and the music... John Williams, of course !
  
  The only con for this game is the Multiplayer . The Gamemodes aren't as fun as they could be , 
 and there's no co-op play (something that we would love to see after playing the whole campaign) . 
 But, if I were you, I would buy this game just for the campaign itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  It's a one of a kind game, can't be a sequal to it it's so good. It's Star Wars but not as you know 
 it, it gets into the nitty gritty, bloody side of the war from a clones point of view. As soon 
 as you enter the game you are launched into an immersive world, and an amazing interface wich takes 
 a while to get used to. It really shows you an insight to the war you don't see in the movies or 
 other Star Wars games.
  I love having the power and leadership other your fellow commandos and controlling their actions. How 
 you command your brothers affects what happens in a whole diferent way. You start off meeting each 
 brother one by one and learning their unique abilities and what they can do and their personalities. You're 
 lanched into the geonosis war and at the end it's the rise of the empire but the brothers don't 
 agree with it, there's is a thriller at the end, i will not reveal it's quite sad if you ahve played 
 the whole game through for a long time.
  The weapons, ahh yes the weapons, where do i start. Well they are basicaly awsome and devastating 
 towards your enimies. The sniper rifle is so powerfull it's like "bang" a geonosion bug has painted 
 the wall. You also hve this pretty cool melee attack where you stab your enimies with a little hidden 
 knife that takes out bugs and monsters in one hit (sometimes) . It's quite realistic when you stab 
 a bug it's blood is on your visor (interface) wich is wiped away shortly after, it's sick but in 
 some way satisfying to use.
  Overall i think if you are a Star Wars fan this is definately a game for you! Atually just buy 
 it if you're not it's that awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game from start to finish. the graphics are pretty well done, the squad a. i. is 
 amazing, and the enemies are very smart, but not too smart. a very good shooter, and i think it 
 is one of the best star wars game to date.
  it does get very hard a t times, but its fun enough to go back and beat it. another thing: in battles, 
 there are many ways to kill your enemies, you can use heavy artillerary, you can just use the sniper 
 positions, or just blow stuff up. either way, this game is a great tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking about this game when you see Star Wars in its name lightsabers, and huge jedi 
 battles you will be dissapointed. While this game holds true to the Star Wars universe and feel 
 it shows the different side of Star Wars, from the perspective of a Republic Commando. So it is 
 more military oriented. You are a highly trained Republic Commando that goes behind enemy lines, 
 and does a lot of other spec ops things. You go to three different places in the campaign, Geonosis, 
 a Republic Cruiser, and Kashyyk. While the Campaign is short, the whole time is action packed. 
 What makes it even better is the music. You will get all the awesome Star Wars music, and the best 
 part is it will be at the correct time! This truly brings the epic amazing feel of Star Wars. Republic 
 Commando is also innovative. The squad ai and commands are one of the best I have seen. Commanding 
 your squad takes just a few buttons making it easy, but also very intuitive. Since it is easy, 
 you can tell commands right away making it seem more real. Your squad ai is also awesome. They 
 rarely get in your way, and listen really good to your commands. If you wanted to you could let 
 your squad do everything, and you just hang back and still win. Your squad feels almost like it 
 is real. Each member has their own personality, and specilazation. You will actually be counting 
 on your squadmates. The graphics even today look great. The character models for the clones are 
 awesome. The animations are great! Door breaches look, feel, and act real. This is one of the best 
 Star Wars games ever. With its sleek squad, great animations and models, and just amazing squad 
 gameplay this game is just plain awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krss367u5986
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  When somebody says "star wars" you think of lightsabers, Stormtroopers, jedi and yodas annoying (but 
 really awsome) voice. Star Wars Republic Commando manages to exclude all that, But it's still fun 
 
  The Pros:
  Very good Animation and sound
  Very fun campaign
  The houmor from your squad mates is very dark ie: Hold on to your guts while I rip out theirs!!:)
 
  And 
  You get to fight on your own with 4 clones instead of a whole army, some may see that as a con 
 but I see it as a Pro
  The Cons:
  The single player campaign is too short
  Thats About it so I recommend that if you don't have the game go buy NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  When i heard about Republic Commando i was almost mortified, it was a Star Wars game that 'wasn't' 
 a Star Wars game (some people will get what i mean) . But actually it's pleasantly wonderful. There 
 are some points where it feels you're feels like you're playing a totally different shooter, maybe 
 Halo or some other sci-fi. 
  
  The game is set in the clone wars, you start off in your containment tube as a baby clone and see 
 a number of first person cutscenes which basically explain that you're a special clone trooper. 
 Then you're thrown straight into the clone wars (the first thing you actually see on Geonosis is 
 another clone getting eaten) . You're tasked with finding your squad, then the game gets interesting. 
 The squad based engine is pretty revolutionary but at times get a little messy, at one point I 
 felt i was wrestling against the controls just to get a member of the squad on the sniper position.
 
  
  There are a few relations to the movies but they have to be looked out for, such as seeing Count 
 Dooku's ship escape from Geonosis (there are more, but you have to earn them!) 
  
  As i said, the campaign is horribly small-scale. The game is set into three chapters which in turn 
 have 5 or 6 segments each. You'll go through this game in about 10-15 hours depending on your skill 
 and learning curve. The three chapters are Geonosis, a republic vessel (huge one) which has been 
 taken over) and Kashyyk (Wookiee homeland) . There isn't much to either of them. Geonosis is either 
 desert of machinery, Vessel is either vessel or vessel and Kashyyk is forest of treehouses.
  
  Another slightly horrible thing is the difficulty. Skilled gamers will still struggle on this 
 game, at times it gets a little frustrating where it's just wave after wave of droids/Trandoshan/Insect 
 being thrown at you.
  
  Overall, it's a great shooter, not perfect, but what game is? I'd advise any hardcore SW fan to 
 buy it, and if you're not, it's at least worth a rental! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorik9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a game that puts you in the eyes of Delta 38, the leader of the 
 Delta Squad  a highly trained squad of clone commandos in the Star Wars Galaxy. In this game there 
 are dozens of ways to compete levels with all the different squad commands. In this first person 
 game, you have many weapons which are: an infinite ammo pistol, a 300 shot machine gun, a 20 shot 
 sniper rifle, a 4 shot grenade launcher, a knife concealed in your armor, one secondary weapon 
 of your choice and, of course, a variety of grenades. 
  
  There are 3 locations in the game. First Geonosis - the rocky planet home to bug like Geonosians. 
 There you will encounter Geonosians and all the types of Battle Droids. The next location is the 
 metal structure of an abandoned assault ship, where you will meet Battle Droids, hovering Scavenger 
 Droids and reptilian Trandoshians. Finally on Kashyyk, you will meet Wookies, who are your allies, 
 and Trandoshians, Scavenger Droids, Genosians and Battle Droids who are your enemies.
  
  It is a great game with levels that don't get old quickly. Also the levels don't get too frustrating. 
 I love it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Republic Commando is an obvious fantastic FPS that delivers everything it says it will. The game 
 attempts at a Halo feel with recharging shields that work well against battle droids, but besides 
 that it is useless. The most unique thing about RC is the ability to control a squad of four with 
 ease. After about 30 minutes, you'll be ordering your squadmates so much your fingers will hurt. 
 The sound effects are great as well, with snappy reparte between your squadmates, just to amuse 
 as your blowing the heads off of droids. The game also always seems to establish a mood where you 
 will feel something will jump at you at any moment. The only thing this game lacks is a nice, long 
 campaign & a multiplayer worth playing. While your playing though, you'll be overwhelmed with hordes 
 of droids/Geonosians/Trandoshans, and that will keep you on your toes for a short while. 
  
  Altogether, this game is one of the best Star Wars games ever, so GET IT, and be thoroughly 
 entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMLE
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a Star Wars fan and a FPS lovers dream. It brings the FPS world 
 to Star Wars, With great graphics and excellent NPC responses. But this game lacks Vehicles. Unlike 
 some of the other Star wars games, this game is like Counter-Strike: Source and Star Wars: Battlefront 
 II combined.
  
  Another poor aspect of this game is the multiplayer function. The Online multiplayer part of commandos 
 is that again no vehicles. But its graphics and campaign make up for this.
  
  And i must say it is the best Star Wars game i have played in a while.
  
  It is a must have 
 for Star Wars fans and FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a game I would recommend in all suggestions. The gameplay is awesome 
 because it has that Call of Duty 3 and Medal of Honor type of combat but it also has different 
 types of weapons in the Star Wars universe. The AI was when I first played it was unbelievable 
 until you've played it, they always follow you and they always stay when you tell them and they 
 always fallow orders. The sound was just off the scale there was sounds of gunfire, screaming of 
 Geo droids etc, and even the sounds of your teammates. The story was well thought out and I thought 
 it was very good and it kept itself in plot most times. Overall this is a game I highly recommend 
 because of the Army feeling which mostly everyone loves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  yet its true. the only reason i'm even writing this is to point out that the squad ai in this game 
 is done damn near perfectly. i've played many, many fps's where you have teammates to order around 
 and they always have the same damn problems. getting stuck on walls, shooting eachother and me, 
 simply not responding to commands and various other infuriating defects in ai. however, your squad 
 mates in this game are completely free of said defects. i played this game through in its entirety 
 twice in a row and the only time the squad ai seemed to be anything less than perfect was when 
 i forgot i had given a certain command that the squad was simply following very well. if you've 
 played a lot of squad based shooters and have come up disappointed, you have to give this one a 
 try. even if you don't like the game overall, you'll love seeing intelligent teammates in action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I'll admit. I didn't expect much from Republic Commando. But, I'm happy to say I was surprised. 
 Its 2 years from its release, and the graphics don't look dated at all. The explosive effects, 
 weapons fire and environment is beautiful. Not stunning, not perfect, but nicely done. It does 
 a nice job of bringing you into the game without trying to hard. The blood spatter from close combat 
 helps too, as does the not-really limiting view of the helmet, making the player seem that you 
 were honestly in the helmet of a Clone Trooper. The background music, though I didn't really pay 
 attention to it, meshes nicely with the game as well.
  
  The gameplay itself was standard FPS fare, with squad based action thrown into the mix. Commanding 
 the squad was easy, point and press. Although I wondered the distinction between using 40 to slice 
 and 07 to slice, since both did the job. Likewise for setting demo charges. Being able to give 
 specific commands to specific commandos would be nice, but then maybe I just haven't discovered 
 the right keys. The weapons don't sound weak, the blaster blasts lighting up the hallways and such 
 nicely and realisticly. Although I did do a fit on finding a lightsaber, but being unable to use 
 it. Melee attacks come in handy, and I found myself going in hard and fast to stab the enemy just 
 to take them down quick. Again, as mentioned in other reviews, my biggest disappoinment would be 
 with the game's shortness. The game also makes me wonder why the Super Battle Droids in Battlefront 
 2 were so easy to take down, as compared to the ones here, where 2 SBDs is hard enough for a whole 
 squad of commandos to take down.
  
  All in all, a very good game, mixing in excellent graphics, easy to grasp gameplay and simple controls. 
 Needs a sequel or something though. This is just too good to give up. LucasArts did a nice squad 
 based FPS for its first try. Anyone have any comments or views on my reviews, do feel free to PM 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Star wars has had first person. Its had lightsabers. Its had massive epic battles. Now it is going 
 into uncharted waters with squad based play. Lucas arts is just pwning newbs left and right. This 
 game is another ground breaker for the universe created by George Lucas. The squad, even though 
 clones, are quite different. You got your demolitions, sniper, computer guy, and leader. Although 
 you and everyone can do every single job. Graphics are stunning, especially with how your visor 
 shows oil or blood on it, and shows how hurt you are. Squad commands are simple and really let 
 you be precise and quick about your commands. Multiplayer has basic deathmatch and capture the 
 flag, and they are really fun. This is a game for star wars fans, and the avid FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapefruit21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Great game on all counts a little short but great bargain bin value. Graphics- Pretty good without 
 being a system hog.
  Sound- characters are funny and have good personality. The sound effects are solid.
  Gameplay- 
 No major hitches decent variety of weapons including 5 different types of grenades. Also has the 
 best team AI in any game I've ever played your squad will do the right thing without being told 
 most of the time and is easy to dirct when necessary.
  Value- campaign is short but intense and the mulitpalyer is sub-par but decent.
  The campaign 
 is worth a play through or two though.
  Tilt- Its star wars and its great nothing not to like here. It is throughly enjoyable and sticks 
 with you because of the great characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocko5820
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  It may be kind of hard but you'll get used to it I hope! It should be easy at the beginning but 
 it can get hard.... Like you dont really have alot of health but you got team mates! Read the cheats 
 or walthrough or any other stuff about it on any sites PLUS gamespot! I love this game please agree 
 or disagree with what I said and email me when you get the time rofl!!!
  Have fun! Plus I dont know what the Time Spent Playing, TO date means so email me on info on that 
 if you have the time Try the game
  
  Rocko5820 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulusirom
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I just completed the game for the first time, and although the game was even shorter than I'd expected, 
 I must say I'm really impressed with it.
  The reasons why you should buy this game are:
  
  - The graphics are still pretty great (and very functional) , there are almost no bugs or glitches
 
  - The single player campaign is very story-driven, and you really connect to your squad of Deltas
 
  - The action is intense, but very tactical: All enemies have weaknesses to exploit, and the squad-based 
 tactics are very intuitive, and you are encouraged to use them all the time
  - It's a pretty old game, so you can find it as a budget title everywhere
  
  There are a few 
 bad things to consider as well:
  
  - The one-liners of your squad mates are sometimes really lame and sometimes refer to gamer slang, 
 like when your hacker talks about his l33t haxOr skillz (I don't know how to spell it) , which is 
 completely alien in the Star Wars context
  - The campaign IS very short, and because of the linear, story-driven feel, it has no real replay 
 value.
  
  Anyway it's a great title to pick up if your like the Star Wars universe, tactical action and a 
 great storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This follows in the footsteps of Halo and has the same controlls, weapons, health, and gameplay. 
 It also has squad commands, and guts that fly into your face. This game isn't better than Halo, 
 but it does everything it's trying to do right. The multiplayer is smooth and is great. Getting 
 into games is easy. Fighting robots in the singleplayer is fun because they look 100x cooler than 
 they do in the movies, and stabbing them makes their oil splatter into your face. The super battle 
 droids are like Terminators becuase not only are they super strongwalking tanks, but their armor 
 chips off if you shoot at it. The gameplay is almost as great as Halo's, but their are a few hiccups. 
 The graphics are great, but the sound is so-so. Overall, this is a must buy if you like Halo. If 
 you can't buy or play Hlo however, this is the closest thing to it. Star Wars Republic Commando 
 is one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude_man777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I expected this game to be decent, turners out it's the best single player experience I have ever 
 had with any FPS. I am someone who gets board with FPS really fast and this was probably the only 
 time that I was praying for this game not to end.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome. You shoot your way threw hordes of enemies with the help of 
 three other commandos who did I mention have the best AI I have ever seen in any game? Your allies 
 will flank the opponents, take cover behind walls suppress the enemies and throw back enemies grenades. 
 They rarely do anything stupid like the dudes from GRAW. They are always useful and do exactly 
 as you would expect them to do. The enemies are also very satisfying to kill especially if you 
 walk up to them and stab the in the face with you wrist mounted vibrating blade. Even tho the game 
 is very repetitive, the actual gunfights are so intense and amusing that you will be crying for 
 more when the game ends.
  
  Graphics: The graphics a little dated and I find them a little strange because sometimes it is 
 hard to tell what's going on on the screen. It's probably the only game that made me a little dizzy 
 while playing but you get use to it really fast. Other that that they are pretty good. One thing 
 that I really like is the night vision effect, the blur makes the graphics look amazingly realistic!
 
  
  Sound: The star wars music fits the action perfectly and adds a lot of intensity. The guns sound 
 great and the voice acting is fabulous. Value: This game is extremal fun but also very short. Plus 
 the multiplayer is really weak. But trust me the single player alone is worth the price of this 
 game regardless if you're a star wars fan or not.
  
  Tilt: This game offers and amazing single player experience and should be played by anyone who 
 is even slightly into FPS. I think it's a shame that this game go so little attention because it 
 ranks up there with half life 2, fear and quake 4. If you haven't played it yet do so as soon as 
 you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando takes place sometime in between Episodes II and Episonde III. You 
 are on an assignment to retrieve some data and destroy a bunch of Trandoshans and droids. along 
 the way. You are Delta 38. You have 3 teammates- Scorch, Fixer, and Sev, to help you through the 
 game. You can order them to take snipe position, grenade position, breach doors, and place demolition 
 devices on certain objects all through pushing the 'f' key. However, targeting is also required 
 to use the 'f' key. I just feel that the controls could have been a little better spanned out. 
 Often times even if you're just a little off, you'll have a team member do the job when you want 
 to do it. Then you have to cancel the manuveur and try again. Belive me, those 2 seconds can really 
 mess you up. Moving on a positive note, Republic Commando shows not a single dull moment in the 
 game. The action is intense. You really have to strategize your team to get past a checkpoint. 
 I got very stimulated on this game. If you run out of health, you can have a teammate revive you 
 or have them remain their current orders. They'll use a bacta tank to revive you 1/2 way to your 
 maximum health. Sometimes you'll be in a really bad position for a squad member to help you. If 
 there are droids are other enemies around your squad will take the time to shoot while moving. 
 Your squad is pretty smart. They'll take cover and throw grenades when they can. However, whenever 
 all but maybe one squad is down and a bacta tank on the wall is one room away where they can easily 
 get access to it, they don't do it. Believe you probably couldn't beat this game without your squad. 
 This game has some Halo thing going on. Each has rechargable shields that power back in a few seconds 
 after taking a hit. One of the creatures even reminded me of an alien from Halo. Sometimes you'll 
 have to blow up a droid spawning machine with a demolition charge. This can be difficult because 
 Super Battle Droids are a lot harder to take down than most other Star Wars games. You wait to 
 have 10, sometimes 20 seconds to completely place the charge. There are also Droidekas, too. Your 
 weaponry consists of 3 types of grenades, which you can carry up to 5 of each type of grenade. 
 You got DMC-17, a shotgun which has infinite ammo, and a few other weapons to choose from. It's 
 kind of hard to say how many weapons you hold because you have 3 different attatchments to the 
 DMC-17, one of them being a snipe gun. Moving on to graphics, they are truly spectacular. The droids 
 are detailed nicely with some neat effects as they blow up. Sometimes, you can take out just the 
 legs and they'll still fire on the ground. The textures are pretty nice, too. Throughout almost 
 the entire game, you'll be generally in areas with dark lighting, which makes sense. It gives a 
 real feel to the game. Heck, this game does resemble a bit like Metroid Prime. You have a couple 
 different visors. You have the low light visor. This allows you to see in areas with no lighting 
 what-so-ever. My only complaint is that it seems like some of the areas look exactly the same as 
 an area you have been to before. Sound- Naturally, in all Star Wars games, it has some Star Wars 
 music, including the famous John Williams. The voice acting is good. The droids sound just like 
 the movies. The guns sound great. The explosions could have maybe used just a little more work, 
 though. Value- Playing this game my first time through took me slightly under 15 hours, making 
 it feel kind of short for me. It does offer online play. It has capture the flag and a couple other 
 modes of play. However, I did not find the online play very enjoyable (compared to Star Wars Battlefront 
 2) . The maps aren't bad. You can have I believe up to 32 players at one time (I could be wrong, 
 but I know at least 20.) But, I just didn't like it. Maybe you will. Tilt- Star Wars fans should 
 definitely pick this one up. If you're a Halo or Metroid Prime fan, this would be a good choice. 
 If you're a fan of online play, I'd suggest renting it first to see the online personally for yourself. 
 This is Wiifan001.... signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GANGSTASAN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  This is the first 'real' Star Wars FPS game, and I must say it is one of the best Star Wars games 
 up-to-date, even if there's no jedis like Luke and Yoda, it's still a impressive game.
  
  Gameplay: In this Star Wars game, you play as Delta 38, as you go through 15 missions, 3 brothers 
 help you fight, you are there leader, and you can give them orders, just as, take sniper postion, 
 go offensive, form up, secure area etc, and it works great, and if you have the PC version, the 
 function keys (F1, F2, F3, F4) make it easy to tell commands to your squad, the gameplay here is fun, 
 nothing more, nothing less, there's 12 weapons in the game, as well as 4 gernades, your main weapon 
 is the 'Blaster Rifle' and through out the game, you get attachments to change your weapon to a 
 sniper and an anti-armour, as well as a lot of enemy weapons, including the wookie rocket launcher 
 and the wookie bowcaster, which was in other games before. Whilst you play, if you kill the enemy 
 creatures later in game (known as the alien like 'tranoshons) the blood splatters in your face, 
 which is realistic and cool. You may find that about 5% in the game, that the action repeats, but 
 that is not bad, because it barely happens.
  
  Graphics: The models of characters are nice, the textures are all-tight, and the weapons look great 
 as well, not to mention the blood looks great when it's splattered onto your helmet, but one problem, 
 like all PC games you need a decent computer to make your framerates high with the graphics, meeting 
 the minimum requirements, will only allow you to play the game on lowest settings, but most computers 
 will run this game fine.
  
  Sound: Quality voice acting from Delta 38, Delta 07 (The angry sniper, who likes killing, and has 
 a cool and deep voice) , Delta 40 (The brains of the squad, and is really respectful, and has an 
 voice that suits him) , and finally Delta 62 (The funny brother, he likes blowing stuff up, and 
 gives the game a lot of sense of humour) . Original Star Wars sound is here as well, like the weapons 
 firing, and your favourite teammates- the wookies, and your forever enemies, the droids. Top-Notch 
 everything.
  
  Value: The multiplayer is fun for about 12 hours (or more) , it won't stand up to your favourite 
 ones, like halo, and half-life, but decent for a while, the main problem with the multiplayer is 
 that there's not much custom options, and only four gameplay modes (Deathmatch, team Deathmatch, 
 Capture the flag, and assault, which is simiar to Capture the flag) . Despite the multiplayer, singleplayer 
 will give you 15 missions and all missions are extremely fun, you play through 3 Campaigns. You 
 start of in genosis, with 5 missions, where you must go inside a droid ship and get the 'codes' 
 for the Republics. Then, you move on to the 'Ra Prosecuter' which is the ship that you used to 
 stay in, and somehow it dissapeared, but when the republics found out, they told your squad to 
 go in and see what happened, there are 4 missions in this campaign. And finally, your favourite 
 planet Kashhyk, this time you must help the wookies, as they help you to destroy the massive droid 
 ship, and try to kill any tranoshons blocking your way, there are 6 missions in this campaign. 
 It may sound like the singleplayer is huge, but dissapointingly, the singleplayer can be completed 
 in about 12 hours on the game's default difficulty settings, but hey it's a hec of fun.
  
  My tilt: I really enjoyed this game, I'm not Star Wars fan, but so what, this game impresses anyone 
 who likes FPS games, and Star Wars fans will like this game, even if there is no popular characters, 
 like luke, darth vader, master yoda etc.
  
  So, the game's quality of graphics, and sound, and best of all the super gameplay, there is no 
 hating in this game, part from the multiplayer component, the singleplayer is great from the first 
 second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This review is written based on about 9 hours of play at a friends house. I did not finish the 
 game. I got just over half way through.
  
  I gave Gameplay a 7 since this game is a bread and butter shooter without too much change to the 
 FPS formula. I found this alright though, being a star wars fan, the story and sci-fi stuff gave 
 me more than enough to keep going. I have to point out also that the ai teammates are really good. 
 You can give them orders with the touch of a button and they will follow them to a tee.
  
  The graphics in this game are really good. Everything is crisp and clear and looks especially nice 
 on large monitors.
  
  The sound is good as well. A couple of the guns sound weak, but that is mostly because those guns 
 are weak.
  
  This game has good value only if your a hardcore FPS/Star Wars fan. If you like either of those 
 things a lot, you can play this game over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  It was about time. A tactical FPS in the SW universe. And with the Republic (which falls and falls 
 and falls... power to the Sith!!!!!!)
  
  Delta Squad
  Your weapon in the entire game and 4 guys which you will be very attached of by the end of it. The 
 missions are diverse but some are annoying. The reason is the A. I. Sometimes they suck but sometimes 
 they're cunning. The squad control is very user-friendly. One button+mouse point=order. There are 
 some guns but the best is the DC-17+it's attachments.
  
  Tehnical part
  The graphics are good effects are present and please the eyes. The sound is perfect. Everything about 
 it is good (voice-acting, sound effects, etc.....) The physical engine is kind of rubbish but it doesn't 
 matter that much when you play because the action is intense.
  
  The Republic
  The game ends when the conflict on the Wookie planet Kashyykk starts bu it is one of the best and 
 most fun shooters to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroidKiller95
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game is so frickin god good that it is almost impossible to believe the people at lucasarts 
 didnt make any expansion packs and arent making a sequel. This has caused much of the depression 
 in me. It gets boring after you have played 300+ hours of it (I should know of all people) but 
 thats still like 12 days worth of time if you play it nonstop. It is an absolutely unbeilievable 
 game, but lucasarts has left many crying their eyes out with the idea of not making a sequel. This 
 game is plain awesome, the single player is pretty good but the multiplayer reins supreme. This 
 game is very cool and simple to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damrod14
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game with masive amounts of allys and enemys, this is not the game for 
 you. But if your looking for a game with extremly smart AI, imposible missions and tons of gun 
 fire, explosions and pain, then this is the game for you. You start this game as one of the squad 
 members in an eliet squad of clone commandos known as Delt Squad. Throughout this game, you and 
 your squad of three will fight the entire CIS arsenal. From dwarf spider walkers, to droid control 
 ships. Imposible? Not when your squad is better at fighting then you are. The squad AI is the smartest 
 I have ever seen. When you go down in a blaze of fire, your squad finishes off the enemy and revives 
 you. If you need a door blasted, they will execute the menuver just like you would expect from 
 the Merines. The animation is good and the rag-doll phisics are some of the best I have ever seen. 
 When somone trips on a grenade, he looks like somone who got blown off his feet by a grenade. Not 
 like somone who was simply shot or somone who was just blasted by a high, explosive round from a 
 tank. In this game they also give you the ability to mele strike. Giving you unlimited options 
 as to how to take down an enemy. And in my opinion, this game potrayes the CIS better than Lucas 
 did in episode II or III. The internet play left somthing to be desired. Probobly because you are 
 desighend to fight with a squad and not by yourself like you do online. But that is the only fault 
 I can find with this game.
  This game felt real, looked real and acted real. And so I give it a 9.4 for beeing one of the best 
 first-person shooter games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I began getting intersted with Star Wars after I played the fun game Lego Star Wars. So, I became 
 a hopeless Star Wars fan. I play most of the Star Wars games that people say are worth playing. 
 I realized this: some SW games are awesome and sweet e. g. Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic, 
 and some SW games deserve to be destroyed in front of their own creators.
  This Star Wars game, Republic Commando, is totally awesome. Its almost like AVP 2 in Star Wars 
 mode. The characters all have their own funny quotes, {Never attempt to do a recon mission on an 
 empty stomach} , and they can be very useful at times. You learn to enjoy being with your clone 
 buddies, so in the level alone , you can feel slightly nervous. The game's layout is good, but 
 the problem is the goldarn multiplayer. y un
  The multiplayer is generally unimaginative, but overall, this latest game is for any Star Was freak 
 like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is an awesome game.
  
  lots of fun and challenging.
  
  graphics engine a bit dated but it is a fun game to play.
  sound is awesome. lots of stuff from 
 the starwars lore to look at!
  
  MY only gripe is that there is no sequel!
  
  It seems that it fell in limbo after it came out even tough a lot of fans did say that it was an 
 excellent game.
  
  I wish people could mod this game to get it going on again.
  
  I guess it is made with the unreal engine so it would not be too hard to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyfrom93
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game a must have are the great levels, tough enemies, sweet arsenal of weapons, 
 and the squad AI. If you're looking for a really tough game, buy Republic Commando.
  
  Graphics- 10/10. As if a Geonosian would pop out of 
 the screen and grab me!
  
  Gameplay- 9/10. Fast paced, thrilling, and lots of enemies to blast.
  
  Sound- 10/10. Real 
 loud! Great sound effects! Just listening to the *whoosh!* and *crash!* of those dang starfighters... 
 it's music to my ears.
  
  Value-8/10.
  
  Tilt- 9/10. I like Star Wars, and I like FPS games.
  
  
 
  Anyway, I'd like to say that whether you're a Star Wars fan or not, you'll find this game really 
 fun and addicting.
  
  Hope everyone finds this review useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The SW Galaxy experienced from inside the helmet of a Republic Commando during three pivotal campaigns 
 of the Clone Wars. It begins on Geonosis (AOTC) as the Jedi find themselves alone against endless 
 CIS Battle ready droids yet in flies waves of Clones. However behind the scenes multiple four men 
 units descend into RV points to cripple the CIS foundries, and that's where you as RC-1138 come 
 in after the briefing. Your travelling companion, an unknown CT is torn out of the gunship by a 
 Genosisian while you drop down into live combat for the first time, alone.
  The first section kicks off with you taking a direct hit from an anti-infantry round, nasty little 
 kicker, but strangely enough there's a bacta station. They are found regularly throughout the game, 
 sometimes more often then others, and most often before major encounters.
  The first of your squad that you meet up with is demolitions man Scorch. He has just scrapped a 
 couple of tinnies. After blowing the blockade continue on into the enemy outpost where Fixer awaits 
 you. He just kills a Genosisian as you come into range. Finally after him Sev, the marksman or 
 sniper, who comes in handy quite often. Your immediate target is Sun Fac, not an easy bug to catch, 
 but once Sev shoots him down, he's dead.
  Things go south again as the Advisor reports that Delta must assume Theta's foundry mission. It 
 seems they were taken out watching Delta's six, which ties into Hard Contact where Darman is the 
 only Theta survivor. At any rate its on to the foundry, which in contrast with lies ahead is not 
 worst of what's to come for Delta. The crippling of foundries pivots the surface battle against 
 the CIS, which helps the stalemate for the GAR.
  The Core Ship is the climax and ender to the mission on Geonosis for Delta. It will not be a straight 
 shot from one end to the other unless you are extremely tactical in every move. In the end, the 
 bridge will be a death trap, but you will get out of there to fight another day. The missions only 
 become more insane after this. War has come to the Galaxy and for you the fight is only beginning 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Its a nice game, for me it is the best it has a great story that has a sence, it also has good 
 weapons the enemies are like thinking enemies because the can do things like kick grenades, also 
 the squad you have is great because for example you throw a grenade they won't be storbing you, 
 also when you are shooting they dont get in front of you they are like inteligent, the sound is 
 great also, graphis really you have to try it, the gameplay is awsome controls evevrything.
  
  This game has this type of healing you like you're down and one of your team can go and revive 
 you and its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a squad based shooter. It is actually pretty amazing how good the 
 AI is. It is almost like playing with real people. Speaking of real players I have no clue why 
 they didnt make 4 player co-op, that would have made this games sales go through the roof. Anyway, 
 the game is pretty fun and easy, you are the leader of the commando squad (obviously: P) and you 
 control your three rag tag commandos. They all have their specific talents, like one of them is 
 a sniper, another a grenadier and the last one is a tech guy. You have all these talents (depending 
 on your aim) but you definitely have tech skills, because all you do is hold down a button. Sniping 
 and bombing is a little harder. Unfortunately there is no lock on feature at all, so you need to 
 actually aim at stuff instead of just locking on. In single it is pretty easy, but in online multiplayer, 
 it is not in the least bit easy. Which brings me to my next point, the multiplayer in this game 
 is not bad at all. It is free (which I did not know prier of my purchasing of the game) . The multiplayer 
 is actually pretty good; you can join games between 2-32 people. So, if you get 32 people it can 
 (as it should be) get pretty intense. There are 4 different kinds of matches, Death Match, Team 
 Death Match, Capture the Flag, and Assault. The most popular are DM, TD, and CTF. Assault is kind 
 of a weird game; it is sort of like in sports when one team has the ball the other defends. You 
 take turns, one team is attacking and the other is defending. My personal favorite is TD. It is 
 nice to have some back up instead of in DM where it is every man for himself. CTF is cool, but 
 TD is defiantly the best. The graphics are great in this game, the sound is great, the gameplay 
 in single player is quite fun, but gets a bit repetitive. This game is overall pretty good, and 
 I actually play it quite a bit just for the multiplayer. Also with multiplayer, there are lots 
 of clans, so if youre the kind of person who likes to be on a team or be in a group, there are 
 plenty of clans out there. The game is probably pretty cheap now, like $20-$30, so I say go to 
 a store and get it because for that price, it is definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowman_1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is one of those games that will pass unnoticed by the most notorious FPS-freaks 
 and it won't even touch games like Half-Life, Doom or F. E. A. R. But fans of Star Wars will see that 
 RC is one hell of a ride. First of all, for the first we don't even touch with the subject of Jedi, 
 Lightsabers or other more classic section of Star Wars. This is Rainbow Six and SWAT 4 spiced with 
 Star Wars, nothing more, nothing less. The design of the game is fluid and solid. The Unreal-engine 
 works perfectly with the game's design and gives the whole experience structure. Your partners 
 drops of One-liners more often then Bruce Willis does in the Die Hard-movies and although you can 
 get sick of it, it makes the whole trip more pleasant to surpass and hopefully finish.
  
  It's not particularly hard. An avid FPS-player will probably get through the game in one or two 
 days. But thats not the point of the game. The point is to deliver something new in a very strict 
 universe that earlier was all about Kyle Katarn, Jedi's and Luke Skywalker. This game feels fresh 
 and new from the very beginning, but of course made with an old recipe.
  
  The game it self is as I said before, short. And the AI is somewhat not 100% in some levels. But 
 other then that, this game has great potential of a future franchise. A good idea for Lucas Arts 
 is to continue build on this series and automatically span the Star Wars-gaming universe to new 
 levels. I would very much like to see a Republic Commando 2. Heck, with the Unreal 3-engine out 
 , Lucas Arts can't miss the opportunity. Just do it!
  
  
  
  The Good: It's Star Wars, fast paced and just plain fun. The campaign get's more attractive the 
 longer you play it, Great VO and the graphics is very good.
  
  The Bad: Too short, Not multiplayer compatible? wtf?, AI lacks in some levels and the rest of the 
 team dosen't present them selfs as Commandos in some areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando puts you in command of Delta squad, a group of elite clone commandos. 
 The story line takes place end of episode two, including levels at Geonosis, on a Republic assault 
 ship, and on Kashyyyk. My main beef with the game is its way to short, but overall the game play 
 is enjoyable, and the game worth playing. But not for the $40.00 Lucas Arts is asking, I'd recommend 
 waiting for the price to drop before buying this one. 
  
  Game play: The three locations are broken down into multiple submissions and levels, but overall 
 the game is extremely short. On medium (default) difficulty I was able to finish the game in around 
 7 hours. There where a couple locations where you had to beat the clock that hung me up for a while, 
 but overall the game play wasn't overly difficult. Your squad mates, consisting of 3 A. I. commandos, 
 are extremely capable fighters, who you can issue orders, or allow to do their own thing. Either 
 way they tend to be smart about how they approach battle, and generally are there to bail you out 
 when you get your self incapacitated. As apposed to the A. I. of your enemies and they are relatively 
 unintelligent. They rely on numbers, or sure power of their weapons, but generally do not attempt 
 to find cover, or support each other. Regardless of this discrepancy in the A. I. the game was enjoyable 
 while it lasted. I found the interface for issuing orders to be simplistic, and easy to use. There 
 weren't many elaborate commands, you merely look at objects, if they have an icon for use, you 
 click your use key and a commando will go and do what ever action is supported by the object you 
 were looking at. for example if the object is a turret, the commando will man the turret, if the 
 object is some ruble with a sniper icon, a commando will deploy a sniper rifle at that location, 
 so on and so forth. Graphics: Republic Commando uses the Unreal engine to support its graphics. 
 Granted the Unreal engine is becoming more and more obsolescent, the game still looks very good. 
 
  
  Sound FX: The Sound effects in the game are top of the line. The voice acting is of high quality, 
 the main character is voiced by Temuere Morrison, The actor who played Jango Fett in the movies. 
 
  
  Replay Value: The game does have some replay value, in its multiplayer, it supports Death match, 
 Team death match, and Capture the flag. If interest in the game grows there should be plenty of 
 people playing online to get a lot more playing time out of the game, but singly player even if 
 you play it through 3 times will only get you about 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarz24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando was a great idea to make by the Lucas Arts staff. It is very addicting 
 and has the smartest AI that I've ever seen in a game. The one touch squad commands make controlling 
 your squad to the fullest fast and easy. It has great graphics and a wonderful story line. The 
 game from start to finish is a pure adrenaline rush, but it only lasts for about 10 hours. They 
 really should have made it longer. But, other than that Star Wars: Republic Commando is a great 
 game and Lucas Arts should defiantly make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lkuey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  The game is really hard. I have recently got it. If you like Star Wars and you like the Republic, 
 this is a game for you. It is a good idea for a Star Wars game where you aren't the Jedi, but you 
 can play as the Clones. This game is much like Star Wars Battlefront, Call Of Duty, Hidden &amp; 
 Dangerous a bit of everything really. Overall I think 8.4. Gameplay is brilliant and the story 
 is easy to understand. Graphics could be better but when you kill a droid and you walk over it, 
 you can kick it around. It's like a game of soccer sometimes! Sound is brilliant with all the blasters 
 firing and the droids screaming. Let down by value because it's not very well known. I think it 
 came out in 2003/04/05 I can't remember. And my score.... about 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fears_God767
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  And strangely enough it's a great combination. The game starts of at the end of Episode Two and 
 continues till right before Episode Three. You play as Delta 138 (a reference to a lesser known 
 George Lucas movie) , who is commander of Delta Squad, an elite squadron of four commando's. The 
 other three are Sev, Fixer, and Scorch. Each Commando has there own unique personality and voices 
 (though they are clones) , and those voices you'll grow to know soon enough. The voice acting in 
 this game is excellent and believable. The voices of each clone fits their personality quite well, 
 38 with the tough yet calm, fatherly figure voice of Temura Morrison, the serious and smart voice 
 for Fixer, the comical, happy-go-lucky voice for Scorch, and the demented I love putting holes 
 through people voice for Sev. The sound effects matches this well and makes the game seem all the 
 more real. The game play in this game is very decisive and realistic. Every move you make could 
 lead to a game over, especially if your out on your own. Most of the game though you are accompanied 
 by your squad mates. This is when the strategy comes in. During hellish (yet addictive) fire fights 
 you have to command your very intelligent AI bots to small victories using an array of easy access 
 commands. A few are Search and Destroy , Take this position and Form up . More importantly though 
 are the point and click commands such as Take up sniper position and Door Breach procedures . 
 Also this game introduces the Heal a fallen comrade feature which has been borrowed by more recent 
 games such as Gears of War . This makes team work important. Another cool feature to this game 
 would be the people shooting at you. The enemy in this game is divided into 3 factions, the Droid 
 Forces, the Geonosians (large insect like creature) , and the Trandosians (man like, green aliens) . 
 Each faction is divided into classes. For example the Droids have the common Battle Droid and the 
 more dangerous Droidika. These classes introduce new weapons to your arsenal. Your arsenal of weapons 
 in this game is large and expansive. You start off the game with a DC-17, your common machine gun 
 style weapon, with a side pistol, and with a retractable knife, but through out the first campaign 
 you get all of the DC-17's attachments and grenades. You can also pick up the unique weapons of 
 fallen enemies (my personal favorite would be the loud and powerful Chain Gun) . All of this is 
 accompanied by graphics that show great detail and effects. These were top notch when this game 
 was released and still hold there ground to certain next gen games. This detail is even showed 
 on low performance settings. The effects show up fine as well. One of which is the blood on screen 
 effect (which shows up quite often) . There are only three problems with this game. The first and 
 most noticeable is this game is kind of short. It leaves gamers begging (begging, seriously) for 
 a sequel. The second is a lousy multiplayer on PC versions. This is just shoot everything you 
 see grudge matches that lack the strategy of the one player campaign. Alot of times it's just 
 more exciting to just chat with other players. The third and lesser known is an annoying glitch 
 where a squad mate gets stuck. This is frustrating and usually leads to having to start the whole 
 level over. This game received the ESRB rating of Teen and could of easily received the Mature 
 rating. It features Blood, Gore, and (border line intense) violence. They also snuck in some language. 
 Also alot of the jokes the commandos make glorifies killing and the suffering of the enemy. The 
 commando's show little, if any, remorse and have little value for life (For example in one part 
 your character watches a fellow clone be killed and feels bad, not because of his death, but because 
 it's a Waste of good genes ) . Because of this I would only recommend this game for non passive 
 gamers no younger than 14. Overall this is a great game that challenges other classics like Halo. 
 I recommend it to fans of the First-Person-Shooter and strategy genre or to gamers who just want 
 a quick adrenaline rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarCowAlways
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando is a very nice game with most of the greatest aspects of today's leading 
 games. The story will only last you about 3 days, yet this is by NO means a way to judge this game's 
 value. All of the attention to detail makes it a joy to play, and multi-player action continues 
 the enyoyment for endless hours of fun... that, and violence.
  
  This game allows the player to fight some of the high-profile Star Wars battles from behind-the-scenes, 
 with important jobs that help win the wars. Wade into Star Wars Episode 2-3 as a Republic Commando 
 squad leader, and fight battles from behind enemy lines, sabotaging critical enemy systems.
  
  One of this game's best strengths is its graphics. The textures it uses are very realistic 
 and worn-looking, so it doesn't look like Jak games (which use rather plain textures) . These superb 
 graphics are accentuated by the huge, destructible, interactive environments.
  
  Much of this game is difficult enough to give you a challenge, but is manageable. Sometimes it 
 can be pretty hard, but this only makes you appreciate the gameplay and realism even more.
  
  The Multiplayer is pretty fun to play, because you can play against many other people online 
 in a variety of modes. The framerate holds up very well, and there are hardly ever glitches.
  
  Star Wars: Republic Commado is a terrific PC/XBOX Tactical FPS. Anybody interested in either 
 will love this game. Check out the game demo right here on GameSpot to try out a level! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  So most starwars games based on the movie sucked... but this was diffrent! since the movies were 
 seen in the Jedi's percpective they wonder what would the movie be like for the Soldiers? the result 
 : an awsome game that uses similar elements into a Full Paced singleplayer adventure.
  Gameplay
  Your a clone and a special one at that. your name is Delta 38 or as they call you boss 
 and later on you are introduce to your alies. Scorch the guy in yellow the comical relief of the 
 game and Explosion expert,07 the guy with blood on his suit the deadliest sniper and assassin in 
 the game and fixer the guy who hacks terminals and has that need for mahines. youe goals will require 
 to Assassinate a leader, Investigate an abandoned ship and Liberate the wookies (EACH of these are 
 diffrent missions you will encounter) . Same as most shooters some need for cover gun them throw 
 a grenade and most of all kill kill kill! but you have Alies and when you here the word AI controlled 
 alies you think oh great hes gonna start running at the wall like an idiot or shoot at the enemy 
 for once! but no these guys are great these guys are awsome and most of all there smart! they can 
 think, act and shoot on there own. you can command them by selecting a stratigic spot with a hologram 
 of a clone and they stay there and do as told however you just click the F button on some spot 
 with the clone so there isnt much freedom in selecting an order besides the orders F1 to F4. Multiplayer 
 is not the reason to buy this game because its similar to Halo only without the veichles. not much 
 replay value but the pacing of the campaign is almost perfect! you walk around kill a droid then 
 you walk again and see another droid yet you get a driffent feel eveytime! it's never Repetetive 
 always diffrent and you feel as if you want to play the campaign over and over again! sadly the 
 campaign is short but its a great experience while it lasts.
  Graphics
  For a 2005 game its very good the level designs aren't borrowed (from the movies yes of course 
 but not other games) but they have the same ideal
  Sound
  Music is great, especially the timing. whenever your about to go through some blocked path way you 
 hear some dramatic music playing and when you breach it you hear an action packed them. this helps 
 the pacing of the game all the time and really absorbs you and gives a great feel
  Overall
  Its a great game for all Starwars fans alike and for others also but if your gonna get this for 
 the multiplayer then this game isnt for you and you want something like battlefield 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Usually when you hear Star Wars game you think of another crappy 3rd person game with the SW logo 
 stamped on it. This is not the case with Republic Commando. You play as the leader of an Elite 
 Clone Force that is sent in on special missions to destroy the enemies of the Republic. You do 
 just that along side your squad of 3, each who their own special abilities such as sniper and demolitions 
 expertise. Throughout the 3 main campaigns you and your men kill hundreds of bugs and droids to 
 get to the main boss of the seperatists. The gameplay during the killing of all these enemies is 
 very fun with your setting your squadmates in certain spots to do jobs like snipe enemies as they 
 come through the door only to then blow a trap one of your men set, taking the remaining bad guys 
 out. The intense firefights aren't slowed by slow loads like in many FPS games but there could 
 be less of them. The main flaw I saw while playing was the A. I. of both my teammates and the enemy 
 get stuck on random objects in the world. This con could be overlooked but it doesn't help when 
 your taking on a large Tank and your buddy is standing in the open, doing nothing other than looking 
 at the wall. In the end though, the overall teamwork elements and just fun battles make Republic 
 Commando a must get for any Star Wars Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  It just felt like a step back in the genre for me, compared to other amazing games released before 
 and after it like HL2. The levels also feel far too restricted and the opening scences reminded 
 me of Killzone/Fire Warrior more than anything. The guns also feel really bad when you fire them 
 and i can't explain it but it just didn't feel right.
  
  I thought the Star Wars was there but quite often id forget i'm playing a Star Wars game and just 
 wouldn't know what to think. However the opening Scenes were pretty kool and reminded me alot of 
 Oposing force.
  
  The controls were pretty bad IMO and for some reason i could never get the mouse sensitivity that 
 i wanted which was pretty strange. i didn't like the way it was all done here but this is something 
 you can tweak. I thought the sounds were pretty plain and the game didn't make the best use of 
 Star Wars Music. Which is pretty odd seeing as all other Star Wars games do.
  It doesn't look great and is pretty dated but it's playable, however a game from 2005 i woulda 
 expected more from it here,
  
  It's also a pretty short game and the multiplayer might aswel no be there cause theres noone playing 
 and it wasn't very fun anyways.
  
  The whole game just felt very Console and the way you controlled your friendlys didn't make much 
 sense to me at all on the PC and i felt quite a few things to get on my nerves. I think you can 
 tell it was designed for Console, which i hate for PC games.
  
  Overall it's a ok game, just not AMAZING. You'll have fun with it for awhile but not something 
 to remember. If you like Star Wars games then you'll probally want to play this. I'm a huge FPS 
 fan however and didn't really enjoy it all that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  First off: Star Wars Republic Commando is a rock solid game. The concept consists of a first-person 
 shooter game taking place in the Star Wars Universe. You star as Delta squad leader named 38 (THX 
 1138??) . You are a clone as seen in SW Episodes II and III (IV, V, VI) technically too) . As 38 
 you were specially designed and cloned to become part of an elite quad, the Republic Commandos. 
 Picture them as the Navy SEALS or Special Forces. You are not a typical storm trooper. In fact, 
 you start the game off in a large test tube as just a baby looking out at your alien cloners as 
 they speak to you about being special. Short scenes follow to show your growth and development 
 as you grow up as 38 . Soon, you are introduced to as they call them your brothers or the other 
 three members of Delta Squad. The story line is superb and seems to blend into the Star Wars universe 
 seamlessly.
  
  One of the interesting things about SW-RP is the control of your squad members. There are many 
 designed areas available to assign squad members for actions such as: sniping, fire support cover, 
 grenading and other similar actions. This is great in game play and helps put your squad where 
 you feel they should be the most use to the mission. Commands are given easily and quick through 
 a slick interface. You will need to, or have a squad member, slice (hack) machines, plant bombs 
 and the like very often. Sometimes this takes only a few seconds and other times it takes over 
 a minute. Tying yourself or a squad member up for long periods of time in the heat of battle is 
 an integral part of this game. But I have to admit, after doing this over and over, it really starts 
 to get repetitive.
  
  The action is great and honors the Star Wars name. There's a decent variety of enemies and weapons. 
 The option to slice (stab) someone at close range with a blade is a great addition too. Sometimes 
 enemies are quite funny when attacked. For example some enemies with jet packs shoot off into the 
 ceiling when shot. Droids spin around in confusion firing after having their heads blown off.
 
  
  You'll encounter things like droid containers. These are basically little droid factories that 
 just keep making droids until you blow it up. This strategy of blowing stuff up will be necessary 
 over and over in the game. That part starts to get old half way through. I was surprised how difficult 
 this game was overall.
  
  The graphics and sound are terrific. The Star Wars soundtrack is featured and plays at appropriate 
 times with proper intensity. It really helps the mood. Control is dead on. I couldn't ask for anything 
 more in that department.
  
  The main compliant about the game other than having to constantly use timers to blow stuff up and 
 the fact that the game is fairly short. It's as if they ran out of time and simply published what 
 they had.
  
  Even with it's few shortcomings - I really had a blast with Republic Commando. Making a sequel 
 would be a great move for this rock solid FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  The SW Galaxy experienced from inside the helmet of a Republic Commando during three pivotal campaigns 
 of the Clone Wars. It begins on Geonosis (AOTC) as the Jedi find themselves alone against endless 
 CIS Battle ready droids yet in flies waves of Clones. However behind the scenes multiple four men 
 units descend into RV points to cripple the CIS foundries, and that's where you as RC-1138 come 
 in after the briefing. Your travelling companion, an unknown CT is torn out of the gunship by a 
 Genosisian while you drop down into live combat for the first time, alone.
  
  The first section kicks off with you taking a direct hit from an anti-infantry round, nasty little 
 kicker, but strangely enough there's a bacta station. They are found regularly throughout the game, 
 sometimes more often then others, and most often before major encounters.
  
  The first of your squad that you meet up with is demolitions man Scorch. He has just scrapped a 
 couple of tinnies. After blowing the blockade continue on into the enemy outpost where Fixer awaits 
 you. He just kills a Genosisian as you come into range. Finally after him Sev, the marksman or 
 sniper, who comes in handy quite often. Your immediate target is Sun Fac, not an easy bug to catch, 
 but once Sev shoots him down, he's dead.
  
  Things go south again as the Advisor reports that Delta must assume Theta's foundry mission. It 
 seems they were taken out watching Delta's six, which ties into Hard Contact where Darman is the 
 only Theta survivor. At any rate its on to the foundry, which in contrast with lies ahead is not 
 worst of what's to come for Delta. The crippling of foundries pivots the surface battle against 
 the CIS, which helps the stalemate for the GAR.
  
  The Core Ship is the climax and ender to the mission on Geonosis for Delta. It will not be a straight 
 shot from one end to the other unless you are extremely tactical in every move. In the end, the 
 bridge will be a death trap, but you will get out of there to fight another day. The missions only 
 become more insane after this. War has come to the Galaxy and for you the fight is only beginning 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3DN1N3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  StarWars Republic Commando is one of the best games LucasArts rolled out of the factory. For those 
 even mildly into Star Wars, I highly recommend u get yourself a copy of this game. It's got an 
 excellent single player story, and through the game u become bonded to the squad your in like a 
 real squad would. I will say that it's rather short and you should get through the game within 
 14-16 hours. But just playing through all it's level designed areas puts even Halo to shame. This 
 was my 1st PC game I ever purchased and it's a game I still highly cherish and play with. The multiplayer 
 is pretty fun. It's highly addicting and in my case I love being able to help the underdog or join 
 a losing team faced with overwhelming odds.... not only does it force me to fight and concentrate 
 harder, but it makes me feel alive when I'm wiping out whole teams. Problems with the multiplayer 
 are pretty mild. ALot of players tend to join the clone team for some reason, this leaves the trandoshan 
 team rather outmanned. Also, many players impose restrictions on others based on the weapons u 
 choose. AA's, rockets, concussion rifles, and heavy repeater guns are shunned by many, not by me 
 though because it's pretty childish to cry over something as small as a weapon. But the 2 most 
 annoying things about Multiplayer is the constant message spamming, and the name calling of noob 
 . There are some who will spamm like there's no tommorow only because you shot them. Their excuse: 
 Next person to noob me I'm gonna spam , that person then dies at the hands of someone who actually 
 was using a weapon everyone agrees with and guess what? The guy spams anyways! Well the word Noob 
 is not such a big deal but it gets on my nerves when it's being used all the time. This game is 
 probably the one game that uses the word Noob the most.
  
  These problems aren't very bad but if u got some patience then it should be very enjoyable. I hope 
 they make a sequel because it left many in a cliff hangar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cazemiro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my opinion on of the most entertaining games i have ever played. It doesnt have 
 a amazing story line, but in this game this isnt the most important thing. It is a action game 
 and thats where they put you. Non stop action in a very easy and playable ambient.
  With only a few minuts playing it you will be commanding your squad like a vet.
  I has very nice 
 graphics ,nothing unexpected on the unreal engine, ecxellente sound effects and i really mean it. 
 The gameplay is great and the interface makes it easy to execute the most complex tactical movements.
 
  Resuming i had a lot of fun playing it and recommend it to every good game lover. The only down 
 side of this game is that it is a little short, our time goes by a lot faster when your having 
 fun. :)
  In the end all i can say is that your money will be very well spent on this surprisingly good StarWars 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinian
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  To: Supreme Chancellor Palpatine.
  From: Delta 36 aka Boss.
  RE: Comments to Delta Squad virtual diary aka Republic Commando 
  -----------------
  Sir, As 
 requested Delta Squad registered data from our 3 infiltration missions. Due to video receivers 
 in our helmets we were able to record video and sound image directly from the battlefield. The 
 best mechanics in Republic compiled that data into a learning program for new clone troopers know 
 as Republic Commando. As leader of the squad I was pointed to write a few words of introduction.
 
  
  Gameplay: In Republic Commando at last you will be able to see war from the eyes of soldiers who 
 aren't able to use The Force like Jedi/Sith. Due to our lack of using The Force we were trained 
 in skills necessary to survive. We mastered computer slicing, hand to hand fight, demolition, infantry 
 weapons, battle tactics. As you will be able to see in Republic Commando when you lack one of those 
 attributes you will end up as a Bantha food. Squad consists of 4 members. I was the Commander, 
 Sev was the sniper, Fixer- Slicer and last but not the least Scorch- our Demolition Expert. At 
 this point occurs the first drawback of our team. Team members were trained to be experts in those 
 different specializations but every single action takes the same amount of time to do for everyone 
 team member. Planting bombs takes the same time for Fixer, Sev and our Demolition Expert- Scorch. 
 Something is wrong here. Our squad should be retrained in this matter.
  Finishing Republic Commando learning program on the hardest difficulty lvl will take from 8 to 
 9 hours from standard clone learning schedhule.
  
  Graphics: Due to our video cameras we were able to record battles in satisfiyng standart. It's 
 just ok. Nothing more nothing less
  
  Sound: Sir due to the fact that sound of the battlefield is just scream of dying soldiers, clank 
 of droids and sound of blaster rifles we were bound to add some music line. Some of it we just 
 copied from standart Star Wars music themes. But it didn't satisfied us. After drinking some of 
 strong liquids we (with additional 100 standart troopers) organised a clone trooper choir. We were 
 not fully able to control our articulation instruments so the words don't mean anything specific. 
 They sound like some Latin words. Surprisingly it sounds astonishing. It's not only my opinion. 
 I famous intergalactic singer agreed with that statement.
  
  Value: After wining the war it is vital that every member of the universe studies our learning 
 program.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Final comments: Sir, We are The Republic Commando. The Elite. Our program is near to perfect. It 
 would be the best but our mechanics screwed up the multiplayer mode. Because of that Republic Commando 
 is only an AA not AAA program.
  
  PS: Sir, please allow us to execute Order 66. I can't stand that those Jedi are getting all the 
 glory for our hard work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12UnDeFeAtEd12G
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Yea the game has fun lvls in SP but the real focus of it is its online multi player. I love to go 
 online and own noobs the game is addictive. I love this game because first of all it has the best 
 story iv ever seen in a game. there are clains that you could join just if your a good player and 
 if ur in the same surver as a clain member he/she might invite you. The thing that keeps me comeing 
 back to this game is that i allways want to perfect my skills and to be the best of the best. There 
 is a whole arrange of wepons for you to choose from. This game is simply incredable this is a must 
 have game for your collection. I cant describe this game any better than amazing and you have to 
 try it for yourself. TY for reading =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Republic Commando is one of those few great, under appreciated games that comes around every once 
 and a while. While most reviewing sites or magazines skip past it, it was the gaming community 
 that kept this flame alive.
  
  Graphics: For 2005 game for the Xbox and PC it looked great. The subtitle details that were added 
 to the game, as the GS review stated were similar to metroid prime, such as the visor and effects 
 were a nice touch. Sound: The one problem I kinda had was that the clones had different voices, 
 now granted I know in SW fluff, that the commandos were special and granted something might have 
 been done to them, but it seemed a little strange how different they were, but thats besides the 
 point. The game has a great soundtrack as well, and I feel captivated by just the main menu music 
 that I just left the game on it so I could hear the whole track. And the game has great sound effects 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay: I have been hard pressed to find a game with better squad AI than this game. GoW is probably 
 the only one that even comes close but is still nothing like it. The squad is fluid, obedient, 
 and most of all, smart. the weapons were fun to use as well, but the only complaint was for the 
 PC because the DC-17 rifle, you main weapon, felt like it should have been for a controller.
  
  All in all, this is a fun, exciting, and well paced tactical FPS that, if you can find it, 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  the game is the best game I have ever played, I do a little bit of modding and game developing 
 myself, though I'm only an amateur at it I could have never made a game as good as this even if 
 I were being taught by a man whose been doing it for his whole life. The best squad AI I've ever 
 seen is right, the game is amazingly straight on with the engine every thing in the game is amazing 
 the way it seems to have a mind of it's own, the game was a bit short but the second should clear 
 that up, definitely play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  excelent game but the fact that it is so short and you cant really mod the game destroys its replay 
 value fun game neverthe less i do have some qwerks with the game one of which is you can only carry 
 one gun other than your main weapons which is kind of annoying but not crippeling the multiplayer 
 i havent played and probably wont ill stick with battlefield for multiplayer although from what 
 I here it is lack luster which is a shame because the rest of the game is put together so well 
 I just wich that they would put modding tools on the net so the game will get some more replay 
 value i would recommend this game to anyone that is a starwars fan and likes fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Republic Commando? Well, first off, the hype about RC was definitely the single 
 player mode. And let's just say that that part was not a letdown, although a couple parts were 
 disappointing. The developers did such a great job with it, from the crew you take with you, to 
 the commands you can give them, to the enemies you'll end up facing, like the Trandoshans and Super 
 Battle Droids.
  
  It ends in some kind of climax, but it leaves you hanging, and doesn't wrap up werll. The other 
 sad part is that it only takes about 16 hours to complete, and you likely won't ever want to play 
 through it again.
  
  After that, we have multiplayer. And although I was pleasantly entertained at first, it got old 
 after a while. The weapons get really old. About three of them are extraordinarily overpowered 
 and people don't even like players who use them, so you are nearly restricted to three or four 
 monotonous weapons along with thermal detonators.
  
  Capture the Flag is really fun compared to other games, and normal destruction can be good too, 
 but it just gets old.
  
  Just know, that you won't be buying the game solely for single player, otherwise you'll be thoroughly 
 disappointed. At least get enough multiplayer in to make the buy worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Delta Squad is an elite force of the clone army being entrusted with the most dangerous and essential 
 missions throughout the clone wars. As Delta 38 you represent the leader of this almost invincible 
 platoon.
  
  In the beginning you start right away on Geonosis after being introduced to your teammates. Delta 
 07 (called 'Sev') is your typical brute guy standing right in the middle of the battlefield wielding 
 only the heaviest weaponry. Delta 62 ('Scorch') is the chatty guy enlighting you with some funny 
 radio comments from time to time. There is a constant 'brother-like' competition going on between 
 him and 07 which results in an impression of deeper character development. Delta 40 ('Fixer') is 
 the down-to-earth professional standing between 07 and 62.
  
  The gameplay in Republic Commando is simply amazing. Battling through different, convincingly looking 
 areas in the Star Wars universe you won't find yourself disappointed or bored at all. It's going 
 at a great pace with new enemies and weapons introduced at a constant frequency. What is really 
 outstanding about RC is the great artificial intelligence of your teammates and the brilliant implementation 
 of teamplay. You can assign commands to your squad and give them lots of different pre-scripted 
 tasks and positions like occupying a sniper spot or slicing a terminal.
  
  The game has a nice auto-save feature and when you are gunned down you can simply wait for your 
 teammates to revive you and therefore bringing you back to action with full shields and half of 
 your health restored. Even tho' there are some points in the game when you will be on your own, 
 it's not really hard at all if you make smart use of cover and tactics.
  
  The weapons are quite ordinary. There is your regular 'unlimited ammo' handgun, a blaster machine 
 gun, a sniper attachment, a grenade launcher, a wookie rocket-launcher, a wookie energy crossbow, 
 a Geonosian energy beam staff, a heavy machine gun, a pumpgun, some uzi-like SMG, a slow but powerful 
 energy rifle and many different useful grenades. It doesn't really feel overloaded with guns and 
 ammo can be scarce in some parts which forces you to different styles of gunplay. A great feature 
 is the possibility to get close and personal with a powerful meele attack. This doesn't only save 
 ammo but also is a strong attack capable of taking out some weaker enemies in a single strike. 
 Apart from that it looks and feels AWESOME!
  
  The HUD (visor) can be somewhat different and feel a bit clumsy but you will soon get the hang 
 of it. What looks pretty nice is when an enemy is killed close to you there will be splatters of 
 alien blood or battery acid over your visor which then are swept away. This also happens when you 
 are being shot in the face or when it's raining.
  
  Graphics are surprisingly nice and the engine runs smoothly at a constant 'playable' framerate 
 even on slower systems. The length of the single-player campaign is the only noticeable point of 
 criticism. There are only 4 areas with a few missions each to complete and you will reach the end 
 within a few days. But apart from that the missions are well designed and feature some interesting 
 twists in the storyline.
  
  If you are looking for a great addictive first-person experience you should go and get Star Wars 
 Republic Commando especially as a fan of the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesehunter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a great game, but its replay value isn't THAT good. Needs a sequel 
 to conclude what REALLY happened to Sev. Could earn lots of money if sequel was planned out earlier. 
 Though the AI is terrific! Instead of some cannonfodder suckers you get some hardcore people who 
 know how to shoot and kill. The graphical effects and sound were great, though sometimes I would 
 get a small glitch. The feeling of a game that you can actually count on the AI is great. Enemy 
 AI could use a little work sometimes. It feels like an Arcade game every now and then with their 
 heads popping out left and right. The reviving system is ingenius, making the game kind of easy, 
 unless you get yourself into a big mess.
  
  Overall, this game could be better, but in the long-run a thrill ride that'll keep you thinking 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Great game Engine I run it on all high will a P4 2.7ghz 768RAM 9600Pro (256MB) the physics are also 
 good I love the rag doll physics The sound is very good and the voice acting are also good.
  The Bad
  The game gets boring after a while The super battle droids are overpower weapons are 
 underpower and the weapons sounds weak.
  Not very long
  Overall Its a great game and its a must for any Star Wars and FPS fan.
  The gives a good first 
 impression but gets boring later and its not very long.
  
  And if you buy it have fun:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qmega36
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game has all! ! ! ! ! Great story line.
  Super action.
  Even of the relase date it ceeps to be next to the game giants.
  Must to get game for every gamer.
 
  Wery thinked over story line with all the good stuff.
  The graphics is suprisingly good.
  Only thing is the shortnes of the game, but you will like it anyway.
  This game deserves a sequel.
 
  Im not wery good at review wrighting, but i can tell you that this game is super.
  Im still playing it.
  Misions are from the historical Geonosis to wookee homeworld Kashsekkk, 
 and to a drifting in space Republic ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  No joke. Yeah, I've played Halo's single player. It's not that great. Yes, I've even played Call 
 of Duty. Awesome, but not Republic Commando. I don't need any fanboys or close-minded fools telling 
 me what games to like and to not like. Just because it's a Star Wars game doesn't make it bad. 
 Look at Battlefront and Rogue Squadron!
  Star Wars: Republic Commando is, quite truly, one of the best single player games I've ever played. 
 It has almost everything I've ever wanted in a single player game.
  The player gets three teammates throughout the majority of the game, save a boring, lengthy part 
 where he's alone. Generally, I've never liked games that give out permanent (or semi-permanent) 
 teammates, or place the player in a tactical squad , because they make the player rely on the teammates 
 too much, and there are never enough enemies in such games, and the few enemies that actually are 
 around easily kill the player and his team because they are as easy to kill as the enemies.
  Republic Commando doesn't pull that crap. Republic Commando is a straight-forward action game where 
 the player and his team take on huge amounts of enemies at once, all of them being easy to kill 
 with the player and his team taking little damage (all that depends on the difficulty setting) . 
 I would often find myself punching every enemy in the face, forgetting I even had a gun.
  When it comes to action, Republic Commando captures my favorite kind of gameplay. Painfully slow-moving 
 games where the player makes one mistake and dies horribly or his entire team is wiped out with 
 great ease piss me off. When it comes to team-based shooters, I don't like shooting my enemies 
 from a distance or trying to sneak up on them, I like getting in their face and beating the crap 
 out of them. It's even more fun when I have some buddies to tag along. Such is the case in Republic 
 Commando.
  Don't get me wrong, I can enjoy cool stealth games like Thief... Just, they're not addictive, and 
 I never get from start to finish before getting bored.
  
  The teammates are trusty, effective, reliable and helpful, but don't steal the action from the 
 player by killing all of the enemies (or make the player do everything) , and the player doesn't 
 have to constantly watch over them or protect them like in other squad-based shooters.
  The player and his chaps can all perform the same context-sensitive actions. For example, the player 
 can tell a member of his squad to place a bomb on a door, or the player can place the bomb himself. 
 They did a great job making the player and his peers similar by giving them the same advantages, 
 disadvantages and capabilties. The weapons system is different for teammates, but I'll cover that 
 later.
  Just to point it out right now, there's an option called Auto-Pull Maneuvers , which confused me 
 until I discovered that it determines whether teammates will automatically do things like heal 
 themselves or revive eachother. The Commandos only do such things when it's safe to do so, so it's 
 recommended that you leave this option on.
  The player's health is in the style of Halo, where there's a self-recharging shield, but if the 
 shield runs out, the player's actual health bar begins to suffer. The shield thing goes for every 
 member of the squad.
  Bacta tanks are conveniently strewn about levels, healing the Commandos of any ailments. Even a 
 massive droid ship the player ventures through has bacta tanks. Apparently, droids, Trandoshians 
 and Geonosians all benefit from bacta, explaining why they have bacta dispensers lined up throughout 
 the various levels. They all benefit from bacta in Battlefront, anyway.
  When a Commando runs completely out of shields and health, he becomes incapacitated, squirming 
 about on the ground. The player can either order a buddy to revive the fallen Commando, or he can 
 revive the Commando himself. Reviving takes just a few seconds of standing next to the fallen victim 
 and holding the use botton, but of course it's extremely dangerous to do in battle. If Auto-Pull 
 Maneuvers is on, Commandos will automatically revive teammates when it's safe to do so.
  If the player himself runs out of shields and health and becomes incapacitated, he has three options. 
 He can load the last saved game, tell his buddies to continue what they're doing, or make his buddies 
 come to him and make an attempt to revive him irrelevant of surrounding danger, which is usually 
 followed by his teammates insulting him for his impatience, though they'll comply anyway.
  The player only fails when he and all three of his teammates are incapacitated. Reminds me of a 
 quick story... Once, two of my comrades and I had fallen in battle against some Super Battle Droids 
 and Droidekas. The last remaining Commando somehow managed to defeat all of the enemies by himself, 
 and then he revived the whole squad. That's some of the most amazing crap I've ever seen a teammate 
 do in a dynamic situation in any game. An AI buddy save everyone from imminent defeat, including 
 the player, without any scripted sequences? You won't see that elsewhere.
  The best thing about teammates, besides their undying reliability, is how they can be bossed around. 
 There are four quick, global decisions the player can make: Search and Destroy, which basically 
 makes the Commandos run towards the end of the level by themselves, stopping to wait on the player 
 to catch up or to continue the progression of the level; Form Up, which makes the Commandos follow 
 the player wherever he goes; Secure Area, which is essentially Go to where I'm looking and stay 
 there ; and Cancel Maneuver, which makes them exit their assigned positions and do one of the three 
 previously mentioned commands they were last ordered to do.
  Speaking of assigned positions...
  This is where team commands get most interesting. Throughout 
 the game, the player's teammates only use their standard submachine guns that they started out 
 with from the very beginning, never using grenades or anything else.
  Context-sensitive positions are placed throughout levels. These positions make the player's teammates 
 use certain weapons, only in these positions. Generally, the positions are placed behind objects 
 so that the Commando may pull out a certain weapon and use it on the enemy whilst hiding behind 
 cover.
  Let's say there's a big room full of enemies with the Commandos being on one end of the room. There's 
 a pre-defined position set up so that, were a Commando to use this position, he would be behind 
 a barrier of some sort, shielding him from the center of the big room where the enemies are.
  This position happens to be a sniper position. The player looks at the position, presses the use 
 botton, and an unoccupied Commando goes to that position and pulls out a sniper rifle. Looking 
 over the barrier, he begins blasting enemies with the sniper rifle. If an enemy appears behind 
 him (on his side of the barrier) , he will simply turn around and either smack that enemy in the 
 face if it's close enough, or blast it with the sniper rifle. If the player looks at the sniping 
 Commando and presses the use button, or every enemy in the area is killed, the Commando will stop 
 sniping.
  Aside from sniping, such pre-defined positions include grenade-tossing or using a stationary weapon 
 like a turret. Commandos never use enemy weapons, though the player can if it so pleases him. The 
 disappointing thing is that the player can only carry ONE weapon that isn't a variant on his standard-issue 
 weapon. This can make the use of some weapons unappealing because most weapons dropped by enemies 
 get little ammo, and though powerful, might not be as useful as the next gun simply because the 
 next gun has abundant ammunition.
  
  Well, I've covered teammates. I guess I could cover all the uninteresting crap, now.
  
  Graphics 
 are great, and the game has high compatability, able to look good without taking too much memory. 
 If a computer doesn't have Pixel Shader 1.1 hardware or higher, though, everything that would normally 
 be specially colored is pure white. I once went through the entire game with the weird whiteness, 
 so it's not terrible, and most computers will not have such problems.
  I've gotten Republic Commando to run just fine on two different desktop computers, but I couldn't 
 get levels to start in two different laptop computers, though I could still view player models 
 for multiplayer setup. Too much memory required for the laptops to handle, I guess.
  
  Voice acting is wonderful. Each of the Commandos all have different voices, which is kind of weird 
 since they're all clones of the same dude. The player's Commando is voiced by the guy that played 
 Jango Fett in Star Wars: Attack of the Clones, and the other three are voiced by people of which 
 I've never learned their names. Early in the game's development, all of the clones were going to 
 look and sound the same (which was luckily scrapped later) , but this had a negative impact because 
 all of the clones have American accents, but still use British lingo (like throwing around bloody 
 ) that sounds extremely out of place, and was only in place because the original voices all had 
 British accents.
  Sound effects are nothing astonishing, but they get the job done.
  
  Levels are quite nice-looking, though they don't often contain anything particularly eye-catching. 
 Most levels are pretty linear, having the player move from point A to point B.
  I wouldn't have it any other way.
  Despite such linearity, there's plenty of stuff to do in the 
 various areas with tons of enemies to kill and so many ways to utilize teammates and tackle certain 
 objectives. I could easily play Republic Commando from start to finish over and over again, sans 
 the solo parts.
  The variety of enemies is a modestly narrow range. You have Geonosians, which come in the suicidal 
 melee style or the fly-around-and-shoot-a-gun style. Then you have the droids, which come in standard 
 cannon fodder,  Droidekas and big, bad Super Battle Droids. 
 Lastly, you get Trandoshians. The two basic Trandoshians are either fat and short or average-sized, 
 carrying either shotguns or submachine guns. Lastly, you get the steroid-abusing Trandoshians, 
 which are tall, strong, tough to kill and wield heavy machine guns.
  There are also boss spider droid things, which are essentially the tanks of Republic Commando, 
 using a big cannon to blow the Commandos away. Then you get Grievous' guards, which are ninja robots 
 that attack with electric, pink batons of death.
  The problems with the enemies in the game is that, while some are reasonably easy or difficult 
 to kill, most just have too many hit points to make up for their inability to fight in an interesting 
 or dangerous manner.
  I was honestly quite disappointed by the lack of tanks and heavy weaponry to match them. The variety 
 of weapons the player can steal from the enemy are even more narrow than the varieties of enemies 
 themselves. The weapons are all pretty basic and, as I mentioned above, the player can only carry 
 one non-standard weapon at a time, with the strong ones (like the Wookie rocket launcher) having 
 so little ammo as to make them unused for almost the entire game. I've played the game two or three 
 times through, but I've never used the Wookie bowcaster or the Trandoshian super-rifle thing longer 
 than the amount of time it takes to see what they can do before discarding them for something else.
 
  
  Though teammates are generally limited to the player's squad, there are a few occurences of non-Commando 
 teammates. The player sometimes runs into normal clone troopers, which is usually when no Commandos 
 are around. Clone troopers love to die and quite literally don't deal any damage, so don't rely 
 on them to be helpful. When the player gets to Kashyyyk, he also gets to fight alongside wookies, 
 usually limited to one at a time, and not very often, though he gets them whenever he's with his 
 Commandos.
  
  The game isn't very long at all, though it's long enough to not be beatable in one sitting. The 
 worst part is, there are a few sections where they take away the player's teammates. One of the 
 sections lasts like a friggin' hour, assuming the player is on a difficulty above Easy. Though 
 the player doesn't NEED his teammates to get through the game, not having them removes a whole 
 level of gameplay and strategy, turning the game into somewhat of a rather boring, standard-issue 
 hallway crawler. Luckily, the player can breeze through these solo segments and get back to the 
 action alongside his teammates.
  Besides these crappy solo parts, the only problem with the game's single player is that it doesn't 
 last nearly long enough. In less than a dozen hours, the player can completely finish the game.
 
  It's not really fair to say that the game was short, as that's a rather standard FPS length. Mainly, 
 if a game leaves you thinking it was too short, the truth is it wasn't long enough to satisfy the 
 hunger to play more of it. I once tried to get through all of Return to Castle Wolfenstein, because 
 at one point I got extremely bored at its crappiness, so I cheated to rush through it, and even 
 when I was completely unkillable and had the munitions to destroy anything that dared move, the 
 game was still too damn long so I never even finished it.
  Republic Commando had me so addicted with its nonstop, unbelievably fun action, and then they hit 
 me with this rather weird segment of the game where I had to slaughter a bunch of Geonosians by 
 myself, then I got on a turret, shot a stationary target over and over with literally no opposition 
 or challenge and then the game ended.
  Not only was that the crappiest final part of the game thing they could've possibly thought of, 
 but it only enhanced my great disappointment of finishing the game. One of the Commandos mysteriously 
 disappears, and the other Commandos are like We need to go back and get him! and Yoda's like NO 
 WAY! WE'RE SENDING TROOPS TO REINFORCE KASHYYYK! and then the game ends. They're apparently not 
 going to make a sequel to this great game, so that was the weirdest ending ever.
  The game starts off kind of weird, too. The game begins on Geonosis, during the big battle that 
 took place in Episode 2. The player lands in what looks like the arena where Anakin Skywalker and 
 the Jedi Krew all battled it out until they were rescued by Yoda and the clones. The thing is, 
 if it is the arena, it's even bigger than in the movie, and now it's full of trenches and crap 
 all of the sudden, rather than being perfectly flat.
  The first level is the only level where the player gets to see AT-TEs and spider walkers in action, 
 essentially the only real tanks in the game, and they both fight entirely though scripts. Spider 
 walkers pose no threat to the player.
  
  Where was I going with all that? Anyway...
  I love Republic Commando. The plot, though not loaded with enthralling twists, is certainly interesting 
 enough and lacking in plotholes. The character developement is pretty great. I actually feel like 
 I have this emotional obligation to help out a fallen teammate, and when I beat the game, I actually 
 missed them. Replaying the game doesn't bring about any NEW adventures for the four heroes.
  The game is fun, non-stop action (except the solo parts, and the ending of the game) , with the 
 player constantly on his toes, quickly passing out orders without any need to rely too much on 
 his teammates, or have his teammates rely on him, making the perfect blend of self-reliance and 
 teamwork to satisfy any action lover.
  Levels are loaded with the merciless slaughter of countless relatively intelligent enemies at high 
 speeds, with teammates being able to easily hold their own and take down enemies without stealing 
 any fun from the player. I love shooting a guy in the face with a shotgun, then beating another 
 guy in the face with the shotgun itself.
  Different weapons turn out different melee attacks. The player's basic weapon isn't big enough 
 for melee capabilties, so a knife pops out of the player's hand with which he simply stabs enemies. 
 Blood (or droid oil?) splatters on the player's visor as he stabs and beats enemies violently, 
 and a convenient little windshield wiper of sorts cleans it off quickly. Melee is really unbalanced, 
 with the knifehand thing being the most powerful of all melee weapons due to is extreme speed and 
 power, though if the player doesn't time the stabbing properly (not very hard) , it goes weirdly 
 slow.
  
  The multiplayer is very basic. Sixteen guys, basic gametypes, Trandoshians versus Commandos, no 
 bots... The action of the single player can't carry over into the multiplayer, so Republic Commando's 
 multiplayer has a rather simple thing going on. Not bad, but nothing mind-blowing. Whatever.
  I'm not sure about the XBOX, but on the PC, a lot of people actually play the game online, and 
 there are servers that allow for more than sixteen people. I've seen a server that supports thirty-two 
 people, and even one that supports sixty-four people!
  One neat thing about the multiplayer is that you can suit up your characters (Commando and Trandoshian) 
 with some cool stuff in a lot of different combinations, though the stuff you can wear on certain 
 parts doesn't come in a huge variety. They also don't make use of every part or skin that can be 
 seen in the single player part of the game.
  Sadly, the game has no co-op play. By looking at a picture in an unused level of the game designed 
 to skip to various parts of the game for testing, it seems that Republic Commando actually had 
 plans for a co-op mode that simply wasn't finished, or perhaps was never properly functional to 
 begin with.
  
  If you're able to look past the solo parts and the game's disappointing briefness that may leave 
 you begging for more, you'll be enveloped in the single player action shooter that has, as far 
 as my experience goes, topped all other action shooters. The seemless teamwork and mindless, utterly 
 satisfying close-quarters action form together to make awesome, memorable gameplay not matched 
 in other games.
  
  As a side note, you can edit the entire game with the included Unreal Editor. You can mess with 
 levels, character data, textures, and all that crap with great ease, as the creators included it 
 all in the game from the beginning. Just remember to make backups of anything you change!
  The game's popularity (specifically lack thereof) never inspired any fan-made content of any sort, 
 so don't expect to be able to download anything new to lengthen the lifespan of the game.
  For some reason, the game only supports shadows for the player's squadmates. I easily edited the 
 properties file with Unreal Editor so that every living thing generates a shadow, which caused 
 no negative impact on the game's framerate, and in fact looked extremely good. The sleeping Super 
 Battle Droids inside the core ship level look especially ominous with the lights behind them making 
 their shadows cast largely in front of them. It's weird that they originally only had the shadows 
 work for the player's squad and nobody else.
  Various screenshots of the game (and beta stuff from the testing level I mentioned above) show 
 that some parts of the game, such as the first level, went through dramatic changes. Changes such 
 as making the commandos look and sound different were obviously extremely good ideas, but others, 
 like changing the first Geonosis level from the inside of a flat arena to the inside of an arena 
 loaded with trenches seems kind of mysterious, like what was the level like when it took place 
 above ground? The world will never know. Well, the creators will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rety5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Ok so we all know what happened and if you own either of the star wars battlefronts you have played 
 the battle for geonosis. But you have only played on the surface! What about the catacoumbs deep 
 under ground where the CIS droid army was being created? What about the core ships? And then you 
 want to know what its like on an Aclammater class star cruiser and the begginings of the battle 
 for kashyyk. You can explore all these in the FPS republic commando.
  
  Gameplay:
  First you start off as a baby inside one of the millions of cloning pods (as seen in star wars 
 episode II) staring at the kaminoan Taun We. The you are a boy at the computer banks and then you 
 recieve youre commando helmet. And youre character picks it up and sticks it on his head. All in 
 first person. It really help you believe you are inside the star wars universe. Then you see the 
 new Grand Army of the Republic boarding ready for the invasion of geonosis. And you are already 
 enjoying the experiance without getting anywhere near the heart of the game. Blasting the living 
 crap out of droids and trandoshans. Ok so now picture this scene. Youre gunship goes into freefall 
 and forgetting you are in the real world you actually feel the vertigo! You really do! And then 
 the door opens and you can see blaster fire and lumbering AT-TE's and then you land in the arena. 
 Thats when you pick up the blaster rifle. Its possibly the most balanced, easy to use weapon in 
 a FPS ever. So you run through these trenches then you meet scorch. And without realising it you 
 pick up on squad controlls instantly. So you pick up the rest of youre squad through the rest of 
 the mission. Ok so now I better talk about squad controlls. You can tell them to secure a possition, 
 form up or search and destroy with F1, F2 and F3 and there are hlolograms of youre men at some 
 points. Aim youre indicator at these and press F and one of youre squad mates takes up a possition. 
 Plus there is replay value. First time you play you can make a team mate use a sniper position 
 and then get the rest of youre men to take the fire from the enemy and then next time you can use 
 anti armour possitions and turrets. Its a great game!
  
  Graphics:
  The finest on pc. Certainly the best I have ever seen.
  
  Sound:
  Great voice acting, sound 
 fx perfect. And the soundtrack Im completely addicted to. (look for clones by ash and then check 
 out the mp3 section of the republic commando website)
  
  Value:
  Its definately the best tenner I have ever spent. Probably the best investment I have ever made. 
 You must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManofHoliness
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked this up I didn't expect much since I hadn't heard much about it. But as I played 
 I got addicted more and more I played it. I am not really a Star Wars fan I have seen the movies 
 but I didn't expect this game to be as fun as it was. Great job at making you utilize your squad 
 members to get through certain parts of the game. Several weapons as well as stationary weapons 
 throughout the game are usefull for certain parts. Although the ending was somewhat adrupt and 
 quick, as well as leaving us to wonder what happened to the fourth member of the squad. Other than 
 that this was a great game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil812k1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is honestly one of the best first person shooters that I have ever played. The dark, 
 gritty tone of the story perfectly captures the Clone Wars and immerses you into the galaxy far, 
 far away. The gameplay is excellent, especially the easy to use and intuitive team controls. The 
 enemy AI is reasonable and rather hard to beat in the highest difficulty setting, but the team 
 AI really shines. Your fellow squad members know enough to act on their own if you fall, albeit 
 less efficiently, and know to seek cover and duck when under fire. Each character has his own personality 
 is generally likable, adding to the experience of the game. Some of the conversations are pretty 
 funny. But the most important thing is that it's just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I expected this game to be alot worse like battlefront 1 (battlefront 2 is good tho) , but the campaign 
 was actually pretty decent, you get three commando's with you that you can order around to get 
 health / crack computers / blow doors / snipe / lob nades / plant explosives. Its a decent time 
 killer, graphics are pretty good too. You dont need to be a Star Wars fan to enjoy this game, just 
 a fan of FPS's and killing stuff. The game is non stop action, very enjoyable and easy to get into. 
 Im not overly a fan of Star Wars but they sure have been making good PC games out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striker0102
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  The game started amazing, untill you get to super battle droids and different
  levels.
  
  I've got a short answer, its like a arcade game. The superbattle droids are so powerful and stupid. 
 Its not a very good tactical shooter, you hace 3 men to command, and they do help you. But their 
 not very like real beings, not cautious over anything. They get knocked out so quickly! I wish 
 you had veichles.
  
  Multiplayer is cool for a while, but you play halo for pc. You get harly any servers to play on, 
 it can get really boring. Just the same in every game, can't really sniper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Its rly the best squad game ever made. The single player is incredibly good. You live the action 
 from the first ten minutes to the end of the game. Its very cool how you can control your squad 
 to take strategic positions. So if you need a sharpshooter to cover you or a grenadier to stop enemies 
 from advancing you can send one of your commandos. The squad is also incredibly smart .Many times 
 you get in very nasty situations when the enemies are everywhere and you think you are doomed. 
 Then... SURPRISE: something happens and your saved .So the atmosphere is great .The graphics are 
 very impressive and the sound is absolutely amazing. You can hear the sound of the footsteps and 
 the roar of a genosian .The one of the best things about this game is that you are not alone. If 
 you die one of your commandos can resurrect you. So the best weapon is this game is your squad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  seems that nowadays you cant kick a chunk of bantha fodder without hitting a Star Wars game. While 
 some of them are excellent titles that expand upon the Star Wars universe by providing great stories 
 and compelling gameplay, others are, well, Super Bombad Racing. Luckily for us, the long-awaited 
 Republic Commando is not one of the latter. While the single-player campaign is quite short, the 
 game offers intense gameplay and an easy to grasp interface that FPS fans should have no problem 
 picking up. All in all, Republic Commando is a good game that puts gamers successfully in the helmet 
 of a Clone Trooper. In Republic Commando, you play as the leader of a group of four Clone Troopers 
 as they fight through a variety of missions during the infamous Clone Wars. Youll face off against 
 the Separatist Droid Army and their allies on familiar battlegrounds as Geonosis and Kashyyyk, 
 the Wookie home planet. The battles are fast and furious, with your squad mates providing much 
 needed support from all angles and utilizing each of their individualized traits. One member of 
 your team is a wily demolitions expert, another is a computer hacking expert, and the other is 
 a gung ho ultimate warrior who is skilled at sniping. Each of these characters come in handy in 
 their own unique ways and proves to be an asset in many pinches on the battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kannonkane1993
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game for all you star wars fans makes you feel like your in it. The only problem 
 is its short so when you finish it you just want more. If it had a longer single player campaign 
 then it would be great.
  
  I haven't played much of the multiplayer. But what i have played of it its not the best multiplayer 
 game. Good single player but not the best multiplayer game.
  
  Its possibly one of the best star wars games but a very short game if it had of been longer it 
 could be one of the best shooters for star wars.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is an interesting beast when it comes to videogames. There have been some excellent entries 
 (think X-Wing, KOTOR, Jedi Outcast, the arcade games) , some crappy ones (Force Commander, Jedi 
 Power Battles) , and a whole lot in between. Lately, LucasArts has focused its attention on creating 
 games around the prequels, with good reason. While most of these sit in that in between category, 
 a new addition to the franchise pokes its head part-way above the fray. Star Wars Republic Commando. 
 Is it the answer? LucasArts' game is set during the events of the movies, but outside of the characters 
 and main storyline; it's filled with posh presentation, and it gives players the go sign to light 
 into aliens and droids like never before. Republic Commando makes the Clone Wars cool again.
  
  
  Now, this isn't what I'd call an excellent game, but it's what I'd call a good one. The 
 polish has been rubbed into everything in Republic Commando. In fact, the game starts with a lovely 
 cutscene introducing the premise excellently while also serving as a platform to set players into 
 their new skin and into the lead of Delta Squad. It's a strangely soothing scene that wonderfully 
 sets up the game.
  
  The Cast and Crew
  After starting in, you'll begin to see that Republic Commando is stacked with character. In fact, 
 each member of Delta Squad has his own personality. While they're part of the clone army, they're 
 often referred to by other clones as deluxe models due to their higher training that not only gives 
 them more skills but also unique traits that complement each other in a team unit. Because they're 
 so functional together, they're given all of the nasty jobs that the normal clones would die trying.
 
  
  For the most part, I can dig this change in the clone philosophy. It kind of makes sense. A group 
 of four that acts as a clone Voltron (minus the attaching themselves to each other) is a cool idea. 
 Each of them has a specialty such as demolitions or hacking (though I'll get into that more in 
 a second) and a distinct personality. One is a goofball, the other is the hunter-killer type with 
 a dark (yet personable and fun) demeanor. For the most part, the team dynamic works in both mechanics 
 and in execution. The problem I have is that if they're brought up in the same environment for 
 the most part, why is it they don't have New Zealand accents like the rest of the clones and the 
 main character? That bugs me. They could still have personality and all share the same accent. 
 Either way, once you get over that inconsistency, the voice acting is pretty fun to listen to. 
 There's a good amount of banter between the guys and various comments to you as well. It helps 
 to quickly create a comfort zone with the other characters in the game and accept them as your 
 violent little family.
  
  And violent they are. While there won't be any red human blood splattered around, there's plenty 
 of green bug juice and robot fluids splattering onto your Metroid-like visor, which gets neatly 
 cleaned by a energy-based equivalent of the windshield wiper. In general, the game has a much grittier 
 and darker feel than either of the recent movies, a big plus. In fact, while there's a lot of battle 
 happening, it reminds me quite a bit more of the dirty and industrial feel of the original films.
 
  
  AndAction!
  Things really get going when the battles set in. There are only three main campaign levels in Republic 
 Commando, but all are full of action. Everything begins on Geonosis when training becomes a reality 
 for Delta Squad as they drop into live combat during the battle at the end of Episode II. This 
 particular planet gives the game a feel similar to that of Call of Duty or Medal of Honor, as friendly 
 clones, enemy droids, and Geonosians run around killing each other while you and your crew mow 
 through everybody in an attempt to achieve a very specific goal. The main difference between a game 
 like Call of Duty on the PC and this one is nature of the soldiers. Call of Duty provides a feel 
 of what it's like from the point of view of a grunt (mostly) and Republic Commando looks from the 
 view of special ops that aren't usually in the thick of a battlefield. It's more in the vein of 
 Rainbow Six 3. Consequently, there are quieter times and less frantic moments where you're hoping 
 not to die from the bullets whizzing from all directions and completely outmanned. As much as there's 
 some serious action, it's never overwhelming.
  
  
  The game has a good measure of that kind of excitement attached to it simply because you have these 
 team members with you to add lots of gunfire in all directions. It doesn't ever quite reach the 
 intensity or insanity as other games in the same genre. This stems largely from the fact that most 
 levels have you slogging down corridors (whether they're inside or out) , clearing out enemies, 
 and moving along farther, with very little deviation. The game's best moments occur when things 
 spread out and grow more complicated. One moment in particular took place on a ghost ship level 
 and had the squad backed up fighting against a bunch of droids that simply kept coming. More of 
 the scripted and timed events that come at you from all angles would have been appreciated. As 
 it is, the game is almost entirely linear.
  
  Enough Brawn, Not Enough Brains
  Even so, I really did like the pace for the most part; it was simply that I wished for more of 
 a challenge for my brain and not just my trigger finger. When you're playing it you have this feeling 
 that it could be better. My largest annoyance with the game comes from the way squad organization 
 is handled. Now, I'm speaking from the standpoint of a hardcore gamer; I play a lot of games and 
 many of them are strategic in nature. When I see an opportunity like this slip away, it makes me 
 a little sad. When you have this cool squad to deal with, why not use them? Let me try to explain...
 
  
  Each of your squad members is supposed to be a specialist and have a particular personality to 
 back it up. But these specialties boil down to the fact that if you tell someone to hack a terminal, 
 the first person to respond will be the hacker specialist Fixer. But if you give commands for two 
 consoles to be hacked, another will begin to hack and do it just as quickly as Fixer. Now, I have 
 no problem with everybody having all of the skills. In fact, I think that's great. But I also think 
 that the specialists should have been quicker at completing a task than one of the other guys. 
 But the importance of this niggling design point is that it's fun and strategic to direct a specialist 
 in tense moments and to know how to use your men wisely in certain situations. Instead, the game 
 holds your hand with a Darth Vader-like death grip. I do understand the need to appeal to the mass 
 market, but I have a hard time believing that people are really that simple. Sure, not everybody 
 is used to playing games, but I do believe they'd be able to figure simple controls out. I mean, 
 how did all those squad-based Rainbow Six games perform so well if that's not the case?
  
  As it stands, all around the levels, you'll see specific spots with blue silhouettes over them 
 that can be used for sniping, heavy weapons, grenade throwing, and so on. All you need to do is 
 see those spots and give orders to your guys for these set positions. You can't tell one of them 
 to take up defending a certain spot with a certain weapon (or even other rubble or cover that doesn't 
 have a symbol) , which majorly dumbs down the strategy component. Your men simply become floating 
 guns following you around with fun personalities and good animations.
  
  I really think that Republic Commando could have balanced deeper tactical gameplay with an easy 
 interface. Select soldier, point at ground, tell to go there and snipe, be done with it. I'm not 
 saying that this should be Full Spectrum Warrior in the Star Wars universe, it certainly should 
 remain focused on action, but there also has to be a tactical challenge.
  
  
  Particularly annoying are the ghosts of soldiers that appear when aiming the reticule at one of 
 these set locations. This is just too far for me. Yeah, it shows that someone can stand there and 
 after the ghost turns green that someone listened and will soon take up that position, but it's 
 just so bizarre. It yanks me out of my immersion in an otherwise terrifically presented game. If 
 nothing else, there should have been an option to turn them off.
  
  Otherwise, it really is a blast to have these guys along with you. Sometimes you'll be defending 
 them while they're trying to complete a task, while other times they'll be covering for you. Every 
 now and again one of them will have to shock you back to life using an electric paddle as well. 
 The teamwork foundation is definitely there, it just could have been expanded on a bit.
  
  MultiplayerMeh
  Multiplayer is a bit of a wash, however. I'm not saying it's bad -- it isn't. 
 It's just kinda obvious that it was tacked on because they needed to have it. They were definitely 
 concentrating on the single-player experience, and the three long missions show that focus. But 
 for those who like basic multiplayer with maps that range from OK to not-so-OK, they'll have 16-player 
 deathmatch, team-deathmatch, capture the flag, and assault.
  
  I was originally excited about assault because I figured this was developed to be along the lines 
 of Return to Castle Wolfenstein's brilliant class-based multiplayer. Not the case. Assault is simply 
 a different version of capture the flag where one team takes a flag and tries to get it into the 
 other base. I'm actually pretty surprised that they didn't go the way of Wolfenstein here. There 
 are basically classes already set up in the game along with hacking, demolitions, medics, and so 
 on. This is also a wish-list sort of thing, but man... it could have been a ton of fun. Closing 
 Comments
  The bottom line for the single player experience is that it's a good, fun ride. Not excellent, 
 but solidly good. The action survives on near constant combat, decent weapons, and very Star Warsy 
 sound. Gameplay could have been helped by less hand-holding and more tactics. Multiplayer is there... 
 but that's about all I can say for it. It can be fun for a while, but it isn't going to replace 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 or Halo 2 anytime soon. It would have been nice to see the multiplayer a 
 little deeper since the single player game only lasts for around 10 hours. Presentation is really 
 what carries Republic Commando farther than it could have gone on its own. It comes with a grand 
 score, good voice work, lovely animation, and great artistic style and polish. There isn't too 
 much story to speak of, as these soldiers are mainly just doing a job for the Republic and not 
 personally involved in the politics, but it gives a couple of insights into the other side of the 
 conflict as well as things to come. If you're a fan of Star Wars who's been looking for something 
 a little grittier, this is definitely a good choice. Don't expect it to blow your mind, but it 
 looks good and plays well while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovituralapizda
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  ok so i played the game like 1 million times, on highest dificulty level, it was very challanging.
 
  i don't know where to start praising this game.... it is revolutionary. the sound and graphics 
 are awesome and so are the physics. AI is like omfg , any of your team mates could take YOU down 
 any time if you could fight them :) . they are as smart as in F. E. A. R., even smarter as they can 
 do some more things like MELEE COMBAT wich is a lot cooler and more complex than in fear, throwing 
 back grenades assuming best shooting positions, dodging and others.
  you can NEVER get bored in this game.... on high dificulty i could not just march as on the easy 
 one coz i die in 2 shots or something... so when i took it slower.... just.... listen to your team 
 mates starting arguing with one another, and except for a few lines, every time i played a game 
 they said something different, did different actions and were funnier by the replay. but if they 
 are as deadlly as the are funny....
  the atmosphere is the one that should be in a WAR game, and the effects are also awesome.
  i 
 could write here till tomorrow but let's jsut close it and say that this is the best game of it's 
 kind so far.... and it's almost 2007 already :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Very crisp graphics gives this Star Wars FPS a very futuristic feel to the game. Add that to the 
 plethora of innovative Star Wars weaponry, alien species, and armor, and you get a wholy fresh 
 and new experience in the genre of the FPS. On a high quality video setting, this game produces 
 a vivid picture that captures the Star Wars atmosphere perfectly. Unlike the realistic shooters 
 such as Battlefield 2 and Day of Defeat, this game doesn't try to make the environment blend in 
 at all. Instead, everything stands out, making the gameplay very easy to grasp. Whereas in other 
 FPS, you're constantly trying to find where dropped ammo, dropped weaponry, accessible items, and 
 the enemies themselves are located, Republic Commando makes no mistake by having an interactive 
 overlay whenever your crosshair is over an interactive item, whether it is ammo, weapons, machinery, 
 enemies, or even hideaway spots. The graphics for the helmet is superb as well. When in tactical 
 mode, there are semi-holographic overlays on the screen of the helmet very much like the HUD on 
 an aircraft, putting on that Star Wars final touch.
  A small problem could be for those who strive for realistic scenery, which, quite frankly, you're 
 not going to get, thus the imperfect score of 9.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  An excellent voice cast makes each of your teammates stand out. For experienced players, you may 
 actually be able to differentiate between your teammates simply by listening to their voices. The 
 stereo is excellent, as is usually the case with new games nowadays (didn't test surround sound) . 
 The music soundtrack is straight from the movies, so a feeling of nostalgia is unavoidable for 
 those Star Wars fans. There really is no fault in the sound other than the fact that sometimes 
 it tends to intrude on your gameplay experience. For example, a music score may be playing when 
 you're trying to go covert, which sort of defeats the purpose of the mission; you wouldn't be listening 
 to music when you're laying an ambush. However, that could all be credited to being uniquely a 
 Star Wars game, so the unrealistic factor in it could be excused.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The BIG reason for the perfect score is because I feel that the interface for squad commands is 
 simply the best in squad-based games. An easy comparison would be Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 In Ghost Recon, to command a unit to perform an action, you have to memorize the buttons for the 
 command, and that's sort of difficult when you're all tensed up in the middle of a firefight. For 
 Republic Commando however, a large symbol pops up whenever your crosshair is pointed at an interactable 
 object and you could command your team to perform an action simply by pressing the use button. 
 So for example, you want your teammate to attack a specific target, just point at the target (which 
 you're shooting at anyways) and press the use button, which is conveniently programmable. That 
 makes it almost instinct for you to press the use button whenever you're firing at a target, thus 
 concentrating fire on it and probably destroying it in seconds. Then, the innovative command interface 
 also adapts for other manouvers as well. For example, you could command your squad to blow open 
 a door with 2 members covering, or you could do it yourself. In the case of sending in a squad, 
 just stand back and press use at the door. In the other choice, simply walk up to the door and 
 press use, and you will be the one to blow open the door yourself. So this sort of interface makes 
 firefights truly instinctive and efficient, where decisions are made in the blink of an eye. In 
 a real firefight, you wouldn't THINK how to call for support, would you? Instead, you'd simply 
 scream for help, so in games why should this be any different? Republic Commando brings the command 
 interface closer to this instinctive reaction than any other game because of it's simple and logical 
 command system.
  Another big plus to Republic Commando's gameplay is the smart (er) AI than in other squad-based 
 games. At least the AI doesn't stand in your way, or stand like a rock in the face of oncoming 
 fire whilst slowly returning fire. Instead, the AI acts pretty much like a few humans with truly 
 slow reactions, which is already a step up from previous games. The AI in Republic Commando is 
 quite similar to Battlefield 2's AI, except for one difference: Battlefield 2's AI tends to treat 
 you like dirt and tends to teamkill alot whereas in Republic Commando, you're their boss , so they 
 act like they would to their company CEO.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Some missions tend to be very repetitive, so although missions are quite long, the new ideas are 
 few and far between. However, each new mission does bring new weaponry and alien classes to join 
 the fray. So in that way, Republic Commando still manages to keep the interest level high along 
 the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando (PC)
  
  Introduction
  Lucas Arts decided it was time to head the Star Wars series into a different direction and a different 
 style. So they created a tactical first person shooter, what a great idea that was. Lucas Arts 
 doesn't disappoint fans and they also bring in gamers who don't really play Star Wars games.
  
  You finally play as one of the clone troopers and you have to command your squad (your brothers 
 as called in the game) to perform missions. The story is one that hasn't been told, since the movie 
 mostly covers the Jedi and not really the cloned troopers. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  For Lucas Arts to take a stab at this style of gameplay and do so well is amazing. And controlling 
 your squad isn't a task it is so very simple. Normally playing tactical shooters it's so difficult 
 to control your team and it can get very frustrating. But Republic Commando does so it so well, 
 and anyone can easily pick up this game and play it. 
  
  Controlling your squad is basic. You just have 4 buttons you need to control them. Also if you 
 get killed they can revive you. You can command your squad to take out buildings, secure areas, 
 take out a certain enemies first, and slash computers. This all comes in handy seeing that you 
 really can't do all the tasks by yourself.
  
  The weapons in this game are really cool. When you change from say your normal sort of blaster 
 weapon to the sniper rifle you actually see your character dismantling the weapon and building 
 a new one. So it serves as all the weapons in your arsenal and its looks great. 
  
  But their aren't only basic Star Wars blasters there are also the alien weapons that you will find 
 around your environments and that can easily be picked up. You can also use grenades, which you 
 find along the way in each level. But still with all the weapons and grenades available Lucas Arts 
 said it need something else, so they added in melee attacks which serves as a one hit kill to the 
 basic enemies. And this attack is very useful and fun to perform also. 
  
  Visuals
  
  This game has great visuals. When you hit an enemy with your melee attack their insides are slammed 
 onto your helmet and there is this cleaner thing that passes across. Looks awesome. Also the environments 
 look very well designed even though there is only one path you have to take.
  
  Sound
  
  Mostly all Star Wars games sound great. They always seem to do their best when it comes to 
 sound effects and Republic Commando doesn't disappoint at all. With blaster and the melee attack 
 sounds it really feels like you are hitting droids.
  
  Overall
  
  If you are tired of those other tactical shooters that make it so hard for you to control your 
 squad and would really want one that is easy to pick up and just have fun, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but it's just too short. It might seem long if you are a first-timer and you 
 have set the diffuclty on hard but after you've finished the game it becomes too short. If you 
 are expericened enough you can finish this game in just a few hours. The graphics are good, the 
 sound is good, and the gameplay is good. I would reccomend all Star Wars fans to buy this game. 
 The value for this game is pretty good and I really think that this is a good game. This game actually 
 has Temaura Merrison (who played Jango Fett in the Star Wars films) as the voice of your character 
 plus unlockable features as you progress in the single-player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomberman65
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Lucasarts were doing a FPS I thought probally won't be that good. When I saw some 
 of the makings of it I thought maybe This will be good. So I preorder it. When it came I was hooked. 
 It doesn't take much time to pick up on either Xbox or PC. I'll admit that it was a but too short 
 but I thought it was a great game none the less. The difficuly is perfect if you've got it on hard 
 or easy. The AI is alot smarter than the average AI. Your Commando Squad acually think for themselves 
 and watch your back calling out if hostiles are behind you. The MP aspect of it is diffrent than 
 what you'd expect from other game like say Halo but I think its quite fun, most cause its more 
 fast pased than most games MP. You can spawn in and then die straight away. Despite what people 
 say I love it and I think its a perfect game for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morpheusnj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  ok well first. the games play is great.. its fast and the weapons are also very well rounded.. u can 
 pick up 1 secondary weapon at a time and u can choose from wookie bowcasters to trando guns... just 
 u ahve to kill the enemy who weilds it... during the game u also can set ur troops up in sniping 
 places and to use turrets. the graphics are also good.. my computer could barely run it and it still 
 looked fine, and the game doesnt bog down with a steady frame rate. almost al star wars games ive 
 played have great sounds and SW: RC is no exception.. the gunfire is good with nice music. and another 
 thing i loved about the game was how ur squad members talk to u while u play... it really makes 
 u feel in the fight..
  now for SW: RC weakness.. its value, if the game lasted a little longer it would be AWESOME... however 
 the campaign is quite short and the multiplayer isnt really that good... so i would buy it if money 
 isnt a problem but try to borrow it if possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Lucasarts has put out a lot of Star Wars shooters, but most are easily identifiable as Star Wars, 
 with lightsabers, stormtroopers, and so on. Republic Commando, while not nessecarily better, is 
 different in that even though some elements are from the movies (stormtroopers, geonosians, wookies, 
 trandoshans, etc.) it doesn't feel anything like the movies. I. E. if you want a great Star Wars 
 experience, go elsewhere.
  
  If you want a great sci-fi shooter (albeit short) come here. The graphics, while slightly colorful, 
 are decent enough, the squad is fun to command and have intelligent and interesting conversations 
 (I wish you could choose one of them to be) the weapons are decent (nothing really new, but they're 
 okay) and it's got all the basics that most other Star Wars shooters suprisingly didn't have, like 
 Iron sights and a melee attack (not a melee weapon you had to switch to.) The enemies have decent 
 AI and (some, not all) have a fair amount of health, so they can get tricky when you've got a few 
 of the more advanced enemies like Elites or HAMS or Super Battle Droids giving you trouble at once. 
 Your squad is okay, but their machine guns don't do much damage so you'll need to assign some sniper 
 spots if you want to effectively take down the crowds.
  
  Gameplay: Very good. Basically a tougher, grittier version of a Star Wars game that fills out all 
 of the basics. It rips Halo a lot... but if they don't get in trouble, how could that be a bad 
 thing?
  I already covered a lot of the gameplay above this section...
  
  Graphics: Good again, if your computer can handle it. It looks awful on the lower settings, great 
 on the highest. Most gaming PCs now should make short work of it, and on mine most of it works 
 pretty well, but there are a few glitches that can get very annoying, like when the whole room 
 (even the floor and ceiling) turns one solid color, normally sky blue...
  
  Sound: Seriously, what do you expect in a Star Wars game? Napoleon Dynamite organ music?
  Actually, 
 they add some tracks to John Williams' music that sound a little like Napoleon Dynamite, sad but 
 true. The chorus on the menus sounds kind of cool.
  
  Value: Decent, now that it's cheap. The game *is* pretty short.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: High. I 
 thoroughly enjoyed this from start to finish. There's not really anything wrong with it at all, 
 except in Multiplayer which I can't play anyway due to Human blood, and the graphics glitch, which 
 shouldn't happen on most PCs (and I'm waiting for a Tech Support response, too...)
  
  One last note: My favorite squad member is actually Fixer... he seems to die the least and be one 
 of the quicker ones to come over and heal you, plus he's an interesting character on the comms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycpt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  For any regular Star Wars fan, I guess your shelf has already been filled to the brim with the 
 various games or merchandise revolving around the far away galaxy. So you might be 
 wondering, whats so special about this game? 
  
  For starters, this isnt Just Any Star Wars game where you run the show by 
 flying around in your star fighters, or wield a light saber and hack aimlessly though the thick 
 ranks of an army. As the leader of an elite Commando squad, you will take control of 3 other squad 
 mates (Which are of course clones of the infamous Jango Fett) and though you are all clones like 
 the rest, your training in Kamino has been slightly modified to improve on your skills and make 
 you more efficient and deadly in combat, which caters to the Republics need for dangerous 
 missions and near-impossible covert operations. The squad is designated Delta and 
 you dont have names, but rather some numbers as ID. Each member of the squad is unique, 
 with their own expertise and character. For example, the Boss (You) is cool and calm, Delta 62 
 is the ultimate joker and also an explosives technician. Other than that, you have a computer slicer 
 in your team which works like a hacker of systems and last but not the least, a tough and macho 
 guy taking sniper positions with a knack for killing things. The design of each character makes 
 the concept of team work attractive and appealing, with different color markings on each commando. 
 
  
  The story unfolds over various locations familiar to the Star Wars Universe. There are a total 
 of 3 major missions, which are further broken down into numerous sub-missions and objectives. While 
 the story is linear and very much predictable, the game does keep players on the edge of their 
 seat, with the action and suspense. The intensity of the battles and lightning-paced blasting action 
 is what makes this game at its best. Controls are very user-friendly. Most commands execute by 
 the press of a button, and your team mate will perform it almost instantly. Since the game relies 
 a lot on team tactics, you will often have to instruct your team mates to take up positions where 
 they will use it to their best to take down enemies. For example you need to position the sniper 
 far behind so that he can get a clear shot. At times you need your men to cover the hacker while 
 he works on the computer. There are also points in the game where you have to split up with your 
 team and each performs a specific task. Killing tough opponents will require accurate hits on the 
 enemys vital parts, and sometimes with the clock ticking, the suspense grows even more. 
 The game is considered easy in most areas except for some tight spots where the enemies swarm in 
 from all angles in real time, and you will need extra speed and decision making to defeat them. 
 Your team mates function very well when the Boss is around, but once you are taken down, Artificial 
 Intelligence seems to suffer, and while characters do no die in this game, it will certainly take 
 a hefty amount of time before your team comes to your aid with the Bacta (Bacta is 
 the life support machine in this game) . You will be left groaning constantly and watching how slowly 
 they fight the enemies before attending to you really doesnt kill time well. The lovely 
 aspect of this game is the way your team mates line up systematically before you breach or force 
 open a door, they seem extremely well trained and they position themselves so well that you get 
 the adrenaline rush of storming ahead. 
  
  The graphics in the game are well-curtailed to give a sense of tension and battle-ridden feel. 
 Textures are very detailed but the only drawback is that you need a good graphical card to run 
 animations smoothly. Blood of enemies splattered on your face will be wiped clean in a very stylish 
 manner, and the 1st person view point is simple with life indicators and ammo levels easy to look 
 at. Environmental details are excellent, with forests, light, and buildings crafted to look similar 
 to the Star Wars universe. Back ground music deserves credit for bringing up a fantastic mood of 
 military co-op game, and the theme songs certainly sound unique to the Star Wars franchise. Sound 
 effects on the other hand, are crisp, well engineered, loud and clear when they should be, and 
 even clicks and bangs sound authentic, thanks to the special engineering techniques (You will discover 
 how they make these sounds after finishing the game) 
  
  The game is adequate in terms of length, but it would be over so fast that you cant help 
 craving for more action. Star Wars fans would feel right at home with this game, blasting and weaving 
 through droids, SBDs, Geonosians, crouching in tight spots, instructing clones in action, but it 
 is sad that the NPCs are very limited, and you wont even encounter any familiar Jedi unless 
 in some very rare occasions, but this is after all a Covert operation. 1st person shooter fans 
 who love fast paced military action might want to try out the new breathe of live in this Star 
 Wars game, as it sure fits as one of the most promising Star Wars games to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kishmish
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Even I don't like the series but this Star Wars game rocks! Really it is so cool.
  Star Wars Republic Commando is great multiplayer game from leading your squad and get help from 
 other squads online! Here are the details:
  Graphics:
  Great graphics I love it. Environments design is really cool they are from episode three and two. 
 The character design is really great they took the shapes of Delta team from many Star Wars grunts. 
 Your enemies have shadows and u also that is a good point. When u hit some one near of you by melee 
 attack the blood of your enemy will spread on your helmet. The weapon design is not cheap it is 
 so strong every weapon is different than each other. The effects are really impressive not like 
 the other games that u cant see an expression of the face follows the effect! When you explode 
 some thing by the grenade u will see the ground will be dirty like an explosion hit it.
  Game-play:
  Cool Game-play the issues are not so noticeable. The Game-play type is first person 
 shooter. There is a lot of weapons u can kill your enemy by it! You are a Delta Squad leader which 
 you have two elites under your command fixer and exploder. You can act like a real Delta Elite 
 which when u throw a grenade in a building your grunts will take cover to protect themselves from 
 the explosion. Your shield energy could be fixed by some special points. You can use your flash 
 light to see in dark places.
  Sound:
  Great, If u saw The Making Of Republic Commando. The sound technician uses some fruit and vegetable 
 to make the sound of the sticky aliens, weird huh? And they used Metal and some heavy elements 
 to make the sound of the giant aliens. The voice actors are from the movie u could recognize when 
 you hear the Delta leader talking. The music is really cool from rock and all kind of music even 
 they made a song for the game it is the rock type go and check out the extras.
  Overall:
  This game rocks! It is highly addictive when u play online. I cant play it right cause my 
 PC video card 32, and it needs 64 or higher. I was playing it on my 128 video card it is really 
 cool game and worth playing. I only like this game in the series but the other and the movie really 
 suck! Ok, that what I say I dont know what u say guys but this game is a truly masterpiece.
 
  Problems:
  When u play the game, u might find some problem like u see u will fall into nothing and like these. 
 There is some technical problems with ur computer when u run it in a 32 video card PC u will see 
 nothing only a black screen so u should turn off the shadows and turn the graphics to the low. 
 Now this will run the game but it is really annoying from the graphics and the shadows.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokstah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  'Star Wars: Republic Commando,' as far as I know, was relatively unpopular and not a particularly 
 big seller. A little skepticism in the fanboy world is easy to come by, especially concerning game 
 titles linked to movie licenses, the tricky-to-get-right Star Wars sub-genre, and the crappy buzz 
 attached to George Lucas prequel films. Fans of FPS games and Star Wars are missing out, though, 
 if they pass Commando up: the game is unexpectedly on the ball. Its atmospheric, well-balanced, 
 and great fun.
  
  There are plenty of FPSs in on the market or in development which insert players into familiar 
 larger scenariosreal world historical wars such as WWII or Vietnam are popular settingswhile 
 others seem to start with gameplay mechanics, building outward into backstories. Sometimes, as 
 with the Half-Life series, those backstories are rich enough to make lasting contributions to the 
 gaming experience. Often, though, the larger world of a game is icing. Republic Commando, like 
 all Star Wars titles, is in a weird position: its grounded in a fictional universe (complete with 
 fictional laws of physics and a fictional, unlikely sense of battle tactics) , but that fictional 
 universe is better understood by many gamers than 1940s Europe and the South Pacific. Star Wars 
 games often tank because they cant strike the funky balance were looking for: make the game deeply 
 feel like Star Wars, but make it feel engagingly real.
  
  Thats where Commandos succeeds most impressively. On one hand, its extremely cinematic. The 
 developers clearly had inside access to footage and other materials from Episode II and Episode 
 III; from the earliest stages, the player is immersed in the unfolding Clone Wars. The players 
 Republic gunship speeds through waves of lumbering spider-droids and Separatist dropships while 
 squads of clone soldiers fire away at Geonisians on the ground in no time, youre on the arena 
 floor, picking off advancing battle droids and moving past smoldering wrecks. Reunited with your 
 squad (a sniping specialist, a demo guy and an all-around weapons nut) , the player is soon issuing 
 orders for door breaches and securing tactical points. The balance, again, is key. Should you man 
 that turret and have your squadmate breach the blast door? Or should you put your guys in room 
 clearing positions and slice the door control terminal yourself? Its heavily scripted, but very 
 carefully so. Youll seem oddly in charge.
  
  Republic Commando feels like a Rainbow Six game filtered 3 or 4 times through an episode of the 
 Clone Wars Animated Series. Thats not a bad thing.
  
  The stylistic details are very strong. Enemies take fire in gloriously messy form. Battle droids 
 shiver as theyre knocked into pieces; armor panels fly off and reveal smoldering innards. Dismembered 
 droids continue fighting (poorly) , sometimes without heads, sometimes as little more than a writhing 
 torso. Enemy jet-packs are susceptible to damage, sending their wearers blasting into the ceiling.
 
  
  Commando makes fantastic use of a scalable graphics engine (I forget which heavily modified 
 Q3, maybe?) . Its not Doom3, but for the most part, textures, light effects, and modeling are all 
 excellent. I played the game on both a modest and a mid-high end system (Athlon 3200+/1GB RAM/Geforce 
 5500fx, versus an Athlon 64 2.2ghz /2GB RAM/Geforce 7600GT) . As expected, the stronger DX9-enabled 
 system showed-off lots of beautiful effects, but most notably, the lower-end PC ran Republic Commando 
 with excellent frame rates at very respectable settings.
  
  At a bargain-bin price (the game should be very easy to purchase cheap at this point) , its easy 
 to overlook Commandos two weaknesses: short overall duration, and few enemy variations (somehow, 
 it feels varied enough) . Theyre more than forgivable. 'Star Wars: Republic Commando' is easily 
 recommended for FPS and Star Wars junkies alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is for all the Star Wars fans out there that have always wanted to be an asskicking Republic 
 Commando using their pulse rifles to vaporize anything in their path. I also really like the helmet 
 feature, it really adds the feeling that your really a Commando. However, one issue that i have 
 to take up with this game is that it leaves you wanting more at the end of it! WHAT IN THE HELL 
 HAPPENED TO THE SNIPER DUDE!? Well, this is a pretty decent game and it's fun especially if you 
 try taking on a whole droid army with just your wrist-knife ( It's really hard, trust me ^^,) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  There are many Star Wars games - and they're not that popular. Republic Commando is not goign to 
 make it any better. Graphics are so... how shoud I say it... dark? Game is too short and easy. 
 Controlled character is very heavy, he will take many hits before he dies. Gameplay is a bit boring 
 and game will be completed in day or two. Good thing is that you have some troops whom you can 
 command, but it doesn't make game much better. Multiplayer is suprisingly good, but its too fast 
 and there are no lots of maps, if I remember correctly.
  
  You must be a true fan of Star Wars games to like this game. Otherwise game will be too easy and 
 boring. For fans Republic Commando is good purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  great shooter game, at least on pc , i don't know about the xbox version. this game gives you a 
 real comradship feeling, a lot of enemies and ambushes but in a way you always feel secure , not 
 like doom or otyher "terrifyinggames . a lot of missions , lots of replay fun too, it reaally 
 makes you feel as if you are in a war that surrounds you and you are in the middle of it, for example 
 you see ships flyig over you sometimes or you see battles someplace you can't reach or something 
 like that , the sound is great too . a lot of different weapons ,a fairly realistic game too. ehm 
 what else is there tooo say, .. you find a lot of allies too, sometimes depending on how you act 
 the game has different endings paths ( all of this is in-game) i mean it won't change the game's 
 ending but only he quantity of enemies you'l have to kill and so on . the ending was omewhat of 
 a letdown but still the game remains great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrtaQ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  i would liked it to be more like a fee game, so that you could take the decisions for your squad, 
 and so that there would be more than one way to get through the missions. the commands in the game 
 are just to few.. there should had been a lot more, but any way it was some quiet fun 7 hours to 
 be a commando in the republic forces.. . The characters in the game are grate! really fun game... 
 but, just to short. I could had yoused much more time beaing a comando.. 
  
  well its a good firstperson shootout, that everyone can play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TowerGuard64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Non stop action this game is three very long campaign. you play as and clone Commando 38 you lead 
 a 4 man squad 62 Scorch, 07 Sez (my favorite squad man) , and 40 Fixer (my least favorite member) . 
 Online play is fun too if you in team it trandos vs cammandos (try to be a Cammando, trando gun 
 suck) you can only carrie 2 guns at a time but you can swich you guns out when ever you find a 
 new gun (my favorite gun is the shoutgun and the ACP Heavy mingun) Trust me you'll love the game 
 and play it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemits
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Awesome Game. Nothing Else Describes It. The Campaign Is Short But It Is Full Of Action In That 
 Time. The AI Is Awesome. The Squad Is Very Smart. The Constant Arguing Makes Them Have The Perfect 
 Personality. Like able, But Not Annoying. The 3 Locations Are All Different, Its Not The Same Map 
 Each Level. From Geonosian To A Capital Ship To The Wookie Planet Kashyyyk, All Very Different. 
 The Weapons Are Fun To Use. You Can Have Your DC-17 Blaster, Grenade Launcher, Sniper Or You Can 
 Pick Up A Weapon From The Enemies Dead Body. Doesn't Very From Most First Person Shooters But The 
 Squad Is Fun To Use. Also The Game Reminds You That You Have A Mask On Because If You Are Close 
 To An Enemy When They Die I. E. If You Use Your Vibroblade, Then Oil Or Blood Will Spalsh Onto Your 
 Visor, Only To Be Wiped Off Again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skuzzel-butt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando, is 1 of the best Frst Person Shooters games I have ever seen, best 
 the Stars Wars Clones story aswell. To know all about the Clone Commandos and their epic battles 
 too, plues the Clones that participated: 38-Boss, 07-Sev, 64-Scorch, 40- Fixer. 4 outstanding Clones 
 with hight training could engage many places with millions of droids and still be victorious!. 
 The Sceneray is very good and also the sound aswell, and what amazes me also is that each Clones 
 has a speaciality: Boss-Leader, Sev-Hunter and Sniper, Scorch-Demolitions, and Fixer-Hacker. Outstanding 
 levels and enemys too, like the Battle Droids, Super Battle Droids, Droidekas, and Trandoshans. 
 very impressive, plus the weapons are the things that make my mouth drool. Most impressive! weapons 
 never seened before being weiled by Clone troopers!. 
  
  And the ending was very good but also heartbreaking coz they took Sev, one the most skilled and 
 koolest trooper ever. they have to make a 2nd. Republic Commando coz it was so kool and they gotta 
 save Sev. Anyways I also got facinated when I saw the Wookies and had to fight on Kyshyke. very 
 good, but they could try to add more places this time, coz mostly it were very few places where 
 you had to fight, but they were very good to kill anyways.
  
  And they should try to make the characters more aggresive-lookin or something, new weapons, new 
 vechiles, and more new enemyes, thats the fun of it blowin things up and kill them all!
  
  Anyways my scorin for Republic Commando is 9/10
  hope if they make a 2nd. game to make it alot 
 better.
  STAY SIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Although that the Star Wars Trilogy have finish, the game industries still make games based not 
 only on the movies but also parts of
  the Star Wars universe. Almost Star Wars games have been great due to the supervison of George 
 Lucas on his game company Lucas Arts.
  Star Wars - Republic Commando is a short but excellent game to play combining the tactics squad 
 ability of Ghost Recon with the universe of 
  Star Wars. You control Delta Squad, one of Elite Commandos Squad of the Clon Army to serve The 
 Republic to fight against the Separatists.
  
  The Delta Squad is made by 4 Commandos. You play as Delta 38 - Boss, Leader of Delta Squad. The 
 other members of Delta Squad is 
  Delta 40 - Fixer, Hacker Expert; Delta 62 - Scorch, Demo Expert; and Delta 07 - Sev, Assassin and 
 Sniper Expert. All of them are good but 
  when they are combine, they are dangerous to the enemy. The gameplay is good, the enviroment is 
 cool also the weapons are awesome. You have 4
  weapons, 1 is a blaster, the others are attachment to a weapon that is similar to a SMG ( Sun Machine 
 Gun ) . Also you can pick the enemies 
  weapons to give them hell with their on tools. The enemies have a great AI, if they see a grenade 
 in front of them they omve away or throw the 
  grenade back a you.
  
  The First Mission is based on Episode 2 - The Attacks of the Clons on Geonosis. Their Mission is 
 to kill Sun Pac, a general of the 
  Geonosis army. Later on, you must destroy a factory that create Super Battle Droids. The rest of 
 the mission take place between Episode 2 
  and 3. Also you can meet fellow brothers of ChewBacca. 
  
  Long Story, Short Version: The game 
 is short but awesome. Cool worlds, awesome weapons, good AI and good Commandos.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando takes place during the Clone Wars era, where you are a squad leader 
 name 1138 a. k. a. "Boss" and you must take command of your squad composed of: Sev, Scorch, and Fixer, 
 and lead them through Geonosis, and abandonded Republic Cruiser, and Kashyyyk (the three chapters 
 of the game) . Star Wars Republic Commando is an FPS, which is a bit rare among Star Wars games, 
 you shouldn't worry about "How do I control my squad?" because the squad command is really intuitive 
 and easy to learn, all you have to do aim at a certain wall or turret then just one simple button 
 then your squad member takes up position. When you aim at the wall or turret a hologram will appear 
 demonstrating what the commando will do. Like all FPS's there is a multiplayer, and Republic Commando's 
 is a bit different, you can create your own character between Trandoshin and Commnado and altering 
 several features such as a bacta tank or radio comm., unfortuntely, they do not do anything in 
 particular. The gameplay is what you'd expect from an FPS, shoot, run, and with the squad system 
 in all that. The graphics, if your computer can handle it, are very nice with the armor shin and 
 smudges. The sound is the traditional Star Wars but with a few new tracks. This is one great game 
 Star Wars fans shouldn't miss. It's just a shame it's not as well-known to better Star Wars games 
 and it's way too short, which will lower the value a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  A really fun fps to play. It actually not only a fps, it has some tactical combat mixed into aswell. 
 You all afterall a team commander and tactics play an important role in this game.
  
  This will be a short review though, because the game is short and really there is not much to write 
 about. I like to write long reviews to speak my mind, but this game will probably pass us by quickly 
 and thus I don't feel like writing an epic poem about it.
  
  The gameplay is great, no unnecessary bells and whistles that you could hate, and no screwups concerning 
 the elements that are present.
  So, a well done game, that get's it right.
  
  It is however short, it does leave you wanting a bit more. But then again, by staying short, the 
 game doesn't bore you. Too many games linger on too long, things like that can easily kill a game.
 
  
  Sounds are well done, and character voices amazing. It really gives an impression of a team, that 
 has it's memories and stories to tell. Good voice acting can do so much, characters immediately 
 obtain a personality as they start exchanging dialogue. 
  
  Graphics are beautiful. Not overly filled with eyecandy, but enough to make for an unforgettable 
 visual experience.
  
  Value is not something I'd overly aplaud the game for. The single player is short and to the point. 
 Other then a harder difficulty there is nothing to really make you want to play the game again.
 
  Maybe in a year you'll want to dust it off and get trigger-happy. But definitely not much value 
 to talk about.
  
  
  My personal rating for the game, besides all the separate elements is pretty high. I like this 
 game, and I expected nothing more from it then I got. I'm happy and this game is a success in my 
 eyes.
  
  I'm going to recommend it to pretty much everyone who likes action packed games, even if they aren't 
 huge fps or Star Wars fans. If you like the two latter things as-well, then you need to get this 
 game for sure.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  if you are into star wars like i am, you know that lucasarts has put out alot of games. everything 
 from rebel assault for the pc and ps1 to dark forces for the pc, to brand new games like star wars 
 empire at war. these games are all fun for us to play. i don't think there has been a bad star 
 wars game yet. republic command is no exception. this is an fps game and one of the better ones. 
 you have a suit that protects you, you have a display that shows various things like your current 
 health. if you die or get shot too many times you can call a medic to revive you. this is a squad 
 based game which means you have other teammates along with you. one of the cool things you can 
 do in this game is to plant explosives. use the f key to send in your demolitions expert. the enemies 
 are smart. they know when you get close and will shoot at you on sight. it is a hard game, no doubt 
 about that. you will have to be on your toes to finish this game. it is similiar to game like doom 
 3, rainbow six, and other games like that. it is set in the star wars universe so if you are familiar 
 with that, it will give you an edge. this game combines elements of strategy, fast reflexes, and 
 poise. you can save your game, which is a cool feature that i like in games like this. if it gets 
 really hard, you can save your game and try again. so like i said, it is fps (first person shooter) 
 and if you like those games, you will definitely like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is set in the Clone-Wars era featuring The Republics endless fight against the 
 Separatists. In this game, you play as part of a highly trained and efficient covert-ops commando 
 group known as Delta Squad. Even though there are no Jedi and Sith (two of the most important groups 
 of the Star Wars universe) in the game to speak of, Lucas Arts have taken utmost care in delivering 
 this great Star Wars game as it features some solid presentation and a highly entertaining single-player 
 campaign and is easily one of the best tactical shooters to come out in many years.
  
  In Republic Commando you play as Thirty-Eight, a highly trained and efficient commando part of 
 an elite group known only as Delta Squad. Your three squad mates are also referenced only with 
 numbers 07, 40 and 62 but each have their own cool nickname and funny character which you get to 
 know in constant radio talks with your squad. Each squad member also has specialized skills such 
 as Demolitions, Slicing Computers and Sniping which come in handy whenever the situation demands 
 it. Delta Squad is always inserted deep into enemy territory for covert missions like retrieving 
 intelligence data among other things.
  
  The gameplay in the single player campaign is easily the best aspect of Republic Commando. Akin 
 to the classic Half Life, there are no cutscenes in the game to speak of; the whole game is seamlessly 
 presented from your perspective making the game highly believable and immersive. The squad mechanics 
 are inventive and easy to use and there are some neat aspects that differentiate it from the other 
 tactical shooters out there.
  
  As mentioned previously each squad mate has a separate skill and it is up to you to use them all 
 effectively to defeat your enemy. All of these specialized skills are always handled using a single 
 keystroke which makes giving commands to your squad less complex. For example, you can order your 
 slicing expert to slice a door for you to get through or order your demolitions expert to blow 
 a barricade and much more. There are four other keys which control various commands which you can 
 give to your squad as a whole. The first one is to order your squad to move forward and scout the 
 area, the second one is to order them to follow behind you, the third is to order them to secure 
 a particular area and the fourth is to override all commands and make them fall back behind you. 
 All of these various commands and mechanics are taught to you quite early on in the game via good 
 start up hints given to you in the first few areas of the game. This makes getting used to the 
 game much more easier than in other squad-based games. The other notable gameplay twist is in the 
 way your HUD (heads up display) and health is handled. You are a Republic Commando who wears a 
 helmet over your face and the HUD neatly resembles this setting and looks as if you are really 
 wearing a helmet. Though the HUD is different from most other games it gives you all the necessary 
 information like your health and ammo status and also the health status and location of your teammates. 
 The game also displays important messages such when you are hit heavily and your condition is critical 
 and so on.
  
  Health is another important twist in the game. You and all your teammates have rechargeable shields 
 which take the brunt of the damage before your health starts reducing. Even if your health does 
 go out completely, you are never dead if one of your teammates is still up and running. You are 
 simply disabled and the screen goes blurry until one of your squad members comes and revives you. 
 The same goes for your squad members and you can revive them if they are ever disabled. Health 
 is always recharged from bacta stations that are conveniently placed before and after battles for 
 you to recharge your health. However, for an otherwise highly immersive and quite realistic game, 
 you'll often wonder about the placement of these bacta stations, for example, why would there be 
 a bacta station on Geonosis or Kashyyk but you'll soon get over it because the other aspects of 
 the game are very good.
  
  Another critical component of any shooting game is the weapons and the general core shooting gameplay. 
 You start out with a basic Assault Rifle and a rechargeable pistol. The pistol especially can come 
 in handy when you are out of ammo as it has an effective range and always recharges and never runs 
 out of ammo. Soon you will find out that you can add suitable modifications to your Assault Rifle 
 to convert it into a Sniper Rifle and an Anti-Tank weapon and these modifications are introduced 
 to you at the right time when you really have a need for them thus encouraging you to try them 
 out. Apart from the Republican weapons you also gain access to Trandoshian weapons like the Array 
 and Repeater gun and even a Wookie bowcaster and homing rocket launcher. All of these weapons have 
 a great feel to them, for example, when you shoot with the huge wookie rocket launcher; you get 
 the feeling as if you are really carrying the huge thing with your own hands. In general, the core 
 shooting gameplay is really well handled and the developers need to be praised for this. Apart 
 from shooting you also have a very powerful melee attack to take out your foes from close range 
 and to my surprise I found that running up to each enemy and taking them out with this melee attack 
 a good option if you are overwhelmed by enemies.
  
  Luckily, for a game that relies so heavily on squad tactics the AI especially for your squad is 
 very good. When you give orders to them they carry them out effectively just like the highly trained 
 commandos that they are. They even carry out specific actions of their own like recharging their 
 health on their own if their condition is critical and hiding behind cover and taking down enemies 
 if you have ordered them to scout forward. The AI of your opposition is also not lagging behind 
 either. Your opponents ranging from droids to trandoshians will exhibit a very good level of AI. 
 For example, a geonosian bug will fly away from you if try your melee attack on it and a trandoshian 
 slaver will kick the grenade which you threw at it right back at you and a Super Battle Droid will 
 open its shield if it sees a grenade land in front ot it. This kind of AI shown by both your squad 
 mates and enemies makes the game challenging forcing you often to think a lot and use your tactics 
 efficiently.
  
  The single-player campaign is really the strong point of the game. There are three huge levels 
 set on Geonosis, a Republican Assault Ship and Kashyyk with each level having sublevels and areas 
 in them. The story is laid back and never gets in the way of the action. It more or less acts as 
 an excuse to send you to three different places to complete a variety of objectives. You also have 
 a few missions where you are on your own and these make you actually miss your squad. In general, 
 the action is heavily fast paced apart from the minimal loading times in between areas and the 
 game doesnt waste any time putting you right into the action. The save system is also well implemented 
 with the game automatically saving your progress using a checkpoint save system and the checkpoints 
 are also well placed so that you are never repeating a huge area over and over. There are manual 
 saves in the game but you will never be forced to use them because of the checkpoint save system. 
 All these aspects add up to make a highly engrossing campaign that, while short, will keep you 
 engaged completely for the 10-12 hours it will take you to finish it.
  
  Multiplayer doesn't even need a mention here. Clearly, the developers decided to concentrate on 
 making the single player campaign highly entertaining. There are only standard modes like Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag but again there's not much innovation here and nothing new 
 to differentiate it from the multitude of multiplayer first person shooters that do the same things 
 much better. So, if you are looking for a good multiplayer game, you are not going to find it here.
 
  
  Visually, the game looks stunning especially with all the special effects on. The game has a great 
 motion blur and bloom effect which gives the whole world sort of a bright look and needless to 
 say the textures and the various character models in the game are very good. Over the course of 
 the game you will visit three different places and these look in stark contrast to one another 
 and even within these places, the areas look different from each other and never look repetitive. 
 There are some great grenade effects for all the grenades and especially the hazy and blurry look 
 of the world when you are hit by a flashbang or EC grenade looks spot-on. There is also a great 
 visor effect where in if you kill an enemy from very close range, the blood splashes all over the 
 screen only for a clean wiping effect to wipe it off. All these effects and in general great looking 
 visuals add another level of immersion to an already engaging game.
  
  The in-game sound and music is as good as the visuals. The orchestral musical score is very good 
 and though it borrows some of the best sounds from the original Star Wars theme, it also adds a 
 lot of custom sounds and in general is very good to hear. The weapon sounds are all great and so 
 are the sounds of the footsteps of you and your teammates. There are constant talks over the radio 
 with your squad and your adviser which is pretty good and the voice overs for these are perfect 
 and the dialogues are quite funny which means you are never bored and also constantly get useful 
 information about your various objectives.
  
  Republic Commandos single-player campaign will remain one which you will finish in one or two 
 sittings not only because the game is short but also because the engaging and fast paced gameplay 
 will force you to do so. Apart from this, the highly impressive sound and graphics also mean that 
 the game has tons of polish and some great production values. There are also some good unlockable 
 content in the form of some development videos which are quite good. However, the campaign will 
 leave you wanting more and the low-quality multiplayer means the game loses a lot of lasting appeal. 
 But still all said and done, Republic Commando is one hell of a tactical shooter and can be easily 
 recommended to any squad based or in general any FPS fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferraridude9
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Gameplay was outstanding! Not only was it a Squad-Based Star Wars game, but you got to play as 
 the voice of Temuera Morrison who is Jango Fett in Episode II Attack of the Clones. The Game Design 
 Team really made you feel like you were commanding a military squad. Yes, the game only spans 4 
 Planets, and a star destroyer: Kamino (Prologue Movie) , Genosis, The Ras Prosecutor, and Kashyyyk, 
 but it has to be one of the greatest, if not the greatest, Star Wars games ever, period. You start 
 out in a pod in the cloning facilities on Kamino and there's a short intro. But before you know 
 it, your destroying Droid Factories beneath Genosis. Each planet (the three you play on) has an 
 average of 5 levels, and from there divided into tons of sub-chapters. The game is like most Episode 
 II - Episode III era Star Wars games, stop the Sepratists.
  
  Controls:
  At first the controls were hard, but after the first few sub-levels, controlling and commanding 
 is a sin-tch! Very basic if you break it down: W A D S-Move, F-Action, Z-Zoom, 1 though 4-Weapons, 
 5-Secondary Weapon, Q-Grenade Switch, R-Reload, E-Melee, R Click-Grenade Throw, L Click-Fire, Mouse 
 Wheel-Weapon Switch. As you can see, the controls are quite similar to most PC Shooters. And if 
 you don't like those controls, customize them in your User Options.
  
  Levels:
  I got into some detail in the Gameplay Section on the Levels, but let's re-cap. Four Planets, one 
 with a move, the other three with an average of 5 levels divided into subchapters. On Genosis you 
 indirectly help win the battle for the clones. Then over a year passes, 367 days actually since 
 the battle of Genosis. On the Ras Prosecutor, you search a Clone Assault Ship that had been missing 
 and had reappeared systems away from where it was patrolling. You meet some nice new friends, the 
 Trandoshans! There's a HUGE twist you have to make your way out of at the end of this level, but 
 I'm not going to mention it. Well, maybe I'll give you a hint: Somehow, Sev sees into hyperspace 
 and sees something at the edge of the system coming towards them, and no it's not another Assault 
 Ship. Soon after you make your way out of that sticky situation you find yourself on Kashyyyk, 
 Planet of the Wookies, the species of Chewbacca the Star Wars films. Since all the levels on Kashyyyk 
 lead to the end, I think I've given enough information on the levels.
  
  Team AI:
  My gosh, can any other game top the Team AI? I think not. If this isn't, the game has some of the 
 "Cream-of-the-Crop" Squad AI. Not only do they obey your commands and shoot at what you want them 
 to, they say funny things! Yes, some of the dialogue is "timed" to go off at certain parts of the 
 game, but the funniest things are when your walking around and they'll say something humorous. 
 The AI beats any other game I have ever seen.
  
  Enemies:
  In general, enemies are easy (depending on which difficulty setting your on and your skill) . Some 
 are harder. If I'm correct, there are about 15 different enemies in the game. Some, small enough 
 to step on, some large enough and have enough armor to take two full clips+ of the Wookie H. Rocket 
 Launcher to kill. The enemies are The Sepratists, as in Attack of the Clones. In this Star Wars 
 Chapter, the Separatists include The Trade Federation, Genosisians (if that's how it's spelled) , 
 and the Trandoshans, bothersome lizards. Each of the group has a form of a regular soldier and 
 an elite. The regulars are normally armed with laser guns or swords, and the elites with beam weapons 
 and chain guns. Nice eh? Sometimes, if your really unlucky, there'll be about four or five trandoshans 
 with LS-50 Concussion Rifles, which explode a few seconds after hitting a target. This brings us 
 into the next topic, Weapons.
  
  Weapons:
  In general, you have two weapons. One handgun, and a rifle that can be customized in seconds to 
 a Machine Gun, Sniper Rife, or an Anti-Armor Mortar. Along with your base weapons, you can also 
 carry one of several Secondary Weapons. Secondary Weapons include: Trandoshan SMG, ACP Array Gun (Shotgun) , 
 Wookie Bowcaster, LS-50 Concussion Rife, Wookie Homing Rocket Launcher, Trandoshan Chain Gun, and 
 a Genosis Elite Beam Gun. All of them are pretty cool and are useful in tons of different situations. 
 You also carry five types of grenades and five of each type. Thermal Detonators, Genosis Sonic 
 Grenades, Stun Flash-Bang Grenades, EC Grenades (EMP) , and are the grenades your available to use.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Now I haven't experimented much with the Multiplay, but at first it's super tricky! You design 
 a character and you can pick the voices, armor color, sniping packs, comm pack, everything you 
 know? Really cool! It's like first playing Halo 1 for PC. Your a n00b! After a few games, you get 
 the flow. In my opinion, the best game-type is Team Deathmatch. You choose a side, Commando or 
 Trandoshan, and shoot away. You can carry 2 guns like in Halo. You are also able to taunt other 
 players with some of the Squad's signature bantering, else, Trando banter.
  
  Graphics:
  Now, I didn't have the best graphic card to run the game. In fact, I was surprised I got it to 
 run (Thank you Downloadable NVIDIA Software!) . Point is, my Video Card didn't have a Vertex Shader 
 or Pixel Shader, and knowing what that does, it would have been twice as awesome as it was. The 
 VS/PS adds special lighting effects to the game. In one of the Visors, Tactical Visor, your teammates 
 would be black and have outlines of their color. It also makes the lighting much better. Anyway, 
 graphics are SUBURB, as long as you have a good video card to run the game.
  
  Sound:
  Sound was pretty cool. SFX in general was good. Explosion SFX always own! Even when Trando's draw 
 their daggers, very realistic metallic sounds. In the Foley, even down to the walking of enemies 
 and the sound the Genosian Elite Beam, SO REALISTIC! The Foley Artists did a good job in this game. 
 The Background Sound was what most SW Fans like to hear, Original Soundtrack Music! Yes, it goes 
 right back to 1977 to the modern era of 2002 with John William's compositions of Star Wars music. 
 People claim he is the greatest composer of all time, I support this. The game's theme is awesome. 
 It's like taking "Duel of the Fates" (Episode I theme) and dropping it down a few keys with a ton 
 more vocals. Sound: Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  in this game u play a clone comando who has to command three other commandos through the colne 
 wars. first u are "dropped" into battle with the droids and told to kill a "bug like" leader. (forgot 
 their name) still with this mission starts out many others which have a good relation to the previous 
 one. first of all the graphics are quite good and the models of the clone solders are nicely rendered. 
 but it seems like more time was spent on them than on the other characters. another good thing 
 are the levels which are different in every mission and will never get dull. only sometimes u can 
 have some trouble figuring out a puzzle which are not that hard but this game is not about puzzles 
 and mistery. th ai is quite good and was not really as dull as i expected. actulaay they are quite 
 smart and are great at obeying your commands. just make sure they don't get stuck in a glitch through 
 the wall or left dying behind. it's about squad command and although it mabey a point and order 
 method, u can still have a great time with it. the number of cover your team can have are orgasnized 
 into the type of your units. there is sniper, anti aurmor and i think the last one was grenader 
 or something like that. still these are very effective aginst stronger foes like the big ball spiderlike 
 tank droid that shows up many times in various parts of the game. the only down side is the length 
 of the game. it is way too short and u can finish the campagin in less than 10 hours. i finished 
 it in 7. also the sound of the guns are not as nice as i expected but that did not stop me from 
 finishing the game. still through all of this, the game dilivers a great gameplay element to the 
 FPS genera. i would recommend this to people who would like to play and finish in a short time 
 and enjoy it. after all "good gifts can come in small packages" and this definitely describe republic 
 commando. the only thing i want to ask Lucas Arts is are they making a sequal to this game? if 
 so they should make the game a bit longer and the multiplayer gmae ahve more vairity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  I haven't played many first person shooters so I may not be the best person to listen to here, 
 but this is one of the best of the few first person shooters I have played. Clear? Good, because 
 I'm not going to say it again.
  To begin, this game is unlike other shooters because of the squad system, which is amazing. You 
 can highlight an enemy or a door or a tactical point and hit the squad button. Then your squad 
 will hold the tactical point or attack the enemy or breach the door, so you're never by yourself. 
 It can get so lonely in Half-Life 2. I wanted whatshername, the babe, to come along with me. But 
 back to Commando.
  One nice thing about this game, at least I liked it, is that you don't have to go constantly cycling 
 through a million fancy weapons. You have your blaster rifle, your heavy attachment, and your sniper 
 attachment. Not only does this make the game simpler, it gives you a wonderful feeling of realism. 
 The only other weapon is a knife that shoots out of your wrist.
  The combat is edge-of-your-seat, too. Battle droids, genoshians, grevious guards, tradoshans, all 
 of these and more jump out of you and begin blasting your squad away, so keep your fingers on those 
 buttons!
  This game is definitely worth buying, now that the price has gone now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of this game is great. Once you enter this game, it is actioned packed from beginning 
 to the end. The A. I I have to admit is just good that you will not have so much trouble with your 
 aquad members and in rare cases, you will encounter that one of your squad members just was delayed 
 by a pillar. That sucks. But the gameplay is great
  
  The graphics is just right and it is not a system hog like most other games and you could do by 
 any recent graphics card in the market right. The details are superb and light not heavy.
  
  I have some issues with the sound in some cases. i really think the sound should have been 
 better. Overall the sound quality is good.
  
  I have to admit that the overall value of this game is just good and nothing else. Although the 
 game has multiplayer, you rarely find enough people to enjoy the Fun.
  
  Just another satisfied player overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo of this game I wasnt too impressed by it but it is usually hard to tell 
 how good a game is by the demo so I bought it used for 20 dollars. I was very impressed with the 
 game. Its very fun and the graphics are great on it. The sound effects and music are all done really 
 well to giving the game more immersion. The way you are looking out from your helmet is cool to 
 and more games should use it. Enemy blood and oil spatter on your helmet and a windshield wiper 
 automatically wipes it off. It is short and there isnt much variety in the enemy types. Droids 
 trandochians big droids and bugs. There isnt much of a story in the game either just missions.. 
 its actually separated into 3 missions with tons of lvls in each one but ive already beaten it 
 3 times so there is replay value there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funmesh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Easily the best star wars game so far..... superb graphics... great story... good detail... awsome 
 delta strategy inolvement....... defenitly will keep you glued till you finish it... good missions... both 
 team based and solo...
  
  Great A. I.... Good sound... and just the perfect ammount of difficulty.. defenitly worth playing... amazing 
 action... good Sci Fi taken out of the movie.. good weapons.. Star wars fans are in for a treat... good 
 mix of both strategic roleplay and action... great comands for comando 38... the bacta taking or 
 health retrieving process is fun.. great machines... good enemies who you can seriously enjoy killing 
 coz they are so annoying at times.. specially the bugs...
  
  It's a must play.... i rate its a first class squad based first person shooter.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Wow. What a game. They really hit the mark with this game.
  
  The gameplay in this game is simply stunning. The amount of thought that mustve gone into 
 creating this gritty and darkly humorous Star Wars game must be incredible.
  
  In a nutshell, you play as the leader of a Clone Commando Pod (squad) called Boss (voiced by Temuera 
 Morrison himself) and are unleashed onto the bad-soon-to-be-good guys. Each member of your squad 
 has different skills and different personalities (caused by the different training they went through) 
 but in the end, each member can perform any task as well as each other.
  
  The inclusion of iron sights is spot on. Iron sights are becoming the norm in FPS games and it 
 is indeed a welcome admission to Republic Commando.
  
  Your computer controlled comrades in arms can handle themselves in a fire fight quite well which 
 is a blessing. Their fighting skills are essential throughout the game especially when you decide 
 to plant a bomb or slice something yourself. Your podmates arent perfect though and do have 
 some blonde moments when they seem to just run in front you as youre trying to nail a bug 
 boy.
  
  The whole concept of ordering your team mates to key locations is a good one. Having someone watch 
 your six when youre expecting an ambush is a blessing and smart placement of your men can 
 save your own hide more time than you could count. To improve on it, I would have made it so you 
 could place your men behind any piece of cover you wanted, not the ones that the developers think 
 will be good as it makes it a little too easy. You half-expect something bad to happen when you 
 see a number of covering locations appear on your screen. 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Utilising the legendary Unreal engine, looks is something this game does not lack.
  
  The 
 HUD is something special indeed. The inclusion of the helmets visor is a very nice touch and adds 
 some depth to the game. Health and shields are located just at the bottom of your visor quite convincingly. 
 Ammunition is displayed on the actual weaponry and the crosshair appears as if it is part of your 
 visors HUD instead of just floating in mid air. Another nice touch is that weather effects and 
 adversaries blood (or whatever they have) hit your visor and obscure your vision momentarily before 
 your high-tech window wipers kick in.
  
  The levels are beautifully created. Harnessing the Unreal engine of the time to its current potential. 
 Each texture looks as if painstaking care has been put into it to make the whole experience look 
 authentic. Well, as authentic as you can get with Star Wars. 
  
  
  Sound
  
  This game is pure audible ecstasy for any Star Wars fan. Each sound is professionally implemented 
 and every fire fight is delivered in perfect Star Wars fashion thanks largely to the high quality 
 of the sound effects. If the sound is wrong in Star Wars, the whole thing just falls apart.
  
  My only real gripe with the sound in the game was that your own issue blaster was too quiet 
 compared to the sounds your team mates used. Made the weapon seem a little too underpowered.
  
  The main thing everybody liked, including myself, were the comments made by your podmates. 
 Conversations were light hearted and humorous. You really felt that these men were 
 part of a fighting unit just from the bond they shared.
  
  
  Value
  
  This game is worth every penny you spend on it. You will walk away from this experience wanting 
 more even if it is just one more level. Its a lot of fun and you will feel a little empty 
 inside once youve completed it. Even though the multiplayer is a bit uninspired, the depth 
 of the single player campaigns is outstanding albeit a little too short.
  
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  What makes this game stick out from the rest is that it's Star Wars but not 
 as we know it. We, as a fanbase, are too used to playing characters who are gifted in the ways 
 of the force. We hardly ever see a side of Star Wars that focuses on us normies. And Star Wars 
 has never been so gritty and real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  It is one of the nicest Star Wars game ever!!!!!!! The Star Wars Republic Commando is gonna be 
 your favourite. If you like squad based First Person Shooter for PC, you gonna pick this game. 
 The mission is challenging where you are commando of Delta Force, the mission always need to order 
 squad to take down some enemy. The graphic is sharp. But this mission is short, and some elements 
 of the game are NOT REAL!!!! The Super Battle Droid (SBD) is huge and take a long time to finish 
 it. If you see the movie, it just take a while. This game is gonna be your favourite and one of 
 the best Star Wars game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FozoTheRater
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Far above the intelligence of standard clones, Commando 38 leads a team of four Commandos through 
 a swarm of Trandoshans, fight along side with a squad of Wookies, and even charge the base of a 
 Droid control ship! Commando 38 (Sarge) is the leader of the crew, with a strong sense to do things 
 in the most thought-out, and smart way. While 38 commands the team, 07 (Sev) handles sniping duties, 
 and Close-Quarter-Combat operations while maintaining a tough and gritty personality. 62 (Scorch) 
 is the person to call on for demolition needs, with a bit of humor to boot! Finally, 40 (Fixer) 
 is the clone to call upon for hacking terminals and through even the most challenging of circumstances 
 he will do his best to do things by-the-book. For a First-Person-Shooter, it has a very unique 
 style of game play that almost reminds me of Metroid Prime. You (as Commando 38) take charge of 
 your team with innovative squad commands: Breach door, hack terminal, deploy grenade, take cover, 
 snipe from this point, and even grab some health! Destroying droid control ships, rescuing Wookie 
 commanders, and fighting back an entire fleet of Trandoshans is all in a days work for the elite 
 Commandos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WombatBerserker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is truly the best Star Wars game to date. You play as Delta 38, leader of the 
 Delta Squad. There are three other squad members that you can control around with ease, and the 
 A. I. is amazing for them. In the single player missions, you'll find yourself on Geonosis, Kashykk 
 (you will fight along side Wookies) , and a mysterious "Ghost Ship". The story is excellent, and 
 the game is worth it just for the single player. Multiplayer, however, is not to be forgotten. 
 While it's not exactly Halo, there are a good balance of weapons and maps. You play as Trandoshian, 
 or Clone, and there are multiple game types to play. Republic Commando is a solid experience through 
 and through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, both in gameplay and storyline (although unfortunetely too short. As Delta 
 38 you must give commands to your squad of other clones: 40, 07 and 62 on commando missions sabotaging 
 droid/Trandoshan bases. 
  As stated earlier this is a very short game; 3 levels consisting of many missions; Geonosis, a 
 Republic starship and Kashyyk. This is a much darker SW game than the others as it has a scarier 
 atmosphere and blood (and oil where appropiate) . The graphics require much more than your typical 
 Star Wars game (Battlefront II for example) and the sounds are just very, very Star Wars like (without 
 the heroic music) . The soundtrack is just awesome. 
  Overall a fun and immersive game, length of story is a complete letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  To start out, this Star Wars game has been completely purged of any jedi action, force abilities 
 and shiny lightsabers, thus the player taking the role of the leader of Delta squad, the most skilled 
 clone troopers of the republic. I won't say more so that you can discover the rest for yourselves. First, 
 the graphics. The engine that powers the visuals of this jewel is the Unreal engine which does a 
 remarcable job if not even incredible for an engine of its age the caracters are very detailed 
 and the envoironments are a delight to watch. Now let's talk about gameplay. This may be the only 
 downside of the game, but still good enough to keep you playing. It's a very easy game, because 
 when you die you can be revived by your teammates, thus making any mistake cost very little but 
 it balances the odds because you may end up dying a lot in this game. Also, you can control your 
 teammates with commands to which they respond very quickly and are not a waste because their AI 
 is advanced enough to do the job. The game is very linear and pretty short, which may make some 
 people unhappy, but the few hours of the game have a lot of action and compensate for the length. The 
 sound is great, with the Star Wars themes intact. The worst side of the game is the multiplayer. It's 
 pretty dull and ordinary and it all resumes to mindless shooting, a multiplayer like in Brothers 
 in Arms not making a benefic appearance in this game. All in all, this game is great and can stand 
 along with the greatest shooters of this century. All Star Wars fans and shooter lovers must play 
 this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofpwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  When i got the demo, i was blasting every one out of the skies!!!!!!!!!
  Then i got the full version and it is so easy that i got the hang in a minute!!!!!
  The grapics 
 were great although i had to admit that spider tanks can ki9nda mess me and my team mates alot 
 but i was always havin a wookie rocket launcher and they were toast. 
 
  At the last mission did get me some of the most fun, the SBO`s did get VVVVEEEERRRRYYYY DDIIFFFFIICCUULLTT 
 TTOOOO KKIILLLL
  The sword punch did get me through the early parts and i managed to kill genosian elites, A BUNCH 
 OF 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Im not the biggest fan of starwars, but when is comes to FPS's I get a kick out of this title. 
 I love the graphics, and storyline of this game. The quick commands you can give your squad team 
 to help infiltrate the enemy. I first played this on a demo disc, and didn't really like it. As 
 soon as the price dropped (like I do mostly) I bought the full version. Let me tell you that the 
 way the game made itself look like a real star wars episode! (Not really) . I like the uniqueness 
 of the story being a commando, and seeking out and destroying. The first person effects is great. 
 It's like play COD, but in a SW format. Nice colors, and visuals to add. So much eye candy in this 
 game it's ridiculous. I like the way you become ummmmm..... knocked out? Or dazed? They have a name 
 for it I forgot at the moment, but your squad can revive you. It's cool to see them neutralize 
 the area before they do. Nice interaction with the squad at that. This game is a little tricky, 
 but not hard at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a while back, played it 2/3 the way through, was killed a hundred times, got 
 stuck on one level, found the cheats, made it through, lost interest and uninstalled. "Uninspired", 
 I thought (using polite language) . A waste of money. I'll give it to my nephew as a birthday gift 
 as my son isn't into Star Wars (I saw Star Wars @ the cinema first time round in 1978, when I was 
 15 & before this strange "Episode IV" line appeared below the title-been a fan ever since, but 
 it doesn't run in the blood) . That was that,
  Bought "SW Empire at War", which while disappointing on so many levels, got me into the SW groove 
 again. I re-watched the end of Ep II & the start of Ep III (the only good bits) , & re-installed 
 "RC". This time I was playing a whole new game. It was fast and furious, but still enough time 
 to plan tactical moves. The graphics are rough and rustic suiting the game's theme to a tee. Blast 
 a Trandoshan with a jet pack & watch him shoot to the hanger ceiling, jabbering panic-stricken, 
 before the jets explode and he bounces around like a billiard ball. Good level design, sound design, 
 music, and thoroughly immersive atmosphere. If this doesn't light your candle, then you are no 
 SW fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Now, i really love jedi's and many others SW toys such as lightsaber...
  But this game change my viewpoint on SW universe. SW not only honorable knights and Very Evil Sith's...
 
  SW is life, an like in real life in SW you meet real soldiers. Soldiers that have an order and 
 they trying to make it done. Without questions. Soldiers with soul, humor, feelings....
  Republic Commando show's you real squad. Funny, Sci-fi game make you to feel the real squad... 
 You just understand every from your 3 squadmates, they're like real! Great dialogs, very militaristic 
 plot and dynamic without any jedi games.
  Real life in sci-fi 'verse.
  Also game show's you the New Star Wars. It show's you grim side of democracy and war. When you 
 loose 07 you just wanted to cry.... 
  It's hard to explain... But game is really rocks cuz of viewpoint on SW verse....
  It's innovate.
 
  But if we meant the GAME itself.... Well, this is very dynamic arcade shooter with impressive 
 simple and comfortable interface (Yeah, commando helmet's is awesome) . Pay attention on SW: RC AI, 
 this is just great! Your squadmates are even more clever than in Halo! They just like in real life! 
 Maybe the best squadmates in shooter's at all. We have one big minus. The game is awfully short! 
 This is unfare! I wanna more!
  DIXI
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinydude5656
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  the game is absolutely amazing on the graphics and gameplay part. But the game is, at times, very 
 very hard and will make you want to send your controller flying. And normally i thing all this 
 "control your squad" is gay, but Republic Commando as begun to change my mind. the commands are 
 extrmely easy to use and can be quite handy in a tight situation. And if your squad fails you, 
 you don't "die", you instead are knocked into a dizzy-like faze until one member of your squad 
 comes up to you and revitslizes you. You are also able to do the same to your sqaud members when 
 they are down. overall, Republic Commando delivers action and stratigy mixed with solid FPS action. 
 if you have the means, definatly get this title, you wont be disappionted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this is really great that when you playing it think that you are in a real missions and in the 
 game graphics i like when blood come in your face during battles and then the electric line remove 
 it i think that the games sounds is really great but in the game-play i think that sometimes the 
 places re beat themselves
  
  any other thing in the game is great and if like wars special forces games just play it 
  
 
  I like to thank Lucas arts for this game and for knights of the old republic too
  thank you Lucas arts really thank you 
  
  its really worth playing 
  
  done by ahmad jaffal 
 
  
  ahmadjaffal2003@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trochilus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando is definitely one of the best Star Wars games I've played and trust 
 me; I've played a lot of those. This game is great in almost every aspect of the game and the short 
 single-player may just be better than you'd think at first. 
  
  The introduction is really nice: starting as a little clone baby and soon after you're already 
 on the battlefield, shooting droids, but with a hint that you're going on a slightly different 
 mission than your more common brothers. 
  
  One by one you find your teammates, who technically speaking have a different specialization each, 
 but in practice they all do any job just as good as one of the others would. Those teammates are 
 probably the best feature of the game; they're fierce fighters, are very easy to command, can do 
 a whole range of different maneuvers and make a funny comment once in a while.
  
  The enemies are just right, but their timing is sometimes quite predictable. See bacta and ammo? 
 Then you're in for some trouble... Or it's the other way around; make a big scrapheap of a few 
 droids and 10 seconds later you find bacta and ammo. Both ways make the game just a little less 
 exciting. There's no need to be very strategic in ordering your team around because you're trying 
 save on ammo or are badly wounded. Either you go into battle fully loaded or you know that when 
 you kick only a bit more droid-ass you're going to be completely renewed. 
  
  I have nothing to say about the graphics or sounds; they're fantastic. Beautiful environments and 
 thrilling blaster fire is all I need to feel good!
  
  But the length of the single-player campaign... hmm... My first reaction was: Noooo!! It can't 
 be over this soon! The Clone Wars weren't over in just 2 planetary "visits" and a short trip on 
 a big ship. But then I saw the real end: Master Yoda sending Delta Squad back into action. It was 
 then that I almost knew for certain: there is going to be a part two. There are so many more battles 
 to fight and of course, they still have a team-member to retrieve, so it's virtually impossible 
 that is is The End. 
  
  Since it's a year ago "Part I" was released, I'm hoping for some good news about "Part II" any 
 time soon. But short or not, it's really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkgfabo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The best in it is the "Star Wars reality". There aren't great heroes, unbelievable 
 stories and events; there is just "real" war, and a squad. The FPS view is nice (you can see the 
 helmet+good HUD) . Your squadmates are like real men. Everyone has an own personality.
  Sev is the hunter; Scorch is a funny one; Fixer is "the soldier".
  I own this game a long time, 
 but it is installed on my computer now too. 
  The graphics good (just few bugs) . The sounds good too. And the music: great! :) The biggest problem 
 is the length. Just 3 planets (+Kamino, but there is just an intro) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have played a few Star Wars games in the past and have not been too impressed. I did like Jedi 
 Academy. Yet I found myself buying another one, Star Wars Republic Commando (SWRC) . Why did I buy 
 it, well, its still winter and I needed something to do and I found it for $19.99 at Target.
  
  SWRC is a FPS, with a twist. You play the leader of a four member commando squad. You are basically 
 the Delta Force or SEALs of the Star Wars universe. You start out as clones being grown as in Star 
 Wars II, only you and your mates are different. You are the best of the best.
  
  The game is basic FPS except you can give orders to your team. The interface for the orders is 
 very simple. Nothing complex to interfere with game play. You basically can tell them to Search 
 and Destroy, Form up, secure a position or recall. You can also direct them to breach a door, hack 
 a computer or plant a bomb. You can also do this yourself. The pace is very high, kind of reminds 
 me of the American campaign in Call of Duty. 
  
  The game is easy to learn. You play through a training mission to learn the ropes. However, this 
 is a real mission, not a simulator, like other games have. The great part about this is; the beginning 
 is easy so you actual feel the baddest MF in the universe. It really fits in great.
  
  I really loved this game. It was refreshing and different. I have become so tired of the space 
 marine FPS storyline that I could puke. Let me cover the highs & Lows.
  
  Lows
  Very short game. I finished it in 4 nights.
  The ending stunk. After all you went through, 
 to leave it like it did, was terrible. No spoiler here.
  Still would like more realistic augmentation of ammo. Rather than just lying about.
  
  Highs
 
  Presented multiple solutions, plan ahead approach or charge and kill.
  Nice weapons. The pistol, blaster rifle with sniper mode and anti-armor mode. Various grenades. 
 Lastly, one optional weapon you could take from the bad guys.
  You start the mission loaded out with all the equipment. What a novel idea. Actually arm your 
 squad with weapons to succeed, rather than scavenge for the next weapon.
  Not an arms race. Never became search for the next cool weapon. The game play was strong enough 
 that you never wanted a more effective weapon to make it fun.
  Melee mode.!!! A nasty auto extending blade from your hand. Puts down the weaker bad guys with 
 one hit. Only adds to you feeling like a bad ass.
  You get all the Star Wars sounds and atmosphere.
  The game is immersive enough that you care 
 about your team. Often, I found myself risking my health to help them. Never did that before, unless 
 to win you had too.
  Each squad member has their own personality, which did not get annoying. Some of the signature 
 phrases did get a little old.
  Easy to use controls, made playing easy.
  I found my self rushing at times. The reason for this is the game play makes you feel like a real 
 commando. So its GO GO GO. Like I said immersive!
  Could operate gun turrets. No vehicles though.
  Has replay value. Different options to solve 
 battle situations. Some opportunity to even set traps.
  
  I can definitely recommend this game, especially if you want something a little different. It comes 
 up a little short only because the single player campaign ends too quickly. Otherwise, it would 
 be the best I have played since Half Life 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game had flown under my radar (pardon the bit of a pun) . I had heard about it, and I've got 
 a lot of Star Wars games, but this one just didn't catch my interest. Seemed like it would be just 
 another shooter, but that it was just trying to take advantage of the SW license to attract buyers.
 
  
  Whoa. Was I wrong.
  
  I was able to pick it up on the cheap in a bargain bin and shot through it (another pun) in a couple 
 of nights (on normal difficulty, I'll be cranking it up and giving it another go soon) . 
  
  About the only complaint I have is length. But I suppose any game you like seems too short. Game 
 is split into 3 large areas / worlds with a lot of levels contained in between. Geonisis probably 
 has the best level variety. The levels on the abandoned cruiser all tend to look alike, but I suppose 
 you'll have that being stuck on a ship. Kashyyk is mostly outside running around the forest, with 
 a couple of trips indoors to free Wookie prisoners, etc.
  
  You play the lead commando in a squad of four. Interface to give your squadmates orders is very 
 well done. There are general orders to the whole squad through the F1 - F4 keys (search and destroy, 
 get in line, secure the area, and cancel previous orders) . You can also give context sensitive 
 orders to individual soldiers (e. g. - take sniping positions, get on a turret, etc.) This is not 
 just window dressing. There are a couple of areas where strategically placing your squadmates around 
 is the key to beating the onslaught that you'll face. 
  
  Generally speaking, the AI of your squad is pretty good. They are definitely handy in the fights. 
 If you run headlong into most battles by yourself, you won't win, but with your squad behind you, 
 you are a force. I ran into an occasional bug where one of my mates would get "stuck". Only solution 
 I found was to shoot him down myself, and once I or one of his other mates revived him, he was 
 "unstuck." Not a huge deal. Kind of amusing actually to hear the other mates saying "What are you 
 doing?"
  
  Beginning of the second area (abandoned space ship) has you on your own (although with radio contact 
 with your squad) and is more of a typical FPS experience, although still fun to play. That particular 
 sequence actually seems to have more of an "Alien" feel to it than Star Wars as you are crawling 
 through tight spots waiting for something to pop out at you, while appropriately creepy music plays 
 in the background.
  
  The "revive" feature is a nice option. It serves almost as a secondary restore option by allowing 
 you to recover from mistakes without having to reload. If you get taken down, you can order one 
 of your squadmates to revive you which takes you back to 1/2 health. Likewise, you can do the same 
 for any of the other mates. This is a nice way to keep the action moving (although obviously if 
 your whole squad gets taken down its "game over") . There were a few areas where I probably would 
 have had to do a bunch of reloads if I had been playing a traditional shooter, but here I was able 
 to get back up and keep fighting without breaking the flow. Interface has both checkpoint saves, 
 but also allows quicksaves.
  
  Enemies are challenging without being ridiculous (at least on normal difficulty) . You will have 
 to adjust your combat style depending on your enemies. For instance, at the beginning of the second 
 area (abandoned space ship again) , at least until I found a more powerful weapon, the best way 
 I found to take out the early enemies I encounter there was using the melee knife I had up my sleeve, 
 as the standard laser rifle I had just didn't do enough damage when they attacked in groups. Different 
 grenades have varying effects on different enemies (particularly alien vs. robotic enemies) .
  
  Graphics are sharp, with good detail everywhere. The occasional splatter on your visor when 
 you're in close combat is an especially nice touch. Game ran extremely smoothly (although I have 
 a new, very geeked-out machine, so it better run smoothly or I'll take it up with Dell) . 
  
  Sounds are typical Star Wars, but effectively applied. Weapons have a good, solid tone to them. 
 Music is obviously familiar, but is not overdone.
  
  Dialogue between you and your squadmates is good. You'll hear some lines more than once, but not 
 so often that if becomes annoying. There is some pretty good humor. At one point in the game you'll 
 come across a discarded lightsaber and your solider will mutter something to the effect, "A weapon 
 from a more civilized time eh? Well, times have changed."
  
  Story isn't particularly deep, although there is a bit of a thread between the three worlds. Also 
 brings in some links to the movies by bringing General Grievous into the plot.
  
  At any rate, whether you're a Star Wars fan, or a fan of first-person / tactical shooter there 
 is a lot to enjoy about this game, especially now with the prices coming down. Just don't expect 
 to get more than 10 - 12 hours of play out of each trip through the single-player game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is exellent fun, right from the get go it imerses you into the story line and you feel 
 like your watching a movie... and its about as difficult as such, the game is incredably easy, Not 
 only do you have a health gauge with bacta all over the map but you also have a self recharging 
 shield making death very very difficult. The Tactical aspects of this game are great addition to 
 any star wars game, however as the game says a commando is deadly on hes/her own and its true, 
 you could beat this entire game by leaving the squad back, and the 4 commands they give you are 
 fun to play with :) Its unique and its great fun, The best of all the sw fps if you were sick of 
 having a lightsaber/force powers. This is what it was like for the normal folks :) THe game is 
 incradably short and as such takes no more then 12 hours to beat, 9 hours if your good. Exellent 
 sound track, Exellent script.. your laughing the whole through.
  
  In Short
  
  A must have for sw fans
  For fps/tactical fans rent it first, as its 9 hours long and gets repetitve 
 real fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is definitely a unique game in it's own right. You take the role of 
 the commander of an elite team of clone troops. You can issue basic commands to your squad. For 
 example, you can order them to take up sniper positions, throw grenades and to take out specific 
 targets and to heal up at a near by medical station. The command interface is fun and simple to 
 use. So far I got the demo, and I'm extremely excited to buy the full version. If you love Star 
 Wars, or if you love FPS's, then Rupublic Commando is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I have this game and am quite pleased with the gameplay. Imagine Halo but with only the action 
 parts and tons of enemies constantly pouring in on you.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Lots of Action
  -Different, unique guns (ranges from a pistol to snipers and gatling guns)
  -AI is decent (sometimes 
 buggy)
  -Melee Combat!!!!
  -Decent, Easy Squad Control
  
  Cons:
  
  -Very repetitive
  -AI can have issues
  -Maps are VERY linear
  -It's really hard to ever die 
 and fail the mission because your teammates can respawn you infinitly amounts of times
  
  In my opinion, this game is for those who want some extreme action and don't really care about 
 a story or the repetition. I didn't, I loved being plunged into pitched battle with droids and 
 alien species. Being able to shoot at one until he can't aim at me and then running up and stabbing 
 him with my suit knife. It's great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  The Good : A great gameplay that offers us a great campaign & a storyline were you get to follow 
 your team into fights against droids & green skin creatures , it have good graphics that make the 
 environments beautiful and understandable , as for the sound , well it is as good as the graphics 
 or better , were the dialog that starts between your teammates is funny or serious , were you get 
 to feel in a war , & the music that comes with the fights or hard situation places is great were 
 is changes from calm to strong & fast . And not to forget the great AI of both your teammates & 
 the enemies , if you command them they obey it but not in a stupid way , they thik before they 
 act .
  
  The Bad : Although the campaign is great but it is kinda short , were there is three places that 
 the story takes places in , as for the multiplayer it isn't as it was supposed to be . 
  
  I personally think that you guys should play it , it is a good game ,I bought it saying what ever 
 , but it surprised me & turned out to be good . & now I'm waiting to find out if there is a sequel 
 to it or not . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is first person shooter game with intense actions and a nice background 
 story. At first I thought it will be a RPG game like KOTOR and I am not very optimistic about this 
 game But when I started to play this game I couldnt play any other game because of my attraction 
 to this game. Your success depends greatly on your ability how you control your squad but it is 
 very easy to give order to your team-mate. You will find many elements from KOTOR even you have 
 to go planets that you visited in KOTOR. Every big battle means lots of firepower and extreme action. 
 Visuals are just amazing and sounds and music tracks have great influence on this game and they 
 are just remarkable. Unfortunately this game is little bit short otherwise it will be one of the 
 best FPS game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Pros: I thought this game would be a complete failure, but it showed me otherwise. It is a very 
 good shooter, even if you don't like Star Wars. It's a squad based game, where you can switch between 
 members. Each member has a unique ability. The graphics are not Next Gen but certainly not bad. 
 Weapons are well made for the Star Wars Universe, cause they aren't able to use lightsabers or 
 the force.
  
  Cons: The AI (espacially your squad's) is not that good. When you give them orders to go anywhere 
 you say, but they will stay there even if they are under attack by some tank... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i didn't expect it to be as good as it was, i just thought it would be 
 another game you fight mostly by yourself, with no gore or anything like the rest, but i was wrong. 
 The game featured some fun moments where you may have sent one of your men to destroy a droid dispenser, 
 and covered him, or gone yourself and have all your men cover you. The game also had some impressive 
 animations, and some gore of course, like how you can blow the head off of an enemy with a sniper, 
 break his jaw, or if he's wearing a backpack full of ammo send him flying half a mile in the air 
 only to come crashing down through the trees to his death. The multiplayer was alright, for some 
 reason it seemed to have a lot of slow times where everyone else was just jumping around. Overall 
 i think the game was great, and highly recomend it even if your not a star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Star Wars republic commando is a game of contrasts. Since the balance is positive, I'll start by 
 the bad:
  
  - Overly linear gameplay, you can't sidetrack an inch, over challenging difficulty on the "climax" 
 scenes, and a very, very, very, frustratringly SHORT campaign. 
  
  Of course that last one wouldn't be a problem if the game wasn't so good as it is!
  
  Excelent 
 graphics, star wars quality sound and music, a perfect presentation, cool voice acting by our dear 
 Mr. Temuera Morrison, a nice (not breathtaking) storyline and a hint of what's to come on Episode 
 III.
  
  But the game is great because of the gameplay.
  
  Tactical gameplay is great fun and extremely well designed and easy to use. Just point where you 
 want a soldier to perform an action and press the appropriate key, and there he goes, sniping far 
 away droids, slicing a door, throwing grenades at droids, breaching a door, etc...
  
  There are very few weapons to be used, but the fact that the main weapon serves as three different 
 weapons makes it more interesting.
  
  This is an excelent tactical shooter, unfortunately, like I mentioned, it will leave you wanting 
 some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaohed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of direction that movie themed games should be coming from. The boys here at LucasArts 
 have finally figured it out. The way to make a good Star Wars game is not to try and generate a 
 story that tries and fails to mimic the original; but to show us gamers what it is like to be in 
 the story. I don't want to be Luke or Darth. I want to be that guy who says 'Look sir, droids.' 
 Show me what it means to struggle in the battle for good or evil. 
  They got it with this game, they captured the atmosphere of the war. The story is heavy with dark 
 undertones of the battle for the republic. With some of the greatest in game musical scoring and 
 grainy dark graphics the battle feels dirty and dangerous. The personalities of the four brothers 
 in this game did a great job of helping me get attached to them increasing the adrenaline of the 
 battle sequences. The story can tend to be slow but the depth of each of the levels all of which 
 having a completely different pace and urgency justify this illusion. All in all this is my favorite 
 Star Wars game made yet. It would get a perfect score if it wasn't for the stench of a console 
 port that is all over this great product. LucasArts learn from this game. Bring me more of the 
 same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YakumoWarZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Really was an amazing game. Way better than I thought it would be. I went in thinking it was just 
 another star wars game but was amazed with the music, squad gameplay, and clean innovative levels. 
 I really liked everything about single player mode. Online play was kinda weak but I didn't care 
 to due that much anyway. Love the squad control on this, very simple and easy to use members of 
 the team. Also, liked the AI squad members weren't stupid and actually could kill some of the targets. 
 I was a little dissapointed with the wimpy guns you have for most of the game. The Super Battle 
 Droids were tough to kill in the begginning and tough to kill in the end. I was waiting for a gun 
 that could take them out in 2 shots and be my primary weapon. Oh well. Still a great game. Oh and 
 the music got me so psyched up when playing! I would often blast the music before every large battle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for anyone who enjoys first person shooters. You dont even have to be a fan 
 of star wars to enjoy this title. The gamer controls a squad of four through challenging missions 
 across various Star Wars planets. The fact that you dont play as a jedi sets this title away from 
 other Star Wars games. This new twist gives the gamer a new view of the Star Wars universe. Star 
 Wars Republic Commando is a whole lot of fun. The weapons are each innovative and fun to use. The 
 enemies range from alien bugs to droids to the mechanical jedi guys. Giving your squad orders is 
 simple and your orders effects whether you live or not, so the game succesfully captures the feeling 
 of a squad leader. After you give your squad an order they move into formation and the view is 
 really remarkable. It feels as if you were watching some SWAT team move into unknown territory. 
 The creators did a great job in getting the look and techniques of squad teams.
  
  The graphics and sound are both wonderful. Dont aspect much from the multiplayer, its the single 
 player where the most fun and action is. After you beat the story mode there isn't anything left 
 to do so the game is a little on the short side. Overall the game is a definite must by for fans 
 of star wars or fps. The title sets itself away from other titles through its squad based themes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-dog33
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  well this game has some good fighting parts. If u watched star wars episode 3 General greivus is 
 on it but u dont get to face him . command ur squad to do lots of cool tekneeks like doorbreach. 
 u get to go on cool planets like geonosis kashyyyk and 1 other one but i forggot its name. I think 
 they might make a 2nd since the game ends right in action. tip: use ec detonators for droids and 
 thermals for trandosians and other non robot things. nice shooter game . delta squad is what they 
 r called o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o oo o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  A fantasic release from LucasArts, with well-paced and fun do gameplay. The squad-command is authoritive 
 and pulls you into the story well, gets you involved.
  
  The sound is fantastic, with realistic SFX, made in a studio using real objects.
  
  The graphics 
 are excellent and full, as standard using the awsome Unreal2.0 engine, also used in UT2004 and 
 Unreal2: The Awakening.
  
  The gameplay, although criticised as too linear, is loads of fun. The sheer intensity of some the 
 battles really awakens you to the situation with the game at that time.
  
  It doesn't cost to much now either. The game costs roughly $15/10 at the beginning of 2006.
 
  
  A good game to get if you are a FPS fan, but not if u expect a really star warsy game. This game 
 hopes to capture the essence of being a commando, rather than a magical jedi, which all the films 
 are based around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Unimaginative isn't the word we'd choose to describe the visuals, though. Republic Commando positively 
 oozes with polish and class, from the Metroid Prime-esque helmet heads-up display that's packed 
 with useful information, to the neat sideways-vision death effects, and the static noise when certain 
 enemies get too close. Microsoft is pushing to release their next console soon, but based on this 
 game's performance, there's plenty of life in its current system. 
  
  Music-wise, the usual new-wave Star Wars tunes plink along happily, and while the game stays away 
 from its ill-advised faux Gregorian tracks, it's likeable enough. True to LucasArts' reputation, 
 the sound effects are wake-the-neighbors hefty and won't disappoint. In presentation terms, the 
 game is cutting-edge. 
  
  So it's tough to be too hard on Republic Commando. While it certainly has its flaws, thanks to 
 the excellent AI, top-flight presentation, and slick interface, it remains a strong game. Setting 
 the tough difficulty and forgiving death system together was a smart move -- the game treads just 
 on the fun side of frustration, and it's guaranteed to lead to some late nights. And any Star Wars 
 game that doesn't disappoint is a major achievement. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  This was on the cheap shelf at Virgin (being Virgin it wasn't cheap at all) and I though why not, 
 its Star Wars and I ended up getting a pretty decent first-person shooter. You play as the leader 
 of a special Clone Commando squad (consisting of you Delta 38, Delta 40, Delta 62 and Delta 07, 
 they all have nicknames but I cannot remember who is who) who start off doing special missions 
 on Genosis and finish up on Kassykk. So as you can tell this is set from the end of Attack of the 
 Clones and the beginning of Revenge of the Sith. This game has great detail to it and it is great 
 fun to bas a droid in and have his fluid splat against you visor and see it cleaned away or to 
 take the leg off and see it hop around. The voices are provided by the men who are the clones in 
 the film as well so even bigger plus there. There is also a system that lets you command your team 
 to do things or you can do the yourself and this works really well. The variety of weapons though 
 not as big as other games is impressive as the fire power each gun gives you has different effects. 
 This one of the easier first-person shooter to play out there and is only let down by the cross 
 hairs that make it difficult to aim. The graphics are good but the creatures son't look different 
 from each other. The voice acting is great and a Star Wars music tack boosts the atmosphere. There 
 are three campaigns (with many missions) to be played and there is a half-decent multiplayer so 
 not a complete loss. This is not bad as a Star Wars game and is good as a first person shooter, 
 most gamers could could this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeski
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Republic commando is a welcome change to the typical star wars shooters or Jedi fighter. It is 
 a tactical experience that allows to explore a new world and great graphics that the games engine 
 allows. 
  
  The storyline begins when you are being born as a clone but not just any ordinary clone a commando 
 that is trained for special combat missions. Your name or number is 3-8 or 38. You soon learn about 
 your squad mates 07, 40, and 62. They are colorful personalities that have a vast arrange of dialogue 
 that you will hear throughout the game. Once you are ready to begin fighting you are dropped out 
 of a drop ship and must fight your way through the beginning of the clone wars to meet up with 
 the rest of your team. I couldnt wait to meet because of the description given and when you find 
 them they are either killing a massive amount of droids and meeting up with you are engaged in 
 hand to hand combat. Both of these look sick but once they are done and have collected your entire 
 force you begin your first real missions.
  
  The gameplay is interesting. Objects in the game that are usable have a sort of star above them 
 and you can either commando one of your teammates or go there yourself and use it. The objects 
 that are usually available are computers, door access codes, bomb planting and discharging, sniping, 
 grenade launching, and a tactical door entrance maneuver. Each of these take a certain amount of 
 time but there are really only four times that anything takes; 5, 10,30 and 61 seconds. It never 
 gets boring because you never know whats hiding behind the next door or if your squad mate will 
 be able to finish before he dies. You can engage all those actions by yourself but its really 
 better to tell one of your friends to do it and defending him from the oncoming onslaught.
  
  The music scheme is pretty original although it does use the clich scary theme. Even though 
 it is clich it provides for a great atmosphere but once you get out of a tuff time a more mellow 
 music comes about and you are able to gain your composure. 
  
  The dialogue is also very interesting and provides for a deeper game experience. Each of your squad 
 has personalized quotes and this draws you closer to them and gets you really pissed off when you 
 hear through your wireless radio that one of them is shouting and then when you call out his names 
 no answer. You quickly try to find him and kill the droids that overpowered him. 
  
  I realize Ive begun to ramble and am keeping your from going and either buying the game or renting 
 it and playing it. So I leave you with this advice or whatever you want to call it: go and have 
 fun and shoot those effin droids and win the clone wars for the Republic!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHADOWSTRYK3R
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Republic Commando offers a unique and memorable experience for fans of the Star Wars Universe or 
 squad-based FPSs
  We're all a bit sick of playing as Jedi all the time, aren't we? It's time for a change, a radical 
 change, and Republic Commando is just what the doctor ordered. I've been waiting for a Star Wars 
 FPS for ages, and now my prayers have been answered in this well constructed and overall fantastic 
 looking game.
  
  In Republic Commando you play as Delta Three-Eight or 'Boss' the leader of three-man squad. You 
 control your three squad members, 'Fixer', 'Sev' and 'Scorch'. Each member with their own special 
 moves and techniques. You 'set up' your squad in highlighted areas to cover you with a sniper, 
 demolition, set a trap, breach a door, etc. In hectic firefights you'll need to think quickly and 
 strategize which positions will be suitable for each goal or enemy. You will also be required to 
 decide the how the squad will follow you, such as 'Form Up' where the squad are always at your 
 side or 'Secure Area' where your squad will focus on controlling a particular area from the enemy. 
 Now it may sound complicated like other tactical shooters, but believe me its not. It's incredibly 
 easy.
  
  You see everything through a helmet view (like in Metroid Prime) which features a HUD showing 
 weapon ammo, shields, etc. At the beginning of the game you will have the standard repeating blaster, 
 but as you progress you'll be given 'attachments' such as a 'Sniper Attachment' and a 'Demolition 
 Attachment'. You will also have the chance to pick up alien weapons such as Trandoshan Shotguns 
 and the famous Wookie Bowcaster! You also have a 'Melee' option, such as a dagger, which comes 
 out of you left glove, which stabs the enemy, or if you have a weapon like the Wookie Rocket Launcher, 
 you just hit the enemy with the weapon you're holding. If you have no ammo with any of your weapons, 
 you can use a Pistol with comes off your repeating blaster, which has infinite ammo, but it needs 
 to recharge for a second or two. You will also use different types of grenades such as thermal 
 detonators, stun grenades, gas grenades and flash grenades. Each grenade will be useful for different 
 types of enemies.
  
  Sometimes if one of your squad is shot down, you can heal them with bacta kits (which only take 
 a couple of seconds) or order one of your men to heal them. There will be times when your entire 
 squad is injured, and you'll need to finish off the enemy before you can get them back on their 
 feet. Three little icons representing your squad in the bottom of your HUD will show green when 
 your squad is fully healed, yellow if they are slightly injured, orange if they are finding it 
 hard to hold their blaster at the enemy and red if they're incapacitated. Bacta Tanks are scattered 
 around levels, which you can order your squad to use to heal themselves.
  
  You will play over 15 levels in 8 different alien environments, each with different types of enemies 
 such as Trandoshan mercenaries, Wookies or General Grievous' personal bodyguards! Every level is 
 huge, and you'll need to complete several different types of unique goals. Every enemy you come 
 across will have their own deadly attribute and weakness, which you will soon discover when you 
 run into firefights. For example, Trandoshans have a jetpack that you can shoot at with the Sniper 
 Attachment and they will explode, flying up into the air like a firework!
  
  The animation in Republic Commando is one of its many highlights. The way your squad moves, the 
 enemy moves, etc is very realistic. Combined with the amazing A. I, you'll see your squad ducking 
 for cover behind almost anything and interacting with each other. When an enemy gets up close to 
 them, they will perform a counter attack such as tripping them up, punching them, and then finishing 
 them off with a blaster or 'Melee attack'. One memorable move was when a Trandoshan took out two 
 blades and was about to attack Sev, so Sev pushed him down grabbed one of the Trandoshans 
 blades and stabbed him with it. The enemy A. I is also very impressive, Geonosians will fly to cover 
 and shoot at you or flying droids will latch on to you or a member of your squad and you will have 
 to pull them off! Grievous personal bodyguards were difficult to deal with because of their A. I. 
 The can leap at you with their electric staffs, running along walls, somersaulting over you, etc. 
 When you reach the levels on Kashyyyk, you will get assistance from the Wookies, who will perform 
 some fantastic animations. Youll see them grabbing enemies and throwing them into walls and kicking 
 them so they fly into other enemies.
  
  The voice acting is another highlight of the game. Temuera Morrison (famous for his role as Jango 
 Fett and the Clone Troopers in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones) provides superb voice 
 acting for the main character Boss. The dialogue is absolutely fantastic and the voice acting 
 provided for each unique character is the best Ive seen in a Star Wars game. Scorch is always 
 making jokes, Sev is obsessed with killing as many enemies as possible and Fixer is always 
 focused on the mission. The voice acting always creates tension or moments of comedy.
  The music still features the John Williams score from the most recent Star Wars films, but there 
 is also some new music especially for the game that works brilliantly with action.
  
  The graphics overall, are marginally impressive. Sometimes the levels look like theyve been rushed 
 but sometimes they look like theres been a lot of work done on them. The same goes for the character 
 models. The squad looks brilliant but the Trandoshans and Geonosians dont. There is a lack of 
 polish throughout areas of the game, and you end up feeling that the game could have looked a whole 
 lot better. The PC version differs considerably to the Xbox version. If you have a powerful PC, 
 then you'll be seeing a HUGE difference compared the Xbox version; edges are smoother, the sound 
 is clearer (depending on your Speakers) and the controls work slightly better with a mouse and 
 keyboard.
  
  The multiplayer is very, very basic. Its not really worth bothering with. A lot of things that 
 feature in the single-player have been removed for the multiplayer and that really spoils the whole 
 experience. The maps are very simplistic and rather dull. I felt the multiplayer could have been 
 constructed a whole lot better, but it doesnt really matter when youve got such a fantastic single-player 
 to keep you busy.
  
  Overall, Republic Commando is one of the best Star Wars games yet. Its dark, exciting and an accurate 
 presentation of squad-based tactics. Every scenario you encounter every enemy you face and every 
 weapon you use offers some unique and memorable moments if youre a Star Wars fan or just a fan 
 of FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oreoremedy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. It is very good first -person shooter and is one of the best. The story is 
 very good also. There is always an abundance of action to be fond. Also the online is also good 
 butcould have been alot better. You will need an up to date graphics card to run this game ... one 
 that has at least pixel shader 1.0. It is very good for the PC. ALthough I wish that it had supported 
 a controller. If you like thrills and an immersive story like that of the Star Wars movies then 
 this game is definately for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  Finally the Lucas Arts has decided to make a solid first person shooter in Star Wars universe and 
 the great thing is that they put it in the clone wars period. Game is not perfect but very good 
 even dough I like a more epic approach to the battle than sneaking around the droid factory while 
 there is an epic battle outside. 
  The best things are the graphics. They`re so well done especially shadows and anti-aliasing. I 
 can`t explain you the lighting when you fire lasers in half dark tunnel. 
  I also liked the the command system and the intelligence of your team mates. They are acting like 
 real commandos.
  Music is great like in all Star Wars games.
  I think that this game offers nothing new but it pushes todays standards to their limits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Up until last year when Battlefront came out the Dark Forces\Jedi Knight series was the only real 
 first person shooter series with the Star Wars logo. A new one arrived this year though, and it 
 is one action filled thrill ride.
  
  In Republic Commando you take on the role of Clone Commando Delta-1138 Boss who is in charge of 
 a team of three other specially trained commandos each with their own unique (and cliche) personality. 
 There's the prankster demolitions expert Scorch , the by the book computer expert soldier Fixer 
 , and the combat loving Sev . Instead of tying the player to a single storyline the game is split 
 up into three moderately sized arcs: Geonosis (During the battle from Episode II: Attack of the 
 Clones) , a Republic Ghost Ship out in deep space, and Kashyyyk (Shortly before the battle seen 
 in Episode III: Revenge of the Sith) . Each of these campaigns consists of numerous missions where 
 you and your team must infiltrate enemy territory and installations in order to aid the Republic.
 
  
  The gameplay in Republic Commando is mostly standard FPS fare with some tactics thrown in. You 
 and your three Clone brothers use an assortment of addons for your primary blaster rifle, a pistol 
 and alien weapons you can pick up throughout the game. You can order your comrades to snipe from 
 certain positions, hack computers or set explosives, but it's all very linear and can only be done 
 at certain times. This can occasionally be repetitive since often you're just clearing a room, 
 hacking a computer to open a door, clearing another room, hacking another computer and so on. Despite 
 the sometimes repetitive nature of Republic Commando; the game has a fair mix of easy and difficult 
 parts giving the game a nice balance in difficulty. One nice feature is how the game never leaves 
 the perspective of Delta-1138 which makes it very immersive; not since Dark Forces has a Star Wars 
 shooter managed to immerse me.
  
  The graphics in Republic Commando are nice. Character models and textures are detailed and the 
 game is filled with a dark atmosphere that is not common in Star Wars games. One nice feature is 
 how you always view through your helmet (a lot like Metroid Prime) . If you decide to get up close 
 and personal with an enemy blood or oil can also splatter on your helmet visor (only to be wiped 
 off by an electronic wiper) also your helmet can become cracked the more you're hit (which will 
 be sealed by the same electronic wiper) .
  
  The audio in Republic Commando is good. The music is mostly an original score with a military feel 
 to it along with some Star Wars music from the prequels thrown in. The sound is your usual Star 
 Wars sound effects and the voice acting is superb. You and your three comrades each have unique 
 voices (Your character is voiced by Jango Fett's actor from Episode II) and your enemy's also sound 
 convincing though the Super Battle Droids sound nothing like their movie counterparts; they sound 
 much more fierce in Republic Commando.
  
  Republic Commando is a great Star Wars shooter that takes a look at a darker part of the Star Wars 
 universe. The game is fairly short, but action filled and fun. It's the most immersive Star Wars 
 shooter since Dark Forces and arguably the best since Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inthezone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando (SWRC) is truly something special, something more than its more common 
 brethren. I, as a reviewer, am so caught up in SWRC, that the only thing I am worrying about is 
 when it will end. 
  
  First and foremost, as a Star Wars game, SWRC has some expectation to live up to. It has to immerse 
 the player in a false reality, a fictional reality where midi-clorians and Jedi abound. It does 
 immerse the player, but it is the more grim side of the Star Wars universe that the player experiences. 
 You play as a clone commando in control of a squad of four. Not a single Jedi is seen in the game, 
 and yet it feels just as Star Wars-ish as ever. Firstly, the droids. You're going to love them. 
 Everything from the mechanized voices to the death poses is professional, polished, and definitely 
 Star Wars. You feel as though you are part of the universe. I could go on about the Geonisians 
 and the Trandoshans, but I better start this review.
  
  Graphics wise, SWRC is exceptional. You'd have to be looking extremely closely to find a single 
 rough texture. The enemies, the settings and the squad all look exceptionally clean and polished. 
 When you shoot droids, the explosions also look extremely satisfying. And another bonus is that 
 if you're close enough, droid fluids or alien guts get stuck all over your visor (which is extremely 
 similar to Metroid Prime) , and a sort of energy windscreen wiper is used to remove it. Graphically, 
 SWRC has to be one of the highest scoring games on the market. In terms of sound, the game is very 
 traditional, and totally engulfs you in the Star Wars setting. It is perfectly timed and changes 
 at all the right moments.
  
  The squad mechanics of SWRC are extremely good. There are multiple command options available, and 
 they are all extremely easy to approach. The four squad members are extremely individual and become 
 good companions on your missions. The voice acting is also superb.
  
  One of the faults of SWRC is its length. You could probably finish it in a good solid three days, 
 which leaves you desiring a lot more. It is really, well, sad when the game finishes, because despite 
 being a short ride, it is one hell of a good one. 
  
  In closing, this game is worth it. Don't listen to anyone else: just get it. SWRC is the most rewarding 
 gaming experience I have had this year, and I confidently rank it up near the level of Metroid 
 Prime, which is the best first person shooter game in existence (if you are spinning in your chair 
 because I didn't say Halo, you obviously haven't played Metroid Prime) . SWRC is short, but it is 
 worth your money. This game is awesome, and after playing it I want to know, when is the sequel 
 coming out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game came out quite some time back and only recently i got to try it. This game has a good 
 story. It revolves around a group of elite commandos of the republic getting deep into enemy territory 
 and completing acts of sabotage and assault. The graphics is outstanding as all enemies and your 
 squad members are very detailed. The battle scenes are exciting as you and your squadmates are 
 constantly overwhelmed by powerful and heavily enemies (Super Battle droids......  
 @#$@#$@#%%#@% but it is a bit short, finished it in less than 10 hours. Other than that its a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  I expected much more from a star wars game (I don't know why I had so hy expectations???) it's 
 disappointing.
  
  The game was fairly easy even on harder difficulty settings. The graphics are nicely done, although 
 i have to admit it didn't make the game more appealing.
  The sound is the best part of the entire game and because of it you almost feel like you are part 
 of the squad.
  
  The story-line of the game is made from the clone's point of view and i quote from the game "While 
 the Jedi are taking all the glory, Delta Squad were sent on dangerous missions" that made the war 
 against the Empire easier to win (and so on) .
  The story isn't bad, and the change from Jedi's and light sabers is somewhat welcome.
  
  Apart 
 from that the game is no different than most shooters. The concept is the same: follow a linear 
 path, kill hundreds of enemy soldiers, pick up their weapons (if you're out of ammo) and continue 
 with your objectives.
  Been there, done that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fell
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I found the graphics to be excellent. This means the demands of the game are demanding but most 
 gameplayers have a big enough system to run it. The rest of the guys found it addictive as heck 
 we all sat around eating pizza and waiting for the last guy to die so we would get our turn.
  This is not the sort of game you sit back turn out the lights and enjoy because the story is great. 
 This is a rockem sockem actiongasm for the star wars fanatic. If you wanna hang out with the buds 
 and eat pizza and have a blast I highly recommend this game.
  If you are looking for story and a mental challenge The pass over this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  Truly, this is one of the greatest squad based games ever created. First of all, it is actual squad 
 action, not "move there or shoot that" you have plenty of different selections for every kind of 
 senario... putting them into sniping positions, on a machine gun, hacking into a door... its really 
 cool... the squad itself is awesome, threee other men, Sev, the sniper, Fixer the machine gunner, 
 Scortch the demolitions dude. The game is fairly short, but the missions are so damn fun, you play 
 them over and over. The graphics are beautiful, dark and jaded, not like the other star wars... 
 you can kill anyone you want, jump on their bodies and there IS ragdoll which adds to the fun. 
 Blood sprays onto your visor as you cut Geonosian heads off... This game is always in 1st person, 
 behind your helmet view. It is truly a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Republic Commandoes is an awesome game. It simulates you as the leader of Delta squad. In the game 
 you can issue orders to your team, use even the enemy's weapons, and undertake dangerous assignments. 
 Help eliminate key presonnel on Geonosis. Save Tarful the wookie on Kashyyk then go and blow up 
 a cruiser. Find a ghost assault ship and find out why everyone including the clones are missing. 
 Another fun thing is that if there isn't a door make one yourself. You have a choice, slice the 
 doors (which will give you the element of suprise) , or put explosives on the door and blow it open 
 (one of your men in your squad will throw a grenade as soon as the door explodes, eliminating enemies 
 that way) . Both ways work great depending on many factors. In the short a great game which includes 
 a surprise ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Right up front I should say I wasn't a fan of either the Xbox or PC Republic Commando demos. In 
 hindsight I know why, but it made me all the more surprised when I ended up really enjoying the 
 full game (on PC) . Turns out the game lives up to it's tagline that the squad is the weapon. I'm 
 having the most fun when I'm sort of trailing the squad as they're on seek and destroy orders, 
 patching holes in the squads firing arcs, blasting monsters off a guy hacking a door, etc. The 
 AI does a great job of maintaining the right distance in front of you when in that mode, and you 
 can pretty much play the game by following their lead. 
  
  The order system (which I feel really could have been better explained in the demo) boils down 
 to seek and destroy, do something specific, and stop everything you're doing/get ready for a new 
 order. There's defend location which hasn't been needed in the geonosis (sp?) missions. Also group 
 on me, which too never came up. 
  
  That's mainly because Republic Commando does this neat 'sticky' order system when telling guys 
 to take cover at a certain location, or hack a door. When the squad is given an order like that, 
 one guy (randomly as far as I can tell) is assigned and the rest of the squad keeps doing what 
 they're doing. The next squad wide order doesn't effect those guys even if a general order like 
 seek and destroy. To get those guys off that order you need to issue the cancel everything order, 
 then reissue the new order. It's a minor feature, but it really let's you have 100% predictable 
 control over your dudes. A niggle is the 4 icons in the lower left tell you what they're up to 
 (very useful!) , but they're so abstract that I'm still not 100% sure up arrow is 'on me' and down 
 arrow is 'defend location'. 
  
  The game tries to bring personalities to your clone teammates, but they're all named 49, and 30, 
 which doesn't help. While they're meant to have specific skills, they can all do each others job 
 and the squad level granularity of the order system doesn't let you really pick who does what. 
 To be honest I'm not sure why "man this turret" specific-type orders need to be an order at all. 
 Why don't they just go jump in and do it. It's not like most of the missions have 8 to choose from, 
 where I have to tactically pick a gameplan. Maybe it's to make sure the player see something cool 
 being done by the squad. 
  
  The combat is the standard blaster fare, which can be pretty uninspired traditionally, but they 
 spice it up with primarily tight, close combat. Republic Commando uses the increasingly standard 
 halo shield model of health, though you appreciate it, because as far as I can tell friendly fire 
 is on by default. 
  
  The squad AI is pretty good in these encounters, but the enemies are straight forward. The old 
 sci-fi exploit of being able to do the most horrible things to robots (cuz they're not human, right?) 
 is in full effect and there's lots of dismemberments and decapitations. 
  
  The game does the interesting thing of having every ammo drop give you your weapon's full capacity, 
 instead of trickling "random" amounts to you that add up to whatever they add up to. Promotes being 
 generous with the trigger. Off hand grenades (instead of selecting them) . Melee attacks are so 
 powerful the game cripples them by having whatever youre stabbing spray its innards all over 
 your visor. This flashbang effects you until the wiper scoops off to goop. 
  
  Something that really shines in the game are the team animations. In the above mentioned seek and 
 destroy, they'll wave you along in the right direction. When they fight hand to hand with aliens, 
 it's like a fighting game's combo as they just kick the living **** out of their foes. They interact 
 with the dead bodies of enemies, kicking them halo style or if left alone for a few moments, collect 
 together over it looking almost hypnotized by it. The death animations of the enemy exhibit a real 
 gallows humor. Decapitated droids stumbling around firing aimlessly, amputated badass droids drag 
 themselves along the ground before croaking. Can't wait until someone tries this level of violence 
 with human figures and a nod to realism (maybe not...) . 
  
  Consol-isms include extremely short levels (though loadtimes are blistering on modern PCs) , a checkpoint 
 system made irrelevant on the PC by the inclusion of quicksaves (thanks!) , and ginormous fonts 
 everywhere. I'm worry that less and less developers are designing for the PCs strengths these days. 
 
  
  Last thing I'll mention is they do great living battlefields. I'm as jaded as the next 35 year 
 old star wars fan about the new trilogy, and the geonosis battle in ep2 was no hoth as far as I 
 was concerned. But they convincingly carry it off here, with an almost a call of duty level of 
 burning, spiraling fighters, vietnam-esque hot drops, and close air support pyrotechnics. I think 
 there was even the old war horse of a medic reviving a fallen soldier. 
  
  Playing a lot of tactical shooters didn't prepare me very well for playing Republic Commando. Once 
 I got into the groove of squad control (which, again, boy did I not grok in the demotwice) , it 
 barely plays like a first person shooter. You're shooting sure, but most of the time you're directing 
 the squad and pitching in when more that 3 tasks need to be done simultaneously. That combined 
 with fairly righteous science fiction war scenes and intense character animations, you've got a 
 very good tactical shooter. 
  
  Hope Lucasarts didn't fire this internal team.. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-pert
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  When i play Republic Commando at first time, my feeling was "this game seems to be a kick-ass one". 
 Unfortunelly no one told me how short the game is. This sensation of loss took me to play many 
 times the same single player mode, and although to see the same history i apreciate a lot my time 
 spend on it.
  
  The plot sounds ok for a game of this type and add some color when you don't destroying some droids 
 or expldoe somthing. Some famous characters help the plot to be closest of the movie stories. The 
 members of your team have diferent personalities and the dialog's can take some laughs in the middle 
 of action.
  
  The graphics is cool and puts you inside of the area that can be easly recognised if you saw the 
 Episodes I and II. Geonosis, the planet of first mission, was very similar and i constantly had 
 a sensation of already crossed some areas.
  
  The most impressive feature is the interaction of team members and what you can order them to do. 
 The movements is so closest to real that you fells like you are inside of a tactical squad of some 
 special forces. The door breach procedure is a piece of art, you realize that is exactly the maneuver 
 used in a real situation.
  
  If you don't played this game, move your fat meat to a shop and buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogleknight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I thought it was going to be ok. Not awesome, not terriable, 
 but an ok game. Boy was i ever wrong. This game, in short, is a masterpiece. Superb writing, voice 
 acting, and overall fun makes this a game worth getting. It also uses a very nice 1-button squad 
 control which makes it very, very easy to control your squad. So, in conclusion:
  
  The Good: Awesome writing, voice acting, and a difficulty level that is hard but never frustrating 
 makes this a game of the ages.
  
  The Bad: VERY short. Skilled and/or determined players can finish this one in 4-5 hours. Very little 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdburger2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Over all it is a great game but it does need more levels cos i did finish it in 3 days with stops 
 in-between. the first main big level is good but very easy. the second level is good but fun at 
 the end when you have to kill so many droids. the third level is the best cos u are helping the 
 wookies. the guns are good and use the melee attack all the time cos it does come in handy. use 
 your second function a lot cos they do kill a lot of droids 
  Buy the game cos it is the best star wars game offer then star wars battlefront 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiSnoz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  When I write a review I like to start with the bad stuff, so I can finish with the good and this 
 time Ill do no exceptions.
  
  When I read all the reviews and watched all the trailers/gameplay footage, I got the impression 
 that it was a squad based shooter in the way of freedom fighters, where you could command your 
 troops to do almost anything, from move there and attack him to hold your position. So I 
 was a little disappointed when you couldnt do that in this game, you can only command your troops 
 to sniper positions etc if there is a specific place for you to do it. So it felt like the whole 
 command thing was there as a secondary function just to spice up the action and that wasnt exactly 
 what I was looking for in this game.
  
  There are other things as well that I hade some problems with, like the weapons, I really didnt 
 have a favorite among them, they all seamed so unimpressive, you would think that theyd have some 
 cool weapons being elite clones and all, but no, I ended up using the pistol most of the time because 
 the machinegun was so horribly ineffective that you hade to use an entire clip to shoot one lizard, 
 even if you aimed for the head. The sniper and the grenade launcher were a lot more effective but 
 you cant use them all the time for obvious reasons. 
  
  Other, minor issues, I hade with the game was the lizards, they were so uninteresting as the enemy, 
 and the fact that when you were crouched behind cover and tried to shoot you always hit the barrel 
 or what ever cover you were behind even though there were lots of room to shoot from. Actually 
 it seamed that you hit the covers and walls a lot of time even though you shouldnt have.
  
  Okay that was a whole lot of criticism, but dont worry, maybe it isnt a great game but it 
 is a good game, if that critique represents something it was my expectations for this game, which 
 were quite high.
  
  But now for the good parts, the game is plain and simple fun, there is nothing around that, most 
 of the enemies are fun to kill (except the lizards) and most importantly the game is hard, sometimes 
 it feels impossible to beat or destroy all the droid dispensers and flying bugs, but when you do 
 destroy them all and beat the level it feels so satisfying.
  
  So if you dont care that the squad commands are limited and are looking for plain and simple fun, 
 futuristic FPS game, dont look any further. If that is not enough, its Star Wars, that was why 
 I played it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjoco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is by far one of the best Star Wars games that i have played in my 
 time. Why the heck hell hasnt it come out earlier?
  
  Ok, now for the review: The controls were easy enough to figure out. My dissapont with the game 
 is how long it took to get to the action in the beginning. Other than that perfecto. The graphics 
 are grate and there wasnt one glitch that i could see with the game. The sound was superb the music 
 was just amazing. The command system in the game is what makes it so great. You get to blast droids 
 and aliens while bossing around the toops in Delta Squad. I my self didnt find the game that challanging 
 even toward the end of the game, but thats just me. 
  
  gjoco's rating: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogiwan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  It's hardly a new game. It was released in 2004, but it's been one that I could play more than 
 once. The greatest flaw in the entire game is that the single-player content is just way too small. 
 I've played it completely through on two seperate occassions, now. The squad play is interesting 
 and it was fun to see how different choices of things like positioning squad members for cover 
 fire could have a real impact on success. The clones really don't behave as clones. They each have 
 their own personality and oddly, they each have different voices as well.
  
  What I liked: Game play is fun, it moves at an enjoyable speed. The longer you play, the better 
 you become at using your squad. That may sound like a simple, expected thing but it's not always 
 true in games. The clone squad is fun. The enemies are what you'd expect. It had a Star Wars feel, 
 where many games have not.
  
  What I disliked: WAAAAAAAY too short on the single-player content. Additionally, some of the graphics 
 were a bit too cartoonish for me. For example, the clones looked pretty good and the droids were 
 pretty much what you'd expect, but the wookies almost looked like characatures. The initial key 
 mapping wasn't quite as 'standard' as I'd like, so I remapped them. 
  
  Suggestions for future versions?? I'd like much more game play as a single player. I think some 
 customizations of the characters or squad might be nice. For example, if a terminal had to be sliced, 
 it took the same amount of time for each clone to do the same task, say 10 seconds. I'd like to 
 see a squad member that's performed the task more often, do it more quickly. This just enhances 
 the importance of the squad's unique members. I also think that rather than just laying a couple 
 of new weapons around in some levels, it would be more emersive if the squad had the ability to 
 choose upgrades after the missions. The republic makes new stuff and the commandos get their choice.
 
  
  I think it was a good value because even though it is short on content, I felt I could play it 
 more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  I love Star Wars and Star wars games are always high on my list of good games. Star Wars Republic 
 Commando puts you into the shoes of a commando, in an elite group of troups, the Delta Squad. The 
 memebers of your squad include Sev, and Fixer. The worlds are awesome, exspecially the derlect 
 ship. This game is very immersive. Each commando has seperate and cool personalities. This is a 
 great and unique Star Wars experience. The graphics are amazing and the sound is superb. If you 
 own a Xbox or PC than you should get this great game. If you like Star Wars or First-Person-Shooters 
 thatn you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando is awesome, particularly for the streamlined squad control that players 
 can exercise in almost every battle. The system of positioning the three other members of Delta 
 Squad under your command is intuitive, allowing you to concentrate on fighting the game's various 
 enemies, rather than struggling to master a wonky control scheme.
  
  You can order your men to initiate a "shock-and-awe" door breach maneuver, hack computer controls 
 to enter a room or building quietly, man a blaster turret, snipe, throw grenades, shoot anti-armor 
 weapons, and hold back or move ahead with just a few key presses. In this regard, LucasArts has 
 one-upped Ubisoft's Ghost Recon.
  
  Not so good is the game's main weapon, a Republic blaster rifle that's somewhat weak and inaccurate. 
 The gun's sniper and anti-armor modes are fine, but the regular firing style is underwhelming.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but not great. The levels are varied and sport detailed textures, but there's 
 something odd about the way everything in Republic Commando's universe is so thick, or blocky. 
 I guess the developers were trying to reduce the number of polygons so the game would run smoothly 
 on the Xbox.
  
  The HUD is distracting. Too much information is presented on-screen all at once, which makes it 
 hard to focus on a particular target or object. Also, the inside helmet viewpoint is claustrophobic. 
 I wish there was a way to remove the helmet template from the screen.
  
  These niggling points aside, Republic Commando is a lot of fun to play. The action is virtually 
 non-stop, the voice acting is excellent, and the production values are classic Star Wars. Adding 
 Republic Commando to your FPS game collection is a no-brainer, especially now that its price has 
 dropped.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  THIS A GREAT GAME! very solid game play! AMAZING GRAPHICS if u have a NIce system, I run it @1600x1200 
 everything on high! it, s not as realistic looking as half life 2 But its still VERY NICE!
  
  When I just need to blow off steam this is the game I love to play! your team mates are very 
 good at following orders and they can hit what they aim at! unlike "brothers in arms "!
  
  The only Negitive thing about the game is that it is a linear Game "the old yellow brick road"But 
 even with that one negative It still scores Up high with the best games out in the FPS, s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't really feel like Star Wars, even though it features the enemies and allies from 
 the Star Wars universe you would expect in a game based around the prequel trilogy.
  
  The first evidence is this is the lack of the usual opening crawl that most other Star Wars games 
 have. In Republic Commando you get a few static black screens with some blue text to introduce 
 you to the current campaign.
  Only one other Star Wars game did not feature the opening crawl, and I believe that the game I 
 am talking about may be Battlefront. Strangely, not featuring an opening crawl had no effect on 
 Battlefront feeling like Star Wars. In fact Battlefront feels the most like Star Wars of any Star 
 Wars game.
  
  You also do not get the wonderful soundtrack you usually get with all other Star Wars games. I 
 am of course referring to the legendary scores composed by John Williams. Having said that, the 
 original music in this game is quite awesome, but it doesn't really fit Star Wars as a result of 
 it being original.
  
  Then the designers decided to give each clones their own voice. I feel that this was probably done 
 for gameplay reasons, as it enables you to easily identify which of your specialists is speaking. 
 Obviously though this breaks continuity with the established Star Wars universe whereby the clones 
 should in theory all sound like Temuera Morrison. The fact that your squad are all clones means 
 it can only be done for gameplay reasons, but I feel it's a mistake.
  
  The presentation of the game is great, in fact it's a system killer if run at full detail. Being 
 able to run Doom 3 at high quality is no guarantee that your system will handle this game at it's 
 fullest quality. I'd estimate that anybody that upgraded their PC to be able to run Deus Ex Invisible 
 War should have no trouble running this game. The game looks fantastic when scaled back, and if 
 your machine runs Doom 3 it will run this too. I opted to turn off all effects, but I kept texture 
 detail and character detail at maximum. This enabled me to play at 1024x768 and get a playable 
 framerate.
  
  There is noticeable mouselag, and in fact the vertical plane in particular feels very odd. I can 
 only guess that this has something to do with the game also being an XBox game, but the mouse control 
 feels slightly strange and you can tell that this was ported or designed with analog controllers 
 in mind.
  
  Oh, and the game is very difficult at the default setting of medium. From the opening campaign 
 on Geonosis you will run into the problem of guns running out of ammo, and generally feeling ineffective 
 against certain enemies.
  
  Speaking of which, the default blaster only holds 300 shots. The gun has to be reloaded every so 
 many shots, which is totally bizzare given that it is an energy weapon. You cannot hold spare 300 
 shot clips, so a lot of the time you will encounter ammo dumps which you simply cannot pickup because 
 your gun is already full, and later on you may find yourself backtracking to pick that ammo up 
 or to find a bacta dispenser to replenish health.
  
  The gun itself is something of a superweapon, where various attachments can turn it into a sniper 
 rifle or rocket launcher. In an absolutely stunning design decision you do not get all the attachments 
 from the get go. This is really annoying because you will encounter things like Super Battledroids 
 before you have the right gun to take them out. Even worse, you sometimes encounter these enemies 
 when you have the right gun but do not have any ammo to take them out. What's striking about this 
 decision is that you are leading the best of the best, being a commando and all, so you would expect 
 to have the best equipment and a good ammo supply, but it just isn't so in this game at the beginning 
 at least.
  
  So you may want to be very conservative with how you use ammo. This is made very difficult by the 
 extreme amount of punishment each enemy can handle. It's crazy how a single Geonosian can take 
 so many blaster shots to the head, and just don't even get me started on the Transdoshians. The 
 Super Battle Droids in this game are more like tanks, and you will need to concentrate your entire 
 squads weaponry on one to take them out within 30 seconds. IF they are alive.
  
  Yes, your squadmates will go down, and you can heal them up and get them back into the battle. 
 You may die yourself trying to heal them, or they may die trying to heal you. It's not an uncommon 
 situation in this game to be out of ammo with dead teammates all around you while you are up against 
 1 or more Super Battle Droids or Droideka's or Spiderdroids.
  
  You do get a handheld blaster that has unlimited ammo, which is exactly what all the energy weapons 
 SHOULD have. You can only fire so many shots before you have to wait for the onscreen meter to 
 refill before you can fire again, and the gun is sorta weak.
  
  Even though the game can be frustratingly difficult, it can also be fun. I think this is a Star 
 Wars game that any collector should add to their collection. If your not a fan of Star Wars or 
 if you don't collect Star Wars games I do not recommend picking this game up. There are far better 
 squad based FPS out there that are not as frustrating and are far more memorable and fun. As far 
 as Star Wars games go though, it's above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luekwa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  For a teen rated game the violene level is pretty high so its not that inferior to our favorite 
 M rated game's blood and gore that we all know and love. While the story is kind of crap and the 
 graphics arn't anything to write home about the gameplay is easy and fun. 
  It will never get old, sneaking up behind a geonosian and stabbing him in the back and watch his 
 guts fill the screen. Or sending a little trandoshan flying with a missile launcher. The music 
 is incredible and really gets you into it. The quicksave feature is beautiful. Fast and effective. 
 Use it whenever. No need to get to check points. 
  On the flip side the multiplayer is crap. Boring and non exciting they could have expanded on this 
 so much more. The maps are square, the weapons are the same, and you can only be two different 
 races. Now if there was co-op it would be killer. 
  All in all the game's not worth spending 50 bucks for but if you can get it for around 30 off amazon 
 or ebay its a pretty good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This is what squad based shooters should be! Colorful characters each one with his own personality, 
 most simple command interface I have ever seen. The AI on both sides is great, your teammates don't 
 need you to tell them to do every little thing, no they take initiative on their own, but if your 
 a control freak you can turn auto pull maneuvers off. 
  
  The Graphics are great as well not to mention the dialogue, which never seems to get old. The only 
 drawback his how short this game is. It's the only thing, which keeps it from being perfect. I 
 do hope they make an expansion pack for the game or maybe even a sequel. 
  
  Case and point: It matters not if your a star wars fan or not if you love squad based shooters 
 get this game, you'll love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a okay game. Think Halo but with a star wars lincence and you get 
 it. The gameplay is solid and fun. Lots of things are context sensitive so you can order your clone 
 commandos to things like take up a sniper position or hack a termonal. The ai is pretty good. Graphics 
 are nice but the textures can seem fuzzy at pionts. You will need a killer computer to run this 
 game at full potential. Sound is nothing great though the foley sounds very nice and add a much 
 needed touch of realism. There is little or any music from the movies. This game is shorted than 
 timmothy daltons career. 1 afternoon is all that it will take beat this game. The online is nothing 
 spiecal. You can create your own caracter but it is very limmited. Your squade will make some one 
 liners and stuff like that like "I didn't know that lizzards are that nostalgic."
  
  7.5 
  Good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Repubic Commando is an excellent First-Person Shooter. It is a lot like Halo, if you 
 have played that game, but I bet most of you have. As excellent as it is, it has one thing that 
 holds it back from becoming another Halo: the length. Halo takes a long time to pass. Republic 
 Commando only takes about 8-10 hours. When the game ends, you are thinking, "There's no more?" 
 You end up not being satisfied, and then you go back and play it again on a harder skill level. 
 But if you are looking for a great game, you have found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  Um... This review is going to be short. Personally, I didn't enjoy this game too much. The squad 
 based play is one of the better parts of the game, putting you in charge of soldiers of the republic. 
 You'll lead them through numerous areas while taking on a ton of enemies. Your weapons pack some 
 punch, with variety and creativeness. The game has many aspects a la Halo, which is actually a 
 nice touch. 
  On the short end, the graphics aren't that great considering it is a port. The controls take a 
 little getting used to, and (especially towards the end) enemies can become overwhelming and annoying. 
 Atleast in my case, the last few levels got a little too ridiculous with the enemy load. The game 
 does have a fairly good endy, hinting events towards the Episode III movie. Overall though, it 
 seemed as though the bad out-weighed the good. There are some good elements of gameplay in here, 
 so if you're a big fan of Star Wars and are really into the series by all means check this one 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  I know you are reading this so lets get this over with. Star Wars Republic Commando is one star 
 wars game you want to get fan or not it's good game to get. Star Wars Republic Commando is a prelude 
 to Episode 3. There are over a dozen weapons and levels to play. Star Wars is like a mix of Halo 
 and Metro Prime. You are in control of 3 commandos you carry out various missons. The game has 
 a good story but its short. It would be a good game for Star Wars beginners also. Many enviroments 
 in the game. In the game you go against tree different factions Genosians, Trandoshans, and The 
 Trade Federation. From Geonosis to the wookie planet of Kashyyyk. You will meet tough eniemies 
 trough out the game for all you people who like challenges. The game does carry some humor in it. 
 You can change the graphics in the game.
  You also get to see General Grievous in the game. You can command your squad to follow your orders. 
 The multi-player is good for pc you can customize your own player and you can be a Trandoshan or 
 a Clone Commando its your choice. It has cheats for pc and Xbox. I won't spoil the end for you 
 though so you have to play it to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9/10
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10
  
  Overview:
  
  Ever get tired of all the voodoo mysticism in Star Wars? Massive scale futuristic 
 wars, and yet most of the time your stuck behind the rose colored glasses of a Jedi. Well, prepare 
 to enter the blood-soaked helmet of an elite republic commando, bred and trained for the grittiest, 
 most difficult missions any clone soldier would ever face. You look through the eyes of RC-1138, 
 nicknamed Boss. You are the leader of Delta Squad, the Republic Commando squad consisting of four 
 members. Each of your other three members have their own voice and personality that, throughout 
 their many one liners through the game, give extra atmosphere while playing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Probably the best part of the game, and something that made me buy it over Doom 
 3. The enemies, though many would disagree on whether they're that powerful in the movies, are 
 well balanced and force you to think about how you use your squad. Realistically, this game is 
 much more difficult than Halo, and at times you're frightened trying to think of how to overcome 
 the impossible odds, luckily, you have other people to do the dirty work. This game utilized quick 
 tactics, nothing too complicated, to ease the trip and in fact if you use your squad correctly, 
 the game practically plays it self. Unlike most games in which winning and losing are set on how 
 well you can aim and which weapon you're using, in this game battles are won and lost by your decisions 
 as Delta Leader. 
  
  Although the maps are rather linear, this is a good and bad thing. The developers had very limited 
 time in putting this game together, so when making the maps instead of focusing on making them 
 open, they focused on more important things, like arranging what little map space they had in such 
 a way that the atmosphere you feel when you're being attacked is unique and intense. They arranged 
 the levels economically so you had a feeling that where you positioned your squad had a direct 
 effect on the battle's outcome. All in all it makes for very intense battles, and a very war torn, 
 brink-of-despair atmosphere.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Saying they're probably the best graphics LucasArts has ever had isn't saying much. They're great, 
 the explosions are excellent, the physics are eye candy (especially when you shoot the gas-packs 
 on the trandoshans) and I've already mentions how cool the atmosphere is. One thing I have to mention 
 while I'm talking about graphics are there were no cut scenes, and frankly I didn't mind. There 
 are still some very excellent images to see, such as the destruction of ships, the republic fleet 
 moving in, etcetera. The developers didn't rely on cutscenes to show you what you were looking 
 at, you could see everything you needed to see from your visor.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound, again like everything else, had an impact on atmostphere. First of all, the music they 
 chose enforced certain feelings throughout the game. During battles, loop-songs could be heard, 
 sang in ancient Mandalorian funnily enough. I personally got the feeling like I was a hero in an 
 anime movie.
  
  Apart from music was foley, something no one pays attention to that has a subtle but powerful impact 
 on the game. When you hear your character moving, you get an impression of the texture of the jungle 
 floor, when you here yourself being surounded by insects, the sounds are realistic. It was a nice 
 touch if nothing else.
  
  Story:
  
  Staying with the current trend, the game ended abruptly. There are three campaigns, and althrough 
 the first two progressed well with absolutely explosive climaxes that made you gasping for air. 
 The ending of the third, and therefore the ending of the game left you puzzled, and all though 
 the last level was very difficult, the last five minutes were a breeze. All in all, it makes you 
 hope they come out with a sequel.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  
  These days it seems developers can spend a couple days and make a playable multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 at times seems like it's just a rush to get the BFG, camp up on a wall and blow everyone up who 
 comes close. It's not all that bad, and in fact Capture the Flag and Assault are very fun. It also 
 utilizes blast shield and elevators which can come in strategically handy. At its potential the 
 multiplayer is very enjoyable and intense, but at regular use your teammates are found screwing 
 with the elevator, people are opening the blast shields when you'd be most vulnerable, and the 
 only reason you can't score is because there's a guy perched up top with an AA gun.
  
  All in all, I'd saying this is one of the best games to come out this year despite what I've mentioned 
 above. And I am hoping for an expansion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimr9999us
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  + Totally immersive SF FPS gameworld
  + Scripted combat sequences create some dizzying frenetic moments
  + Simple squad commands and 
 decent AI allow you to relax and enjoy the carnage
  + Squad member healing means no more reloads
  + Laser HUD "windshield wiper" a classic inspiration
 
  
  - 4x AA must be on or engine shows its age
  - The rumors are true... this is a pretty short game
  - The arsenal needs a BFG... a Mandelorian 
 Heavy Repeating Blaster, perhaps?
  
  I'm generally an RPG/RTS guy, but foremost, it's all about fun, immersive gameplay in a creative, 
 story driven environment: it's here that the game shines. Those looking for a tactical squad-based 
 shooter need to look elsewhere. This is pure popcorn munching escapism. If you enjoyed Freedom 
 Fighters, consider this a "Must buy"; Rainbow Ops? Well, you're prob. not reading this to begin 
 with...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickboy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  --Im a fan of Star Wars (if anybody cares) , and I buy almost every SW game that catches my fancy, 
 i went totally crazy when i saw the first screens for Republic Commando, then i found out it featured 
 a squad based gameplay, then i almost break into lucasarts to get a copy, but im afraid it doesnt 
 live to the hype,.
  --Yes the graphics are good, not great but good, i mean, I have seen chihuahuas with better hair 
 than the wookies in the game. There are some changes from the movies, for example Super Battle 
 Droids are here, well, Super, and very difficult to take down.
  --I loved the effects, explosions, particle effects and stuff.
  --I was disapointed by the fact 
 that not one jedi appears in the game (not counting Yoda-hologram at the end of the game) , it would 
 have been soo cool to see a jedi fighting at your side. but well, I have been dissapointed by SW 
 many times (i. e. jar-jar,)
  --Squad controls are varied, but not too varied, some of them are great to use, some you wont even 
 bother checking if its active. 
  --All in All is a good game, good graphics, cool weapons, gameplay is not so great but its passable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedmon8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The is game is just masterful. It bring all the great star wars music and fun to the creative game. 
 This game was surpising to me at first i though a star wars clone game would be terrible. This 
 game is indeed great. Its was never a dull moment in the game. This clone suit and the weapns and 
 your the commandor it just all was great. The enimies you face are just great like the spider doid 
 was so tight to go up againist splended!!! Some of the bad thing about the game is it could have 
 some jedi action in it like you had to follow a jedi and do some mission. And the games place of 
 battle could been better if you had some type of human interaction besides your fleet but other 
 than that this game was good star wars game and if they made a Star Wars Republic Cammando 2 i 
 already I am buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix_117
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 9, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is really great at the start, the Metroid Prime type of HUD is really immersive but 
 once you finish the horrifiically short campain you will find that the game's multiplayer is absolute 
 bull$&@#.
  
  The cool hud is gone, even if you change your guy's colours the hands will look the same, there 
 is narrator who sounds as if he is tired of his very existance, the teams are so unfair! The Trandos 
 start with weaker assault rifles that the commandos, the levels are so lame and boring the gameplay 
 isn't even close to the one in campain and there have been no mods or skins relesed for the is 
 game and i doubt that there will be!
  
  Unless you are Star Wars fans then just pass this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  This isn't a game with new concepts to First Person Shooter Games. Not as good looking graphical 
 as HL-2 or Doom 3. This isn't anything new for FPS gameplay wise. The squad side has been in other 
 games. One thing that got me interested was the Star Wars part of it. Also it wasn't the usual 
 Jedi games most of the Star Wars games are. It shows the universe through the more grunt side of 
 things. No special force powers or lightsabers. Just elite Clone Troopers with guns and willpower. 
 
  
  Graphical this game isn't the best out there but it is still solid. At least with RC (Republic 
 Commando) it can be cranked pretty high on not a top end machine. No big problems with frame rate 
 or big glitches. One thing I did notice was with dead enemies and your squadmates is they don't 
 stay still sometimes. I've seen arms, legs, etc. moving in weird ways after they are dead or "knocked 
 out" with squadmates. The bodies should be still not moving. This isn't a big deal and doesn't 
 take away from the game. Character models are detailed well, nothing bad there. Almost forgot the 
 default view mode is first person inside a hemlet. It add to the immersion factor and acts sort 
 of like a HUD. So overall the graphics are good.
  
  Gameplay as I said before it's revolutionary. First of all you have a shield and health like Halo. 
 Shield recharges if you take cover and wait. If shield runs out then health starts to go. Then 
 you get get knocked down until a squadmate revives you. So if your squad and you dies Game Over. 
 All of the levels there are also heal stations scattered about. Don't be turned off with the squad 
 part of the game. There is you 38, fixer (hacker) , scorch (demo) , and sev (sniper) . None of them 
 do any better at there supposed roles. So it's just for looks and to enhance the feel of the game 
 that you're a squad. It isn't too high in complexity and micromanagement. Squad commands are simple 
 and not hard to use. Form Up, Guard Position are the main ones I'm guessing most people with use. 
 You can also tell them to attack certain targets. The other squad related thing you'll do is tell 
 them to take positions on defined points. Usually behind cover of some kind you can tell to take 
 up sniper, grenade, and heavy weapons (grenade launcher) positions. Squadmates don't do it by themselves 
 and to play the game it is needed unless you cheat. Other actions they can be ordered to do is 
 place explosives on baricades or other things needed to be blown up. They can also be order to 
 "slice" or hack/bypass terminals, door locks, etc. One element seen a lot in the game in door breach 
 and go into another room. Most of the time they can be ordered to blow the door (just the locking 
 mechanism really) or slice it. Blowing the door results in an explosion and grenade being thrown 
 in. Much like real military or S. W. A. T. which is what the game takes a lot of ideas from. One thing 
 on squad intelligence is it always the best. Sometimes it takes them time to fire on enemies and 
 they don't concentrate on one enemy. Easy was to counteract this is tell them to focus on one target. 
 One thing that I don't like it they only use the default blaster, unless they are ordered to go 
 to a special weapons point. I know the devs did it to make things simple and give special weapons 
 point a purpose. That is it on the squad part.
  
  Weapons aren't as cool as the Gravity Gun in HL-2 or Soulcube in Doom 3. The pistol comes as the 
 most basic weapon. It doesn't have ammo like the blaster. It is unlimited but has a charge (small 
 one good for like 5 or 6 shots) that goes down as it is fired. When you stop firing it recharges. 
 Doesn't do much damage but is accurate and unlimited ammo is nice. Next is a wimpy blaster (there 
 at the start of the game) that takes a lot to take out most enemies besides the pathetic basic 
 battledroids. The interesting thing here is it is just one attachment for lets say the chassis. 
 It can be attached with a sniper rifle and grenade launcher. All the weapons have melee ability 
 with them. Either hitting them with the weapon or a vibroblade (like the hand knives in predator 
 in a way) which pops out and stabs enemies. When enemies die with a melee attack blood on organic 
 enemies and oil-like substance splatters on your helmet visor. Other alien weapons can be picked 
 up but only one at a time. These include a shotgun, heavy machine gun, rocket launcher, and a beam 
 weapon. The first two are Trandosan and fire projectiles and thus aren't the best against droids. 
 Seconds is a Wookie rocket launcher which is good at blowing up almost anythings. Last one is a 
 Genosian design which sucks the used blood and turns it into a beam. This has one thing incommon 
 with some games mini/chainguns it takes a second to start working. 
  
  Now to enemies, the separtists are Genosians and Droids (counting Grevious' bodyguards) . Allied 
 with them in the end are Tradoshans (lizard people) . Each have at least 3 types of enemies. In 
 the final level a few wookies follow you and "help." Usually they just get in the way and die after 
 taking a ton of damage. Genosians (bug people) come in three flavors babies that come out of eggs 
 and hit you or spit some acidic or corrisive stuff. They die easily and only get annoying in big 
 groups. Second is a jumping bug with a staff-like weapon. On the hard difficulty it often kills 
 in one hit or almost kills you when it gets close. They also jump at you to close in for the kill. 
 Last one is a flying or better said hovering elite. It takes a ton of shots from default pistol 
 on blaster. One hit to kill with rocket or grenade launcher. The beam weapon is what they use. 
 If you move around it doesn't hurt much. Droids are the pathetic battledroids seen in mass numbers 
 in Episode I. They only hurt in massed groups. Second is the Super Battledroid which takes massively 
 more damage then standard enemy. They fire a heavy laser cannon and sometimes kneel too fire a 
 rocket launcher. If you stay still the rocket will hit you and death comes. Next is the awesome 
 Spider Droid, basically a tank. It is a boss well closest to it for this game. It has missiles 
 and a massive cannon. The cannon if it directly hits you means death and missile hurt bad as well. 
 It has a red sensor which has a protector which pops up often. That does more damage to it but 
 takes a lot. Last droid is Grevious's bodyguards. They use a staff with lightsaber like ends and 
 what looks like missiles. They don't kill in one hit if you. Lots of fire to kill these things. 
 Last are Trandosans which are lizardmen. First type is one with a shotgun, hurts at close range. 
 These can drop there guns and run at you with dual knives. Or in the early game just the knives. 
 Second are their droids which fire lighting, jump on your face (have to attack with vibroblade 
 a few times) , and try to ram into you when low on HP. Third is a merc with SMG and melee attack. 
 Also they have a backpack thing (don't know what it is for) that makes them fly in the air if shot. 
 This can be done if they are dead or not. Lastly is a huge monster with HMG. It takes a lot to 
 take down and kills you fast if you stand still. All the lower types of Trandosans chuck the occasional 
 grenade. 
  
  Sound in RC is fine. A few tracks of music one which is the Star Wars theme song. One original 
 epic type of song. I think there is one or two more. Voice acting is high quality and some funny 
 lines that your 3 squadmates say. They repeat things after awhile. Enemies have like one line max. 
 Tradoshans say something with die in it. Weapons sound good so okie dokie in sound.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is boring. Played it like twice so maybe not the best person to ask. The 
 value comes from the singleplayer. I played it on normal and hard. Normal was easy for me so for 
 anyone that has played an FPS before don't play the Easy level. Singleplayer is spread through 
 3 levels which have variety and different parts look different. It's about 10 hours worth of play 
 but varies on how you play and how good you are. It has unlockables like making off, concept arts, 
 and a music video which is a nice touch.
  
  Overall this is a good squad based FPS and addition to Star Wars saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  Innovative use of squad based movement and tactics makes this game a stand out.
  
  Very high quality graphics, Sound and a highly intuitive command interface only add to the novelty 
 of fighting in the Star Wars universe. The voice acting is some of the best in recent gaming memory.
 
  
  Fairly short game... and due to the linear structured storyline... not overly difficult. My 8 year 
 old son has had no issue completing the game. He is begging for the the Expansion pack that might 
 never arrive... but he was very pleased and thrilled with the gaming experience. I have to agree 
 with him... more than worth the $$.
  
  Only downside is the lackluster if not pedestrian Multi-player gaming experience... No Bot support 
 only makes it worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keithrp
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  While it might not have been as impressive as Half-life 2 graphic wise, it still is a very impressive 
 game. I'm not much of a Star Wars fad, but this game really made an impression on me of how cool 
 a game based on Star Wars can be.
  
  Critical utilization of your squad's positioning and assignments from a first-person perspective 
 in combat is what moves the game forward. Ordering your squad mate to snipe for you while you and 
 the rest of your team bust in a room full of baddies is pretty intuative and rewarding in a sense. 
 Another example of a tactical maneuver is raiding a room S. W. A. T. style, breaching the door, throwing 
 grenades and moving in for the kill. The enemy AI won't suprise you, because of the fact that they're 
 all robots and bugs. It's good to know that your supposed highly trained republic commando teamates' 
 AI are as good as they should be. It has the old first person mechanic wherein you shoot to kill 
 the baddies but makes you think twice about running head on straight to the enemy.
  
  The game shines mostly in single player but the story mode is a little short, spanning to at least 
 7 hours. Sadly, Republic Commando doesn't incorporate it's squad based principles in multiplayer 
 where it's all in classic deathmatch/team deathmatch modes. That said Republic Commando is a good 
 and worthwhile game to play to keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  I loved the game play, I am not a huge fan of squad based games but Commando was easy to use and 
 to direct the team live while in a firefight. I liked the premise and the setting for the game. 
 It was fun to be in the early days in the clone army, being directed at the time by the Jedi council. 
 The characters were fun and unique for clones, I chuckled at some the dialog, like the first time 
 I shot one of my team that had run in front of me. The Star Wars games have been hit and miss in 
 my view, I think all in all they can be proud of this one, it looks great and plays great. I just 
 wish they had done more with it. I really thought the Wookie home world mission was a training 
 ground and setting up the plot for the rest of the game. Then the credits started rolling... WHAT?! 
 I just lost one of my team, the invasion was just starting, I was just getting into the game and 
 ready to play and it's over?? I was really disappointed at that but it's not fair to bring the 
 whole game down just due to the length, there is a lot of good about the game. I hope you enjoy 
 it. I think I'll go play it again so it'll feel like a regular length game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Republic Commando is a different kind of Star Wars game. You can see this from the moment that 
 it starts up. Instead of the Star Wars theme with the scrolling text, the game begins with a foreboding 
 chorus from the prequel trilogy, and it throws you right into the action without much exposition. 
 This different feel to the Star Wars continues throughout the game, as you experience a part of 
 the universe for the first time: squad-based combat in The Clone Wars. The game is highly enjoyable 
 because it manages to stay faithful to Star Wars without falling into the clichs that grip most 
 Star Wars games. It also has a lot of positive gameplay elements, like good AI, fast pacing, and 
 a command system that is easy to use. Unfortunately, the game is also dragged down by some flaws, 
 like tightly linear level design, short length, and ugly environments. Republic Commando is worth 
 playing, but its not as good as Freedom Fighters, and its not one of the all time great Star 
 Wars games.
  
  As much as I love Star Wars and Star Wars games over the years, this game was a refreshing change 
 right from the beginning. Instead of playing a simple FPS, platformer, button masher, or Jedi game, 
 you get to control a squad of four elite clone troopers. 
  The game effectively captures the feel of the end of Attack of the Clones, right from the start. 
 At the outset, you are thrown into the big battle on Geonosis. All around you are enemy droids 
 and bugs flying around, with laser blasts and explosions everywhere and your fellow clone troopers 
 trying to stay alive. The way that this game provides a refreshing experience without spoiling 
 its authenticity as a Star Wars game is one of its greatest assets.
  
  Most of Republic Commando consists of guiding your troopers through fast-paced short levels. Occasionally, 
 you stop to heal up, collect ammo, blow open a door, or hack a computer, but for the most part, 
 youre constantly advancing forward. There are also some short solo sequences thrown in for change 
 of pace, but they arent a lot of fun. The action is solid and occasionally exciting. The AI for 
 enemies is fairly simple, so the game just makes up for it by throwing wave after wave of them 
 at you. The AI for the squad is very good, and the command system is highly refined. The F1 through 
 F4 keys can be used to give general commands, while the use key gives a context-sensitive command 
 to one trooper. For example, if your crosshair is on a door, the use key might be a command to 
 blow the door open, while if your crosshair is on a rock, the command might be to take a sniper 
 position. Text on your HUD and an icon on the screen make it obvious what each command will do. 
 
  
  Republic Commando provides a game that is easy to pick up and play. Perhaps too easy. The tactics 
 are almost spoon-fed to you, through the use of tightly linear level design and limited use of 
 the commands. This game reminds me of the first two Splinter Cell games in its linearity, and the 
 way that solutions are plainly presented to you. The structure gives you little reason to replay 
 levels. You will probably find that this game has little lasting value, and for 50 bucks, you should 
 be getting more.
  
  The other commandos in this game look fantastic: as good as NPCs in any game on any platform. 
 The rest of the graphics, however, are mediocre, at best. Environments are extremely bland and 
 repetitive. (Note to developers: if youre going to copy Halo, stop copying its worst trait!) Special 
 effects such as weapon fire and explosions are mundane. The HUD has huge, ugly low-res text that 
 you find in most console ports. Overall, the graphics for this game are decent, but they should 
 have been a lot better. The same could be said for the games audio. Once again, the other commandos 
 are done perfectly. Their voice acting is superb and their dialog and demeanor are entertaining. 
 However, battles have no visceral feel to them and the weapons are seriously lacking in punch. 
 Especially the assault rifle, which is just a weak Star Wars-ized version of an assault rifle in 
 any first person shooter.
  
  For a game that is only 8 to 10 hours long, Republic Commando is also disappointingly repetitive. 
 You meet all of your squadmates early in the game, and by the time you are one third through it, 
 you have experienced almost everything that there is to experience. The gameplay settles into a 
 routine that alternates between opening doors and brief firefights. Every once in a while, you 
 enter an exciting sequence where you have to cover one of your squadmates for a minute while he 
 hacks a computer or places explosives. Some of these sequences get very challenging towards the 
 end of the game. Especially the areas that require you to blow up a droid dispenser.
  
  Freedom Fighters still stands as the high bar for squad based combat games, and Republic Commando 
 falls short. It lacks the buildup, drama, and tactical brilliance that game had. Thats not to 
 say that its a bad game. Its a fun and immersive experience for Star Wars fans. However, the 
 linear level design, lack of gameplay variety, and average production values keep this game from 
 being a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Playing Republic Commando reminded me a lot of Halo (1 and 2) . The campaign is exciting with a 
 great tempo to it, and really gives you the feeling of playing the role of an elite solider. The 
 game doesn't match up in the multiplayer department, and comparatively the single player campaign 
 is shorter than Halo's. However, the squad based features are really well done (better than the 
 Rainbow Six series, in my opinion) , and the Star Wars universe has a very familar feel to it.
 
  
  In addition to a junky but unlimited ammo pistol, your basic weapon has 3 different modes to it, 
 including automatic rifle, sniper rifle, and anti-armor. In addition, you can have a 3rd weapon 
 from whatever the enemy happens to drop. Combined with 4 different grenade types, you have quite 
 an arsenal, which really gives the game a lot of the elite commando feel to it.
  
  Your squadmates are also quite deadly, and their constant dialog, both scripted and randomly chosen 
 makes them feel alive. There are also interactive points scatter all over the place where you can 
 highlight and tell a trooper to take an offensive position of some sort there. Using these points 
 correctly makes a huge difference on how your team performs in enemy encounters, and is just done 
 really well.
  
  Altogether, this game takes some great elements out of other first-person shooters and squad combat 
 games. There's not really anything revolutionary about it, but it's all done extremely well. It 
 probably could have been done effectively with random characters and places, but the fact that 
 it's in the Star Wars universe is icing on the cake.
  
  The only complaint would be that the game isn't entirely that long. Probably 60% as long as Halo 
 1 (just guessing) . That said, even before beating the game I already started playing the first 
 set of missions over again, just because it's so much fun. The different weapons and squad deployments 
 add a lot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emanuelp2
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay ! W0W ! I just can't describe it ! even the one's who doesn't like the SW movies will 
 love Republic Commando ! I guarantee you that ! What about the sound?! I love the star wars soundtrack 
 ! it is one of the most important and supportive things in the game ! it creat suspense, cause 
 tension and it one of the things that pull me back to play the game all over, again and again.
 
  I can't give RC the best attribute for the Graphics, but it is still very good. the characters 
 are detailed and evident for the eye. you will look at your Delta squad team and think that they 
 are real ! a lot of great graphic effects, like when the "bugs" got on your helmet, you have the 
 "cleaner" that cleans your view, and more effects like it.
  The other thing that I liked in the game is the team's conversations and expressions.
  
  summarily, 
 the game is really showing the events that happened after episode II, in the Clone Wars. All the 
 stuff, the graphics, the sound, the gameplay ---everything !!! is making you think you're really 
 fighting in the Clone Wars !
  
  
  "delta squad, cover me !" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hang5lngbd
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 11, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was very dissappointing. While the first 30 minutes of the game are remarkable with the 
 enemies and scenery, very quickly a player realizes how repetive and mundane the game so quickly 
 becomes.... nothing new under the sun. You will find yourself battleing the same 6 or 7 enemies 
 wave after wave... find that the enemy AI is so predictable (basically strong Super Battle Droids 
 that are dumber than a door nail and yet so strong that you find the only way to fight it is stand 
 and aim at the red eye... for 5 minutes from a distance. Grab a coke to sip with your left hand... 
 it'll help you keep cool when you start to get hot and bothered by the annoying waste of time with 
 no adrenaline rush) . 
  
  Next, the squad based aspect is awful. In comparison to SWAT 4 or Brothers in Arms, you have no 
 freedom with your squad other than pointing them to stand before predetermined spots where they 
 snipe. They don't have AI built to cover each other with exclusion to healing each other when they 
 get dropped. (Which begs a question... If squad members are all equipped with the abiltiy to heal 
 fallen comrades... wouldn't it be much easier to heal themselves in the middle of a fire fight 
 before they get dropped?) 
  
  Thirdly, the game lags like a junior high hip hop ghetto monkey who's pants are lagging below his 
 knees... I have a 2.8 gigahertz intel processor with a Gigabye Motherboard and over a gig of RAM 
 and a 128 Asus Geforce FX card and surely, on the lowest settings as I had it... there shouldn't 
 be so much lag... Every time more than 3 enemies were on the screen at once, the frame rate dropped 
 as low as 5 to 10 frames per second... slower than molasses in January. I am, in fact, a moron 
 for having the patience to commit to completing this attrocious game... 
  
  In summary:
  This game lags... unless you have the highest end graphics card and intense computer specs... This 
 game is repetive beyond believe... This game is very very limiting in the squad based strategy... 
 (none existent almost) . Even a die-hard Star Wars movie like myself (with exclusion to liking Jar 
 Jar Binks) found that this game blows chunks. Very dissappointing. If you are a discriminating 
 game player with your time, find something much better like Brothers in Arms or World of Warcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are extremely well done. The sound and music pull you into the 
 experience. And there's alot of fun to had with the physics engine. The game's single player game 
 is the best for any FPS on the XBox. The main problems I had with this game was the game was too 
 short and the ending was an obvisous setup for a sequel. Other than that it was an excellent game. 
 Much better than Halo 2. Halo 2 is to short and I Hate all sci fiction stuff accept for star wars.
 
  
  Gameplay: I had no problems with the gameplay. The game ran smoothly and the control of your squad 
 mates is a cool idea. I liked this game's way for you to change weapons as well, the D-pad is the 
 best way to change weapons. The main problems, as stated above, are that the game is too short 
 and the ending was an obvisous setup for a sequel. Another not-so-important problem I had with 
 the game is the limited number of weapons. THe physics engine is also very cool. The Multiplayer 
 part is alot like Unreal tournement which is really fun 9/10
  
  Grafics: The Grafics are absolutly Amazing, it looks very real and very nice to look at.
  
 
  Sound: Good Sound Very Clear and Crisp the Rebublic Blaster rifle sound like an M-16
  
  The Replay Value is great.
  Overall i give this game 9 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Republic Commando is that game that when you start playing it you just can't stop playing 
 it. This game has an excelent performance on PC.
  The graphics are the best ever and there are details very much impresive. The sound is nice and 
 it has a great gameplay, quite soft.
  If you were with doubts about this game just ignore them because this game is so good that you 
 don't realize anything else around you when you are playing it.
  If you have a PC you must own this title because it's a great alternative for Halo.
  This game's 
 multiplayer is not the best of all time but it's quite good.
  One last thing about this game:
  Awsome! Buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Republic Commando (Xbox)
  Console shooters have come a long way. And on the Xbox, its simply not enough to release the same 
 old game in new clothes. The game has to have a hook, an angle, something different. Lucas Arts 
 has tried to accomplish this with the squad-based, first person shooter, Republic Commando.
  
  Going Commando 
  In Republic Commando, you play "Thirty Eight" of Delta Squad, a four man 
 special forces unit. The story unfolds during the clone wars but outside of any Star Wars movie. 
 In the Republic army, commandos have abilities and weapons well beyond those of their clone brothers. 
 From the outset of each mission, you are thrown behind enemy lines and its your job to lead the 
 squad to the objective and get them out alive.
  
  I certainly would not call the missions stealthy, in fact, your squad is quite talkative. There 
 are dozens of one liners and a few quick conversations thrown in for good measure. The squad banter 
 is not only funny, it provides most of the missions details and story as well. It never seems forced 
 and the voice acting is good. The dynamic and animated squad members really give Republic Commando 
 a cinematic presentation.
  
  Republic Commando is primarily a single player game but there is a multi-player online component. 
 The online game provides standard death match, CTF, and king of the hill variants but its easily 
 out classed by other offerings like Halo2 or Rainbow Six.
  
  The Load Out 
  There is a decent selection of weapons and most of them are well put together. You've got your 
 classics (blaster, sniper, and pistol) and some fairly interesting alien world variants. These 
 non-republic issue guns are usually very powerful but have limited ammunition so you tend to use 
 them right away. For the most part, the control scheme is pure Halo. Switching weapons was a little 
 flaky at times but the controls in general were very good. Weapon balance was good overall but 
 the sniper rifle was a bit too powerful and deadly accurate even when not zoomed. 
  
  The graphics are very detailed and present the Star Wars universe through your helmet visor which 
 includes a detailed heads up display. As in Metroid Prime, the visor and HUD are very integrated 
 and add a level of immersion to the game. Rain will bead and bugs will splatter and both will be 
 wiped off with a electronic beam.
  
  The sounds are on par with other Star Wars games and by that I mean excellent. Not only is the 
 squad banter well done but the weapons, explosions, and background music are top notch. The main 
 theme plays and is queued by action which is a nice touch but the single theme does get stale after 
 hours of play.
  
  Advance To The Next Sector 
  One area where Republic Commando does not shine is in gameplay depth. From start to finish, the 
 game goals and missions don't change much. That's not to say that its not fun, it is. Its just 
 that there are few breaks or distractions from the games linear progression. The first level is 
 a bit of a tease in the sense that it starts outdoors and presents some pretty impressive surroundings. 
 Later in the game, I was hoping for more outdoor areas and changing environments but I was presented 
 with a few too many corridors and large rooms filled with the same three classes of enemies.
  
  For the most part, the squad mechanics are point and click with well marked strategic locations 
 for sniping, throwing grenades, and taking cover. However, gamers that are expecting more strategy 
 than action will be disappointed. Both the locations and functions of the squad are pre-determined 
 and all that's required from the user is to activate these markers. The squad mechanics are so 
 simple, in fact, you can feel as if you don't need to control them at all. As simple as it is, 
 its rewarding to be able to take out your foes efficiently by setting up the squad with a tactical 
 advantage. Effective use of the squad is certainly required in some areas because robots can be 
 "manufactured" in a timely fashion. In other words, its often to your advantage to advance quickly 
 and take out spawning enemies before they overrun the area. This, combined with the excellent autosave 
 can make the game literally fly.
  
  There are three main missions and each is broken out into about five sub-missions. In total the 
 game lasts about 12 hours. While not very long, its certainly long enough to present most of what 
 the game can deliver. Because the game has a limited scope, making it longer probably would have 
 just made it repetitive.
  
  Battle Scared 
  With fast paced action and simple squad based gameplay, Republic Commando will certainly please 
 fans of both first person shooters and Star Wars. Its lack of variety and short length are what 
 keep Republic Commando in the good but not great column.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 30, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  This game could have been great. It is full of cool ideas that actually work. The bad thing is 
 that the gameplay is very simple, its very linear, and there's no story at all. Its also very short 
 and has a very weak multiplayer. 
  The singleplayer game implements some fresh ideas and many work. My favorite is the helmet view. 
 instead of a lame HUD it has a cool futuristic space helmet. another is the all-in-one gun. too 
 bad the machine gun is too innacurate and wastes a lot of ammo. Another great part is your trusty 
 squad. They have great lines and are smart and useful. Listening to them in a heated battle is 
 very enjoyable. The characters are cool too. 
  The sad thing is that this game is a straight-forward linear shooter that requires little to no 
 skill. you basically run into one room, shoot everything, and move on. theres only one way to move 
 on. shoot everything and open the next door. theres also no story at all. just one mission after 
 the other with new things to shoot. some of the fights are intense but theres nothing drawing me 
 back to it. im only about 1/3 done, and idk if im going back. 
  The multiplayer is a joke. very dull and stupid. theres like 4 servers. just run around and shoot 
 the other team. everything is a headshot with the machine gun. waste of time
  The game runs pretty well. same engine as ut2004, so it looks good. even on my lower end pc. 
 
  All in all, this game was not worth the money. check this out if u like starwars, or just rent 
 it from blockbuster or gamefly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2005 11:58 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted a look at the gritty up close life of the soldiers fighting the wars for the 
 Republic, Trade Federation and other races in the Star Wars universe then this game will fulfill 
 that desire. This fantastic, though brief, FPS puts you as the commander of an elite commando group 
 of clone soldiers. Command your unit to accomplish various tasks, the most important being SURVIVING!!!
 
  
  Your group of 4 Elite Commandos consist of different personalities. Although they all function 
 similarly, you get to command them using 4 basic command functions. Send them to attack, defend 
 a spot, fall back or cancel current order. Although a couple more commands would be nice, this 
 simple system of commands is easy to master and use and feels very intuitive during the fast paced 
 gameplay. Some of the many tasks you can set your fellow commandos to include breaching a door 
 with explosives, splicing computer terminals, manning gun turrets, taking up sniper or anti armor 
 positions, or heal down squad mates. Believe me you will use all of these command repetitively 
 and using them effectively will be your only means to survive.
  
  Along the way you play 3 basic settings on Geonosis, a scuttled star destroyer, Kashyyk (Wookie 
 homeworld) . Why only three? Why not more? I am not sure, but it would be nice to have had another 
 few missions to play. The levels are well designed and beautiful. You definitely feel immersed 
 in the Star Wars Universe. The action gets intense as droids, Super Battle Droids, Destroyer Droids, 
 Spider Droids (big tank like things) , Geonosians (insect like peeps) and trandoshans (lizard like 
 folk) all try to take you and your fellow elites out. The gameplay is fairly diverse with varied 
 tactics depending on your enemies and settings. Some of the better battles are featured in the 
 hangar bays of a scuttled Repubic Star Destroyer where not only are trying to defeat whats already 
 in the hangar but positioning yourself to keep reinforcements out. Very intense and tough.
  
  The graphics and music in this game are amazing. Both are crisp and provide lots of atmosphere 
 and environment. The music is typical of the Star Wars universe, but the sound effects are really 
 well done and in fact a documentary on how they made the various sound effects in the game is an 
 unlockable extra. You get some still photos of early concept drawings as extras as well.
  
  Overall, this game is a fine addition to the Star Wars Universe. Other than being a little short, 
 it offers intense, fun game play with a well designed and functional squad based system of play. 
 The FPS shooter elements are fantastic and provide lots of shoot em up play. This is definitely 
 a recommended game for any Star Wars or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForteX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw what was coming, I had a mixed reaction. Seemed interesting, but I had my doubts 
 if it would be really fun or just would feel like an "expansion" for Battleforce.
  How wrong I was.
  After some time, the game demo was out while I waited for the full game to 
 be release. I was hooked by the game. The fast-paced action, the immersive graphics and soun, the 
 fun gameplay made me want more.
  As soon as I got the full version, I simply could not stop, well, at least, not until I finished 
 the game. Here are my ratings:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Simply put, the squad system is fun and refreshing. There are different tatics to use, making possible 
 different aproaches to certain situations. There are many details that help immersing the player, 
 like shooting of a part of a super-droid using a sniper attachment. Oh the attachments... They 
 are a really good idea. Functionability and simplicity are key elements for good weapons and LucasArts 
 got it right. It really gives the feel of how a Star Wars elite commando weaponry should be.
  The whole armor is also full of features and details that make it great. For instace, if you get 
 blood on your visor a little "laser" will "scan it out". Or the night vision, which is quite different.
 
  A very strong point is the scenary design. They look really great and fit very well and show a 
 much darker look than the average "jedi neon" world. It shows the war through the eyes of a soldier 
 (a kickass elite one I might say) .
  Also, the fact that there is no death (unless the entire team collapses) is quite interesting. 
 Not only it is different from the others FPS but it changes how you will fight in the battlefield. 
 It is really entertaining to hold of the enemy while a comrade of yours is getting healed back 
 to action, give a very immersive feel.
  Couldn't give any other score for the gameplay.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are simply beautiful. Shadows, glow, plants... Everything looks 
 great. Still at some points you will look and say "They could have made this better...". Still, 
 it just looks damn great.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Sound is really good (Hooray for the foley artists!) , all seems to fit well. Although I think they 
 recicled musics (remembers me of the N64 Star Wars game) and sometimes you feel like there is some 
 background music missing, like it is way too quiet.
  
  Value 9/10
  Definetly worth it. The amount of features and details makes this one a winner, one to keep and 
 admire.
  
  Tilt 8/10
  I ran into some troubles during the game. While the squad IA was quite good, from time to time 
 they would use larger enemies as hiding spots (happened with the big-bulky slavers) , they would 
 just crouch right in front of the enemy, getting hit and diying... quite annoying specially if 
 you got killed and then they also got killed. There were also sometimes when they just would not 
 follow my orders, as if they were stuck or something. Bumping on them solved that.
  
  Final Score: 8.9/10 - Great!
  
  Note: I apologize for any mistakes, english is not my native 
 language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 1, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a strictly by the numbers FPS that sometimes seems more like formatting a Word document 
 than actually playing a video game. Can anyone imagine a Star Wars game that is as awesome as HL2? 
 I hope they will some day. I don't think Republic Commando is it. Although some of the characters 
 are inventive and challenging, most of the game is a rote event. To its credit, the game is painlessly 
 simple and more entertaining than a heap of games on the market. Still, the lack of a real and 
 compelling story, combined with some fairly basic AI made it a somewhat disappointing affair for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylore2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This came to me as a surprise. I was not expecting a good Squad based shooter from Star Wars. However 
 they delivered. The Controls are easy to learn, The Environment in Nicely done. And the alien AI 
 is sweet. Although is not the best Ai it can be very difficult at time. My only complaint is that 
 it is way to short. I demand more out of a Star Wars Game (length I mean) and this game was just 
 getting good, when it ended. It is a great game and an instant star wars Fan Classic. I have no 
 real problems with the Game other then its shortness. What i want to see is a sweet multi-player 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is another game worth talking about, from the first screen you could see how good this game 
 will be, the team work and commands are very easy and useful, in this game you cannot proceed by 
 yourself, you need your team, you need them to cover you, to accomplish tasks and tactics, even 
 one depends on the other in this great team based game, but not that all, what astonishing is that 
 your three other teammates and computer controlled AI, yes, the AI system is very clever and well 
 done, the action the AI takes depends on the situation, this is very interesting, because this 
 somehow non-scripted actions, as long as one member is still around you can count on him to help 
 you when you need him.
  
  About graphics, its very nice and well rendered, the animations are beautifully done, the way your 
 teammates move are very realistic.
  
  One of the best futures in this game is sound, hmmm, nice, nice and nice, specially the voice casting, 
 when you start a fight, a background music start to play that keeps you immersed in the fight.
 
  
  What I can say more, I enjoyed this game to the full, and during the game play, the frame rate 
 was very stable and no bugs. This is a game that I hoped it will never finish :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Republic Commando is a immersive, fun game. There isn't a dull moment between the times 
 you hit the ground to when you complete your last objective. The game play is fast, fun, and simple. 
 
  
  Unlike a lot of squad based shooters this one doesn't tie you down into micromanaging your squad. 
 You simply have to assign them to task by pointing and clicking. You can also with a press of a 
 button set them to take an aggressive or defensive posture. The squad AI is very smart, robust, 
 and contains a lot of character. Despite being clones each squad member is unique and the squad 
 will voice dialog throughout the game, though it rarely gets too repetitive.
  
  Though this is a Star Wars game it has its own unique style to it. It works really well in this 
 aspect as it contains that Star Wars feel yet has a feel of its own. The game is very immersive 
 with its presentation. You view the action through a Commando's helmet. Your HUD is part of the 
 helmet and looks like it belongs. Green reptilian blood or droid oil can get splattered on your 
 visor during close combat situations, which will be promptly cleaned off by an electronic wiper. 
 This in combination with other visor effects really adds to the immersion in the game.
  
  The game play mechanics are top notch. The game borrows some of the popular elements from Halo 
 such as a rechargeable shield and melee attacks. The melee attacks are very cool and typically 
 mean an instant kill. The game also features multiple types of grenades that you can use, each 
 having a advantage in certain tactical situations. These grenades will prove to be very useful 
 throughout the course of the game.
  
  The downside to this game is the multiplayer. It was clearly a afterthought that was thrown in 
 just to say it was there and it really is a shame. This game had great potential for a fun multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  This game provides several hours of fun and rock solid game play. It is one of those games you 
 will be inclined to play through a couple of times. Unfortunately the replay value ends there due 
 to the lack of an appealing multiplayer portion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Since the release of Episode 2 in 2002, I've actively avoided Lucasarts Star Wars games, mostly 
 because of the reputation they have for blandness. The only exception to this rule was Bioware's 
 Knights of the Old Republic - and I suspect it was only a hit because Lucasarts Executives were 
 persuaded not to interefere during the development process. 
  
  So I was rather surprised by Republic Commando, a game that will most likely be condemned by most 
 hardcore PC gamers - firstly, because of its obvious origins on the X-Box, and also because of 
 its unfortunate association with the now moribund Star Wars franchise. 
  
  First - the bad points. It's clear that the graphics quality was severely limited as it needed 
 to be developed on both the X-Box and PC. As a result, the PC graphics engine isn't quite as advanced 
 as its Valve/Doom/Crytek counterparts. These graphics may have looked great in 2003, not so great 
 in 2005. There's a washed-out look to X-Box ported games (for example, Deus Ex 2) , that i personally 
 dislike. 
  
  The other bad feature is (as with Halo) the bland and repetitious level design. This is especially 
 evident in the levels on board the derelict ship, in which you find yourself wandering through 
 endless blandly lit corridors. I suspect that that large outdoor levels would've caused slowdowns 
 on the X-Box, hence the restrictions to mostly interior maps.
  
  The pluses - the user interface is remarkably straightforward to learn. The opening levels have 
 a good blend of ferocious action, but give you the opportunity to learn how to command your troops. 
 Mastering where and when to place your fellow clone soldiers is the key to successfully completing 
 a mission.
  
  Another big plus is the ferocious non-stop action during levels. It's difficult to notice the bland 
 level design when you're focusing on destroying 6-7 battle droids with your ECM Grenade, and positioning 
 your troops for a sniper attack. The action is ceasless and unremitting, from the opening scenes 
 to the closing credits.
  
  You also get access to extra "short documentary" features on the completion of each major section 
 of the game. This is a good addition, as it gives you an appreciation for just how much work goes 
 into developing a game such as this. I was particularly surprised to find out that they used foley 
 work for the sound effects - which I assumed would've been unusual in a computer game.
  
  In the end, the biggest drawback with this game is its failure to utilise the full graphical processing 
 power of the PC - especially on DirectX 9 videocards. Games like Far Cry, Doom 3 and Half-Life 
 2 were released a year before Republic Commando, but they completely outstrip it in terms of graphical 
 quality and level design.
  
  Nevertheless, Republic Commando is a game I can strongly recommend for the casual gamer, but not 
 for the hardcore PC gamer who expects a deeper and more satisfying gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This installment occurs during the beginning and the most intense parts of the Clone Wars. You 
 are part of an elite squad of Republic commandos, the best that the Republic has to offer. You 
 are the leader of the group who has a variety of individuals with very unique but likeable personalities. 
 You will work together in a series of campaigns that stretch your ability to battle your enemies 
 and use your squad to the best of your ability. This installment is a first person squad based 
 shooter. 
  
  Unlike most other common shooters you can carry only three weapons two of which are mandatory at 
 all time. Your main weapon is your basic pistol with a twist, unlimited ammo. It may not be powerful 
 but always knowing you got something to fight with is an awesome feel. Your other mandatory weapon 
 is your rifle which can have three different attachments: one for a basic rifle, a sniper rifle, 
 and an anti-armor attachment. The other weapon that you can ranges from a shotgun to a massive 
 rocket launcher. Needless to say you wont have much of a variety but you wont need a variety 
 because of your grenades. Grenades in this game are probably one of the most essential weapons 
 that you will use. They range from the traditional Thermal Detonator to very useful EC detonator 
 that short circuits electronics. Grenades will be become your new best friend in this shooter. 
 One particularly interesting aspect of this game is the ability to revive squad mates at will and 
 have your self revived also. This means never having to worry too hard about making sure your squad 
 mates stay alive, because they are always capable of being revived.
  
  The game will start off with the standard tutorial but makes you work for your experience. You 
 will slowly be introduced into with your squad mates and the different attachments to your main 
 weapon. You will also be introduced to the ability to issue commands to your squad to take certain 
 pre-rendered positions and maneuvers. You will also be introduced to all of the different enemies 
 that you will face and learn the easy and hard ways to take down each. Each campaign is comprised 
 of smaller sub-mission that keep getting extended because of situations beyond your control, and 
 subsequently you are called upon to do your duty once again.
  
  The game play is the highlight of this game. Since it is a FPS it really should be the highlight 
 of the game. You will be put into some very intense situations that you probably have to do a couple 
 of times to figure out the best way to get past the level. Some of the points seem kind of boring 
 because you will have felt like you have been there before, most likely you have. Some situations 
 will cause you to have to work quickly and choose the best places for your squad mates to help. 
 After a while you will get an eye for which positions to take and times to take them. The campaign 
 lasts about 6-8 hours depending on your ability to play the game and how quickly you want to move 
 your squad. The online portion of the game is nothing to write about really. Nothing is real spectacular 
 about it so it can really be left alone. Fortunately, the controls for the game are well done. 
 None of the keys will seem very hard to reach during the intense battle and some of the keys will 
 also seem naturally placed.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good. They are not spectacular but they are good enough to make 
 it seem like they spent some time on it. A couple of places you may get caught up because of some 
 graphical parts look really good, but for the most part you really dont see much that will stand 
 out. A downside with this game is that there are no FMVs. Most games are coming out with some 
 sequences that standout from all others and will make you want to play again. I would have expected 
 at least one sequence like that especially from the Star Wars franchise, but I was sadly disappointed.
 
  
  The sound in this game is pretty good. Every so often you will hear some quippy remarks from your 
 squad mates that will make you want to laugh. The basic sound during battles is pretty good you 
 can usually tell who is firing and from what direction but it seems to get a little bland by the 
 end. You will also have some orchestral music during some of the cut sequences that explain what 
 is going on that is from Star Wars and during once you complete some things you will hear some 
 more Star Wars music. The music is not really something that you will notice during your battles 
 because you are too worried about not dying.
  
  The value of the game is something that is a little mixed. The game is worth playing but not necessarily 
 buying. The game is still at full retail price so it may be a little head strong to buy it for 
 only about 10 hours of play but you should definitely play the game. The suggestion would be to 
 rent the game with a friend if at all possible and split the cost. With the cost of renting games 
 going up it seems also kind of silly to spend 6+ bucks on very little game play, so try and rent 
 it with a friend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is a highly enjoyable FPS with excellent graphics and a wonderful feeling of 
 immersion. Not since Half Life 2 or Freedom Fighters have I felt this involved with the character, 
 mission, and gameplay.
  
  Despire being heavily scripted, the characters are memorable, and this would be an excellent game 
 even if it wasn't set in the Star Wars universe.
  
  Unlike other squad based games, like Freedom Fighters or Rainbow Six, tactical options are obvious 
 in the game, as you are given specific points in a level where you can "set up sniping" or "set 
 up anti-armor". Usually, when you see these points, you should instruct your very competent squad 
 mates to use those areas to gain a tactical advantage. This ruins the suprise of many scripted 
 encounters as you know that an area with plenty of these hard points usually equates to massive 
 amounts of enemies that will pour into the area at one point or another.
  
  Squad member AI is excellent, and although they can be frustratingly bad shots, they will defeat 
 enemies, heal you, heal each other, recommend actions, man turrets, etc. They'll even chastise 
 you when you screw up and really get ticked off when you let them fall over and over again.
  
  For the most part, jumping and crouching is unnecessary, and some of the weapons seem a bit 
 underwhelming. You'll find yourself using your melee attack quite a bit, which works very similiar 
 to Halo 2. Voice acting and sound in general are superb. The rag doll physics and fancy DX9 graphics 
 are nice touches but they rarely effect your gameplay. Unlike Half Life 2 you won't be doing any 
 fancy physic-based stuff to complete your missions.
  
  Unfortunately I found the game to be a little too short, and the ending was disappointing. The 
 game isn't especially difficult either, and there are definite breaks between action where you're 
 allowed ample time (and resources) to reload your weapons and heal your soldiers. You'll die plenty 
 trying to find the correct way to defeat the 10 or so different types of enemies, but your squad 
 mates can (and will) revive you while continuing to fire on the enemy, so true "I need to reload 
 the game" death is usually pretty rare.
  
  This game reminds me of the solid and incredibly fun games of Lucasart's heyday in the 90's. Much 
 like Tie Fighter and Jedi Knight, this game follows a tried and true formula and delivers it with 
 precision and style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeC81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  When a game's single player is as solid as Republic Commandos, its so very disappointing that the 
 game was as short as it is. From start to finish, on the hardest difficulty, it took me 8 hours 
 flat to beat the game. To be fair, some of this is to be accounted by the excellent no death system 
 in the game which limits the amount of reloads needed compared to other FPS games.
  
  The best thing about this game is the sound. Voice acting for the four commandos in the team you 
 command are top notch. All the lines are delivered in a way which gives the game a dark humor to 
 it while not making it cheesy, not an easy feat to accomplish. They choose correctly to give each 
 commando a different voice and personality despite being clones and the game is better because 
 of it due to the atmosphere it brings. 
  
  There is an interesting dichotomy in how the game manages to make and break the immersion in the 
 game simultaneously however. First off, the excellent animation, sound and scripted AI of your 
 squad makes gives the game a high degree of immersion. The character models have idle animations, 
 squad mates cover your rear and flanks, understand when to get out of your line of fire, inform 
 you when you are in their line of fire, and most importantly, path finding problems are nearly 
 non-existent. The linearity of the missions, rather than being a fault, enhance the game's immersion 
 factor. As a team of elite clones, you don't have time to explore side doors and hallways. Entire 
 campaigns rest on you and your squad completing missions in a timely fashion and the game moves 
 the player along relentlessly towards its next objective. Admittedly, they could have pushed the 
 pace to an even higher rate to help hide the linearity of the missions. Indeed the two best sequences 
 of the game came when the squad was under a time limit to complete an objective while facing incredible 
 odds in numbers. It forces the player to complete objectives such as stealing data or repairing 
 ship systems without clearing rooms giving the game a desperate feel to it.
  
  At the same time though, there is a lot in the game to break the immersion. The first is the health 
 meter. A much better method should have been to do a Halo 2 style shields only system. The game 
 already has a mechanic to prevent excessive deaths with the squad revive function. With the health 
 meter, designers were forced to put in regeneration stations everywhere in the game even when it 
 was outright ridiculous (like on droid ships) . The other feature which broke immersion was the 
 underpowered weapons. This alone does not break immersion but when the player has limited ammo 
 carrying capacity, designers are once again forced to drop ammo packs all over the level even in 
 ridiculous situations (i. e. ammo packs for your DC-17 carbine deep in an enemy base where no one 
 else uses them) . Better to have had more potent weapons and a higher ammo carrying capacity and 
 leave ammo refills when the story allows for it.
  
  Overall though, the game is solid and the one touch squad command is a success with respect to 
 the idea of creating Rainbow 6 'lite'. Just a damn shame that the game lasts only 8 hours on the 
 hardest setting with a multiplayer that gives players no reason to come back. Still its a wild 
 ride while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tetsunara
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  With alot of past star wars games flopping like fish out of water, Star Wars Republic Commando 
 definitely holds its own as a really good game. This squad based FPS is easier to handle that some 
 more complicated SBFPS in that everything is done in a point n' click fashion. I've played others, 
 and have been discouraged from playing a mission after failure because i spent 30 minutes setting 
 up my tactics on paper, only to be foiled after insertion. I also like the functionality of the 
 rifle that was given to delta squad. It really makes it seem like youre part of an elite squad 
 and you dont have time to waste with multiple firearms. As far as gameplay, the controls are responsive, 
 and the AI is also not too dumb. Graphics are great. I house a ATI X800, so I pushed them to their 
 limits and really tested the graphic potential of this game. Clean, smooth blur effects and with 
 AAx4 and ASx8 it ran at a solid FPS with stunnig results. The compilation of this game was flawless. 
 The sound holds true to SW sounds with basic blaster fire and the like. It really does a good job 
 of grabbing you into the game and making you feel like youre part of the universe. I only have 
 a 2.1 configuration, but even with that, I felt immersed. For the money I payed, it was definately 
 worrth playing. If you own and XBOX, I'm not sure, as this is a review for the PC version of the 
 game. So there you go. Solid 9.0 from a SW franchise game. Its about time. 
  
  Happy Hunting
  
  Tetsunara 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  This was a very interesting game, with a lot of action in it! You have a team of 4, and you are 
 some seriously bad ass Commandos, that have to go out as a advance force to soften up some major 
 targets.
  The graphics are very well done, but maybe a little dated, but the enemies are awesome, and well 
 done, and you will have plenty to kill. 
  Great selection of weapons and you get some real firepower. For the most part my team is well train, 
 and seems to know how to find a place to hide when needed. The AI seem to be pretty good but not 
 great. One of the problems I had with this game is that my team tends to jump in front of my fire, 
 getting shoot up. Most of the time they know better to duck to get out of the line of fire, but 
 there was time when I shot a rocket, and my team mate decided to walk right in the way.
  I really enjoyed this game, but I think the book is much better then it. Has a much more detail 
 and realistic look at the life of a Commando.
  The only other problem I had is that it is so short. The game just end! Get ready for Republic 
 Commando 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  After seeing the game's features at Lucasarts. com, it looked like it should be an awesome shooter, 
 and set in the Star Wars universe. I especially liked that none of the major movie characters appear 
 in it, and not even any Jedi.
  Just your basic, lowly infantry grunts. The best feature of the game is it's squad-based commands. 
 I'm normally not a fan of squad-based games; too much micromanagement for my tastes. But Republic 
 Commando makes it very easy. To get one of your squad mates to do something, simply put the cursor 
 over the area, and press the "F" key. Entire squad commands are only four keys (F1-F4) , and allow 
 you to set the squad to be aggressive, defensive, cover you, and cancel any previous order.
  My hat's off to the game designers for making this so easy. I'm told that it's very similar to 
 Halo, but I've never played that game, and so it's all new to me. Graphics are very good, and I 
 especially liked the ragdoll physics which causes slain enemies to flop and twitch. When a Trandoshan 
 merc is hit in his rocket pack, it will explode, and send him flying into walls, ceilings, etc 
 - very entertaining to watch!
  Sound is very good as well, but then it almost always is in a Star Wars game. Refreshing is that 
 much of the music comes from the prequel movies, instead of the original trilogy, whose sounds 
 have been done to death in countless games already.
  Squad AI I found to be outstanding. Your commandoes are more than capable of taking care of themselves, 
 and will perform first aid on themselves, and you when needed. Enemy AI seemed very good as well, 
 although the heavily scripted game events probably have a lot to do with it.
  The difficulty levels seem about right; easy I found fairly challenging, normal is very tough, 
 and I haven't even tried it on hard yet. Bug wise, I only had one CTD, and haven't yet been able 
 to duplicate it. For once, the QA testers have done a great job, and didn't rush through playtesting.
 
  The multiplayer is nothing to write home about; just the same four basic modes every other shooter 
 on the market has. If they had included co-op, where you and 3 other buddies could play through 
 the game, it would have been awesome, but they didn't, and so multiplayer is only mediocre at best. 
 Hopefully Lucasarts will release new levels to address this problem.
  My only real complaint about the game is that it is way too short; only about 10 hours of play 
 for most people. At $50 for the game, that isn't much bang for your buck, especially since there's 
 so little replay value. I think the main reason behind that is that the game is intended as a teaser 
 for the upcoming Episode III movie, and nothing more.
  Still and all though, Republic Commando is a very entertaining romp; just wait until the price 
 comes down a bit... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiang5chen15
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  If you just want to shot and don't think so much, this is the game for you. The gameplay do get 
 repetitive but the pace of the game will sometime cover it up. The Ai of enemies, is quite normal 
 consider that most or a lot of them are droids. The graphic, well it is not as good compare to 
 Doom 3 but it is still up to date, not as bad as KOTOR II. The sound is very good in my opinion 
 when battle starts to get intense and the dialogue has a bit sense of humor but it kept on repeating. 
 The story is just nice as I said if you just wanna shot as a republic commando. After you play 
 through this game, hard mode, there is not much of a replay value but if you want to get into the 
 atmosphere again it is still worth it. Just play hard mode if you do not want to finish the game 
 too fast. Happy hunting delta 38. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 9, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games used to be really well-made and there used to be some sort of soul and heart put 
 into them. I remember specifically games like Tie Fighter, X-wing and Dark Forces to drop a few 
 names, and what works of craftsmanship they were.
  
  Republic Commando sounded cool with the promises of all the amazing group commands you could give, 
 and I mean playing as a republic soldier how totally rad doesn't that sound? Unfortunately this 
 game has horrendous graphics, I couldn't believe my eyes that this was a new game when I first 
 saw them. The graphics look like they were from a game years ago, that's how shoddy they are. There 
 are no good lightning effects or other things to create a sense atmosphere that gamers have become 
 spoiled with to expect lately, and rightfully so. The character design looks awful and very run-of-the-mill 
 bland.
  
  The game hardly plays at all, there are all these irritating icons and whatnot covering the screen 
 so you can't tell what's what or who's who and then suddenly you die. Simply put, the "fantastic" 
 command giving does not work, and your group just reminds me of the most annoying moments in Half-Life 
 2 when fighting with other freedom fighters, since they annoy you to hell, telling you what to 
 do - even though you as the player is the top ranking and should be the one telling the soldiers 
 what to do! A little respect for authority here perhaps? A game should not be annoying, it's not 
 a hard concept to take in. Save yourself your hard-earned cash and don't even consider this game. 
 Alas, it seems the days of good and qualitative SW-games is over and never to return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrewsr388
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  Anyone who enjoyes Star Wars has to check this out. Set just before Episode III, Republic Commando 
 sets you in the shoes of "Boss", a clone trooper commando who leads a group of clone commandos 
 into the harshest battles deep into enemy territory. With each of your squad members possesing 
 a specialty, you hack, detonate, snipe, and shoot anything that comes between you and your objective. 
 1162, also known as Scorch, is your demolition expert with a sense of humor. 1138, also known as 
 Fixer, is your by the books tech expert able to slice any computer terminal he lays his hands on. 
 1107, also known as Sev, is your hard boiled sniper, who will go to any length to increase his 
 kill count. You use these clone commandos using context sensitive commands such as snipe, slice, 
 place demolition etc etc... Just point and order and your squad goes to work in an instant. This 
 works very well and almost never becomes too complicated. All the killing is done with you default 
 DC-17m modular assault blaster. Using additions such as a sniper mount and anti armor will let 
 you kill just about anything that gets in your way. Your many enemies also drop their weapons, 
 such as the heavy repeater and powerful Geonosian Elite Beam. The ammo is plenteful, which is a 
 good thing, because it takes allot to take some of the bigger enemies down. You will be facing 
 Trade Federation droids, which include the likes of battle droids, Super droids and the menacing 
 Droidekas. You will even come across the uber powerful Spider Droid, who will take all your cunning 
 to even make a dent into. The aliens you will face include the mobile and flying Geonosian bugs 
 and the scaly and ruthless Trandoshans. These all prove worthy adversaries for your squad, but 
 a little more variety couldn't have hurt. Now onto presentation. The graphics are very well done 
 and capture the Star Wars universe very well. Everything runs smooth and looks great. Bump mapping 
 and blume effects are used very well, although some textures do look a little flat and are used 
 often. The guns sound authentic and really make you seem in the game. The voice work is exceptional, 
 with each squad member adding his own flair to the game. Some of the quotes are used a little to 
 much, but it isn't anything that detracts from the score. The music is probably a high point for 
 the game, with dynamic scores by John Williams chiming in at just the right time to add that extra 
 lair of drama. Everything sounds terrific and fits with the atmosphere perfectly. With 3 campains 
 spanning 14 sub missions, this game will keep you occupied for about 8-12 hours. Some might even 
 find it taking longer if tried on the very challenging Hard difficulty. The game never gets too 
 hard but never becomes a cake walk either. Some of the levels do become repetative, but only in 
 some rare instances. The one flaw that really stands out for Republic Commando is its Multyplayer 
 component. Almost seemingly tacked on just before release, its lackluster appearance is a letdown. 
 With only 4 modes and a handful of maps, there is not much to write home about. The modes include 
 Capture the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, and assault. All being normal except assault, which 
 has you wither attacking or defending a point on the map which the attackers have the chore of 
 planting their team flag into. It all gets stale fast but is a nice detraction from the single 
 player portion of the game. Anyone who has played Halo 2 or Splinter Cell won't find much they 
 havent seen before. All in all, Star Wars: Republic Commando is an exceptional game doing almost 
 everything right and lasting almost the perfect time, if not coming up just a tad short. Anyone 
 who likes Star Wars or just tactical shooters in general has an obligation to check this one out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcuz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Republic Commando is a FPS squad based game and its very military-like kind of game.
  The game is well fast paced and has lots of action.
  
  Story: You are born and raised to be 
 an elite clonetrooper. After that you get sent in a series of missions by the Republic.
  
  Graphics: The clonetrooper's armor are very detailed. When you get hit or when an enemie's blood 
 splatter on your screen you have this miniauture windshield type of thing that cleans your visor 
 which looks pretty cool. The game also runs very smooth and never experieced framerate problems. 
 The gun designs look ok but it dont really matter.
  
  Gameplay: You control 3 other member and each member has their own specialty: Demolitions, Sniper, 
 and Tech specialist. When you want your squad to do a task you have to point at the location and 
 send them there. The controls are pretty standard and your equiped with a gun, grenade, and a wristblade. The 
 action in Republic Commando is pretty much fast paced. You'll see whole bunch of enemies start 
 ganging up on you and your squad. Good thing is that your squad actually helps you fight and its 
 pretty cool when you see one of your members to a melee attack. One of my favorite things is when 
 you die you dont instantly lose, you call your squad member to come and revive you.
  
  Sound/Music: The game has great sound effects and music. Some of the guns sound better than others 
 and i like how the wristblade sounds. You'll often hear your squadmates talk to eachother which 
 is entertaining. During battle you will hear alot of lasers, screams, and explosions. The music 
 is great also. Its the traditional star wars music where its orchestrated and everything.
  
  Replay/value: The single player is really good but theres not much to go back into after beating 
 it. There is always multiplayer which is great. If your a star wars fan then go out and buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 5, 2005 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I came to this game with high hopes having played the demo. But unfortunately, what the demo didn't 
 demo (as it were) is the dreadful repetitiveness of this game once you've been playing it for a 
 bit. In many ways individual elements, such as the star wars look, the atmosphere and the sound 
 are all quite good. But the repetitive (see I'm doing it now) and highly scripted gameplay really 
 spoils this. Although you have a squad of fellow commandos, all with supposedly special skills, 
 you can only use said skills at specific points were the game tells you you can - it even provides 
 handy little markers to avoid any need for thought or planning on the player's part. In addition, 
 I've not noticed that any of the squad are _actually_ better at any skills than any others, they're 
 just intriduced by the game as specialists - I've seem no evidence of this yet. Am also getting 
 really, really sick of turkey shooting droids, with the occasional stupidly hard fight, which clearly 
 require a very specific set of positionings (in the aforementioned highly inflexible manner determined 
 by the game) . And the weapons systems, which you get right at the beginning and don't really improve 
 as time goes by, become really annoying because of their horrendous limitations - or example I 
 find it amazing that a galaxy spanning empire, capable of designing starships, droids etc etc cannot 
 develop an armour piercing round that behaves like a powered rocket, rather than as a horribly 
 lobbing thing.
  
  Having paid full whack for this in the UK I would heartily recommend that anyone thinking of getting 
 it waits until it ends up in the discount bin. Very very diappointing because I'd looked forward 
 to this one. Bit like the films really........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 4, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  I read the review here at Gamespot, and was curious to try out the game. The demo crashed my computer 
 in fact, with a serious blue screen of death, so I went for the full version instead assuming they 
 would have weeded out this problem.
  
  The blue screen was gone, but honestly I was a bit disappointed by the game. I expected much more 
 from it after all the praise I was hearing.
  
  Take away the Star Wars name and characters, and you are left with the most linear shooter I have 
 seen in ages. Not only are the maps only allowing you to follow one narrow path, but only specific 
 places decided by the game developers can be used as sniping cover or other special moves your 
 squad can perform. You even have limited choices when it comes to the pace to move forward, as 
 your squadmates will continuously push forward at times where it would be more wise to stay back.
 
  
  I felt like my character was on rails most of the time, figthing enemies spawning from nowhere 
 continuously until some mission objective was completed and they stopped spawning at that point 
 and began spawning at another point.
  
  The gear you have is nothing you would not expect, the ordinary set of guns and grenades. You can 
 also in some cases take weapons from the enemy, like the laser and also stationary weapons.
  
  Despite of the disappointing things with the game, it is still quite entertaining, and the 
 dialog is in fact very good giving you a sense of having real squadmates following you around. 
 Even though the linear design can take away all sense of freedom, it also ensures you will never 
 get lost or bored trying to find your way with no action.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is also good, and each mission tells it's story well. For a no-brainer 
 shooter on rails experience, this delivers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting a good game so I was pleasantly surprised by how much fun the game was. It is 
 action oriented, but manages to innovate with the squad control commands. The problem is, much 
 like halo2, the fun ends all too quickly.
  
  
  The good:
  -Extremely fun straight action shooter. I found it more enjoyable than HL2 or halo2.
  -Enjoying 
 single player campaign
  -Nice graphical touch with the visor (a la Metroid Prime) but its functionally useless
  -Innovates 
 by introducing squad control
  -Has the immersive orchestra starwars music
  
  
  The Bad:
  (note: minor flaws)
  - The game didn't have a proper story; it could have drawn so 
 much from the starwars universe  but it didnt.
  - Sound effect, the guns around that loud -- i. e. they don't sound like real weapons
  - Poor 
 damage response, sometimes you don't even know you are getting hit. (unlike modern FPS games where 
 you get blurry vision or get ringing in your ears if too close to an explosion)
  - A. I. while generally ok, can do dumb things at times by ignoring certain squad members completely
 
  - Weapons lack imagination and tactical useless. Sure youll use a sniper rifle or rocket launcher 
 now and then, but 90% of the time youll be sticking to your trusty blaster from start to end.
 
  
  
  The Ugly:
  -The game is too short; can be finished in 10-15 hours. 10 hours for those of you who are good.
 
  -Multiplayer doesn't offer much
  
  
  Bottom Line:
  Buy this game for the 10-15 hours of very fun single player component. As such don't pay more than 
 $15 for this game. Search eBay or rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1427814179
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this review is based on the demo, not the full version of the game.
  
  I started playing Republic Commando expecting it to be just another Halo wannabe. Instead, I found 
 it to be a very good FPS.
  
  Republic Commando looks much better than any Lucasarts game recently, the characters, enemies, 
 and environments are all detailed and realistic. The graphics are still not Halo 2 or Half Life 
 2 though, and this is kind of disappointing.
  
  The sound has both good and bad quality. The music is all from Star Wars, nothing original, but 
 nothing bad. The voice acting isnt so great. Since the squad is composed of the same clone troopers 
 in Episode 2, it seems like they should all have the same voice - but they don't. In fact, the 
 only clone that has the same voice as the clones in the movie is the leader of the squad, you. 
 The other guys sound very generic, not like clones in an elite squad at all. The sound effects 
 work okay, they sound good.
  
  Luckily, the graphics and sound aren't everything. The gameplay and the concept of team squad action 
 is good. Republic Commando borrows heavily from Halo. The controls of the game are EXACTLY the 
 same as Halo - "F" is the melee attack, "E" is the use key, "right mouse button" executes a grenade 
 throw, "R" is reload, "CTRL" is zoom, "C" is crouch, and finally, "SPACE" is jump. EVERYTHING is 
 the same. In some ways, this is good - that means that there is absolutely no learning curve in 
 this game. But it just seems to take the winning formula of Halo and put it into a different game.
 
  
  Republic Commandos new features are where it really does well. The weapons in Republic Commando 
 are actually quite original and interesting, as well as realistic. Each commando (there are four 
 in the team) has his own assault rifle, which acts like a Stormtrooper rifle, except it can reload 
 (unlike the JK series) . Next, the assault rifle can be equipped with two attachments, so this is 
 really where the differences between it and other guns come in. Instead of switching weapons, the 
 commando adds an attachment onto the end of the gun. So if you want to snipe, press the number 
 "3" and then you will see him add a sniper scope onto the rifle and it becomes a sniper rifle. 
 The same with the grenade launcher. The pistol, not attached to the rifle, is pretty weak but has 
 unlimited ammo. The melee attacks are more powerful than Halo, but the physics of it are worse. 
 Instead of hammering an enemy with the gun, you pull out a knife from the bottom of the gun and 
 hammer them with that. The enemies dont' seem to take as realistic of area damage as in Halo.
 
  
  One very good thing about Republic Commando is the atmospheric feeling of the game. The game's 
 view is inside the helmet of the trooper. This means that if you melee attack and enemy, its blood 
 will splatter the view for a view seconds. If you get shot in the head, the helmet will crack. 
 Instead of having a flashlight, you can switch the helmet to "Low light mode" which is essentially 
 a black and light mode that works very well. The game is very, very atmospheric. The game feels 
 like Starcraft at a personal level - a gritty environment that a few people have to infiltrate. 
 
  
  The squad AI is very good. The order giving system is actually implemented very well. The squadmates 
 behave well on their own, and give very good cover for each other. To issue a command, you have 
 to find an area to give a command, and there will be a pop up message on the screen that says "press 
 E to..." So if you press E, the nearest commando will go to that position and snipe, man a turret, 
 or do some other command. You can choose to do it or not, the pop up messages come up quite often. 
 The more fun orders are the door slicing orders or the door explosion orders. Just go to the door 
 and press E on it and the guy will start slicing. However, if there is no pop up message, they 
 will not do anything. So you know pretty much where to go all the time and what options are available.
 
  
  If you die, there is a squad revival system, where you select the order that says "recall and revive." 
 the nearest commando will come to your backpack and pretty much bring you to half full life. If 
 another commando dies, you just press E on his body and your squadmate will come and revive him. 
 So unless the whole squad dies, no one can die. You yourself can also do any of the actions that 
 you can command your squad to do. For instance, you can slice doors yourself, revive people yourself, 
 and so on. There are no health pickups in the game, but there are bacta stations. If you notice 
 that a commando has limited health, just press E on the station and you will have ordered him to 
 heal himself. This "E" system is simple, and not complicated - you can focus on fighting yourself 
 and not have to worry about micromanagement.
  
  The game is very hard. Get hit approximately twice and you will die. It is very realistic. You 
 have to think of how to use your team and how to get out of bad situations. The commando team is 
 the same throughout the entire game, so each has his own name and personality (even though theyre 
 clones) . By the time you play the game for a few hours, it will feel like youve gotten to know 
 the squad.
  
  So even though Republic Commando feels like the poor man's Halo, it still is a very good FPS 
 from Lucasarts, that isn't too corny like Jedi Knight and not too simple like Bounty Hunter. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  With the likes of Doom 3 and H2 released I guess im expecting more from the graphical department 
 when it comes to FPS'rs.
  
  The squad control features were nice and very easy to learn.
  
  Sound effects were neat and right out of the Starwars movies. But I expect that when the release 
 is from Lucas Arts! 
  
  Gameplay is fast and your usually outnumbered 2 to 1 in a firefight. I did like the fact that if 
 your down, and you have a surviving team mate, they will come to your assistance. This made the 
 game a bit more realistic in that department. You can even order your men to keep fighting while 
 your down. I thought the only problem here was your heath status doesnt change if you wait longer 
 to receive assistance. 
  
  Nothing earth shattering about the game. Its pretty much just another FPS. I do like the squad 
 command control in the game though. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
