-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/xwingvstiefighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 12, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 766 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Apr 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be a half-baked, flawed product, but it's one you just can't stop playing. 

 X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter may be a half-baked, flawed product, but it's one you just can't stop playing. 
 It's as simple as that.  

 Gamers have been waiting a while to be able to climb into the cockpits of two of the best space 
 combat games ever created for some head-to-head gaming. Though excellent games, neither X-Wing 
 nor TIE Fighter included multi-player support, so a long time ago LucasArts announced a head-to-head 
 version to rectify this. Things have changed a lot since that announcement. The Internet was not 
 the major gaming arena it is now; 3-D cards weren't standard equipment; and TEN, MPlayer, and Kali 
 were barely blips on the horizon. Unfortunately, LucasArts and designer Larry Holland's company 
 Totally Games didn't quite keep pace with the last two years of developments.  

 XvT is a single- and multi-player game of space combat in the Star Wars universe. Gamers can jump 
 into any one of nine crafts: the imperial TIE Fighter, TIE Interceptor, TIE Advanced, TIE Bomber 
 or Assault Gunboat, or the Rebel X-Wing, A-Wing, Headhunter, or Y-Wing. Where are the B-Wing and 
 the TIE Defender? Good question. This is not the old TIE Fighter or X-Wing games: It's been redesigned 
 from the ground up, with a new front end and an entirely new combat graphics engine. The front 
 end isn't the slickest thing on earth, with a few too many buttons adding to the general confusion 
 of simply picking a mission.   

 The new combat graphics are sharp, however, with detailed ships and explosions. This is both a blessing 
 and a curse. It's a bear on low-end systems, and in online play you can get some fair chop and 
 poor frame rates. Options allow detail to be scaled down, which will boost frame rate, but frame 
 rate online often seems tied to the detail level of the game host, so if he's on full detail, you 
 could get chop anyway. Mission design and presentation is the first area in which XvT falls flat. 
 The single-player mode is a joke, with very few satisfactory missions, no true campaign mode, and 
 no cut scenes or narrative elements at all. This is sloppy and totally unacceptable. Granted, XvT 
 is primarily targeted at the multi-player community, but the box clearly states Single and 
 Multi-Player Space Combat Simulation. What long-suffering fans deserved was the best of both 
 of the original games, with linked, narrative campaigns, dozens of missions, and some cutscenes. 
 There are only eight true, stand-alone combat missions for each side. (This doesn't count the furballs 
 or tournament play, which are not structured missions and are geared toward multi-player play.) 
 Three, five, or seven of these combat missions can be linked and played in order as 
 a battle, with the winner being whoever has the most wins. This is what passes for a campaign game. 
 The missions are also staggeringly difficult in many cases. Someone please tell us this is a joke. 

 Melee and tournament missions are also included, but these are mostly dogfighting engagements geared 
 toward multi-player play. You can pick your ship type, armament, and the number of ships in a melee, 
 but only for your side: There is no custom mission creator a la ATF of US Navy Fighters. Plus, 
 as you change ship types and armament, the AI opponents change to match forces, so you can't really 
 set the engagement you want.  

 Of course, the real deal with XvT is the multiplay, and this is where it really comes alive. At 
 the same time, it's the second area where it falls down. Multiplay is via LAN, direct connection, 
 or Internet. There are a number of multiplay types, and most are simply a blast to play. One-on-one 
 dogfights can be a bit boring since they quickly decay into turning battles, but there's even room 
 for strategy here. XvT has a new flight model that puts more emphasis on the relation of turn radius 
 to speed: Going slower allows for tighter turns. One issue is that you better make sure your ships 
 are evenly matched and ground rules are clear (such as guns only) , because the differences 
 and ships and loadouts can lead to some pretty one-sided fights.  

 You can also flight co-op combat missions and team versus team, with a wing of X-Wings squaring 
 off against a wing of TIEs. This is the finest part of XvT, and there are no complaints here. Four 
 Rebel pilots can take on a mission to eliminate a destroyer, with different players engaging fighters 
 and others doing bombing runs. Up to eight can get into the mix, and the result is great gaming. 
 This is heady stuff, and you simply won't be able to get enough of it... ... when it works, that 
 is. XvT is pretty stable, but there are many problems. The primary area for playing is Microsoft's 
 Internet Gaming Zone, and despite the ill-informed carping, IGZ is a strong, stable, fast gaming 
 system, second only to MPlayer and light years ahead of TEN. Play time is free, opponents are plentiful, 
 and though the interface for IGZ is a clunker, you can work with it. XvT is designed so that you 
 must assemble everyone before launch: no joining games in progress, as you can in Quake. For some, 
 this is a major failing, but it is little cause for fuss, since you can set up a game in minutes. 
   

 Stability is another major issue with XvT. If your startup connection is not working, it takes over 
 two minutes to figure it out, and then only because you finally realized that the game has crashed. 
 Completed games also frequently lock up. Since it's a pretty high-bandwidth engine, frame rates 
 can drop down so low as to make the game unplayable. It's a flawed system, and one that needs a 
 patch. Despite all these negatives, there is no escaping the fundamental fun factor of this game. 
 Multi-player co-op furballs and head-on dogfights are incredible fun, and dozens of groups sprung 
 up overnight to rank players and form squadrons for competitive play. There's a sloppy, unfinished 
 feel to the way LucasArts handled single-player play and some elements of connection technology: 
 they simply didn't do justice to their reputation. But in the end it comes down to this simple 
 fact: You can complain all you want, but you won't be able to stop playing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  The X-Wing and TIE Fighter games were excellent games, but they lacked one function that many gamers 
 enjoy: Multiplayer. Granted, multiplayer was not as popular back in the early 90s since there was 
 only really LAN and Modem play. During the dawn of the PC multiplayer gaming era, the developers 
 of X-Wing and TIE Fighter released X-Wing versus TIE Fighter, a game intended to appeal to those 
 who wanted to challenge friends with the classic X-Wing series gameplay to see who is the greatest 
 starfighter pilot in the galaxy.
  
  There is no real story in X-Wing versus TIE Fighter, instead the game focuses on the multiplayer 
 aspect. This is a massive flaw in design, though; since not everyone plays multiplayer and since 
 there is no dedicated server list it can be a hassle to find someone who wants to play. Without 
 multiplayer, you can play against the AI in training exercises, melee, tournament and battle matches 
 but since the scenarios were intended for multiplayer they are not as satisfying against the AI 
 even though it is fairly good.
  
  Mechanics wise, XvT plays exactly like its predecessors. You have to manage your laser, shields, 
 and engine levels depending on your situation, and switch between weapons. Since XvT is fast paced 
 (especially melee) you also have to constantly be watching your back - doubly so now since the 
 AI likes to spam advanced concussion missiles. Still, the great tactical gameplay is as sharp as 
 ever despite the focus on multiplayer.
  
  Graphically XvT isn't too impressive these days; though for its time they were fairly good. 3d 
 models, and detailed textures brought the starships and starfighters in the Star Wars universe 
 to life. The audio is pretty good, the classic Star Wars sounds are present, and there is quite 
 a bit of voice acting including radio chatter that makes your wingmen feel more alive even if they 
 are just AI. The classic John Williams score is constantly playing in the background to help immerse 
 you in the Star Wars setting.
  
  X-Wing versus TIE Fighter is a fair attempt at bringing the classic X-Wing and TIE Fighter gameplay 
 into a multiplayer environment. Unfortunately the focus on multiplayer, and lack of a single player 
 campaign also brings the title down significantly, and this was only slightly fixed in XvT's expansion. 
 Is it worth playing? Sure, it offers more multiplayer options than its successor X-Wing Alliance, 
 but if you're looking for a great single player game give X-Wing versus TIE Fighter a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Built for multiplayer, you can play on Xfire and MSN Gaming Zone. Gamespy Arcade, Gamespy Comrade, 
 Gamespy 3D, Wireplay, and Kali are considering to support this game right now. You can discus this 
 game at lucasarts. com or xfire. com or ssfree. net. tc or rebelhq. com (dead) . Rebel HQ has unfortunatly 
 died, and Zone went all **** so now its pretty much just Xfire. You can get a free trial at http://www. zone. com 
 or http://www. cnet. com or http://www. download. com or http://www. lucasarts. com
  
  Remember this game was made for multiplayer so dont go crying when people blame you for lag while 
 you download Americas Army or whatever
  
  I hope everyone enjoys my review, please click on my username and it will have a list of my posts 
 on the forum and my reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Tie fighter the collectors CD-ROM was one of the first games I purchased for my PC. It had a superb 
 storyline, great gameplay, cool cut scenes (for it's day) and pretty much EVERY key on your keyboard 
 was used for something not to mention it ws one of the best flight sims ever released. Although 
 a pretty decent game X-Wing vs Tie fighter dosn't deliver half as much as it's predecessor did. 
 X vs T has better graphics, sound and is some what modernised but dosn't have the storyline or 
 depth that Tie fighter and X-Wing did. The missions in X vs T are just random missions and theirs 
 not much involved with the campagins. Unlike Tie fighter this game boasts little to no stoyline 
 and seems to focus more on multiplayer skirmishes. The campaigns are just pretty much 3 single 
 missions in a row and leave a fair bit to be desired. The rank structure is pretty cool however 
 and it's good to see that the Gun boats have returned. Thats pretty much it. Buy this game if you 
 want to fly a few VISUALLY modernised missions, Dog fight with craft from the Star Wars universe. 
 Unfortunately theres no secret order of the Emperor in this game. If you want a good storyline 
 involving the Imperial Navy you will have to pull your old Windows 95 computer from out of your 
 shed and re-intstall the original and the best Tie-Fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised at the harsh tone of the gamespot review of this game!! I have nothing but wonderful 
 memories of many, many hours of play. A buddy and I ran out to buy it as soon as it was released 
 ($65 on a university budget. *gulp* I ate alot of noodles that month!!) and we almost failed the 
 semester due to so much playtime!
  
  I imagine we used direct connection via modem most of the time, though, since neither of us had 
 internet access then. I also remember many "LAN" parties where we'd lug computers back and forth 
 and hook up with a parallel cable :) Good times. Simpler times. I guess since we didn't have internet 
 (or even network cards) we never played with more than 2 so the framerate issues the reviewer complains 
 about were moot, too.
  
  Ah well. Just reminiscing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Star Wars X-wing vs. TIE Fighter is a great game. It combines its to predicessors and allows you 
 to view and play both vantage points in the game while still using the same character and whatever 
 your current ranking is at that time of play.
  You begin your career as a Level one Trainee and work your way up all the way to Jedi. Multiplayer 
 games supposidly raise your rank faster, but I've never really seen that much of a difference between 
 the two. From my experience, it always depended on your performace in the mission that determined 
 how quickly you rose through the ranks. 
  The game play missions are pretty much the same, pitched melee battles between Imperial and Rebel 
 forces in which you must complete or prevent objectives assigned to that mission. The graphics 
 are nothing by todays standard, but for its time they are good 3d models. The sound of the game 
 is a classical representation of what you would expect from a star wars ship battle.
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed the previous games of X-wing and tie fighter to get 
 this game. I'd also recommend this game to any star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostpanther
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Here is my main problem with this game: It is a cobbled together rehash of missions and scenarios 
 from previous games in the X-Wing in TIE Fighter series. YES, this is your chance to go head to 
 head with other players online for supremacy of the galaxay and finally see first hand how much 
 the TIE Defender tools anything and everything in the Rebel Alliance. But the game does all this 
 in a very boring, uninteresting fashion. It is sad that after coming off of the stellar TIE Fighter, 
 the developers at Totally Games followed up with this. While I was excited to play TIE Fighter 
 with its comparably low graphics and I wish for the unlikely day it gets a 21st century update, 
 I don't feel the same about this game. MAybe TIE Fighter set my expectations too high, but ... 
 can you blame me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  What you could call a sequel to the X-Wing and Tie Fighter games, X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter is an 
 almost pure skirmish/multiplayer game. With virtually no story what-so-ever, the game leaves you 
 wanting more, however it does have some redeeming features. Most notably, the pure addictiveness 
 of the game play. 
  
  No matter how flawed a product X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter is, you cant help to drawn back to it again 
 and again to destroy another Star Destroyer or Mon Calamari Cruiser (ya, Im a Star Wars geekcan 
 you tell?) . 
  
  The game play mostly consists of you attacking an armada of ships, or protecting your own, and 
 allows you to play as anything from a B-Wing to a Tie Defender. Not necessarily a must buy now, 
 as there are many better alternatives (X-Wing Alliance, Free Space 2) , X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter can 
 still hold its own for any space combat fan. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
