-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek Elite Force II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/startrekeliteforce2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 875 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jun 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Elite Force II is a good, well-rounded shooter that should satisfy fans of similar games, as well 
 as Star Trek fans looking to shoot first and ask questions later. 

  If you consider yourself a  Star Trek  fan, then you probably wouldn't expect the TV series to 
 be very good material for a first-person shooter. After all, more so than other science fiction 
 series,  Star Trek  has always taken a more cerebral approach as the courageous crews of vessels 
 like the Enterprise and Voyager try to seek diplomatic solutions to conflicts with various alien 
 species, prior to having to resort to their phasers and photon torpedoes. And so 2000's Star Trek: 
 Voyager Elite Force was by all means a pleasant surprise -- it was a high-quality first-person shooter 
 that happened to take place in the  Star Trek  universe. Now, nearly three years later, Elite Force 
 has a sequel, one that fans of the previous game will also enjoy. Like its predecessor, Elite Force 
 II is a good, well-rounded shooter that should satisfy fans of similar games, as well as  Star 
 Trek  fans looking to shoot first and ask questions later.  

          You'll play as Alex Munro and will get to gun down lots of buglike creatures, as well as 
 the Borg, Romulans, and more.     

  The word "Voyager" is conspicuously missing from the title of Star Trek Elite Force II, and that's 
 because most of the game has you stationed not on that ship, but on the Enterprise, with good old 
 Jean-Luc Picard. Some of the Voyager cast reprise their roles in the new game, and ultimately the 
 crossover works well. You play the role of Alex Munro (the male version -- in the previous game, 
 you could optionally choose to play as a female version of Munro) , leader of the Vulcan security 
 chief Tuvok's hazard team -- a heavily armed and armored squad designed for situations too dangerous 
 for a standard away team.  

  Munro, who looks a bit like John Travolta, is dismayed early on in the game when the hazard team 
 is disbanded after yet another dangerous, but successful, assignment. He is relegated to teaching 
 combat at the Starfleet Academy, where he catches the eye of Captain Picard, who reassembles the 
 team under Tuvok. The game's story unfolds in numerous cinematic cutscenes using the game's 3D 
 engine, and these sequences look reasonably good. Many of the characters closely resemble their 
 television counterparts, and Patrick Stewart and other actors from the series lend their voices 
 for the game's original storyline. Make no mistake, Elite Force II is a pure shooter at heart -- but 
 it does have plenty of story sequences and a good enough plot with plenty of twists to it.  

          Some puzzle sequences and other surprises help keep the campaign fresh and interesting. 
     

  The story revolves around the discovery of what appears to be an insectlike alien race, which has 
 ravaged a Federation starship as well as a nearby space colony. Picard sends Munro and his colleagues 
 to check it out. They eventually discover the nature of this threat, as well as who or what is 
 actually behind it. Elite Force II's single-player campaign is of average length for a shooter, 
 but it packs in plenty of variety, keeps you headed in the right direction, and is loaded with 
 scripted sequences and surprises similar to numerous other shooters ranging from Medal of Honor: 
 Allied Assault all the way back to Half-Life.  

  Elite Force II does pack in some of its own unique twists. It's got some pretty decent boss battles 
 in it, as well as some sequences where you'll need to defend certain characters or lead them to 
 safety. You'll also need to use your tricorder to scan for walls with weak structural integrity 
 (you can blast them open) , for hidden energy signatures, and for sources of gas leaks. The tricorder 
 also comes into play in some puzzle-solving sequences where Munro will essentially need to hack 
 certain systems. There are two basic variants of the tricorder puzzles, one that makes you match 
 frequencies and another that makes you connect a circuit by rotating pieces around -- this plays 
 a bit like the classic LucasArts puzzle game Pipe Dream. The puzzles do seem a bit contrived, especially 
 in the midst of all the shooting, but they successfully vary the pacing of the missions and sometimes 
 effectively create tension.     

  Judged solely as a shooter, Elite Force II is good but not without some noticeable and pretty typical 
 problems. The game's AI, for both friends and foes, often leaves much to be desired. You'll fight 
 alongside other members of the hazard team, who will often run straight into your line of fire 
 and get shot in the back, but they won't mind, and they can't actually get killed except at certain 
 key points. The squad-based combat just doesn't look very good, which seems to partly explain why 
 Munro will take every opportunity to split off from his group and get the job done all by himself. 
 Meanwhile, your enemies' evasive maneuvers largely consist of dodging from side to side, which 
 is about the extent of their intelligence. They'll typically come running at you while shooting. 
 Actually, since you'll be fighting bugs more than anything else, and fighting them in some cramped 
 corridors at that, Elite Force II can often seem almost more like a game based on  Aliens  than 
 on  Star Trek , not that that's necessarily a bad thing.  

          Multiplayer Elite Force II lets you easily get into games against human players on the 
 Internet or against computer-controlled bots.     

  The game also provides a good amount of fan service for  Star Trek  aficionados. Between combat 
 missions, you'll typically get to wander about the Enterprise and eavesdrop on conversations and 
 such. You'll get to test new weapons in holodeck simulations, and you'll get to choose different 
 dialogue options when speaking to certain key characters. Missions tend to have numerous hidden 
 areas and secrets that you can go out of your way to find if you wish, and by collecting the secret 
 items you can unlock a number of new multiplayer maps. So while Elite Force II's single-player 
 mode isn't particularly long, it does pack in a good amount of content, and it rarely loses steam, 
 except maybe briefly during a later sequence where you're stuck wandering through some bug-infested 
 sewers.  

  Like its predecessor, Elite Force II features a multiplayer mode that's optionally playable against 
 computer-controlled bots. There are four pretty standard modes of play: deathmatch (holomatch here) , 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and bomb defusion. The latter is a team-based game in which 
 teams first have to collect a centrally located bomb and then plant it in the opposing team's base. 
 There are numerous modifiers for these modes as well, such as one-shot kills, player handicapping, 
 a few CTF variants, and a class-based option for CTF and bomb diffusion, where players can choose 
 a particular specialty such as sniper or medic.  

  The weapons in Elite Force II are pretty standard first-person-shooter material, replacing typical 
 assault rifles and rocket launchers with energy-based equivalents. Some weapons are particularly 
 damaging, so multiplayer can often boil down to learning where the key weapon spawn points are 
 and making a beeline for those spots. There aren't many multiplayer maps to choose from, either, 
 but at least it's easy to get into a game either against some competent bots or against human opponents 
 online. Multiplayer Elite Force II probably won't make you give up your first-person shooter of 
 choice, but it does effectively extend the game's value and can make for some entertaining skirmishes. 
 The numerous options at least give this mode a lot of variety, and chances are you'll find a particular 
 type of multiplayer match that particularly suits you.  

          Fans of the first Elite Force will enjoy the sequel for similar reasons.     

  Just 
 like its predecessor, Elite Force II uses the Quake III engine, which has actually aged gracefully 
 over the past several years. Though the game doesn't look incredible by the high standards of the 
 genre, it looks better than previous Star Trek games, and features convincing environments and 
 effects, crisp textures, and fairly detailed character models. The levels can seem a bit small, 
 as transitional loading sequences will seem to come up fairly often as you blast your way through 
 missions or even as you wander the Enterprise, but Elite Force II's graphics certainly get the 
 job done. Likewise for the sound, as the various weapon effects and the voice acting are in line 
 with what you'd expect from a  Star Trek  game. During battle, hazard team members and some enemies 
 will repeat the same lines too often, which can be distracting. Elite Force II also uses a dynamic 
 musical score, which sometimes works well and sometimes doesn't quite succeed at keeping tempo 
 with the action. At other times, there will be no music playing at all, and you'll probably miss 
 it when it's not there, though this isn't a big deal.  

  Elite Force II was developed by a different studio than the one that did the original game, but 
 it stays true to the spirit and style of its predecessor, making it another well-done  Star Trek 
  game. Like the first Elite Force, the game packs enough pure action to make it appealing to those 
 who like first-person shooters in general, and it's got plenty of  Star Trek  science fiction in 
 it for those more interested in the source material. That makes it readily recommendable to those 
 who fall into either category, and especially to those who fall into both.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Being a Star Trek fan, i guess my opinion is a little bit biased. But i think this game is well 
 worth the amount of money (about $20) i paid for it.
  
  The game starts out simply enough. Just walk through a Borg cube and kill any drones that are dumb 
 enough to get in your way. A few Plasma Conduits and Dampening field generators later, and you're 
 back on earth, being welcomed in the worst way possible. Starfleet believes you are reckless and 
 irresponsible and breaks up you and your team. The rest of the game is pretty much just action. 
 You run through levels filled with evil aliens that are being controlled by your classic bad guy.
 
  
  I love the graphics of this game, but i wish there were more levels that were outside rather than 
 in a cave or something like that. The sniper rifle is always fun to use on stragglers... and the 
 aerial strike is awesome too. It allows you to actually call down Torpedo and Phaser strikes from 
 the Enterprise-E. One thing i wish is that the developers of the game had used the Star Trek Voyager 
 crew instead of the TNG crew... Janeway is basically the most kick @$$ of all the Star Trek Captains.
 
  
  All in all, a great game. Highly recommended, and a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  THE GAME
  
  In Elite Force 2 you are once again in the shoes of officer Alex Munro to take on different missions 
 as being the chief of the USS Enterprise's Hazard Team. EF2 gives you a nice story-driven campaign, 
 which is cool since the actual gameplay is your standard FPS. I didn't find the weapons exciting 
 and most of the time i relied on the standard assault rifle. The graphics and sound were nice for 
 it's time. It pushed the Quake 3 engine to it's limit. The game pits you against a new alien called 
 the xenomorphs and you will kill a lot of them in this game. They are okay, but I found killing 
 Romulans and Mercenaries more satisfying. This game includes nice boss battles and some cool mini 
 puzzles to break up the flow of the game. The campaign shouldn't last you more than 8 to 9 hrs... 
 there's secret passages and items to find but they are not really worth it if you ask me. In this 
 game you are assigned to the USS Enterprise but for some reason the only Character from the TNG 
 series that shows up is Capt. Picard.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  Excellent Story - Nice Boss battles - Good graphics and sound for 2003 - Cool mini games that aren't 
 annoying
  
  THE BAD
  
  Short Single Player Campaign - Guns aren't exciting - Too much Xenomorphs, not enough real Star 
 Trek baddies - Only Picard shows up from TNG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Sci-fi TV series of Star-Trek was great and watching with more concern maybe for i am a fan of 
 SF movies and games. STEF II is not a game peachy or spectacular but catch you across missions 
 and borgs and aliens with good SF atmosphere. Since 2003 when this game appears past this days 
 when graphics allow new standards and norms this game look very good.
  
  I like STEF II in a way little strange... is not better than Unreal1or2, Doom3 or Chrome and maybe 
 Aliens vs Predator1,2 but like it the same...
  
  Graphics and sound are good and with all this game brings some fun and adventure SF for days with 
 no sun... A game where must to investigate, training, kill borgs and aliens with more atention to 
 not be assimilate :)
  
  So... anyway, play STEF II if u feel like Picard and try to keep at distance forces of unknow... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  The original Elite Force, was a rare thing in that it was a good TREK game and luckily enough Elite 
 Force II follows the same path by becoming if not an amazing but solid game for TREK fans and non 
 TREK FPS gamers.
  
  The game is not too easy but not too hard either plus the story is pretty solid with good gameplay 
 but nothing too special but still it keeps you busy on those days when you just want to sit down 
 and game. The graphics are decent but the voice acting is a big plus in the game and walking around 
 the Enterprise and Starfleet Academy is a fantastic idea from the developers. Also one of the early 
 missions on a lifeless ship well lifeless in human anyway is a great spooky level though sadly 
 the BORG levels don't live up to what a TREK fan might want.
  
  The tricoder stuff is pretty much mundane and pointless so one or two can become frustrating at 
 times. Overall a good plot with decent and solid gameplay delivers if not a memorable one then 
 certainly a solid and fun one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Highs: Flawless Star Trek visuals and architecture, it oozes references easter-eggs and inside 
 jokes out of every nook and cranny you cant miss them all if youre blind and def, Patrick Stewart, 
 and funny cheesy feel to everything.
  
  Lows: A lot of the story, characters, and acting, deliberately funny cheesy is still pretty cheesy.
 
  
  First Person Shooter fans: This is a solid game, fun and exciting with plenty of action and with 
 a decent challenge and some mission variety dont rush out and buy it for 50, you can find it for 
 40 dollars without too much effort, a classic price for a decent game. Better than bargain bin, 
 not worth blowing your Half-Life 2 savings for.
  
  Star Trek fans: Pick it up as soon as you can, this is a really rare thing, a good Star Trek game 
 packed with references and hidden jokes that only you will understand that is genuinely fun to 
 play, buy it for 50 dollars, its worth it.
  
  Everyone else: I reiterate that this is nothing special, it is a pure shootem-up with bosses and 
 the works, if thats only a minor interest of yours wait till you see it in the bargain bin for 
 a quick 15-20 hours of play time.
  
  Sometimes you just have to love the old and reliable of a good studio, a good project a license 
 and even a good predecessor. Theres not a whole lot of history here, Elite Force embodied the 
 definition of a good game, fun and with the bonus of the Star Trek license, so how do you say no 
 to a sequel?
  
  The frosting on the cupcake of goodness that is this game comes from the abundance of hidden secrets 
 in the vast majority of the levels. A reward system involving golden starships that unlock secret 
 levels finds itself secondary to the easter-eggs hidden with them, which are too ticklish to spoil 
 here for the avid Trekie. Of the levels that the golden starships unlock that I was able to find, 
 1  6, all but one felt a little less than worth the effort that seeking them out was worth and 
 finding more starships in earlier levels means replaying through the entire game as merely reloading 
 a level does not count toward your total and by far is not worth nitpicking over by itself.
  
  The rampant in level secrets aside the level design in Elite Force II was better than average 
 in a great many places. Sometimes though I couldnt shake the feeling that it was an elaborate 
 Disney World theme park ride because of the extreme feelings of being forced along a single line 
 and halls and halls filled with locked doors aside from the ones you were required to enter or 
 were part of a museum exhibit with nothing to do in them, which should in no way be construed as 
 a bad thing as imersive and detailed as this ride was, and felt like slightly less of a game because 
 of it. Beyond that, no matter where you have gotten in the game the lighting, the set design, the 
 sounds around you feel beyond any other experience like youre in a dream science fiction world.
 
  
  Time to harp a little more on the bites that make the meal of the gaming goodness, Im speaking 
 about the sound bites. From the phaser fire to the combat riffles and Jean-Luc Picard in the briefing 
 room the atmosphere is thick with the sounds of the enterprise. Every little detail is here, the 
 sounds of comm. links and doors sliding open. The voice acting was pretty bad, Jean-Luc was the 
 best there was and he sounded phoned in. The only thing that felt eerily quiet was the turbo lifts, 
 I guess the new enterprise has silent ones, and I suppose advancing technology is part of the universe, 
 but that sound was just so comforting they should have fixed something else, youd think they have 
 nothing better to do.
  
  The action aside the story is cheesy. Its kind of both sad and funny to see the Enterprise tainted 
 by the Voyager ideals. Although its pretty clear why Captain Picard is always talking to the hazard 
 team, there isnt anyone else left on the ship for him. Its strange to say, but with everyone 
 else gone, Jean-Luc feels sadly out of place, like he belongs someplace more important. Thats 
 not even it, but the feeling that he does not belong there is hard to ignore, there are more Voyager 
 characters than Next Generation and it made me feel sort of sad. Not.
  
  Theres no reason to bother telling you about the romance, I told you the story line is cheesy. 
 Well, you get your choice between an old friend in a tight hide everything Star Trek uniform, 
 or a hot alien with pointed ears and a scantily clad perfectly human. You get two guesses which 
 one I picked twice. All in all this proves to be a solid enjoyable game and well worth the time 
 of playing through it for any first person shooter fan or Trekie alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAW666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is great. You are member of elite solider for Voyager and later the Federation known 
 as the Hazard team. It's a good first person that you play through the game. They put in puzzles 
 to give a brake form shooter all the time. Some shooters should take note. Now the main reason 
 to play is not the shooting but the story line. That makes this one a true Star Trek, for a true 
 one focus on the story. They have a lot of fun but yet aggravating extras. They need to refurbish 
 the game a bit, for their a lot of missing parts in the story. Other then that, I highly recommend 
 everyone to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: entsetzen
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Other reviewers might consider my verdict of 5.6 a bit too harsh.
  But it is accurate if you deduct the star trek nostalgia from the game.
  If you leave Picard's 
 (Patrick Stewart's) and Tuvok's voice acting out of the equation all that is left is a shallow 
 story with an obvious twist.
  
  The voicing is the best part of the game and i give sound a 9.0.
  
  The story would make for 
 40 Minutes of less than mediocre entertainment if it was an actual episode.
  From a 8-10 hour game I expect a story at least as exciting as a double episode or a movie.
  
 But this game does not deliver that.
  
  What's worse then that is the opponents AI is reduced to one strategy: popping up out of nowhere 
 and charging right at you. Boring!
  Half way through the game I was so bored I only kept playing because I miss Star Trek on TV and 
 because there is no new episodes after 20 years of constant delivery. What a shame.
  
  Even the graphics are only just ok for a game from 2003. It looks much like its predecessor from 
 2001, which actually was more fun to play.
  
  If you want to play a less known great first person perspective game,
  I recommend No One lives 
 forever and System Shock 2 for those of you you haven't played those classics yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Corelli
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Taken from KevinsCorner. dk (my website) :
  
  Star Trek: Elite Force II definitely beats it's predecessor. 
  With a new large range of weapons 
 from the traditional Phaser to the mass-destructive Romulan Experimental Radiation Launcher (Rom-Rad) 
 all with primary and secondary fire, ST: EF2 is a great First-Person shooter suitable for "young" 
 ages as it has nearly no blood. Star Trek: EF2 features both a Story Mode where you play as lieutenant 
 Alexander Munro on the starship Enterprise, and a Holomatch mode which is much like Counter Strike 
 only with Star Trek style and weapons and no blood. Beside challenging the computer in Holomatch 
 you can also challenge your friends in a LAN game or other players online. Star Trek: EF2 is great 
 fun but there are some minuses. To play Star Trek: EF2 you will need to know a bit about Star Trek 
 or else you will get lost in the loads of strange words such as "Klingons", "Romulans", "Warp Drive", 
 "Phasers", "Photon Torpedos" e. t. c. Graphics is also somewhat old fashioned. Even though the graphics 
 are not bad they are not superb either compared to many other games. However the voices and sounds 
 in Star Trek: EF2 are good and there are many hours of good gameplay in this game, and it is definitely 
 the best Star Trek game ever made. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm a not a huge star trek fan, but I do enjoy it. I like it way better then star wars. This is 
 a very good FPS game and i think a lot of non trek fans will like it. EF2 is a very entertaining 
 game but it does a a few down falls.
  
  Graphics- EF2 is made from the Quake 3 engine so from now a days standards, it's kinda out of date. 
 But the developers did an awesome job of recreating the enterprise E. And starfleet academy. If 
 you watch the movies star trek first contact and nemesis, then you'll will understand the thrill 
 of actually walking the decks of the enterprise and walking the corridors of the academy. 
  
  Sound- The sound is pretty cool. The phasers, explosions are all taken from the sereis so they 
 sound very futuristic kinda. Patrick Stewart gives his voice talent and this adds a sweet touch 
 to the game. 
  
  Story- This is one of the downfalls to the game. There isn't much of one. 
  
  Gameplay- it's 
 not that hard to learn how to play this game. One of the cool things is that you can decide how 
 your characters personal life end up. 
  
  All in all this is an awesome star trek game and non-fans as well as trekkies will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeet
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  
  This is a solid first-person shooter. It has its flaws, and it probably would not fall in favor 
 with older gamers who are looking for something new and more sophisticated. But for those fans 
 of Star Trek, and those who enjoy first-person shooters, look no farther than "star trek elite 
 force II."
  
  This is a direct sequel to "Voyager Elite Force." Events pick up after Alex Munro blows his way 
 through the Borg mothership and the U. S. S. Voyager goes come. The Hazard Team is reassigned by 
 a annoying Starfleet captain, and Munro is now a teacher at Starfleet Academy. Next think you know, 
 Captain Picard spots Munro and asks him to join the crew of the U. S. S. Enterprise E. The subsequent 
 storyline consists of the Hazard Team fighting a new killer bug-like race, and mediating some kind 
 of civil war between two alien races. 
  
  You get to experience all these storylines yourself. Between missions you get a deck or two of 
 the Enterprise, which is a really fun and cool experience. But other than that, gameplay is linear. 
 The only choice you have in the storyline is what girl you will end up with in the end, and I guess 
 the number of hidden starships you find during missions. Collect enough starships, and you unlock 
 multiplayer levels and holodeck programs. 
  
  The graphics are based on the Quake 3 engine. It looks good, but kind of dated now. The sounds 
 and environment are good, and the voice acting is solid. Patrick Stewart lends his suberb voice 
 acting to this game, which is a treat. No other TNG actors lend their voice. That brings up another 
 point, the game does not really follow the Star Trek universe. Captain Picard would not be interesting 
 in a Hazard Team, since he is a diplomatic captain. And the entire crew of the Enterprise E are 
 new faces. I do not think that everyone left their positions at the end of Nemesis which was released 
 before this game. So it is kind of a dissapointment, why not release a game featuring the TNG crew? 
 
  
  And that also brings up a weakness, the game is not that long and a lot of it is just mindless 
 shooting, which can get tedious. This is not a revolutionary game, it is a stadard first-person 
 shoot em up. You acquire more weapons as time goes on, and there are bosses at every level. A little 
 variety is thrown in with the puzzles and such. 
  
  The best thing about the game for me, was the detail and quality of the Enterprise-E and the vision 
 we get of Starfleet Academy. It actually was a lot of fun to wander around in those places and 
 get caught up in the story. Federation people are everywhere, you can walk by and hear their conversations. 
 There is a sense of wonder and magic in this. It makes me wish that the rest of the game was a 
 little better. 
  
  So overall the storyline is not bad, the game is fun, and sometimes challenging, and there is nothing 
 to like for me to recommend this game. This is one of the best Star Trek games ever made. Now all 
 we need is a similar game set within the TNG universe. That would me heaven!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  I realy liked the first EF game and thought that the second one would be equally as good but found 
 that despite my expectations I was rather dissappointed by the game in general. Sure the graphics 
 were top notch and the game did feel like a solid Star Trek first person shooter, but overall it 
 was really same old crap. 
  
  There were aspects of the game that I just hated, like sitting on the hull of the Enterprise shooting 
 some cannon at passing ships. This truly was a major let down in the game play. If I had wanted 
 to play an old shoot the gun at the duck, I would have hooked up my old colleco and played duck 
 hunt or something.
  
  No this was a fun game, fair story, but really when you get down to it, it came acrossed as to 
 repetitive and to simular, thus boring, to the first.
  
  As for multiplayer, well I did not play it so I cannot comment as to that aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best shooter that Star Trek has ever put out. It has a nice selection of weopons 
 and other things such as the Tricorder. A nice feature because in the first one you had to put 
 in a code for it. Although the first one had a better 3rd person view this one has much nicergraphics. 
 The Gameplay is pretty good, the story line is passable but ok. The graphics are really good. I 
 would say the best Star Trek game graphics but legacy is coming out. The sound quality is excelent. 
 The voice acting is good and so are the weopon sounds. If you are a Treky this is a good title 
 to pick up. I recomend this game to people abot 12 and up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyager529
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  After purchasing Elite Force 1 off ebay, and being dissapointed in the lack of length in the game, 
 I was expecting alot from the sequel. While I'm personally a Voyager fan, I thought it would be 
 interesting to see how the hazard team would fare under the command of Picard. I'd also heard that 
 the game was twice as long at the first EF, so I picked it up as soon as I found it.
  
  I think they remained reasonably consistent with the original EF (same characters, save the world 
 'storyline', show actors as voice actors) , and I don't think that I regret buying it. EF2 seemed 
 to be trying to pass for more of a generic FPS than it's predecessor, making it lose it's uniqueness 
 from other FPS games that were more popular (Half-Life, UT2004, etc.) . The graphics were noticeably 
 better than the first EF (though for a game that came out in 2000, EF1 still looks pretty good) . 
 The surround-sound job they did truly immersed you into the game and made my Sound Blaster Extigy 
 a worthy investment.
  Although I liked the fact that EF2 gave you a different set of weapons to choose from, I missed 
 a few from EF1 (might've made a cool multiplayer mode) . Also, one of the things that I think EF 
 did right was to give you weapons one by one and let you take 'em for a test drive in the holodeck 
 between missions. this allowed you to know your guns better to choose the right one for the job. 
 EF2 just gave you an arsenal on the field and said 'have fun'... i found that to be dissapointing.
 
  
  EF1 had a well-done story that could easily work as an episode of the series. EF2 had much less 
 writing behind it, focusing more on shooting-until-it-stops-moving gameplay and a few puzzles to 
 spice it up... it really was like playing UT2004 in single player mode.
  
  Other minor nitpicks include reloading guns (i understand wanting to be more realistic, but it's 
 kinda annoying [plus no one does it on the show] ) , Lack of ability to be alexandra munroe (although 
 that makes sense in the ending sequece ;-) , bland multiplayer maps, piss easy ending boss, no DVD 
 version (only 2 CD's) , and no ability to turn off the gore.
  
  If you can grab it from a bargain bin, it's worth it. but I'd recommend EF1 more any day of the 
 week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Now first I must say that I am a Trek fan, trekkie, trekker, who the hell cares. 
  
  Anyway back to the game, Elite Force II is a great first person shooter game set in the Star Trek 
 universe. You once again take control of the Hazard Team, but there are twists to the story, I 
 won't spoil it. One great thing is the ability to choose paths, you do this by selecting certain 
 dialog during gameplay. It adds some flare and diversity to the game, as does the additon of small 
 easy puzzles. 
  
  The majority of gameplay is FPS, which is good. The enviorments are immersive and cool. The graphics 
 are pretty good. Sound is great. This game also includes a great arsenal of weapons, grenade launchers, 
 phasers, the works. 
  
  If you like Star Trek you will like this game and if you like FPS you will like this game, give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a really good first person shooter. It did get boring after a while because 
 it was the same thing over and over again. The graphics were excellent. The sound was good. There 
 were a lot of inconsistencies in the game however. You are very limited to what you can do. You 
 get to make choices in the game, but they don't really affect the outcome. The game is worth the 
 money and is solid. The scenery was incredible and the weapons were a lot of fun. The thing I didn't 
 like was it was to short and there was only one mission that you are on. The storyline was written 
 well and there was interesting things to notice throughout the game if you pay attention to detail. 
 I disliked the whole looking for golden starships to earn secret missions. The game is almost like 
 aliens mixed with the Star Trek universe. It is a relatively easy game to play even on the hardest 
 level. There are one or two parts that are a challenge. I would say the stunning graphics are the 
 best part of the game. On a good note is you pretty much kill everything in your way and aren't 
 on a mission to create peace. There are a lot of tricorder puzzles to solve. They are all fairly 
 easy. You get to reroute power, and manipulate force fields. You have different view modes using 
 your tricorder in order to detect cracks in walls or gas leaks. All things considered I liked the 
 game, but it did get repetitive in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 1, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  It's no secret that Star Trek has taken a nose-dive as of late. With Enterprise cancelled, Star 
 Trek Nemesis' lousy box office results, and the next major video game nearly two years away, fans 
 (like me) have only re-runs and older games to keep us from starving until then. Star Trek Elite 
 Force II is a good way to keep ourselves together... for a few days.
  
  Star Trek Elite Force II puts you in the shoes of Lieutenant Alex Munro, a competent security officer 
 and commander of the "Hazard Team" on the USS Voyager. But after Voyager returns home in the begining 
 of the game, Alex and his team are broken up by the head honchos at Starfleet Command. But Captain 
 Jean-Luc Picard (Captain of the USS Enterprise) spots Munro during a training simulation and is 
 impressed, so you join up with Picard and the Enterprise. Eventually you reassemble your team and 
 are soon sent over to an adrift starship, which is infested with wierd animal-like aliens and the 
 main plot of the game is to figure out where these aliens came from and stop them from taking over 
 the galaxy. The game itself is fairly linear. The only options in the story that you have are occasional 
 dialogue segments that let you choose an answer. The only two conversations that won't cause you 
 to loose the game if you chose the wrong answer are your conversations with Ensign Telsia (a girl 
 who is on your team) and an alien scientist named Kleea. The choices you make detirmines what girl 
 you're with at the end of the game, and to me it's not worth worrying about because it doesnt affect 
 gameplay at all.
  
  The gameplay here is normal First Person Shooter madness. The most notable weapons are the Phaser, 
 a Federation Assault Rifle, and the Enhanced Compression Rifle (which is essentially a machine 
 gun) . You fight the animal-like enemies mentioned above as well as classic Trek aliens like the 
 Borg, Klingons, and Romulans. The problem is that the enemy AI isn't al that great. Sure they shoot 
 at you when they see you, but they aren't coordinated very well. You can also find secret areas 
 and find golden starships throughout the levels to unlock secret mini-games. These mini-games aren't 
 worth collecting the 70 golden ships you'll need to get all of them.
  
  The online multiplayer is solid, but it has one substantial flaw - nobody plays. There are only 
 two servers available and they're both empty. The solo mode puts you against BOTS and they do a 
 good job of playing.
  
  The graphics are good but nothing too special. Everything seems a bit blocky when the camera pans, 
 though. The characters all look well designed and the aliens give you a decent jump when you see 
 them for the first time.
  
  The audio in the game is nothing special either. Patrick Stewart (Picard) , Tim Russ (Tuvok) , and 
 Dwight Schultz (Barcaly) are the only three actual cast members that you'll recognize from any 
 of the series, which kind of hurts compared to the orignal Elite Force because it had all of the 
 actors from Star Trek: Voyager. The game's soundtrack is full of action, and occasionally amazonic, 
 music. It is appropriate to the level, but repetative.
  
  As far as technical bugs go, the game doesn't have many noticable ones. There's the occasional 
 glitch or area of a level where you can shoot the enemy but they can't hurt you, but other then 
 that the game is fine.
  
  Overall, Star Trek Elite Force II is a solid shooter, but nothing too revolutionary or spectacular 
 as far as first person shooters go. If you see it in a bargain bin, take it because it is a good, 
 solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Whrn you think of Star Trek, you think of a sci-fi TV series where the characters try to take the 
 diplomatic way to fix their problems. In this game, that's not the case. Instead, you basically 
 get some pretty large and powerful weapons and go around shooting people and blowing things up. 
 But that actually makes for a pretty fun experience.
  
  The single player mode casts you as Liutenant Munro, the lead member of the Hazard Team. Which 
 is a group of elite soldiers wil big federation guns that people turn to when things aren't exactly 
 diplomatic. 
  
  When you start the game, you and your team are cast by Commander Tuvok to rescue the Starship Enterprise 
 from the Borgs, who are keeping them hostage. After you finsih that mission, you and your team 
 are split apart. You will be training others, and your crew is assigned to various other things. 
 But, you are able to land a spot in the Starship Enterprise's hazard team. But them when you are 
 cast to investigate an attack on another ship, which just happens to be a ship that one of the 
 old hazard team's members is on. When you are there, you are attacked by a strange alien force 
 that is unidentified. You must then investigate the aliens and find out how to stop them.
  
  Some of the guns in Star Trek: Elite Force II are as follows:
  Compression Rifle: A powerful 
 rifle. The all around good gun in the game
  
  Enhanced Compression Rifle: A compression rifle, but instead of single, powerful shots, it fires 
 more like a machine gun would.
  
  Federation Assault Rifle: A pretty basic shotgun
  
  I-MOD: A gun similar to a rifle that fires green bolts of.... something
  
  There are LOTs more 
 guns like a gatling gun, a sniper, a variation of a gatling gun, and others.
  
  While to single player is good, the multiplayer is better. It's just fun to go around shooting 
 people with all the guns available. And that's all there is to it.
  
  The sound is pretty good. The soundtrack sucks. It's basically one long orchestral song that is 
 extremely dull. But the sound effects are really outstanding.
  
  The presentation is great. The graphics look really good, the frame rate doesn't slow down that 
 much, if ever. It just adds to the experience.
  
  Well, I think that it's fun just to play this game. And you should at least give it a try
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbudd02
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 4, 2004 5:28 am PT
Review:  The graphics were nice, the sound and voice acting were decent. The music was nice, although the 
 actual soundtrack from the series would have been nice.
  
  It is a fairly solid game, but lots of things bugged the heck out of me. It might as well have 
 been Quake X - same cliche weapons (it has the machine gun phaser, the shotgun phaser, the sniper 
 phaser, the chain gun phaser, the 'quantum' grenade launcher, the 'photon torpedo' rocket launcher, 
 even a Romulan BFG) . The final level was - you guessed it, caves filled with lava, in which you 
 meet every boss you've met in the game previously all over again before reaching a final boss who 
 comes complete with a False Death (TM) . 
  
  They also lost much of the character of the previous game - the banter between the Hazard Team 
 members was gone (you were almost always alone - more than 95% of the time.) When they did talk, 
 they were annoying caricatures of their races. Chell was even more of a whiny coward, Chang was 
 John Wayne with a phaser, and the new Klingon seemed to have a cheesy one-liner for everything 
 that happened. Taking moderately adequate dialogue and adding random bits of technobabble does 
 not Star Trek make.
  
  The Trek-correctness was gone, too. I don't demand that you know what the Heisenberg Compensator 
 or an EPS conduit is, but don't have all the Vulcans on the ship talking with New York accents 
 and pushing for genocide.
  
  It is worth it for a way to kill a few hours, but don't expect to be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 18, 2004 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a mediocre shooter at its core, but it ends up being good because it has a good story, 
 and it is a good authentic Star Trek game. 
  
  The gameplay is as derivative as a loaf of bread and the level design is unimaginative and mundane. 
 That's a fancy way of saying "been there, done that a million times". Start off in hallway. Walk 
 down hallway. Two enemies drop down from ceiling. Shoot enemies. Come to locked door. Find conveniently 
 located vent next to door. Crawl through vent to other side. Find a button to push to open the 
 door, etc etc. This gameplay got really tiresome about three or four years ago. It's just really 
 old now. The levels are also really small and short. Most of the game's enemies are weak, so the 
 game has a tendency to add difficulty by having enemies teleport in behind you to ambush you. The 
 weapons are just Star Trek-ized versions of real-life stuff and while they look pretty cool, they 
 aren't all that interesting to use in practice.
  
  The reason why Elite Force 2 is worth playing is because of its presentation. The game has a really 
 cool story that will keep you interested and keep you guessing up until the end. The story probably 
 would have made a good movie. The game also has that brainy/nerdy science fiction feel that makes 
 Star Trek what it is. Some of the voice work for the main character is kinda cheesy, but most of 
 it in the game is really good. Especially Jean-Luc Picard, who plays a big part in the game. 
 
  
  The best part about this game, to me, was the graphics. This is a really nice looking game in just 
 about every way. Every environment and every character is fleshed out with tons of detail. You 
 can often read the writing on little computers and control panels and stuff. The weapons all look 
 really cool and are incredibly detailed. The detail on the weapons is as good as more advanced 
 shooters like Painkiller and Far Cry. The cut scenes -- especially the shots in outer space -- 
 are beautiful. 
  
  This game took me about 10 hours to complete and only about half of that was genuine action. The 
 rest is cut scnes or interactive story sequences that have little or no shooting. So you could 
 say that the game's great story comes at the expense of the action. Star Trek Elite Force 2 isn't 
 a great first person shooter, but it's a good Star Trek action game. If you are a fan of the series, 
 then you should check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 25, 2003 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I suppose I should start this review by saying that perhaps when I bought Elite Force 2 I misunderstood 
 just how much of a shooter this game is and how little of anything else. So being a fan of games 
 such as Deus Ex which took the genre forward, I can't help feeling that this game is constantly 
 looking backward to the way that FPS games were in the mid 90s. While it looks pretty good, sounds 
 and plays OK, with a good range of weapons, there really is little or no substance to it. Plot 
 is almost non-existent and, aside from the look, the game bears little or no relationship to anything 
 remotely related to Star Trek in either style of play or plot - largely it could be Quake with 
 different graphics, since all one is required to do is find one's way around mazes of largely gloomy 
 passages and ... eeerr.. shoot anything that moves. I suppose I just expect a bit more, even of 
 a hard core FPS, than just shooting nowadays - and certainly for the money charged for EF2. Worse, 
 even the sections which require a degree of planning and fire from cover (such as the mission in 
 the Drull ruins) allow almost no latitude for physical movement away from the prescribed path. 
 For example in this level in places I was clearly capable, given the previous performce of the 
 jump button, of jumping onto rocks etc to get a good aim with the sniper rifle.... but no.. it was 
 as if I had hit an invisible wall.
  
  Given my huge disappointment with other games of this type that have been much touted and then 
 failed to anything other than churn out the same old unimaginative twaddle (such as Unreal 2) I 
 do wonder if I have just played too many - or perhaps I have played enough to no longer be satisfied 
 with the sort of unimaginative, tedious gameplay offered by games such as Elite Force 2. Perhaps 
 the next iteration of the series should concentrate a little less on just shooting and a bit more 
 on plot, authentic Star Trek atmosphere and requiring the player to actually slow down and think 
 once in while.
  
  Overall a big disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2003 10:43 am PT
Review:  Star Trek:
  Elite Force II
  For PC
  
  
  
  Set phasers to Frag!... again. Star Trek Elite Forces was the first Star Trek game to come out 
 that didnt actually stink for a material that was found on TV. A lot of games based on movies 
 or books, or TV shows rarely worked. In Star Treks case, this line has a host of games that failed 
 until Raven came along and made a First Person Shooter based on Star Trek Voyager that actually 
 paid off. Now a part two was on the way sans Raven and people wondered if Ritual (the new Development 
 Team) could pull it off. They did and a lot more.
  
  
  
  As the first game played out in the Delta Quadrant with Captain Janeway and the Starship Voyager, 
 this one takes place right here in the good old Alpha Quadrant with Captain Picard and the Enterprise. 
 Although the first level does start off with Voyager, the rest of the game, youll find yourself 
 running around Starfleet Academy as well as a refugee space station, a planet thats up to no good, 
 and an iceberg of a planet. You reprise the role of Munro (male version, female version has been 
 done away with) , and youll have the same team from last game with you  Chel, Murphy, and some 
 new faces. After getting back from the Big D Quadrant, you find your team disbanded and now your 
 stuck teach drills at the academy when Picard comes calling. He seems to be impressed with your 
 record and the way you handled yourself in the D-Zone, asks you to come on his ship and restart 
 up another Hazard Team. Reassigned to the Enterprise is Tuvok, who returns to captain your team, 
 give you away assignments and keep you informed as to what Picard needs done next. Both Picard 
 and Tuvok are voiced by the actors from the TV shows, and the voice of Munro returns, as well as 
 Murphy and a few others. Absent from the Enterprise is everyone else. No Crusher, no Geordi, no 
 one is around. In fact, Engineering is being run by Lt. Barcley who isnt voiced by the actor who 
 portrayed him.
  
  
  
  Once on the Enterprise, youll begin your first mission coming to the aid of the USS Dallas whos 
 been knocked out of commission. Once boarding the ship, youll find a whole host of problems. Bet 
 you wish you stayed in bed, huh? Seems the ship has been taken over by an insect race whos killed 
 off most of the skeleton crew that remained on board. Well, wheres the rest of the crew? Thats 
 where youll go next, and once from their, youll realize just how bad off things are going to 
 get. Seems a planet has the ability to create these creatures, which is being controlled by youll 
 find out. Using an updated, stripped down, and redone version of the Quake 3 engine, this game 
 still pulls off some fancy levels. The USS Dallas was done with some great detail. The levels themselves 
 have nice lighting, nice smooth textures, as well as some fairly slick player models. Likewise, 
 the sound itself isnt too shabby either. When on the Dallas, you hear everything from the engine 
 running to the power flowing behind the walls. Nice sound effects with EAX support. Creates an 
 atmosphere that makes you believe you really are there. Though the other characters to seem to 
 get repetitive after a while, usually shouting out one or two lines over and over. The game needs 
 a little more voiceover to really do some justice.
  
  
  
  A lot of your old weapons return from the first outing. You have the Phaser, the Phaser Rifle, 
 and the I-Mod (also known as useless) . You do get more advanced weapons, two new types of Phaser 
 Rifles which really do some damage. A ho-hum Grenade Launcher, as well as a new version of the 
 Handheld Torpedo Launcher. Both seem decent, but miss that certain something to really make them 
 shine through. The Tricorder also returns as well. But this little baby has been updated big time. 
 No longer just a scanner youll use once or twice in the game  the Tricorder is now a useful tool 
 youll employ quite often. It has several vision modes that allows you to see structural integrity 
 (weak points in walls and various other objects) , as well a Trace Gasses and Bio-Mode. At first, 
 youll be taught to use these to pass certain puzzles. Later on, youll need to think with your 
 head on how to get through waypoints, only your Tricorder as your guide. The fun doesnt end there 
  youll also need to use this little futuristic Swiss Army Knife to bypass locks, reroute power 
 on consoles as well as uploading instructions to computers to gain entry. A lot of these moments 
 are thrown in and spaced far enough where they never get old, and keep the game somewhat fresh.
 
  
  
  
  The big selling point of this game, would have to be its portrayal of life in the Star Trek Universe. 
 You do a lot of whats seen on the various TV shows. Youll be running around the Enterprise, going 
 on Away Missions, as well as researching in the Library, practicing your killer moves on the women 
 and in the Holodeck. But.. not everything is as perfect as it is in that universe. Quite often 
 the Player shadows will shy away from their material counterparts or just beam out and reappear 
 somewhere else altogether. The AI isnt any better. More often than not, the Enemy will just run 
 at you without using really any strategy. If their positioned behind a bulkhead or something to 
 use for cover, theyll pop out fire, and dive back down. Thats the extent of what they can do 
 and it doesnt get any better. The boss battles in the game arent any better. Only difference 
 is the bosses have more life to take away.
  
  
  
  Also scattered around the levels are various secret areas and little golden starships, collecting 
 them opens up secret maps for Multiplayer. Speaking of Multiplayer, its pretty much the same as 
 the first game, but the levels themselves are done better and with a little more variety. Returning 
 are CTF, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and a new addition  Bomb Difussion. Basically, two sides, 
 both have to go in and drop off a bomb in the others base, and hope it explodes to win. The big 
 difference with this one is you can specialize as a s****er or a medic or whatever. Nothing really 
 ground breaking, but still breaks away from the norm.
  
  
  
  In the end, Ritual took this game, and made it their own  improving over what Raven had originally 
 done and turning out a somewhat flawed but great game over all. If you dont really care for Star 
 Trek, you may find the Star Trek-isms boring. For you people this game gets an 8.4 But if you do 
 enjoy the series, and another .5 to the score.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2003 6:59 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original Elite Force and Im happy with this release. 
  
  The graphics are excellent as it the sound quality. Game play is easy to learn and fun. Ive played 
 multiplayer on my LAN with two other people and it is smooth. I havent played online yet but Ive 
 no doubt that will be smooth as well. The AI is a bit stupid, Chell and other members of the 
 Hazard Team continually walk in front of me when I am shooting. In multiplayer mode the bots, even 
 at the lowest setting, seem to be deadly accurate with every shot. That can get frustrating and 
 annoying as well.
  
  The game seems to try and blend FPS action with RPG. You end up at Star Fleet Academy talking to 
 people and I found to drag the game down a little bit keep the action going! 
  
  I havent finished the entire game yet but what I have played I have enjoyed. I would recommend 
 this game to any Star Trek fan and FPS person although to me it is (as are most games) very pricey.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteccs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2003 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was really good and an excelent sequel. The story line wa sdone very well along 
 with the voices. It was like watch an episode of star trek. The gameplay was like most first person 
 shooters which isn't a bad thing and a neat touch I thought that added to the gameplay was the 
 tricoder which gave you that star trek feel. You used the tricoder quite a bit like solving puzzes 
 to re-rout the extric or viewing teh scructure integrity mode to view cracks and thing that would 
 break along with the bio mode to view laser trip wires and things. I see alot of people dont give 
 the sound a very good score, but I thought the sound was done pretty good like the foot steps and 
 the water and all the other sounds that gave it that star trek feel. Anyways rather your a star 
 trek fan or not you should enjoy this game. I'm not a star trek fan I enjoyed it alot and the multiplayer 
 seems to be pretty good to. I'm enjoy playing that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHardTWB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2003 1:50 pm PT
Review:  As a worthy successor to it's predecessor, I found this game to be quite faithful to Star Trek 
 lore and also to it's genre as a first person shooter. Ritual has managed to push the Quake 3 engine 
 to it's limits, providing almost perfect skin texturing and model animation which is, I'm happy 
 to say, much smoother then the first game. We start out on the Borg sphere, during the final episode 
 of Star Trek Voyager. It was a nice touch seeing what really happened during the end of that episode, 
 and how the Hazard team was trying to adjust with being back home again.
  
  I'm assuming the game takes place right after Star Trek: Nemesis as Riker, Troi and Data are nowhere 
 to be seen. As far as story and continuity goes, they've remained true to the official storyline. 
 
  
  The game play is rather good, the controls are quite similar to that of the first game, so veteran 
 Hazard team members should be able to fit right in, and the learning curve is small enough that 
 newcomers to the series will be able to catch on within a half hour. 
  
  I had some problems running the game with EAX acceleration, so I turned it back to software acceleration. 
 But other then that, it sounds great and the voice acting was superb.
  
  Overall, I found this game to be a great addition to the unfortunately lacking lineup of Star Trek 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2003 1:37 am PT
Review:  I loved the original EF for its silky smooth gameplay, great characters, and successful Trek ambience. 
 All of those qualities are present and correct in the sequel, and Ritual are to be congratulated 
 on creating an extremely solid FPS. Visually it's top-notch (can anyone doubt that Q3 is the king 
 of the last generation of engines?) , and if we don't make the mistake of comparing it to engines 
 that aren't even out yet (D3) , it holds its own in the modern marketplace. Some of the rooms are 
 massive and the architecture visible through windows or in the distance conveys a real sense of 
 perspective. Audio also deserves a special mention for the crispest and most effective 3D positional 
 audio I've ever heard, as well as superb voice acting right across the board. 
  
  On the downside there's a little too much cinema, with the action regularly punctuated with scripted 
 conversations which, although nicely acted and directed, detract from the action a little too much. 
 I'm also ambivalent about the puzzle element; it's fun for a while, and as the GS reviewer mentioned, 
 when you're trying to solve one of those puzzles in the middle of a fight or with your health being 
 drained by some external nastiness, it can be quite tense. In the end the puzzles needed more variety 
 to be 100% successful.
  
  Overall, with its authentic Trekitude, pseudo-team action and often massive firefights, EF2 must 
 go down as a success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 25, 2003 4:54 pm PT
Review:  While this game has decent graphics and good sound quality, it fails to invoke any kind of interesting 
 gameplay. After playing this for awhile it seems to me to be just another First Person Shooter 
 with nothing really new to offer to the gaming public. 
  
  I would recommend this game to someone who is a Star Trek fan due to the fact that it is a decent 
 expierence for a first person shooter and combined with a love for Star Trek would be a good game, 
 beyond that there is nothing this game offers that would make me want to buy it if I had the chance 
 again. 
  
  Overall it is decent, and quite good I expect if you are a fan of Star Trek. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
