-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: StarLancer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/starlancer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 359 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Digital Anvil
Genre: Action
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
StarLancer is an enjoyable story-driven space combat sim that should meet, but not exceed, the lofty 
 expectations of fans of the developers' previous  

 We've battled ferocious humanoid felines. We've incinerated countless stormtroopers. We've certainly 
 stopped a number of ancient, seemingly omniscient species from invading our galaxy. But never before 
 in a space sim have we fought the Western World's pesky 20th-century adversaries, those Sputnik-launching 
 Ruskies. Yet in spite of the implausible premise that 160 years from now the Cold War will suddenly 
 reignite in a conflict that will span our solar system, Digital Anvil's debut game is an enjoyable 
 story-driven space combat sim that should meet, but not exceed, the lofty expectations of fans 
 of the developers' previous games.  

 The reason that expectations for StarLancer are so high is, of course, because Digital Anvil was 
 founded by a team of developers led by Chris Roberts, who had effectively launched the space-sim 
 genre with the Wing Commander games. While Chris Roberts has been focusing on the development of 
 the far more ambitious Freelancer, his brother Erin Roberts and UK developer Warthog have crafted 
 StarLancer. Warthog and Erin Roberts had previously combined their efforts to produce Privateer 
 2: The Darkening. The influences of that game and the Wing Commander series are quickly evident 
 in StarLancer, a very traditional space sim.  

 StarLancer has many of the same strengths and a few of the weaknesses of the previous products of 
 the developers. While other space sims, such as the games in the X-Wing series and, more recently, 
 the FreeSpace games, have made their star-hopping conflicts largely impersonal affairs, the Wing 
 Commander games have focused far more on the experiences of individual pilots. Both approaches 
 have advantages. By personalizing the conflicts, the Wing Commander games make you empathetic to 
 the struggles of the protagonists. On the other hand, by maintaining a more distant perspective, 
 FreeSpace 2 and similar games provide a more strategic view of the games' respective conflicts. 

 Interestingly, StarLancer straddles both of these approaches. StarLancer's compromise between these 
 extremes works exceptionally well, as it conveys the significance of the epic battles in an intimate 
 manner. You'll never get to know the personalities of your wingmen in StarLancer as well as Wing 
 Commander players know the quirks of wingmates such as Maniac, but your fellow pilots are also 
 not as faceless as they are in most other space sims. In StarLancer, there are dozens of personalities 
 whom you'll eventually become acquainted with - from your wingmen peers to wartime politicians, 
 StarLancer's characters collectively provide you with a range of perspectives from which to view 
 the conflict. There are a number of particularly memorable characters, including a Red Baron-esque 
 German ace and a traitorous fellow pilot - of course, you couldn't possibly have a game produced 
 by the creator of the Wing Commander series without a traitor subplot.   

 While the premise of a 22nd-century war with the Russians seems ludicrous, and their Eastern Coalition's 
 conduct consistently lives up to our lowest expectations in the campy manner of a Roger Moore Bond 
 flick, its instant familiarity is actually a great strength of StarLancer. Instead of hearing of 
 the exploits of another faceless squadron as in the FreeSpace games, you will instead be provided 
 with insight into the exploits of readily identifiable groups of characters through StarLancer's 
 war updates. It's easier to become empathetically and emotionally involved with the characters 
 when you see recognizable modern imagery. It's an effective gimmick.  

 Unfortunately, the primary flaws of the developers' previous game, Privateer 2, have also been incorporated 
 into StarLancer. StarLancer's flight model is quirky, and it doesn't convey the sensation of moving 
 in 3D space as smoothly as in most recent space sims. The performance variances between the different 
 flyable ships aren't as pronounced as you would expect, given the ships' respective ratings in 
 various specifications. This perceived problem may have just been exacerbated by the inept artificial 
 intelligence of the computer-controlled pilots - enemy ships fly straight at you and then begin 
 turning, ineffectively trying to home in on your ship. When you're around large capital ships or 
 other objects, the computer-controlled ships really display their incompetence as they constantly 
 smash into fixtures or remain relatively motionless. Unless you doze off and consistently travel 
 in the same direction for a prolonged span of time, your impotent computer opponents will be unable 
 to dent your ship's shields and armor. Since Warthog seems to prefer equipping the fighters in 
 its games with rapidly firing, devastating gunnery, dogfights in StarLancer tend to be pathetically 
 one-sided affairs. Clint Eastwood never had it this easy in Firefox.  

 However, completing your mission goals isn't as simple as dispatching your foes, primarily because 
 of StarLancer's limited heads-up display. Most missions devolve at some point into protecting a 
 few friendly ships or smaller objects, but the HUD and interface make it extremely difficult to 
 maintain contact with the ships or objects you are supposed to defend. There's no way to program 
 the interface or set up the HUD to allow you to quickly target those friendlies to check their 
 conditions or locations. In addition, rather than having you rely on the same, familiar 3D radar 
 used in the Wing Commander games (or to adopt the even more intuitive system used by the X-Wing 
 games) , the developers felt it was appropriate to develop yet another form of 3D radar. Unfortunately, 
 they've managed to concoct the least accessible system yet. Rather than being foiled by the magnificent 
 flying or superior weaponry of your opponents, you'll usually find yourself failing mission goals 
 because of inadequate situational awareness. The interface and HUD aren't a significant step backward 
 compared with those offered by the Wing Commander games, but they are inadequate given the additional 
 complexity of StarLancer's missions. Simplistic mission design has always been a complaint justly 
 hurled against the Wing Commander games, whereas StarLancer's complex missions are fantastic. Much 
 of StarLancer's story is conveyed through events that occur within missions, and there is a tremendous 
 amount of mission-specific dialogue. Each mission also contains several scripted events depicted 
 from within the game engine. Independence War veterans will be familiar with this effective technique, 
 which always ensures that you get the opportunity to see significant mission events from the best 
 camera perspective. The technique works extremely well at convincingly conveying plot developments 
 without abruptly removing you from the gaming world.  

 Mission goals are also well varied in StarLancer, and even though the game treats heavy bombers 
 as capital ships, you'll still get plenty of opportunities to bomb large targets. While there aren't 
 as many missions in StarLancer's campaign as there are in a typical space sim, StarLancer's missions 
 are frequently lengthy, so the campaign doesn't feel short. The length of some of the missions 
 also makes the lack of an option to save the game within missions a more notable omission. While 
 no games in the genre have offered the opportunity to save a game within the heat of a battle, 
 since there are usually several stages to each StarLancer mission, the opportunity to save after 
 each stage (an option recently offered in Independence War Deluxe) would have been particularly 
 useful. Still, one of StarLancer's best attributes is its mission design.  

 StarLancer's graphics and sound are also its strengths. While the musical score pales compared with 
 the haunting tracks in the FreeSpace games, the epic Wing Commander scores of George Oldziey, or 
 the familiar riffs of the Star Wars games, the sound effects in StarLancer are excellent. The ominous 
 sound of a torpedo launch and the screech of a rocket launch are particularly distinctive. StarLancer's 
 graphics are outstanding, and they make exceptionally good use of lighting effects. While ship 
 design isn't inspired - most vehicles are blocky abstractions of each other - some of the fighters 
 have moving components, and the textures are universally detailed. The explosions are convincing, 
 and they create a ton of realistic debris, occasionally including the corpse of your hapless victim. 
 Most capital ships are disappointingly small compared with the dreadnoughts that roamed space in 
 Wing Commander Prophecy or FreeSpace 2, and they lack equivalents to the visceral beam weapons 
 and flak cannons of the ships in the latter game.  

 StarLancer also offers a number of multiplayer features including, most notably, the opportunity 
 to play through the main campaign cooperatively. Only the X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter expansion Balance 
 of Power previously offered a significant multiplayer campaign to space-sim players, and the gameplay 
 is considerably smoother in StarLancer. Unfortunately, the multiplayer chat dialogue line only 
 lets you type in short sentences, and if you choose to play as a pilot you've created for the single-player 
 game, you'll get mission statistics that are confusingly combined with your single-player results. 
 Pilots keep all of their achievements when starting a new game in either single- or multiplayer, 
 which gives you the advantage of accessing the more powerful fighters in the game prematurely. 
 There is also a handful of competitive multiplayer games, several of which can be played in teams. 
 The competitive multiplayer games include ship power-ups, and they generally emphasize gameplay 
 commonly found in first-person-perspective shooters.  

 There are no stand-alone missions (in either single- or multiplayer) and there's no way to replay 
 missions you've already completed unless you choose to revert to a game you've manually saved. 
 Some of the game's story elements outside of the missions are tedious, such as walking around your 
 spaceship and watching the newscasts, and the flight models and pilot artificial intelligence aren't 
 up to the genre's standards. But the scripting and story elements within the missions, combined 
 with the immersive graphics and sound effects, still make the campaign engaging. Because of its 
 origin, it's not surprising that StarLancer's strength is its story-driven campaign. While it's 
 a shame that the developers did not fix all the weaknesses that were also found in prior games 
 such as Privateer 2, StarLancer definitely matches, and in several ways improves on, the strengths 
 of those games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Even after picking this game seven years after it came out on game shelves across the nation, I 
 am still amazed at the depth, graphical detail, and intricate storyline that StarLancer has to 
 offer, especially since it was made in 2000.
  
  First off, the gameplay for this game is quite phenomenal. The entire game spans about 24 different 
 missions, exposing you to a various amount of military situations. Many times, the situation will 
 change during the middle of a mission, causing you to rethink your strategy and change tactics 
 to fit the new situation at hand. Dogfighting does become a challenge, as the cleverly-programmed 
 A. I. ships do evade your crosshairs pretty effectively and call in reinforcements from time to 
 time. In addition, they might decide to taunt you when they let a hail of lasers at your ship, 
 but retaliate right back at them and they wont be laughing soon after. The one dislike that I 
 have is that it seems many of the objectives are left for you to accomplish (I guess the Army 
 of One mentality really comes into play here) with none of your squadron wingmen to back you up, 
 other than just to distract the onslaught of fighters. Aside from that, the gameplay is superb.
 
  
  Hmm, graphics. The graphics are absolutely fantastic for a game made back in 2000. Many of the 
 ships are flawlessly textured; explosions, jumping from system to system, warping, lasers, many 
 of the visual effects of the game are rendered phenomenally for its age. All of the cutscenes are 
 rendered quite well with 3D modeling, and the speech does coordinate with mouth movements. In-mission 
 cutscenes are also created perfectly, with cinematic camera angles and panning. There are some 
 Z-fighting issues from time to time, but with such upgrades in graphics card capabilities nowadays, 
 there is no trouble bringing StarLancer up to maximum settings. The voice acting in StarLancer 
 is quite excellent. There is plenty of audio to supplement the 24 missions, with mission dialog 
 from fellow wingmen to threats of death from enemy combatants. The audio is timed well and is very 
 fluent throughout all of the sequences. Voice accents of pilots match with their in-game nationality, 
 so thats a plus for realism there. Other game sounds such as the jump drive, cloaking, and afterburners 
 are made well, simulating a realistic environment, even in deep space.
  
  All in all, StarLancer is a fantastically-made package of interesting gameplay, extended replayability, 
 and complex storyline that will keep you entertained for hours. It might be a bit difficult at 
 the beginning, but seasoned combat flight simulator players should have no problem applying their 
 previous skills into this intense game as well. A recommended game for any serious space flight 
 sim player, StarLancer is definitely a game that will have players hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madvicker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably the best space sim to date in my opinion and considering it is a 2000 game 
 it really is still impressive. this is the kind of game you can never really get tired of. the 
 storyline is brilliant and with 24 missions it really gives you a very wide variety of situations 
 although it does get a bit monotonous with the whole shooting them down all the time thing.
  i would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good space sim. this game would also be the 
 perfect option to show someone if yopu wanted to get them into space flying.
  all in all this is one of my best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Star lancer, is a very good space sim such is Freespace whom some suggest, that Freespace set, 
 the standards of which everyone should meet and beat. Star lancer certainly meets those expectations, 
 smooth action with a gripping story, the missions do increase in differeculty as the game progress. 
 The story line mirrors that of the Freespace and Freespace 2 games. Where as the Mother ship you 
 first start on, eventually gets destroyed and you move home. Star lancer has an interesting reward 
 system if you get everything right you may get awarded a medal, the only way to judge how well 
 or how close you came to a perfect score, is by judging the 2 pilots reactions at the score board. 
 There's also a competition with in the game, of getting to be no.1 with the most kill, admittly 
 this isn't too hard to the few, just follow the missions and you eventually get to the top, however 
 if you get lazy you wont stay there.
  
  After each mission you get a detailed news reports from the ACN channel in your bunk room, which 
 are very realistic, Taking this game was made in 2000, the graphics of its type are really good. 
 Of cause they look dated by today's standards, those of COD etc. However it's good to look backwards 
 to be able to go forwards.
  
  Star lancer has and able Multiplayer feature which works. There are less player playing the multiplayer 
 these, days as it's hay day is some what gone, however you do see about 200+ people a day on there. 
 So if you want to play multiplayer you can do.
  
  This game is still out the 2nd hand shops and the few gameshops about. It's certainly worth its 
 original price of &pound;22.99, although by now you could get it for &pound;5, which would be a 
 bargin. This game is one of the classics that will keep Freespace fans happy and dreaming.
  
  I enjoy playing this game even today, every time though I just have to have the music theme 
 Battlestar Galatica or the Theme from Airwolf while playing then nothing can stop me while in-game. lol
 
  
  Look out for the game play video I'll be posting soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:19 am PT
Review:  Starlancer and Freelancer, it's not too hard to get these titles mixed up, since, well i did. I 
 was browsing the store for a game in my budget and saw Starlancer and got it mixed up with Freelancer. 
 I only found out when I got home, regardless I inserted and installed and fortunately I was quite 
 satisfied.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is quite good in Starlancer, you can issue commands to wingmen, the AI is 
 fairly bright and is QUITE tricky to get a shot on since they move around so much and call for 
 assistance. They occasionally taunt you via voice com, however not that much of an issue unless 
 you're an insecure person with a fear of being insulted by a games A. I.. There are a load of menus 
 and stats and weapons and rockets so there's a learning curve involved. I haven't sadly been able 
 to play the online, so I just went for a review of the rest, since the MP wont work for some reason, 
 could it even be dead by now? The campaign is decently long and will last you a while, it also 
 has some bonus missions in most levels which when completed can benefit or dis-benefit your next 
 one, and example is an early level where a strange warp appears and you go through it and if you 
 find a way to disable it and you do, then the next mission will be easier, if you don't, there 
 will be another warp in the next one that will bring in a load of enemies early on.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pleasing for it's time, there's nice touches and details, such as the 
 fighters having cockpits and interiors which look and feel like they should. The ships seem a bit 
 too low detail tho, i understand it's because it's an old game but i still think they could have 
 been more detailed and bigger. There are a lot of nice visual effects and explosions do look good 
 however.
  
  Sound: The sound is good, chain guns rattling through the air and fighters swooshing past you. 
 Tho they could still be better, since the lasers feel as weak as a pea shooter from the sound they 
 make.
  
  Value: Since it's easily mistakable for Freelancer (Another great space sim) I guess it has some 
 nice value to it, jokes aside, it's a good space sim and budget priced.
  
  Tilt: 10 of 10 - Overall a GREAT 8.0 - game, recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcrybaby
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of those most have games if your into spaceship fighting. has a great storyline which 
 is full of great loss, betrayal, revenge, and much more. can be hard at first but once you have 
 the controls down you can speed hours on it without getting bored.
  It isn't one of those games you can just go and buy you have to look around for a while but trust 
 me its worth the looking once you have it.
  The ups are that you can select which ever ship and missile configuration you want and that you 
 have medals that you can earn to push yourself.
  The downs are its hard to get your hands on, alot of controls to memorize, and at times can be 
 very challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevkev009
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2004 12:09 am PT
Review:  Despite the inadequate availability of situational information, StarLancer is a solid game. I would 
 rate StarLancer a 9/10 if this lack of situational information didn't make completing mission objectives 
 so frustrating. Often you are told to provide cover for a damaged wing or life pods, yet you can't 
 ever find where they are. Basically you have to keep advancing through friendly targets and hope 
 you find those particular ships. I don't know about anyone else, but in a game where time is of 
 the essence, I could certainly use the extra 15 seconds I use trying to find those ships, to make 
 my way toward them and engage the attacking enemies. 
  
  As for a positive trait for StarLancer: Atmosphere is extremely important in space games, as interacting 
 in space is something that our modern day society has barely begun to do, and therefore this sort 
 of game must be sufficently atsmospheric as to make the events in the game draw you into the game 
 world. Starlancer does that exceptionally well with its detailed graphics, excellent sound effects, 
 and solid music score. It feels very WW2ish in space. It provides a very interesting meld of feelings. 
 It serves create that feeling of a very bloody and archaic time period for humanity. The vessels 
 in the game are not sleak, and extremely advanced pieces of technology. They seem to be the first 
 major efforts in the space field, rather than advanced designs, making them an analogy to planes 
 like the P-51 Mustang, a fighter in WW2, when compared to the sleak and highly advanced planes 
 like our modern day's F-117 stealth fighter.
  
  To close I would just like to say that if you wish to find an atmospheric space simulator, one 
 that has a good story, and if you believe you can tolerate some frustration, then StarLancer is 
 a good game to try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
