-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Chamber
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starchamber/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 9.2, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 69 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nayantara Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 13, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Chamber combines elegance, interesting gameplay choices, and the attraction of card-collecting 
 in what has to be one of the very best pure game designs of the year. 

  Let's get this out of the way up front: Star Chamber is great. What's more, it's great because 
 it combines elegance, interesting gameplay choices, and the attraction of card-collecting in what 
 has to be one of the very best pure game designs of the year.  

          The combination of board game and card game is so well done that the two are completely 
 inseparable but are utterly engrossing.     

  Star Chamber isn't flashy, but its presentation works well. It's essentially a board game with 
 a heavy collectible card game component. However, whereas some such games use the game board simply 
 as a tool to provide opportunities for duels between players who are using the cards, Star Chamber 
 makes the board game the focus of the design and integrates the collectible cardplay in such a 
 way that you can't separate them. The cards have no meaning without the context of the game board, 
 yet without them, the board game aspect would be sterile and much less interesting. It's a testament 
 to how well designed the game is that when combined, these two aspects make for a game that is 
 much better than the sum of the parts.  

  The game is played out on a stylized board that consists of different types of planets, which are 
 connected by jump lanes of variable length. There are artifact planets that generate something 
 called "destiny," industrial worlds that generate production, and barren worlds that are just waiting 
 for cards to be played on them, which can transform them into producers of valuable resources, 
 such as technology. Asteroid fields and nebulae act as locations with special properties. Because 
 everything is visible, players can see an opponent's position (but not his or her hand) and thus 
 Star Chamber plays very much like a board game.  

  There are three separate ways to win the game, and this contributes to the game's incredible depth. 
 You can achieve a military victory by conquering your opponent's homeworld; a cultural victory 
 by amassing 30 more destiny points than your foe; or a political victory by winning three "power 
 play" votes in the Star Chamber. This name refers to the political body represented in the game 
 by a central location on the map, where no combat is allowed between opposing fleets and where 
 players vie for influence to win votes that may bring them closer to political victory, closer 
 to amassing destiny, or closer to gaining control of additional starships. Because winning these 
 votes gains advantages that are not limited to single methods of victory, the Star Chamber mechanism 
 is extremely flexible. This wealth of choices, all of which relate to every other part of the game, 
 makes Star Chamber one of the year's outstanding strategy games.  

  The unit types and production rules are simple: planets can produce ships and citizens. Citizens 
 control planets and confer voting privileges in the Star Chamber, while ships transport citizens, 
 fight other ships, and blockade planets. Because there is no way (outside of a few specialized 
 cards) to destroy citizens on a planet unless you go to a state of war, which allows you to produce 
 bombers but costs you destiny, the tension between space power and planet control/voting strength 
 is one of the game's central dilemmas, and it's yet another example of the outstanding design. 

  Ship combat is -- like the rest of the game -- very straightforward and not very luck-dependent. There 
 are basically two classes of ships available to build (scouts and cruisers, although bombers appear 
 once war has been declared) with slightly different characteristics for each race, as well as larger 
 ships (dreadnoughts) than can be acquired via cardplay. Ships are rated for beam, missile, and 
 cannon attack, and combat proceeds through a number of rounds where different types of weapons 
 are fired in turn, so you can always tell how much damage a ship will do in a given round. The 
 only luck factor is in targeting, because this is done randomly based on the relative strength 
 of opposing ships and their damage state. Otherwise, it's clear how much damage a ship can inflict -- and 
 how much damage it is likely to sustain -- in a given combat, and thus gaining advantages in combat 
 relies on the skill of each player.  

          Starship combat is not visually arresting, but it has some interesting nuances to it.  
    

  The fact that we haven't described how the card system works until now demonstrates just how important 
 the board game aspect is. However, the card portion is crucial, and it's what makes the game appealing, 
 both in terms of strategy and in the attraction of collecting and trading the cards necessary to 
 build better decks. There are five different colors ("techs") in the game, and each of the nine 
 available races uses two techs. However, capturing artifact planets allows you to choose from any 
 of the five techs, which that planet will then produce for you as long as you control it, and there 
 are cards that allow you to produce non-native techs on some planets. Consequently, it  is  possible 
 to create multicolor decks that incorporate some interesting combinations, and you're not limited 
 to your race's techs unless you choose to be. The different races each have a unique characteristic 
 (like cheaper citizens for humans in certain cases, or one free destiny each turn for the omior) 
 that further affects strategy.  

  Describing the variety of cards in detail would be both impossible and pointless. Let it suffice 
 to say that the cards serve to enhance and develop the underlying board game mechanics so that 
 ships may have their shields, hull points, or jump factors increased; citizens may increase their 
 influence; heroes can be created to lead fleets in battle; and any number of tricks and traps can 
 be introduced. To defend a system, you can use cards to build new ships, or you can, perhaps, use 
 a tractor beam to keep a powerful ship in an enemy fleet from making the jump to hyperspace. You 
 can give personae more influence (to control planets or give more votes in the Star Chamber) , cause 
 planets to generate more destiny, or any number of other things. Almost all of the game mechanics 
 can be affected by cardplay, which makes the game playable in many different styles since the victory 
 objectives are so different. The fact that the game mechanics are anchored in the boardplay helps 
 keep the cardplay unambiguous, since everything is laid out on the board, and there is no need 
 to generate new types of units, card classes, or abstract relationships between cards.     

 
  The balance between combat, diplomacy, planet control, and tech generation is what makes Star 
 Chamber such a superlative design and not just a collection of good ideas. Even a good strategy 
 has possible counterstrategies, and the fact that the board game has some fixed characteristics 
 in terms of objectives means that deficiencies in deck makeup can sometimes be made up for by skilled 
 manipulation of the units of the board. The boards themselves are quite varied, and a good deck 
 on one board may have limitations on another. This is where the ability to master the deck-building, 
 cardplay, and board game aspects of Star Chamber comes into play, although due to the brilliance 
 of the design, these elements are really inseparable.  

          The deck management interface allows you to build decks and lets you filter available cards 
 based on color, cost, and rarity.     

  If the game's implementation has any weaknesses, it's that it demands the accessibility to information 
 available in a board game, but the game interface doesn't always provide this. It's hard to get 
 information at a glance. For example, an opponent may have several ships and personae in a stack, 
 which you can't examine without clicking on them, and then they may have multiple modifications 
 (cards) played on them that require further clicking. The game is not very visually clear in this 
 way, unlike a good board game where you can assimilate a position at a glance. This is due to a 
 combination of the game's complexity and the slightly cramped interface. With timed turns that 
 are short, this can lead to a lot of quick clicking. The turn timer can be disabled, and since 
 turns are processed simultaneously, you're not always forced to wait for the other person to play 
 his turn, but it is still possible to end up waiting a while for an opponent to move. Fortunately, 
 the game community, so far, is uniformly polite and helpful, and it's very supportive of new players. 

  The game is available as a small, free download from the  official Star Chamber Web site . The 
 download gives you access to the game (everything takes place online) , including sample decks for 
 a limited number of races, as well as the ability to play all comers in head-to-head play, which 
 is in addition to solo games against a very limited AI opponent. The AI isn't really competitive, 
 and a newbie should be able to win handily against the easy (balanced) setting every time. The 
 medium and hard settings are more difficult, but this is solely due to the fact that the opening 
 board position on these settings is stacked against you; the AI plays no better. Thus, the solo 
 mode is really only useful (once you've learned the rules) for testing card draws in new decks 
 that you've built and not much more.  

  So you can play for free for as long as you want, but the only way to become competitive is -- like 
 with any collectible card game -- to buy new cards. Nayantara Studios provides several ways to get 
 into the game. First, there is the card store, where you can buy booster packs in various quantities. 
 These packs contains 15 cards each and cost anywhere from $5.99 for three packs (about $2 per pack) 
 to $49.99 for 36 packs plus six event tickets. Alternately, there is a subscription available, 
 which costs $5.99 per month and gets you two booster packs, two event tickets, and two special 
 promo cards each month. A subscription also gives you the ability to play in regular "pro circuit" 
 tournaments. If you just want to make a one-time investment at a reasonable price, for $29.99 you 
 can buy a "pack attack" of 21 boosters and three tickets, which makes you competitive and gives 
 you enough cards to build many different decks using all of the available nine races.  

  Event tickets can be used to enter the weekly sealed-deck tournaments, which are probably the best 
 way to experience Star Chamber. For a single ticket ($1 cost) you get the temporary use of the 
 cards from seven booster packs, and you get the right to compete in a Swiss-format tournament where 
 you'll be guaranteed three games and the opportunity to win prizes. The contents of seven packs 
 are generally not enough to build a straight two-color deck, so skill in deck-building and gameplay 
 are paramount here.  

          The voting at the Star Chamber is part of a well-conceived and implemented game design. 
     

  Currently, the biggest downside to Star Chamber is simply that few people are playing it. Finding 
 a player of similar level is a hit-or-miss proposition, and it's not unusual to log on at peak 
 times and find only two or three players available for a game, one or both of whom might be ex-play 
 testers with large collections or high skill (or both) . The best way to enjoy the game right now 
 is to convince a friend to join with you so that you learn together and can share tips and trade 
 cards. Games rarely take longer than 30 minutes, so it's an excellent way to enjoy quality online 
 gaming with friends when you both have busy schedules.  

  This critical mass -- regarding a lack of Star Chamber players -- is the only thing that is of enough 
 concern to keep us from making an unqualified recommendation of this fine game. As it currently 
 stands, a one-time investment of $29.99 gets you dozens of hours of gameplay. Twenty-one packs 
 can generate multiple competitive decks over the various races, and as you learn the game, you'll 
 be able to hone your decks over and over. Additionally, you'll add further colors, and you'll generate 
 new decks as you become more familiar and more comfortable with both multicolor play and some of 
 the more challenging races. For $50, which is the price of many new retail games, you get 35 packs 
 and enough gameplay to last for months -- which is more than you can expect from most games these 
 days. Star Chamber may be a low-profile release from a small developer, but in providing high quality 
 gaming entertainment at an attractive price, it has few peers in the industry.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bigboote
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game is astounding. What Bruce Geryk said in his review here is true -- but things have gotten 
 better since he reviewed the original. 5 expansions have turned this game into a mind-boggling 
 pool of fun, a pool so deep that it seems you can go fishing there every day for years and never 
 see the same thing twice. 
  
  What Geryk said then holds up today, but more so. There are really a lot of options, and what makes 
 the game that much better is the tight-knit community of friendly people willing to help. 
  
  This game is not all that difficult to learn, but it is very difficult to master. If you are 
 looking for the Diablo of TBS, you will need to look elsewhere. You will have to think -- but NOT 
 keep your mind on an endless sprawling empire with thousands of discrete individuals who all need 
 to move, defend, or otherwise do their thing: the need for thinking comes from the way your cards 
 (spells, if you like a fantasy genre) interact with the board. That is why many matches can be 
 completed within 20 to 60 minutes; a game will be decided by turn 30, and a LOT can happen in 30 
 turns. There are uncountable billions and billions of combinations, and surprises lurking around 
 every corner. You will never find a game this deep and complex that can be completed in such a 
 short time.
  
  The only drawback this game has, and for this reason I have given it a 9.0 instead of a perfect 
 10, is that the so-called AI used to test decks in single-player mode is truly bad. Additionally, 
 while the game looks snappy and is full of lovely artwork, the audio is nothing to write home about, 
 and, finally, the interface could have been improved in one or two places. 
  
  You can join and start up for $10 as of today (September 2008) -- if you like it, most people will 
 give you enough cards for free to last you the rest of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlennL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2004 11:18 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer strategy games just took a huge step forward with Star Chamber. It just goes to show 
 that what makes a good game is the way it is made up and good competition. Star Chamber has both 
 in ample quantities. There are many ways to win and many different approaches you can successfully 
 take. Your opposition is worthy and goes to show that a computer never really duplicate the mind 
 of a human. The game lobby is a friendly place to make new friends and talk trades and strategy. 
 Since I have been playing (Jan 2004) there have not been any problems finding enough people to 
 play against (this was mentioned in the Gamespot review) . 
  
  I also want to say something about the game length. It is so refreshing to play a game that can 
 be fun and thoughtful but plays out in less than an hour. I just don't have the time to play those 
 60 hour campaign games, no matter how good they may be.
  
  My bottom line is that if you like matching wits against others, you will really enjoy this game. 
 Best of all, you can try it for free and buy the game only when you are sure it is right for you. 
 I really hope this game gets the positive press that it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rondalescott
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2004 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Chamber is easily the best strategy game I've played in years. It takes me back to my college 
 days, when I would play the old EON board game Cosmic Encounter for hours and hours and hours. 
 
  
  It should not be missed by ANYBODY who enjoys either CCG's, strategy board games, or computer 4X 
 strategy games.
  
  And it's cheap to boot, making it a supreme value. I paid 11.99 and am able to play competitively.
 
  
  No, it won't win any awards in the sound or graphics departments (though some of the card artwork 
 is great) , but it doesn't need to. That's really not the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpinard
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2004 1:45 am PT
Review:  Yes I gave this game all 9's. Why? For a turn-based strategy card collecting game it looks great, 
 had nice sound, and is terribly addicting.
  
  And I mean horrendously, terribly, insanely addicting. Yes that's good for a change, and not in 
 the (I wasted my life on Everquest) kind of way. Based on the space faring race you play, you'll 
 constantly be thinking of new strategies to better yourself against the computer training AI, but 
 99% for against humans. Ohhh the humanity! Not being abe to reload a game because you're playing 
 against ahuman has shown me I'm not quite the strategy-star I thought I was. BUT, with tournaments 
 every week, web ratings, and players almost always available to play you have to keep going back 
 for more. It takes a little to get going in because the docuemntation isn't the perfect, but you 
 get the hang of it quick then, and realize it will take you a long time to master... which means 
 ultimate replayability! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grashnak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2003 8:13 am PT
Review:  A good friend and I have been longing for a decent, turn-based, strategy game that we can play 
 online (we live on opposite sides of the continent) and which my pathetic dial-up connection can 
 handle. Oh, and wed prefer a game we can play in under an hour. Sound impossible?
  
  Star Chamber fits us to a T. Its quick, easy on the requirements, and surprisingly deep as a strategic 
 challenge. Weve only just started to delve into it, but weve quickly realized this 
 isnt an easy game to master. As the saying goes, an hour to learn, a lifetime to master. 
 The depth of strategy is intriguing, given the time delay between when you send off a fleet and 
 when it actually arrives, the tricky political angle of the Star Chamber, and the random chance 
 of the draw of the cards. 
  
  Sure, you have to buy online cards. I know thats an issue for a lot of people. Its why I 
 dont play Magic online. But here is the thing  there is no cost for the game itself 
 and no monthly fee. All you pay is for the cards you want. My friend and I agreed to each buy one 
 Pack Attack (21 boosters) and just play with those. Were each going to pick 
 a couple of races and trade each other the relevant cards we have for those sides. Then were 
 just going to play. Cheap and easy (cost less that US$ 30) .
  
  All in all, I expect to get way more than my moneys worth from this game. More than I can 
 say for freakin Play the World
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
