-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Rebellion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsrebellion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 665 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Coolhand Int.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Buried somewhere inside Rebellion is an interesting, albeit familiar, game. But along the way, things 
 break down, and conquering the galaxy becomes an exercise in tedium. 

 Star Wars Rebellion dies the death of a thousand clicks. The promise of a strategy game set in the 
 Star Wars universe had gamers positively quivering with anticipation. Images of Master of Orion 
 with Imperial Walkers, or maybe Red Alert with Stormtroopers, danced through the minds of Star 
 Wars fans and gamers alike. What LucasArts and the developers at CoolHand have given us instead 
 is Spaceward Ho! with an infinitely more confusing interface.   

 Buried somewhere inside Rebellion (titled Star Wars Supremacy in the UK) is an interesting, albeit 
 familiar, game. There is a tactical space combat mode, some resource management, diplomacy, planetary 
 bombardment, and other common space conquest elements. Unlike games like Spaceward Ho! or Master 
 of Orion, Rebellion runs in semi-real time (it can be paused and speeded up) , which simply adds 
 longer periods of waiting for actions to be performed. Darth Vader, Luke, Han, those annoying droids, 
 and the rest of the crew are all on hand to add some character to the proceedings, and the overall 
 visual and aural style is fine. But along the way, things break down, and conquering the galaxy 
 becomes an exercise in tedium.  

 The premise and approach are boilerplate. There is a vast galaxy of variable sizes (you choose from 
 small, medium, or large) , which is composed of sectors that contain numerous planets. The Empire 
 and the Alliance are struggling for control of these planets in order to further the victory requirements: 
 to occupy the headquarters and capture two important enemy functionaries (such as Darth Vadar or 
 Luke Skywalker) . The only gameplay option aside from galaxy size is to exclude character capture 
 from the victory requirements, otherwise the goals of every game are the same. Each game is randomized, 
 but that just affects the disposition of resources and planets. The actual pace and format of each 
 game remain consistent.  

 To fulfill these goals, you build mines and refineries on planets, create fleets, train military 
 units, and set about bringing new planets under your sway by either force or diplomacy. By sending 
 diplomats to neutral planets, you have a chance to bring them to your side without force. If you 
 have enough firepower, you can just go into orbit and bomb them into submission, then send down 
 troops to garrison. This is all abstract: Hit a button and the planet is yours (or not) . Realizing 
 that this was boring, the designers grafted a tactical combat interface onto the strategic game. 
 The solution was misguided, to say the least.  

 Space battles can either be decided instantly or fought in a 3D view with a certain degree of tactical 
 control. Capital ships and fighters can be given maneuver and attack orders, including formation 
 (left and right hooks, the anvil, etc) , stand-off attacks, and other commands that only minimally 
 affect the outcome. No matter what orders you give to units in this mode, the battle always seems 
 to be won by the side with more and/or better units. All the moving cameras and 3D ships can't 
 disguise the emptiness of this mode. And, while you can rotate and zoom the view, I could find 
 no command to simply scroll it. There is no substance or nuance to tactical warfare, making it 
 a cumbersome appendage to a game that can little stand such baggage.  

 The greatest strike against Rebellion is its utterly confusing interface. If the designers had sent 
 out to create a more Byzantine interface, they could not possibly have done any better. It takes 
 multiple clicks to perform the most rudimentary tasks. Want to try to sway a planet to your side? 
 Open the specific sector, use the people finder to look at characters, go through several screens 
 to determine their diplomacy rating, right click on them, select a mission from the drop-down menu, 
 click on the target planet, select the mission type from the pop-up box, and confirm. Want to build 
 a ship? Use the galactic information display to highlight sectors with ports, open that sector, 
 find which planet has the port, click on the manufacturing icon, open the build menu, and select 
 the ship. Your little guide can help with this process a bit, but you still have to find and select 
 the proper place to build, which is equally time-consuming. You also can't default the little bugger 
 - either C3P0 or SD-7 - to shut up, so he rattles on at the beginning of each game played at the 
 easy level.  

 Complicating matters is a lack of readily available information. Want to know where all your factories 
 are and what they're building? Go find each one. Want to see all the information on a planet? Click 
 separate icons for defenses, manufacturing, and ships in orbit. Where one screen or menu would 
 do the trick, Rebellion has three. Since there is really very little to the game itself beyond 
 build ships/take over planets/repeat as necessary, this hunt-and-peck method of gameplay is what 
 stands in for actual gameplay. Finding information becomes the game.  

 It's all meticulously explained in a 170-page manual complete with 40 pages of tutorial. I searched 
 the documentation in vain for some shortcuts to some of the most fundamental tasks. When a unit 
 is sent out on a mission, you have to wait for it to return home before you assign it to a new 
 mission. That means recon units fly halfway across the galaxy, do their recon, and return, only 
 to fly right back to the same sector. Worse, the game is buggy and the AI is laughable. I've watched 
 the Empire sit back and do nothing for weeks at a clip. I've had units disappear from the roster. 
 There is stable head-to-head play over LAN and Internet (via the Zone) , but it doesn't relieve 
 the tedium of the actual gameplay. And why are there no single missions or scenarios? Or any option 
 to play custom tactical skirmishes?   

 This is a sloppy game that bears all the hallmarks of being shoved out the door half finished. The 
 same fundamental gameplay can be found in a vastly more entertaining form in both Spaceward Ho! 
 and Stars!. As for giving Master of Orion a run for its money, it's not even in the same league. 
 The strategy genre still lacks a decent Star Wars game, and the sad part is it didn't have to be 
 that way.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lebowlski
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This is still one of my favorite star wars games! You get the opportunity to build your own galactic 
 empire (either as the empire or the rebellion) . Control the galaxy either through sheer force or 
 diplomacy. It sure had a lot of different features, including a "3d-battle" screen to control the 
 massive battles between the empire and the rebellion. 
  
  Set-up is in 3 different difficulties. Colonize the outer-rim planets. Confince the core systems 
 to join your alliance by diplomatic power. Force out the other party by winning battles, but make 
 sure to do enough research to tip over the balance of power to your side and create a massive indestructible 
 ground force, combined with a fleet comprised of all the ships you ever saw in any movie (not including 
 the ep.1-3 ofcourse)
  
  If you like 'world-builders' and star wars, this is still a pretty good game to play. Not too hard, 
 and not too shabby (i'm still not 'tired' of the graphic lay-out ;) ) .
  
  Downside of the game: the rather annoying management interface through which to 'micro-control' 
 the universe ( all the clicking-away of every window just makes it tiresome to play sometimes) . 
 Besides the nice-looking 3d-battle screen (for its time anyways) is not always that easy to use 
 and can be rather confusing, although using it is adviced for smaller battles to diminish your 
 losses and inflict greater losses on the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  In Star Wars Rebellion, you can go either the Empire of Rebel Alliance. You have to gather resources 
 differently to other games. You must build 1 Refinery and 1 Ore Mine in order to get Maintenance 
 Points. Also, you can recruit a large variety of heroes throughout the course of the game and they 
 can be assassinated or captured. You can command ridiculously large fleets, upgrade fleets to be 
 dominant, have transports and gunships and fighters. Also you can build defence batteries and shield 
 batteries. You can sabotage, espionage, Incite Uprisings, etc. You can also lose favour or gain 
 favour on an enemy controlled world gain resources from it. There are up to 200 worlds to conquer 
 and travel time between systems is relative to the fleets slowest ship. The game was before its 
 time because you had to maintain large control as well as trying to find enemies on your many systems 
 who are spying, sabotaging and inciting uprisings. The game moves in days and a day is determined 
 by the speed. The fasted speed makes 1 day go by in about a second. Everything is detailed up in 
 stats. From batteries, ships, capital ships, troops, heroes, etc. However, the stats of your heroes 
 can vary from game to game. You can also do death star runs and control the battle in space by 
 telling what kind of maneuvers the space ships can do. All in all, it was pretty hard and somewhat 
 ahead of other RTS's in terms of control over a galaxy, fleet maintenance, random natural disasters 
 and other minor stuff. Also, there was no actual population limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is one game I will never stop fighting for. That is not to say that it doesn't have it's problems. 
 And since it got such bad reviews, we'll begin there.
  
  Ship to ship combat was terrible. We all wanted the combat to basically be what Empire at War became. 
 But it didn't get there. In fact it got to the point where you simple assigned targets, and watched 
 people die. It was more cinematics than anything else. And the devestating weak spots in some of 
 the ships made fighting in multiplayer just frustrating.
  
  Where this game really shined was in diplomacy and espionage. In fact, the game might have been 
 better off leaving the space combat out. Instead they could have used the same system they already 
 used for ground combat, where a few decisions were made and the results displayed.
  
  The most fun was in building huge fleets of Super Star Destroyers, multiple Death Stars, or training 
 dozens of Jedi. Against a really good player, games could last months with Jedi killing Jedi, and 
 fleets being torn to shreds, all the while tyring to fight a desperate covert war beneath the surface.
 
  
  This game was not given nearly enough credit. Reviews focused on the less than flashy graphics, 
 when they should have seen a complex and fun strategy game underneath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacen_G
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the best strategy games. It has all sides to controlling the galaxy. There 
 are various aspects within the game such as the diplomacy affairs to the big battles of super star 
 destroyers versus bulkward battlecruiser. I tend to like the Galactic Empire more tho. The gameplay 
 is very good and can grow on you. The bad parts of star wars rebellion are the tilt, and graphics. 
 The difficulty settings arent very different. Easies can turn to hards if you give them time. The 
 difference between them are just the number of systems you control.
  All in all, the game can become pretty addictive and can waste some spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kewl_guy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  First off you can't beat the setting two words. STAR WARS.
  
  Yeah it is old know and the graphics are crapy. But man does it suck you in.
  
  It is a great 
 game that has so much to it.
  
  The game is devided really into three sections
  
  Fleet-nothing is cooler than playing as the empire (yes that is right you can play as the empire) 
 and bringing thirty Star Destroyers and an interdictor into battle. It may not be the best engine 
 for a game but it is still cool. The battles are grand like they should have been in the movies.
 
  Agent- Agents really are the backbone of the game. One can send Han and Chewie to an enemy planet 
 to destroy a shield generator. Or Leia to a planet to try to convince it to join your side. There 
 are twelve different missions for the agents and they can change the course of the war.
  Army- Really the smallest part of the game. One can invade planets and defend them.
  
  There 
 is also reasource management but it is very marginal and not time consuming at all.
  
  Definatly a game that brings me back once a year and it is almost ten years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurichg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game allows you to play either as the Rebels or as the Empire with the goal of defeating the 
 enemy. You can do this with brute force, diplomacy, dirty tricks or a combination of the three. 
 Each side has it's strengths and weaknesses and learning them is half the fun. In addition, you 
 can choose two kinds of victory, base elimination or total war. The base elimination is the easier 
 of the two, especially if you're the empire. Merely capture the enemy capital (or destroy the rebel 
 base) and you win. Total war is harder since you have to not only capture the opposing capital 
 and hold it, but you must capture the major leaders as well. In the mean time you'll be researching 
 new technology, building forces, using diplomacy to woo neutral planets and fighting battles in 
 order to win the day. Expect to spend time learning the tricks and save often so that if you lose 
 your best planet you can go back and try again. This is an in depth game and will take time, time 
 well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game showed great promise with the list of game play options. What seems to be the downfall 
 of this game is those options. Menus and menus of options that is needed to build and expand your 
 empire. Good thing this is a turned based game because to keep up youll require plenty of time 
 per turn once your in the middle of the game. Sure there are a lot of familiar characters in the 
 game but you get a lot of them and they seem to be much stronger than a whole unit. Your droid 
 advisor is a nag when it comes to things you need to do. The soundtrack brings you memories of 
 the movies but thats the only good thing. If you want feel like a bad accountant by all means 
 play this game. Its just seems like 100% work and no fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InputOverlode
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up back in Summer of '98, and have been playing it ever since. I was amazed 
 by the depth of the star wars universe that was portrayed. The ships for both the Alliance, and 
 the Empire, were true to the series, both in design and implementation. The learning curve, at 
 first, set me way back, and the game largely sat in the drawer for the first month while I poured 
 over the game manual multiple times. (Granted, I was 11 when I got the game, it took me a while 
 to figure out) . But once I figured out the controls, and what to do in various situations, I played 
 the game non-stop. The fact that no two galaxies are ever the same, even right down to attribute 
 points for the characters, is a major draw. You *can* use the same strategy time and time again, 
 but to truly succeed you have to be able to be flexible. About the only issue, game play wise, 
 is the wait times. You can sit there for 5 minutes, waiting for something to happen, and then be 
 hit with an onrush of different events all at once. While this keeps one on ones toes, it also 
 gets tedious, and sometimes, depending on the scope of the events, downright annoying. On a whole, 
 as far as the strategic part of the game, its a bit enveloping. Its serves well to have a strategy 
 set early on. You can change the information displayed about each planet at will, so you can keep 
 up with what planets have what  and how many. The game also incorporates 
 intel gathering, making it so you have to gather intelligence on the other side, in order for the 
 GID (the main display for the entire game) to update information for enemy planets.
  
  And now, onto the tactical part. You can engage enemy ships in orbit around a planet. This isn't 
 as tedious as the strategy part of the game, although it can be a bit dis-heartening when your 
 ISD gets run off by 3 corellian corvettes. The graphics in tactical mode are poor, compared to 
 the rather nice detail (for a game of this era) , in the strategy mode. One of the downsides of 
 tactical, though, is that if you want to sit through a battle, you could well be sitting through 
 a battle for 30 minutes, if both sides have large enough fleets. Even on the Novice setting, later 
 in the game, when the AI finally starts sending fleets that are more than 3-4 ships, you'll maybe 
 see 5-6 ship fleets. Depending on the make-up of the fleets, the battles can go quickly, but, like 
 said, they normally take a good long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad78
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  They say its the inside that counts, that saying is perticularly true for Rebellion. At the begining 
 I thought it to be an overcomplicated and difficult game and put it away in a corner. A few weeks 
 later i reinstalled it and started trying to understand it... I played 5 hours non stop and they 
 seemed like 30 minutes. The game has really the capacity to pull you in and make you forget what 
 is around you. Its just a pity the learning curve is so long. But once you have understood all 
 the menus and options you can really get into this game and admit that it wasn't all that bad. 
 With better graphics and a remade interface it could have been a hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Many game reviewers of the time gave this game a very poor rating because they were too rushed 
 to give it a proper review. The game required a bit of dedication to learn how to play and once 
 the time was invested to learn, the game was quire trilling. The reviews reflected by Gamespot 
 for this game are less than fair, but in most cases the details are accurate.
  
  The game was a real PITA to learn, but like said, once learned it was a real fun game to play for 
 a while. The only issues with the game that irked me was once you figured out how the AI worked, 
 game over. The Ai was hard to follow at first but then you learn that it always does the same thing 
 each game. Once you understood this, well game over.
  
  The names of the ships they came up with was also kinda silly as well as some of the designs. One 
 can safely say that there was very little imagination put into the details of this game. 
  
  However, until you figured out the AI, the game offered a lot of fun. I played it and could 
 not stop thinking about it when I was at work. Rebellion was the first game that I have ever played 
 that made me stay up all day playing and then call in sick that night so that I could keep playing 
 it. I really enjoyed this game a lot. It was also the first game that I bought a second copy for. 
 
  
  I really wish that LA LTD would get off their collectives ***es and make a decent Star Wars 4x 
 game. They seem to have the RTS versions down just nice, now its time for TBS 4x. Come one guys, 
 its been almost a decade now.... GIVE US WHAT WE WANT! For a good example of a 4x game that can 
 offer some meat for your hunger, look at space empires IV Deluxe sold by Strategy First. The game 
 is highly moddable and has star wars ship sets.
  
  If Lucas Arts will come back to Rebellion and put some thought into it, modernize it, improve the 
 game play, and add new races, then they might have a real winner in the 4x market. Until then, 
 Rebellion will have to do. It really is a fun game once you learn how to play. So buy it and play 
 it. Help keep it alive. Also there are editors and such available on line that can help make the 
 game more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusandPals666
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Graphics wise this game dose not come close to revolutionary or outstanding but the gameplay is 
 worth a look. I felt that it was addictive at first and often felt a need to play the game often 
 but it is hard to master and if you have a sort attention span this will just be boring. It does 
 have a lot of selection but if your not willing to devote some time to it then dont bother. This 
 is truly a Star Wars game b/c it has every charecter, every planet, every starship, and much more. 
 But it is to long, hard and un creative to be a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Rebellion was the first Star Wars real time strategy game, and it came out in 1998. 
 It was met with very harsh reviews, but despite being a decent game in its own right; some of the 
 shots at Rebellion were well deserved.
  
  In Rebellion you play as a nameless and faceless officer (fresh out of the Academy I assume) who 
 must decide whether he or she wants to remain loyal the Empire or join the Rebellion. After you 
 make your choice you are taken to your new flagship (Or in the Rebellion's case, the Rebel HQ, 
 and then your flagship) where you will get a briefing on the situation in the Galaxy from your 
 droid assistants. The game is set after the destruction of the first Death Star, so quite a few 
 planets have openly defected to the Rebellion, but some remain loyal to the Empire and some refuse 
 to support either side. This is where your task begins.
  
  In Rebellion your primary objective is to destroy or capture the enemy HQ and capture the opposing 
 side's two dominant figures. If you are a Rebel Commander, your objective will be to capture Coruscant 
 and then abduct Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader. If you're an Imperial your objective will be 
 to find and destroy the hidden Rebel HQ which is always on the move, and capture Luke Skywalker 
 and Mon Mothma. Along the way you'll also have to battle Rebel Fleets and get planets under your 
 control.
  
  Having planets under your control is essential in Rebellion, and the nice thing about the game 
 is that you can sway them to your side in whatever way you want. You can control a planet out of 
 fear by bombarding and assaulting them then keeping a garrison on world, persuade them to join 
 your cause by sending one of your agents on a diplomatic mission, or inciting an uprising on an 
 enemy world. Once you have a world under your control it is a good idea to construct mines and 
 refineries so you can get resources to construct more capital ships, starfighters, and troops. 
 The problem with this freedom, is that depending on your side the Rebels or Imperials can only 
 effectively take control of a planet in one way, for example: The Empire is horrible at diplomacy, 
 you can of course make your agents better by sending them on a slew of diplomatic missions, but 
 for the most part you're better off assaulting a planet. The rebels on the other hand are better 
 off using diplomacy and inciting uprisings.
  
  The combat in Rebellion is a mixed bag. Space battles let you issue commands to ships in a paused 
 format, and then you can unpause and watch your fleet engage the enemy fleet. This combat can be 
 somewhat dry since the ships just sit there blasting away at each other and usually do not express 
 any desire to maneuver around or above and below their opponents. Starfighters maneuver, but it's 
 more like watching a small 2d sprite zig zag back and forth. I generally "auto-resolve" space battles 
 since the outcome is usually the same as what you'll get if you fight it out; it's just over a 
 lot quicker. Space battles aside, the game doesn't let you take control of the ground combat at 
 all. If you're assaulting a planet the only thing you can do is hope your trooper stats, and numbers 
 are enough to overcome the enemy defenses which is a shame. You can usually weaken the enemy's 
 hero\agent resistance by abducting or assassinating agents or heroes on that world (though it's 
 usually wise to spy on the planet first to make sure that your target is still there) , and this 
 can aid in taking planets.
  
  Rebellion's biggest problem is the clunky interface. In the control room you're allowed to have 
 two windows open at once, you can minimize some of them, but in the end it becomes a chore to keep 
 track of everything. Sending agents on missions can also be tedious; you'll be forced to open up 
 the planet's ground forces window (and use the tracker if you forgot where they were since their 
 last report) , open the location or individual you want to assign them to, right click your agent, 
 select mission, and select from the list what you want them to do with the specified target. It 
 is as tedious as it sounds, but you may not even mind the clunky interface eventually.
  
  The graphics in Rebellion even for their time are mediocre. Most of the game takes place in your 
 flagship control room so the graphics there are understandable, and usually the scenes you see 
 in your reports are even good, but the space combat is just plain poor. Capital ships are fairly 
 large and 3D, but they are undetailed and look like something out of the DOS versions of the X-Wing 
 and TIE Fighter games. The Starfighters are just small 2D sprites that zig zag back and forth in 
 combat and the lasers are just as much an eye sore.
  
  The audio in Rebellion is your typical Star Wars fare. The traditional John Williams score plays 
 in the background as you make your decisions aboard your flagship, and during space combat you'll 
 hear classic Star Wars laser fire. Oddly enough, however; there is virtually no music during the 
 space combat sequences which only adds to the dryness of them. It would have made the space battles 
 at least somewhat dramatic.
  
  Rebellion is a solid RTS set in the Star Wars universe, it's not great and could have definitely 
 had a lot of changes made to the interface. It could also have used controllable ground combat 
 and a more interesting space combat simulation system, but if you like Star Wars it's worth a shot 
 because for the most part (except for some small continuity errors since it came before the prequels) 
 it stays true to the Star Wars mythos. If you don't like Star Wars or are neutral towards Star 
 Wars and are just looking for a great strategy game; stay far away. The interface and dry space 
 combat ruin what is otherwise a solid RTS that had much promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tracertGMR
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Rebellion is very complicated, has many nuances, and can easily scare off the casual 
 gamer. But if you take some time and get to know it, youll discover an amazingly deep and enthralling 
 game. Ive spent many late nights taking over a sector in a desperate search for the rebel stronghold. 
 Ive delicately balanced the complicated galactic political scene while at the same time carrying 
 out campaigns against enemy fleets. The thrill of finally taking that heavily guarded enemy system 
 or finally crushing that huge fleet thats been chewing up your systems are amazing feelings. Dont 
 let the complicated gameplay discourage you. Youll soon find yourself drawn in and chasing down 
 those rebels or overthrowing the Empire in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaulian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why Game Spot rated this game so low. Yes, it may be old, and it may not have 
 the best graphics, even at the time, but it is still a great game. In light of the upcoming Empire 
 at War, we should look back on this game and thank the developers for creating it. Empire at War 
 seems to have pulled heavily from this game as far as the space combat section is concerned. Plus, 
 this game could be seen as a precursor to the great Total War series. While those may be ground 
 combat, and historically based, Rebellion provided the essentials found in that series: Conquest 
 (taking over the galaxy, or the country in the case of Total War) ; Massive combat (with both capital 
 ships and fighters) ; and the ability to either control the combat yourself or let the computer 
 decide who wins, so you can focus on the bigger picture. Now, I'm not saying this game is perfect, 
 I have had my frustrations with it, as I am sure most everyone who has played it has, but that 
 does not mean it is not a good game. Paving the way for such great games has got to mean something. 
 But standing alone, without being viewed as a precursor, it is still a great game, giving gamers 
 the ability to immerse themselves within the Star Wars universe and enabling them to chose their 
 side, Empire or Rebellion. Including all the great characters from the movies, and even a few from 
 the books can't hurt things either. Yes, I did nearly scream at the computer a few times because 
 the Death Star too so damn long to build, but thats part of the difficulty, you have to have the 
 resources to be able to build one, and be able to hold your own until its done. I have yet to actually 
 beat the game, but then I have not played it in a few years. I just felt sentimental and started 
 looking back at all the games I own (quite a collection if I say so) , and saw the score this game 
 received. I think the score is unfair, and I believe many people agree with me, as the user rating 
 is sitting nicely at 7.5. The people have spoken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rot3k10
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It's graphic leave much to be desired. Although many mods are out which help, there are limits 
 to the quality of the models. Based in the early days of the Rebellion, you can choose your side. 
 I think a major thing that makes this game different is the space combat. Many RTS games have you 
 fighting on the ground in a map that's only so big. Play is over more than a hundred planets which 
 can trigger space battles. The best thing for Empire nuts, the Death Star. All, in all, you have 
 to really like Star Wars to fully appreciate the system of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWRC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  First off let me admit I am a huge Star Wars fan. But I think this game was terrific. I bought 
 my first Gaming computer just so I could play this game. The strategy involved had me hooked from 
 the get go and being able to command my own Deathstar and load it up was very fun indeed. I will 
 admit that if you held back too much then like most turn based strategy games it would tend to 
 bog down but you can always automate the troop building and manufacturing and just get down to 
 the business of tracking down and destroying the enemy fleet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 12, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than I thought. Never before has a game captured the experience of being totally 
 in control. Well, maybe that's not right, but a star wars game has never done it before and I love 
 controlling ships and land forces and so on. Great features here. Interface is a little needlessly 
 complicated. This makes the game just a click show, sometimes my arm actually gets tired of clicking. 
 Nevertheless, I was that kid that always wondered what it would have been like if the Empire had 
 won all those battles from Star Wars, this game is a perfect guilty pleasure. Do it yourself. If 
 you are a starwars fan that has ever had those thoughts at least pick it up, it's not very expensive. 
 
  The sound it put to very good use and John William's classic music sets the tone nicely and is 
 set up in some very well done audio queues throughout the game. You will enjoy this. Graphics are 
 lacking, but the game is old and it has to render large battles, so graphics never were first on 
 the list, they wanted to capture the battles in a game that people could play on a non-super computer, 
 so I can look past this.
  
  Character voices are nice and there is a great system of traits that they have assigned to let 
 people have specialties and make them capable for certain types of missions over other people. 
 This adds unending amounts of strategy to the game and makes for a lot of ways to do things. Strategy 
 is the key to this game and it is pretty open ended, which is great and you can accomplish things 
 however you want to do them. You can chose diplomacy or you can just blast the planet away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 17, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars boffins into their RTS games are going to love Rebellion for its depth, authenticity 
 and sheer blissfulness. The game is also highly polished and about as true to the spirit of Star 
 Wars as you could possibly get.
  
  John Williams breathtaking score is put to good use in Rebellion, with a perfect use of his many 
 fanfares and key themes that are joyfully dotted about the game. The game wields his music, integrates 
 it seamlessly into the mix and makes the experience that much more authentic.
  
  You can also expect a decent amount of voice work for the game, not least the true voices of Vader, 
 Luke, Han, Leia and such. The only thing that lets it down is the not too convincing C3PO during 
 the 'Alliance' side.
  
  So what is Rebellion? Well basically it is a map of the galaxy, with loads of little dots that 
 represents each planet. In a nutshell, that is the graphical interface. Simple; yes -- deep; absolutely! 
 At the start of the game you choose which side you want to be affiliated with; either the Empire 
 or the Rebel Alliance.
  
  Whoever you choose to side with, the game picks up right after the events of A New Hope. The Death 
 Star has just been obliterated at Yavin and so the rebels are still collected on the planet. If 
 you play the Alliance, then your first job is to get your people off that world and go into hiding. 
 If you are the Empire on the other hand, your job would logically be to hunt down the Alliance 
 and crush them once and for all.
  
  Of course, you can play the game how you want. You can spend all your time building up your troops, 
 massive fleets, conquering worlds, seeking out Jedi, turning your enemy from either the dark or 
 light side of the force - anything. You can play it tactically, vengefully or just down right silly 
 if you really want to.
  
  Make no mistake, this game is huge. Which ever side you are on, you have the option to build anything 
 in the epic universe of Star Wars. The Death Star, Corellian ships, the infamous wedge-shaped Imperial 
 Star Destroyers, Bothan Spies  anything and everything!
  
  If you meet an enemy ship in battle, the game brings up an option to progress in a few different 
 ways. You can either automatically predict the outcome of the battle (quite useful in hopeless 
 cases) , retreat or indeed dive right into a 3D space grid and duke it out. Though the graphics 
 are quite crude by today's standards, the visuals havent lost their unique charm. Some of these 
 battles can be awesomely epic, but remember, if you have gone wild with your fleet building, then 
 the battles can become quite monotonous.
  
  Admittedly the game is quite hard to master. It may take you hours to figure out the interface 
 and work your way around the many menu's and such, but once you do you will find a highly poignant 
 game stuffed to the brink of that classic Star Wars mythos. You are in control of this galaxy and 
 its yours for the taking, do as you will, build what you want, and may the force be with you!
 
  
  8.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you have to be a fan of the films to like, many people don't like this game 
 stating that master of orion is a better game. They might be right about that but it is still a 
 good game letting you build ships from take planets and in the case of the empire blow some planets 
 up if you wanted to.
  
  This game is the type of game where you say to yourself i will play for an half hour and end up 
 playing for most of the day. In short this game lets you play as either the rebels or the empire 
 and is set just after the film A new hope. You get to control key players of the star wars films 
 and the EU from luke to vader, you also get to use ships from the films and the EU. Also as a side 
 note as the empire you do get to build the DEATH STAR.
  
  The game graphics are not top of the line but they still do the job of tell you what is going on, 
 sound and music is spot on from the films. Gameplay wise if you like it you will play it many times 
 as both sides as i have.
  
  To close this review i say if you are a fan of the films but have not played this yet then you 
 should try and find it.
  
  Also in the uk it is not called Rebellion it is called Supremacy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2004 11:20 am PT
Review:  A strategy game in real-time. Has a campaign map and zooms in for battles. Has a very easy to learn 
 resource management and economy managing system. You need ore and resources to build and maintain 
 your ships and units. I like this game. It's a simple to learn, hard to master kind of deal. the 
 graphics are sub-par, and the sound is uninspired, but the gameplay and concept are great. I love 
 being able to put Darth Vader in command of a fleet and send him into battle. I love being able 
 to bombard planets and build death stars. This game is the only strategy game I have seen for the 
 Star Wars genre (RTS not included) , and I wasn't disappointed. Also, somewhere on the web is a 
 free "character and ship editor" in which you can edit your character's abilities, which side they 
 can be recruited by and how likely they are to have force abilities. Just look up the game title 
 and hopefully you can find it. ONE THING, to have a good time playing this game you will need to 
 survive long enough to actually build-up your empire and forces. Usually one side or the other 
 ends up defeated after not much gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
