-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsgalacticbcc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 935 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 14, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battlegrounds brought to life the epic sweep of battles in the Star Wars universe, but this expansion 
 pack doesn't add much to that epic sweep. 

 With  Episode II: Attack of the Clones , the Star Wars universe is expanding. To stay comprehensive, 
 a game like Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds has to keep up. Hence the Clone Campaigns expansion 
 pack, which adds the Confederacy and the Republic factions to the game, as well as a few new features. 
 Unfortunately, there's not much here that stands out, making this feel more like a series of tweaks 
 than what we've come to expect from a fully featured expansion.           A Confederacy fortress 
 protected by overlapping shield generators.    

 The two new sides should be the most notable additions, but there isn't a lot to make them stand 
 out. Neither of them has much character beyond a few units that will look familiar if you've seen 
  Attack of the Clones . The Confederacy is a civilization representing the secessionist systems 
 united under Count Dooku, the villain played by Christopher Lee. They are characterized mainly 
 by the Geonosians, insectlike aliens that live in hivelike earthen structures. They are unique 
 in their ability to use their animal nurseries to build predators, each with a specialized function. 
 The nexu are effective against workers, the reek are effective against buildings (they're basically 
 fast, cheap units) , and the acklay are the equivalent of strike mechs, effective against enemy 
 troopers. However, unlike the neutral predators in Galactic Battlegrounds, the Confederacy's predators 
 are instantly identified by other civilizations as enemy units and attacked accordingly. There's 
 no opportunity to use them as stealth units. Instead, they serve only as relatively cheap mid- 
 to late-game units.   

  The Republic consists of the good guys from  Attack of the Clones . With their prefab shelter bonus 
 and a late-game technology that lets them build troopers at double speed, the Republic is capable 
 of quickly amassing lots of clone troopers. Their Jedi are particularly powerful, and their Jedi 
 Starfighters give them air power on par with Naboo and the Rebels. They earn more nova crystals 
 from capturing holocrons, and their "sight beyond sight" technology gives their troops long range 
 that rivals the reach of the Wookiees and Gungans.   

  Each side has a single-player campaign set in the aftermath of the events of the movie. As the 
 Confederacy, you are one of Count Dooku's generals, rebuilding his army and then foiling the Republic's 
 plans to create a new weapon. The Republic campaign features a much better story about the rise 
 and fall of a padawan to Mace Windu, Samuel Jackson's character. Unlike the campaigns in the original 
 Galactic Battlegrounds, you have to play these campaigns in sequence, and when you complete them, 
 you'll unlock only a single bonus mission -- a disappointing one at that.           Republic Jedi 
 Starfighters covering the advance of powerful air cruisers.    

 The rest of the new content in Clone Campaigns falls into one of three categories: the significant, 
 the marginal, and the questionable. There are only a few additions that are significant. Air cruisers 
 are perhaps the biggest shift in game balance. These are essentially flying trebuchets, able to 
 fire devastating area-of-effect attacks from long range that can blast their way through chunks 
 of resources. These cruisers put much more emphasis on developing and countering air power.   

 
  Also significant are the more powerful and less expensive Jedi. They don't crumble so quickly 
 under bounty hunter attacks, and most of their upgrade techs are cheaper. The fact that Jedi Masters 
 regenerate health automatically makes them an ideal addition to any ground force. Also more useful 
 now are animal nurseries, which produce food faster and are thus competitive with farming and fishing. 
 Mounted troopers, which are unlocked by building a nursery, are more powerful, with increased effectiveness 
 against Jedi and buildings, improved armor, and cheaper upgrades.    

  However, the rest of the new content is only marginally useful at best. There are new bonuses that 
 apply when civilizations ally with each other, but these range wildly from the very powerful to 
 the almost useless. For instance, a Rebel ally gives farms an increased yield, which can be a major 
 boon during the early build-up stages of a game. When the Wookiees ally with someone, both sides 
 get +2 to their troopers' line of sight, as opposed to the Gungan bonus, a discount on shield generators 
 and shipyards that would be useful only in very specific situations. This just goes to show that 
 everyone loves a Wookiee and that no one wants to be friends with a Gungan.           Geonosian 
 warriors with their sonic cannons attack a Republic heavy mech.    

 The new power droids are mobile power sources, useful for establishing forward bases but not fast 
 or cheap enough to replace power cores. The Empire's AT-ATs now have the unique ability to fire 
 at air units, giving the Empire yet another mech bonus (and silencing fans who might protest that 
 an AT-AT clearly shot down a snowspeeder in  The Empire Strikes Back ) . The random-terrain-selection 
 feature is helpful in multiplayer games to prevent players from choosing a civilization based on 
 map type. When there's a chance you might get a water world, civilizations with a ship advantage, 
 such as the Gungans and the Trade Federation, are even more attractive. Also, the Clone Campaigns 
 expansion opens with a sleepy cinematic intro that includes brief scenes from  Attack of the Clones 
 --a much less rousing introduction than the one in Galactic Battlegrounds.   

  Finally, there is the new content that is useless almost to the point that you might not even notice 
 it. The fortress bonuses for each civilization are esoteric and mostly trivial. The new locations 
 are little more than cosmetic changes, providing alternate graphics for the same old stuff. The 
 supposedly treacherous lava on Sarapin is simply orange impassable terrain. The new Tatooine terrain 
 has an inert Sarlacc and some fiesty Jawa camps that -- like almost all of the game's terrain features -- don't 
 do anything. Before the expansion pack, the Sandcrawler rush was a feature of nearly all battles 
 on Tatooine, but the new Tatooine has unarmed Sandcrawlers with nonworking build options on their 
 command menu. Looks like someone in play testing missed that one.           Jabba the Hutt, we 
 presume?    

 There are also subtle changes that are clearly an effort to rebalance the game. The Empire's air 
 unit disadvantage was completely removed -- instead, it now has an advantage with cheaper units that 
 no longer have a build time penalty. As if their air units weren't already good enough, the Rebels 
 can now research technology to unlock an A-wing fighter. Naboo no longer has to research technology 
 to get shielding for their unique Crusader units. There are plenty of changes even more minor than 
 these, mainly the sorts of things a developer would do after a game has been out long enough -- long 
 enough that the hard-core players have found ways to exploit imbalances. There's no telling whether 
 you'll like, or even notice, most of these changes.   

  Perhaps the most disappointing thing about these minor tweaks is that LucasArts could have instead 
 made many larger changes, which would have made Galactic Battlegrounds a better game overall. An 
 attack-move option would have worked wonders to make combat more manageable. Automatic conversion 
 would have reduced the level of micromanagement required to make the most of your Jedi. The game 
 could have used better queuing of research, building, and unit orders. Broader distinctions among 
 the civilizations would make them more vivid rather than all of this nickel-and-dime tuning. But 
 instead of making the game better, Clone Campaigns seems intent on reminding us that this is very 
 much a game of increments, with a 10 percent bonus here and a 5 percent penalty there. The original 
 Galactic Battlegrounds was a good game in that it brought to life the epic sweep of battles in 
 the Star Wars universe, but this expansion pack doesn't add much to that epic sweep.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ollipin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  A great game with almost nothing wrong with it and considering its age its still a great game. 
 The online version is great I've got some great levels off of it but its so old there is no online 
 any more. A bummer. A realy fun campain, short but fun, and the normal random levels are endless 
 fun I've been playing thig game since seconed grade. The heros could be a bit stronger than average 
 soliders but its still fine anyways. It also has a great senario creating thing and if you know 
 how to use it, you can make some realy good levels.
  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxHate the 100 word limit xxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxlalalalalal 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxlalalalalalaxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motti2thesecond
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Clone campaigns is a good game, but I believe it could have been a lot better in the sense that 
 they could have improved on the original star wars galactic battlegrounds.
  
  For one thing, Lucas Arts didn't improve the game in terms of graphics or storyline. The only changes 
 made were the new factions, campaigns and units (and some of the more insanely powerful ones were 
 a lot of fun to play with) .
  
  I also think that Lucas Arts should have waited for episode 3 because that is when fighters from 
 both sides are introduced, since the republic laat/i would not be used as a fighter and would be 
 better suited as a transport.
  
  Worth mentioning though, is the map editor mode in which you can create your own scenarios. This 
 is where you will find most of the fun once you have finished the campaign
  
  The game is still good, since it still has the essential formula that made up galactic battlegrounds, 
 but the fact that they haven't changed that formula is where the game fails.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  SWGB: CC is wonderful! Along with the slightly better looking visuals, it introduces us to 2 new 
 empires. The Confederate and the Republic, in lieu with the movie Attack of The Clones. Below is 
 my review for the original game, most of my gaming time was on SWGBCC, because when it came out 
 everyone had switched to it. The original was deserted in favour of the much better Clone Campaigns.
 
  
  SWGB is just an incredible game. Reviewing it now ,4 years after I had stopped playing it, brings 
 back nostalgic memories. SWGB was an overall very fun and enjoyable game, the single-player campaign 
 was great, you got to play as every faction available and expand it's own story. After completing 
 all the single-player campaigns you'd thing that they would be nothing else to do. Well, thanks 
 to the awesome support of zone. com, you could go online and with ease, find a match in an instant. 
 The community was great, there were many clans and you could meet a whole lot of people. There 
 were many scenario player-made maps as well. 
  
  An example would be Hero/Bounty/Jedi Fest, these are maps with a small base all around the centre 
 of the map, these would be fortified with laser turrets and could be upgraded in the latter versions. 
 In the middle of the map, would normally have super-units that could be captured if the middle 
 was occupied by one side for a prolonged period of time. These units would be a decided factor 
 in the match, and this normally prevented other players from base raping/camping. 
  
  Another would be City-Build, a brilliant scenario in which there would be plots of land that would 
 be of different terrain and be separated by outer-space. There would be a huge area in the middle 
 for the host of the match to control, this would normally be known as the senate and controlled 
 the most powerful units and had admin controls. This is comparable to God & Jesus from StarCraft.
 
  
  So you put in the great engine, graphics for it's time, gameplay and wonderful community and you 
 got yourself a great game.
  
  I would like to extend this message to LucasArts. Please make a next-gen sequel to this game, you 
 would have my fullest support. I hope you already have this in the making. It's truly an awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Think of Age of Empires but add in all your favorite Star Wars characters and even units from the 
 expanded universe and you have Stars Wars Galactic Battlegrounds. The graphics are fairly nice 
 for a game that is 7 years old and the sound effects sound great. All factions are well balanced 
 and have their advantages. Like most other RTS games, Galactic Battlegrounds mainly consist of 
 the same formula of capturing as many resource points as possible, build your up your defenses 
 and army, create as many high damage top tier units as possible (ATAT for example) and then send 
 them out after the enemy and destroy them in one sweep. It is never the less still fun and is actually 
 one of the few RTS's that I enjoyed playing multiplayer MORE than regular single player. The multiplayer 
 maps are just a blast and add a new level to the game that just made it that much more enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns was a fun game on the PC; it was identical to 
 its predecessor, Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds, with the exception of different levels in the 
 story mode. It put the player in control of all land, sea, and air assets of one of six political 
 groups from the Star Wars universe: the Rebellion, the Empire, the Wookies, the Naboo, the Trade 
 Federation, or the Gungans.
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns was very similar to the Warcraft series of games, 
 in that the player was required to mine various resources (nova crystals, Carbonite, and wood) 
 which were then used to create everything from buildings, to soldiers, to ships. Just like in Warcraft, 
 the player would use the mouse to select offensive forces, then click the map to direct the movement 
 of the forces, or click on enemy forces to engage.
  
  The player could increase his level by creating specific structures. As the levels increased, the 
 player's technological edge would also increase, allowing weapons systems to become more powerful.
 
  
  There were two primary options within the game, the player could play the story mode which would 
 pit the player against increasingly difficult enemies in his quest to rid the galaxy of the Empire, 
 or quell the Rebellion, dependent on who the player was playing as. The second option was an open-ended 
 campaign where the player was given resources, and had to establish a base of operations from which 
 war could be waged against the enemy. In this campaign mode, alliances could be established in 
 order to overwhelm the common enemy.
  
  Since Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns was a Star Wars game, favorite characters 
 such as Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, Princess Leia, and Darth Vader were playable, among many others 
 from across the Star Wars universe. Additionally, recognizable buildings including Jedi temples 
 were available, as were vehicles from the series, including X-Wings, TIE Fighters, the Millennium 
 Falcon, AT-ATs, and AT-STs among many others.
  
  Since Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns was licensed through LucasArts, all the 
 music and sound effects mirrored those from the films.
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns was a fun game, which was very easy to become 
 immersed in, providing hour after hour of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Sith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  An Age Of Empires Style Game (Well I guess it would be because LucasArts used the same game engine.) 
 You are in the Star Wars Galaxy playing as one of the famous Star Wars civilzations. Build your 
 base, army, and resources to take down the enemies. Use your ground troops to attack buildings 
 or other ground troops. Use your air units to take out buildings, ground units, ship or other aircraft. 
 Use your ships to destroy ground, air, ships, or buildings, Or use your buildings as a weapon taking 
 down ground, air, or other buildings. In the Scenario Editor to make your own Star Wars Saga! Place 
 trees, buildings, or anything in the normal game. Then the best part is you can share them with 
 your friends or play a multiplayer game in the local network or around the globe. The multiplayer 
 is what brings this game from an 8.5 to a 9.6. You can play as any civilzation, team together with 
 friends, and defeat your foes. The multiplayer supports a max of 8 players. 
  
  No matter what you say I think this game is great. You should buy it today.
  O wait I did say 
 the price.... It's now down to $10! So why not get it today? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This Star Wars strategy game is one of the best strategy games in the Star Wars series. But, it, 
 like all Star Wars games, has just OK control. The graphics and sound are perfect. With the Star 
 Wars soundtrack playing in the background, the game is like virtual reality. The voice talent is 
 also perfect, with voices just like in the movies. The gameplay is pretty good and easy. But, it 
 gets somewhat confusing if you are a first timer. The training missions teach the full concept 
 of the game with everything from moving and attacking to transporting and researching things. Even 
 with all of this, its still not as good as RON or AOE 3 but its getting there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  In Clone Campaigns there aren't very many new factions to choose from, but the old are still there. 
 But if you seemed to favor the Clones or Geonosians in the movies then you'd kinda like the game, 
 it does though offer new maps. It also features 2 new campaigns as the republic or the confederacy, 
 but they are pretty fun, herding up an army, then taking down bases with waves of men. The game 
 of course could have been better but still isn't much of a dissapointment, and worth the money, 
 but also the graphics aren't too good for the time, but i hardly know whether or not to buy the 
 game on the otherhand, if you check out my other reviews, you'll see im not too good at decision 
 making... I think... i have no idea anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Galactic Battlegrounds was a glorified mod, it's painfully obvious from the game's presentation. 
 I wasn't expecting much from the Clone Campaigns expansion, and though I was right in my assumptions 
 for the most part its two new factions were at least more unique than those in the original game.
 
  
  Clone Campaigns has two new campaigns where you control the Confederacy, and the Republic. Oddly 
 enough the game encourages you to play the Confederacy campaign first; despite the fact that neither 
 are really connected at all except for the fact that they take place at the beginning of the Clone 
 Wars. Like in the original game, the campaigns are rather uninspired and dull to play.
  
  Clone Campaigns is obviously the exact same thing as the original game, but the two new factions 
 are at least somewhat interesting. The Republic (which consists mostly of Clone units) can research 
 technology that allows them to pump out basic laser infantry every second, and the Confederacy 
 can train the three arena creatures from Episode II: Attack of the Clones each of them more effective 
 against a certain type of target. Other than that however, unit stats are exactly the same as the 
 original game faction stats. A Clone Trooper recruit has the same percent chance of winning a firefight 
 as a Super Battle Droid or Royal Naboo Security Guard.
  
  The expansion features some new unit and building art for the two new factions, as well as some 
 new music from Episode II. The new visual and audio content is decent, but at the highest resolution 
 you can barely make out the difference between a Clone Trooper and a Stormtrooper.
  
  Clone Campaigns is a decent purchase for fans of the original Galactic Battlegrounds. It's ultimately 
 more of the same, but the two new factions are at least somewhat unique. If you loved GB; you'll 
 probably love CC. If you thought Galactic Battlegrounds was just a dull and uninspired mod for 
 AoE II; then Clone Campaigns definitely won't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost5891
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  this starwars game is great for fans. you can control armies from the starwars universe. you start 
 off at level one and you need to gather rescources for a type of money source and build up an army 
 of anything and everything possible. you eventually work your way to level for being the highest 
 level and having all the highest upgrades for your troops and army. then when your ready you attack, 
 that is if they haven't already started attacking you. as the war is fighting you can continue 
 to make more troops to send to war. one of the best things about this game is some of the battles 
 can go on for a long long time. the worst is if you eventually run out of resources you better 
 take the enemy down fast. you can have allies and enemies and have more than one enemy on the map 
 even. you can even have all 8 types of armies on one map all at once. this game is also possible 
 to play online and has a built in chat right into it. this game is a great for all ages to get 
 into and easy to learn. infact everything thing can be done with the mouse even obviously making 
 controls and gameplay very easy. there are difficulty settings in the game that go from very easy 
 all the way to very hard. wars never turn out the same making this game a great game if you want 
 something different everytime you play. there is also a map and scenario editer allowing you to 
 make your own maps to play on or own missions to do with the army. there is a campaign mode where 
 you play battles from the movies all arrange by what movie they're from. of course though this 
 doesn't include episode 3 because it came out right after episode 2. the only thing about this 
 game is that it's an expansion meaning you will the the original game installed on your computer 
 before you can play this one. a plus is they come together in a box set for $20-$30 depending on 
 where you go. this game is a must by for rts and starwars fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 1, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  When I saw that the game was built on the Age of Empires game Engine I knew it would be a great 
 game. I was a fan of the Age of Empire series and still play those games today. The expansion of 
 Age of Empires 2 made the original Age of Kings more fun than it was, but this expansion for Galactic 
 Battlegrounds seems to lack the luster of the original title. The levels were not made as quite 
 as good as the original makers did. The Expansion does bring about cool new units and grounds to 
 create for your own scenario making. Each group has newer units and newer technology which makes 
 it more fun. I especially like the new blaster ships created from the Fortresses, but it makes 
 the game too easy to win. You could play with two workers 1-2 blaser ships and 10-15 fighters and 
 destroy your enemy's entire base without worrying about tiowers or strong land units. The x-pack 
 also has a new feature of controlled predators which is neat allowing the player to send in just 
 a herd of animals to take out a complete base. This game has technologies associated with the cultures 
 like the genosian upgrades alowwing better troopers and workers, Jedi fighters are a new unit for 
 the Republic which are a little stronger than planes. THe levels make this game not worth the money. 
 They are not as pretty or as good in my opinion as the original which makes you want to explore 
 and amazed at the genius of their work. The units however give a new edge to the game making you 
 change your strategy and work even harder at winning. The units pan out for the price making it 
 worth to me about 10 -13 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odm321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2004 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this since the day it came out. I has a few quirks, but is an awsome game. 
 The campaigns are intersting but have very little replay value even on the hardest levels. I have 
 played on line many times and have experienced only minor problems. The expansion pack was a great 
 improvement over the original game in both game play and useabilty. The graphics are very basic 
 but look all right and play very well on even older computers. 100 words are kind of hard to get 
 without repeating. 100 words are kind of hard to get without repeating. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
