-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/starwarsxwingalliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 912 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With X-Wing Alliance, Totally Games and LucasArts have at last delivered the game that many players 
 had hoped X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter would be. 

 X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter was one of the most anxiously anticipated and yet ultimately most disappointing 
 games of 1997. While the addition of multiplayer features was welcome, most players were displeased 
 that Totally Games and LucasArts focused exclusively on providing a multiplayer dogfighting arena 
 and completely abandoned the plot-rich gameplay that made previous games in the series so addictive. 
 The Balance of Power expansion pack responded to most of the complaints that gamers had concerning 
 X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter, but by the time it arrived on retail shelves, most players had already 
 moved on to other games. With X-Wing Alliance, Totally Games and LucasArts have at last delivered 
 the game that many players had hoped X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter would be and in the process have created 
 a suitably epic finale to their series of space sims based upon the first trilogy of Star Wars 
 movies.   

 While the campaigns of the previous games in the series put you in the role of a relatively nondescript 
 fighter pilot and let you participate in some of the key events depicted in the first two Star 
 Wars movies, X-Wing Alliance features a more ambitious campaign. You play as Ace Azzameen, the 
 youngest son in a family of merchant traders who are destined to become embroiled in the growing 
 conflict between the Rebel Alliance and the Empire. Just as your character's family and associates 
 have begun to embrace the cause of the Alliance, a rival trading clan, the Viraxo, has sought to 
 ally itself with factions of the Empire. During the 53 heavily scripted missions composing the 
 campaign, Ace Azzameen will heroically progress from being a neophyte pilot of his family's Corellian 
 transports to playing a major role in the culminating Battle of Endor against the Empire's second 
 Death Star. During a prologue lasting several missions, Ace will be limited to flying a couple 
 of Corellian transports, one a kissing cousin of Han Solo's Millenium Falcon. While you'll actually 
 get the opportunity to fly the Millenium Falcon in the game's final missions (one of X-Wing Alliance's 
 favorite marketing jingles) , you'll spend far more time in the cockpits of the other transports. 
   

 The transports aren't quite lumbering capital ships, but they do handle quite differently from the 
 comparatively nimble Alliance and Imperial fighters, and their formidable rotatable cannons can 
 effectively autotarget and dispatch enemy craft, making them a refreshing addition to the series. 
 After these prelude missions, Azzameen will join the Rebellion and have access to the usual cast 
 of Alliance vessels: X-Wings, A-Wings, Y-Wings, B-Wings, and puny Z-95s. For the remainder of the 
 game, you'll mainly fight military missions similar to those in prior games in the series, but 
 occasionally you'll be called upon to hop back in the family transport to help out your kin. As 
 in previous games in the series, the campaign is completely linear, and some of the missions are 
 quite difficult - although not as frustratingly arduous as some of the missions in X-Wing vs. TIE 
 Fighter were when flown by a single player - and you can get a few often-helpful hints when debriefing 
 after a failed mission. You must successfully complete each of the "family" missions to continue 
 the campaign, but you can skip up to three of the Alliance missions if you want to quickly pass 
 by a few of the more challenging missions. Apparently Admiral Ackbar and crew don't always need 
 your help after all.  

 During the missions in which you control a transport, you'll be responsible for docking with and 
 transporting various containers, but otherwise mission objectives aren't particularly original, 
 generally requiring you to escort and defend key ships, eliminate all the fighters and other defenses 
 in a target area, inspect all the ships in a convoy, and so on. The mission design is extremely 
 varied and almost uniformly excellent, as almost all of the missions involve a few unique twists, 
 and frequently your objectives will change in response to unforeseen events. Similarly, instead 
 of inundating you with the same three or four repetitive wingmen taunts, most of the dialogue in 
 X-Wing Alliance is uniquely scripted for each mission. Since the quality of wingmen chatter in 
 space sims has only incrementally improved since the concept was introduced in the early Wing Commander 
 games, X-Wing Alliance's comprehensive intramission dialogue makes each sortie a compelling experience 
 that draws you further into the gameworld. During the course of a mission your wingmen and crew 
 may discuss other occurrences in the Star Wars universe, including events depicted or referred 
 to in the movies, evaluate your mission objectives, or just discuss their personal wants and needs, 
 such as your warmongering droid companion's habit of gleefully encouraging your siblings to stomp 
 any potential enemies in the area. Combat can occur in several different hyperspace zones in each 
 mission, each accessible only through hyperbuoys made active in response to scripted events, requiring 
 you to achieve your objectives in a zone in a timely fashion to avoid being overwhelmed in a subsequent 
 mission zone. While the heavily scripted nature of the missions certainly makes them more immersive, 
 it also occasionally causes problems within the game.   

 Involuntarily triggering a scripted event too soon can render a mission unwinnable, and occasionally 
 the mission dialogue will progress as if you've completed all of your required chores within an 
 area, although you'll subsequently discover (by reading a "mission failure" screen, if you're not 
 keeping a close eye on the status of your mission objectives in your HUD) that you omitted an important 
 task. In spite of these occasional problems, the game's mission design is definitely one of its 
 strengths, and there are some great new little touches that make the gameworld seem more alive 
 than ever, such as the manner in which escape pods blast from heavily damaged ships, spacefaring 
 luxury yachts and similar civilian craft flee for the nearest hyperbuoy after a battle breaks out, 
 or the way pilots occasionally eject from doomed craft and haplessly float through space as amusing 
 targets. Bye-bye, floaty.  

 X-Wing Alliance uses a modified version of the X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter engine, and core gameplay 
 is substantially similar in both games. Ships are more maneuverable at one-third of their maximum 
 speed, and effectively allocating energy to your craft's weapons, shields, or engine in response 
 to new circumstances is vital to successfully completing most missions. The game's larger battles 
 can now involve dozens of fighters, and since fighters remain quite fragile, situational awareness 
 is more crucial than ever. While charging haphazardly into a wing of five or six TIE fighters could 
 be an effective strategy for accurate marksmen in previous games in the series, in X-Wing Alliance 
 you'll occasionally run into 24 or more TIE fighters, making a direct assault a briefly exhilarating 
 but suicidal ploy.   

 The game's interface has been modified from the one used by X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter, presumably to 
 make more information readily available to you. The horribly cartoonish cockpit artwork used by 
 X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter has been replaced with far less intrusive semitransparent versions, but 
 I suspect that most players will still turn the cockpit off to maximize their view of the gameworld. 
 A padlock view has been added to let you quickly track your target's location relative to your 
 craft, but activating the padlock view also annoyingly automatically turns your cockpit art back 
 on, regardless of your previous setting. While X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter let you pull up a variety 
 of heads-up displays to provide you with the status of friendly or enemy craft, your mission objectives, 
 text of wingmen messages, or similar information, X-Wing Alliance replaces all of those HUDs with 
 two separate multifunctional displays. You can display the same sorts of information in the new 
 multifunctional displays, but obviously you can only use each display for one purpose at a time, 
 which limits the quantity of information immediately accessible. Since each of the new displays 
 is more obtrusive than any of the older versions, the redesigned interface isn't necessarily an 
 improvement. Fortunately, you can turn off those displays you find less useful or obstructive. 
   

 Wingmen and enemy artificial intelligence remain excellent, and ships with turrets are now very 
 capable of shooting down missiles heading towards them, forcing you to "dumb-fire" torpedoes and 
 similar weapons to maximize their effectiveness. Wingmen are now capable of identifying objective 
 craft, making inspection missions considerably less troublesome, although you should always independently 
 verify that your wingmen have completed their inspection tasks. You can also specifically direct 
 your wingmen to disable opponents or to attack a capital ship component or a particular type of 
 enemy. Since you'll occasionally be flying with large groups of wingmen, there are also several 
 new formation commands you can use to further organize an assault. Surprisingly, the development 
 team failed to add hotkeys for the new wingmen commands, and the somewhat cumbersome nature of 
 the new multifunctional displays makes the new commands considerably less helpful than they otherwise 
 might be. But it's great to be able to order your wingmen to attack just the bombers, or enemy 
 torpedoes, converging on a friendly task force or to disable fleeing mission-critical craft that 
 are too far away for you to stop.  

 X-Wing Alliance's 3D-accelerated graphics are impressive, even in a genre in which outstanding visuals 
 are becoming the norm, and resolutions of 1024x768 or even higher are quite playable if you have 
 the necessary hardware. Colored lighting and lens-flare effects have been added to the core X-Wing 
 vs. TIE Fighter engine, and many of the ship models and textures have been redone. Ship explosions 
 are relatively basic, but there are some good new shield and lighting effects, and the disabling 
 effects of ion weapons are now graphically demonstrated in convincing fashion. Some of the new 
 textured models, such as those for the A-Wing and the Y-Wing, are exceptionally well done, while 
 others look far less detailed, making me wonder if the development team prioritized the importance 
 of commonly seen models or just ran out of time when redoing the graphics used in X-Wing vs. TIE 
 Fighter.   

 Using an external view of a ship, you can zoom right in until you can see the pilots in considerable 
 detail. Overall, the graphics are considerably brighter in tone, and less over the top, than those 
 used in Descent: Freespace or Wing Commander Prophecy. 3D sound effects are also supported but 
 are somewhat buggy in the initial release of the game, and LucasArts has indicated that it is working 
 on a patch to fix various 3D sound issues. Competent force-feedback effects are also included, 
 but they are not as well implemented as they are in Descent Freespace or the current version of 
 Independence War. There are a dozen new and generally well-done animated cutscenes littered throughout 
 the campaign, and in keeping with the more character-oriented nature of this installment in the 
 series, these scenes occasionally depict key individuals from the game (and the movies) as opposed 
 to those in Balance of Power, which just showed spaceships. Unfortunately, the tilted but generally 
 unmoving heads used to portray characters are quite unconvincing, and the characters all look like 
 clones of one another. While the introductory cutscene is particularly good, the final ones essentially 
 just reproduce, less effectively, key scenes from the end of Return of the Jedi. The concluding 
 scene is particularly brief and anticlimactic. Between missions you can enter a simulator to replay 
 previous missions or to create your own skirmish engagements using the built-in mission editor. 
 Once your character joins the Rebellion, you can also review a technical library that displays 
 key information on all known craft, or you can prove your prowess on various training courses designed 
 to test your flying and shooting skills. You'll earn a series of medals and promotions during the 
 course of the campaign, and in many missions you'll also pick up mementos that will be prominently 
 displayed in your quarters, eventually transforming your home into a junkyard of trinkets. In your 
 quarters you can also access e-mail messages, which advance the game's plot and develop some of 
 the characters you'll encounter, although you'll also occasionally receive useless "get rich quick"-type 
 messages, conclusively proving that spam messages were just as popular "a long time ago in a galaxy 
 far, far away" as they are today.  

 For this concluding chapter in its series of space sims based upon the initial Star Wars trilogy, 
 the development team has brought back all the ships featured in other games in the series, including 
 the deadly TIE defenders and missile boats (although the latter fail to make an appearance in the 
 campaign) , and also created a large number of new ones for the use of the myriad of smugglers and 
 civilians that appear in the game. X-Wing Alliance lets you play skirmish or proving-ground racing 
 missions multiplayer, but the failure to include a cooperative multiplayer mode for the campaign 
 is inexplicable and a major disappointment, especially considering Balance of Power fully supported 
 multiplayer campaigns. The player-ratings system is still extremely punitive for players who prefer 
 to battle AI opponents, even on the hardest difficulty level, instead of less-predictable, but 
 often less-adept, human adversaries. Although the skirmish mode lets you easily create dogfights 
 using any of the ships available in the game, including the massive Super Star destroyers and the 
 Millenium Falcon, there are only a handful of premade multiplayer missions included with the game, 
 and they are considerably less complex than the campaign missions or those included with Balance 
 of Power. Playing X-Wing Alliance multiplayer also lets you fly any of the Imperial fighters featured 
 in the game, and up to four players can play the game together online at Microsoft's Gaming Zone, 
 which is an easy forum to hook up with other would-be Imperials or Rebels.   

 Unfortunately, while playing many of the missions near the end of the campaign, I couldn't help 
 but feel that the game was rushed out to allow LucasArts adequate time to focus attention on its 
 upcoming games based upon Episode I. Promised features, such as the ability for two players to 
 simultaneously fly in a transport, were ultimately excluded. Similarly, a camera mode that let 
 you replay your missions was taken out, but the concourse graphics weren't redone to remove the 
 door that was supposed to lead to the camera room. Even though the campaign is completely linear, 
 there are several scripting errors that result in your character prematurely receiving awards or 
 e-mail messages for missions that haven't yet been completed. The story-driven campaign ultimately 
 lacks meaningful closure, and even the epic Battle of Endor is somewhat unfulfilling, although 
 the final mission is highly original and well done. In spite of these flaws, most of which are 
 quite minor, X-Wing Alliance's huge story-driven campaign, detailed and varied missions, enhanced 
 graphics and sound, capable mission creator, and multiplayer features collectively make it a very 
 good game and a solid conclusion to the series.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance is a Star Wars game that is set between episodes 5 and 6. The story 
 starts as Tomaas Azzameen being escorted out of Hoth, but he gets ambushed by an Imperial Star 
 Destroyer. So the 2 rebel pilots hold them off and Tomaas escapes to Twin Sun station where is 
 brother, Anton Azzameen, works at. Tomaas asks Anton to repair his sip, the Otana (A YT-2000 Corellian 
 Transport) , but Anton refuses so Tomaas heads home and asks his kids Aeron, Emon, and Ace Azzameen 
 to help with his jobs. The youngest, Ace was a sensational pilot after his first chore.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the new ships kick serious butt. Intense space combat. Familiar 
 characters such as Luke Skywalker and Admiral Ackbar. Familiar ships.
  
  What I didn't like is that the graphics are good up to a point. The Y-Wing is a pain to control. 
 Emkay couldn't keep quiet for the next 2 minutes.
  
  Overall, this is a great Star Wars flight game. With the new ship called the Otana, I love it more 
 everytime I play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garlor
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  if tie fighter wouldn't have come before this game would be a 9, but it's a 7 because it lacks 
 the great missions TF had, and even more, it has some bugs and script problems, and btw, flying 
 in a yt2000 or 1300 is nice, but flying almost only in it .... is tiresome
  
  what has been of the great attacks with a T/B or BW on an enemy frigate or isd?, what about the 
 continuous dogfighting ( sometimes I still think on that mission when you fight with a T/A alone 
 agains a 24 of them and in the middle you have to identify a corvette ) , because if there's a lack 
 of something is about dogfighting, you take your YT transport with it's top laser and just target 
 T/F and order the turret to shot at it, how boooooring, give me an AW or an XW and let me get into 
 the melee, let me take energy from lasers to refill my lowered shields, make me put throttle to 
 33% to be able to turn fast enough to shot that T/I
  
  it's a pity what they could have made and finally this game, it's nice, but too much simple 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game. It's a sequel to Tie Fighter (I look past the disappointing 
 X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter) , and Tie Fighter is one of the greatest games ever made. The fun is definitely 
 still here and more. In addition to the rest of the ships, you get the chance to fly the Millennium 
 Falcon, or a ship much like it, and it's fun doing that too. The story is very involving almost 
 all the way through.
  
  I say almost all , because the game's biggest weakness is that the story falls apart near the end. 
 I'm not sure what they were thinking, but I'm guessing it was something like this: that they had 
 a great story planned similar to X-Wing's, the original game. In that game you basically flew as 
 part of the Alliance's fighter force, and eventually were caught up in the death star battle which 
 culminated the first movie, and got to fly through the trench like Luke Skywalker did and blow 
 up the death star. It all tied together nicely and was very fulfilling.
  
  You'd think that would be the goal of X-Wing Alliance too, that you would deal with the death star 
 in the third movie much the same way, a great story culminating in exhilarating victory.
  
  Not so. My guess is that someone higher up the chain at Lucas Arts said, no, you can't do that, 
 because that's not exactly what happened in the movie. As a result the ending of the game just 
 falls apart. Sure you get to blow up the death star, but by that time you are so confused about 
 what happened to the story, that you're not sure if any of it makes any difference. It's goofy, 
 and it destroys what should have been the best game of the series.
  
  I may be wrong about why this game got messed up, but the end result is that it IS messed up. Too 
 bad, because the game is a lot of fun up until that point. And it's still fun to blow up the death 
 star even after that. It's just so much of a non-sequitur!
  
  There's a few bugs in the game too, that they never bothered to fix, unlike the earlier games. 
 So... really good game, but falls short of expectations which were raised by the earlier games. 
 Talk about shooting yourself in the foot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAW666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  X-Wing Alliance is a fun game that spans multiple areas of space in a Space Simulator. I don't 
 tell you the story besides being betrayed and you don't know who betrayed you. You play a role 
 as a Rebel pilot and family merchant and most of your fights well be against Imperials. But you 
 run into many others enemies.
  Story line though needs to be added, in the last chapter you be going like what happen next for 
 itwill leave you hanging. Obviously they wanted to make a second game on this one but never got 
 around to it. I tell you since you can't buy the game, it is that Uncle Anton is the traitor but 
 he leaves before you can kill him. I wonder if someone make a story on Azzameen revenge. Oh well, 
 great game even though it's outdated graphics wise but a well thought out story that Lucas Arts 
 need to finish and upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaJapanTop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance is the best game developed by Totally Games until now. This game is 
 a great success in every aspect: game play, graphics, soundtrack, length, value and excitement. 
 The game play is great: you may choose a whole hangar of spacecrafts in the skirmish mode and fly 
 in over 50 missions. The graphics are really good! The soundtrack is the Star Wars movies soundtrack 
 composed by the great John Williams so the music is absolutely great. This game is totally worth 
 it and offers a thrill of excitement. For a 1999 release, this game is way high in the standards. 
 Buy this game as soon as you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This is a good game because it makes it feel what space combat in Star Wars is like. The graphics 
 are mostly good, the sounds are ok, the gameplay is good even though the Battle Of Endor mission 
 is timed and cut short for some reason and that takes all of the fun out of it, the value is good, 
 and this is a really good if even old game. I would reccomend people to buy this game and to make 
 sure they have a joystick for it. The whole campagain is over 50 missions long so it will last 
 awhile for you to have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_godfather_1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Star Wars x-wing alliance is simply one of the greatest space sims you can buy it has a very good 
 storyline that is very long and keeps you interested from start to finish. And also there are many 
 differnt spacecraft you can fly in. 
  You start off in this game by doing a few missions for your father and uncle and eventually your 
 buisnes get's betrayed by one of your family members and you have to take refuge to the rebel fleet 
 where you get trained and become a pilot for the rebels. This game is hard becuase you can die eazyly 
 however there is an option where you can have unlimited laser wich makes it a bit eazyer becuse 
 then you can transfer your lazer recharrge power to your shield recharge power. There is also an 
 option to make yourself invulnerable however this takes a bit of the fun out of it. The action 
 is great with lazers and missles. One thing i dont like about it that annoyes me in alot of games 
 is the fact you never talk and i hate it whne the main charecter never talks. All in all this is 
 a great game with great and varied missions and good combat with one of the best stroylines i ever 
 seen in a game i would recommend this game to anyone who would like a good space sim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  X-wing Alliance is great fun for anyone who still remembers the days of X-wing and Tie-fighter. 
 It has a fairly interesting story, and an ok campaign, but the skrimish mode is where it really 
 shows off. Designing your own missions and flying against a huge variety of enemies is great fun 
 for anyone. The campaign can be boring and frustrating, but it has its great moments and fun missions, 
 and offers quite a challenge at times, although this can be very frusturating. Multiplayer is fun 
 the few times ive played it, but they unfortunately shut down the zone, although there is an underground 
 of multiplayer x-wing alliance players still who get together to play the great game. The graphics 
 are adequate, pretty dam good at times in fact, and the sound is great, although the voice acting 
 isnt perfect or anything, it's ok. It also has a fairly immersive story. Overall, although it has 
 its flaws, X-wing Alliance is still one of the greatest space combat simulation games ever made, 
 and i reccomend it to anyone whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmafan3030
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great buy [for the time] believe the hype it is probably the best star wars game ever. Great 
 sound, great gamplay, and great great GREAT skirmish.
  
  The skirmish is probaly the biggest reason to buy it, even if its from 1999 it is the gamplay that 
 counts. If you want a good game that wont get boring after a while get it. Period. From the first 
 to last level it is a great game never believe anyone who says its not a good game. Believe me 
 you will love it, dont be an idiot and think old games are stupid this is in my top 3 favorite 
 games. No halo, 
  gta, or world of warcraft will beat this...... Period
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is an ideal Star Wars space sim, or an ideal space sim for that matter.
  
  Everything about it is excellent. From the graphics to the sound to the endless gameplay makes 
 this space sim a keeper for sure. The online play adds soooo much, and it really is a challenging 
 sim, which I wanted for such a long time, but hadn't gotten. Some people don't like it being a 
 more difficult sim, but I do.
  
  I can't really spot any significant flaws in the game at all. Some parts could have been fleshed 
 out more, but for the most part this game is exactly what the combat space sim community needed.
 
  
  Overall this game is one of the best space sims I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidalfoetus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  X-Wing Alliance marked the 4th iteration for a series which from it's outset was hailed as a space 
 simmers wet dream. Every kid of 1977 who's dream was to be able to fly in an X-Wing and deal the 
 final blow to the Death Star finally got their chance with the release of Lucasarts X-Wing. The 
 focus was changed in the sequel to fight for the bad guys in Tie-Fighter and switched to multiplayer 
 in X-Wing vs Tie Fighter.
  
  X-Wing Alliance marked a shift away from the multiplayer focus of X-Wing vs Tie Fighter and a return 
 to the single player campaign focus of the previous 2 games. This was a good decision as Lawrence 
 Holland and the team at Totally Games were able to tell a good story, using inventive scripted 
 mission design to immerse you in the plot of the mission.
  
  The story puts you in the role of Ace Azzameen. The little brother of a trading family, who through 
 the machinations of a rival family are forced to flee their home and join with the rebellion who 
 they have covertly aided in the opening chapter.
  
  This gives you the opportunity to fly two freighter craft as well as the standard Rebel fighter 
 craft throughout the course of the campaign. In order to give reason to this, occasionally you 
 are called on by your family to perform a mission for them outside of the standard rebel operations. 
 But the main meat and bones still lie with the combat in the fighters of old.
  
  Being a long time player of the series I was impressed with the new graphics engine that was created 
 for the game. After the disappointing graphics of the previous title, which were not as accurate 
 in modelling some ships as I would have liked, this felt the closest to taking part in one of the 
 movies. Little glitches spoilt the effect like the wobbly cockpit on higher resolutions when flying 
 the YT1300 freighter (think Millenium Falcon but not as powerful) .
  
  The missions were as inventive as ever, but because the game added the ability to hyperspace between 
 sectors within a mission zone it didn't feel as focussed as it should have been. The combat was 
 as visceral as ever, and if anything the game as a whole was much tougher than before but I felt 
 that some of the magic of the single location zones was lost.
  
  A welcome return was the use of imuse rather than the streaming from CD of X-Wing vs Tie meaning 
 that the music was always changing to fit the situation, cranking up as you battle the Imperial 
 hoards and dying down in the quiet moments.
  
  For me I would have to say that I preferred to play the original two games in the series over this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpionfish2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  In X-Wing Alliance you play as Ace Azameen. In the campaign you start out doing missions for the 
 family business but after a bit you join the rebellion. There are a decent amount of missions. 
 The best part of the game is the combat simulator in which you can organise large space battles. 
 You can have between two and eight teams and there can be up to 16 flight-groups. Not every ship 
 is flyable, but most of the fighters are. There is a variety of ships on the game including X-Wings, 
 Y-Wings, TIE Fighters, TIE Interceptors, Imperial Class Star Destroyers and Super Star Destroyers. 
 The controls are good and the graphics are great. The sound is superb, and the other fighters in 
 you flight-group tell you when they are being attacked. You can give orders to individual fighters 
 or the whole squadron. Overall the game is great, but it could be better. If you have a PC and 
 like Star Wars you should buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
