-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Starship Troopers (2000)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starshiptroopers2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 304 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MicroProse
Developer: Blue Tongue
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 7, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Each level becomes an exercise in simply marching your squad around the map and watching your troops 
 gun down any bugs that get in your way. 

 More than 40 years after the book was first published, Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers has finally 
 become the subject of a computer game. Its publisher, MicroProse, describes it as a "strategy role-playing" 
 game, although it's more tactical than strategic, and its role-playing elements are slim. Starship 
 Troopers combines the unit-based tactical combat of games such as Myth: The Fallen Lords along 
 with the futuristic setting and character-building elements of games such as X-COM: UFO Defense. 
 Unfortunately, it also has poor documentation, a frustrating save system, and a general lack of 
 any tactical depth.   

  Though it is based on the book, the game appropriates a lot of its design from the 1997 movie. 
 It doesn't retain the film's satire, but it does use the same visual style: The grunts of the Terran 
 Mobile Infantry, the enemy bugs, and the landscapes are all depicted exactly as they were in the 
 movie by Paul Verhoeven. However, the game does feature powered armor suits, which were a central 
 element in the book and were absent from the movie.   

  The game consists of a linear, 20-mission single-player campaign. You're given an initial allotment 
 of about 40 soldiers. Though you'll occasionally rescue some new recruits in a mission, this pool 
 of soldiers must see you through the entire campaign. Troopers killed in action are gone for good. 
 Before each level, you must create and outfit a strike team of between 12 and 21 troopers to take 
 into battle. At the mission's end, each surviving soldier is awarded experience points that eventually 
 cause him to be promoted. The higher a trooper's rank, the better his overall performance. New 
 equipment, such as better weapons and armor, becomes available at predetermined times within the 
 campaign.   

  Each of the 20 missions has a series of goals that must be met. These goals are usually presented 
 to you using voice-overs and cutscenes during various points in each mission. Generally, this forces 
 you to react to the moment rather than plan and enact some master strategy. The goals unfold sequentially, 
 and you complete them one at a time. Though you can break your units into squads, move them into 
 formations, and control each one separately, there's very little reason to do any of this. Your 
 troopers have a much greater chance of surviving if you keep them in a tight knot and move them 
 around as a single group. Each level becomes an exercise in simply marching your squad around the 
 map and watching your troops gun down any bugs that get in your way.   

  The levels generally take 20 to 40 minutes to complete. There is no in-mission save feature; you 
 can only save your progress between levels. Depending on your tolerance for frustration, this may 
 create tension but will more likely make Starship Troopers a tedious chore to play. For instance, 
 one level concludes with a sequence in which you must defend a military outpost from an onslaught 
 of bugs. It's a difficult task, but it's exciting. Unfortunately, it takes place after more than 
 ten minutes of relatively uneventful marching around. The defense portion itself is one of the 
 few times the game really requires some tactical thought, and there are several different ways 
 to approach it. But the amount of time required to get to this point makes redoing the level more 
 annoying than fun and acts as a real disincentive to play it again just to test out some different 
 strategies. What's even more frustrating is that there's no way to skip the cutscenes during a 
 mission, which makes replaying any of the levels even more of a trial.   

  The game is presented using fully 3D graphics. Though it doesn't look quite as good as some recent 
 3D real-time strategy games such as Ground Control and Homeworld: Cataclysm, Starship Troopers 
 is still visually impressive. The missions take place in a variety of different locations, times 
 of day, and weather conditions. Virtually every one is atmospheric and well done. The animations 
 of the troopers and bugs are excellent as well. Some of the enemy creatures, such as the giant 
 plasma bug that's about 20 times the size of one of your troops, are particularly well done.   
 

  The manual for Starship Troopers deserves special condemnation for being wholly inadequate. Not 
 only does it not give you much useful information about the game, but it also doesn't even provide 
 a list of the many keys needed to control your troopers. And since there's no way to remap the 
 keyboard controls, you're pretty much on your own to discover what the different keys do. At least 
 there's a list of the keys in the FAQ file on the game's  official site .   

  Thanks to its great graphics, just watching your soldiers as they storm across the battlefield 
 killing bugs is actually pretty fun - for a while, at least. The problems with the save system, 
 combined with the simplistic tactics you'll use throughout the game, will eventually wear you down. 
 And without any kind of multiplayer mode to fall back on, Starship Troopers simply won't hold your 
 interest for very long.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TDATLFOREVER
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Definatly check your bargin bins for it. While it wasn't some "OMG this is the best thing I have 
 ever played!" It was quite fun and overall a very good game.
  
  The gamespot review says its alot of running down halls killing stuff. I submit most games are. 
 Its the games that make that fun that are you remember. Starship troopers was plenty fun for the 
 15 dollers or so I bought it for. I got to kill lots of alien bugs with tons of different weapons. 
 I wasn't really expected much more than that.
  
  The one spot I found it lacking was a spot lots of "RPG army" games lack in my opinion. That is 
 there are no "expendable" troops. I understand why its done. Its from some misguided idea that 
 if they make looseing a soldier harm combat effectivness they make him important to the player 
 on a more personal level. That would be true if they didn't do it to every single soldier. Make 
 no mistake Starship Troopers (ST from here on) is by far one of the more forgiving of this type 
 of game. Lose a mechwarrior on Mechcommander and a replay of the mission is in order. In ST you 
 have quite a few soldiers but everone can become strong. This means if you lose that built up solider 
 he can at least be replaced. This also means unless you are killing off your soldiers left and 
 right then they will become powerfull and thus you lose any "cannon fodder." Not to mention losing 
 the gear.
  
  In a game like ST this is almost a style breach. When I got the game I was hopeing to have armys 
 so hopelessly outnumber my force that I would take large but acceptable losses in every battle.
 
  
  What you really have in this game is a rather large Special Forces group. You never face much in 
 the way of being horribly (10 to 1) outnumbered save one or two occasions, You are encouraged to 
 limit ANY losses, and your gear is rather sparse enough that you may need to ration it if you get 
 liberal with its use (read: overkill)
  
  Its 'flaws' mostly steem from the fact I was wanting 'starship troopers: mobile infantry command' 
 and not 'starship troopers: Behind enemy lines with Spec Ops' note: not actual game titles.
  
  I however did enjoy the game. The small feature that is ammo added alot to the game. After 
 all when the bugs are closing in and you guns run dry. It tends to be an 'oh crap!' moment.
  
  The missions were relatively well thought out and there was plenty of stuff to shoot. No where 
 near as much as I would have liked, but then again I would have need more troopers and/or bigger 
 guns for that.
  
  If you are still reading and didn't just jump to the end then. wow.
  
  Summery: solid game. nothing to write home about. It most certainly could have been though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsyr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Besides the Game not having a in game save mode and a mulitplayer mode. I often like replaying this 
 game as the game play elements are what I'm looking for in a game. Also I am a fan of the first 
 movie and the Roughneck chronicles. The second movie was a disaster. The director tried to hard to 
 make it horror. The Squad is versatile so the further you get the better the units. You can have 
 a engineer ,medic, sniper, a couple of maruaders, 1 or 2 memebers of the squad to blow bug holes 
 as there is horde of the buggers and the more experience the squad gets the better you can euip 
 them. The parent company were making a mistake by not giving this game a chance as it has so much 
 potential. Dont bother if you dont have the 1.1 patch and an Nvidia card. Ati Cards do not work with 
 this game as the mouse and Icons do not show up. My 7800GS play this game quite well. For myself 
 Id play this game more than the personal shooter as it appealed to me more. I have more fun playing 
 this than the Commando series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillDingTheEvil
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game on my old PC like 6 years ago. I had to play it on a low graphics setting 
 and eventually had to return the game because it kept crashing. So I didn't get much of a feel 
 for it. That was my first experience with it.
  
  Well I played it on my much newer PC with all the settings to max and the game plays quite a bit 
 smoother. But there are still bugs. The sound is choppy as hell. There is constantly bugs screeching, 
 chattering, bombs exploding, and ships flying by your entire mission and causes this horrible crackling 
 effect or the sounds overlap eachother. The game itself is pretty fun for the most part although 
 it can get tedious. You control your squad of soldiers completing the assigned mission objectives. 
 Pretty much going around killing bugs or trying to capture one or save other soldiers. Your soldiers 
 have limited ammo so you cant just go around killing anything in sight unless you have found a 
 supply crate. If your soldiers survive they gain experience points with each drop or mission. With 
 that they can eventually wear mech suits and carry different weapons. All the units look the same 
 unless it is a female because they are shorter and smaller soldiers but pretty much generic design 
 unless you are in a mech suit.
  
  
  The game does give you the feel of the movie in alot of ways. But unfortunately I still cannot 
 play this game on my new PC because of a bug I encountered in the 5th mission. My soldiers go through 
 this tunnel and as the camera follows them through it, the view gets stuck in the rockface, I can 
 rotate the camera but it no longer follows my soldiers. This has happened several times and there 
 is no recovery. I listen as they are all slaughtered one by one from the unseen onslaught. This 
 game could have been great if the developers spent more time on it. With all the bugs and tedious 
 missions it's not worth me playing at this point but it can still be enjoyable if you can get it 
 to work and you are a fan of the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davenesw
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  After watching the movie many years ago I got this game and the idea around it was great. An RTS 
 designed around the Starship Troppers movie. I liked how your soldiers got experience then were 
 given new amour, weapons and so on
  
  However in my experience I got to a stage where there were so many bugs that I couldn't carry on 
 playing and the game would just keep crashing. So i gave up. Would be nice to see them have another 
 shot at making this game a classic but i doubt it will happen. For 5 pounds you cant go wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meltdown099
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes this is a intersting but fun game.
  
  I've had it since it was released and i can safety say I have enjoy the amount of time i put into 
 it. My main compliant about it is that it can be just to damn easy at time's, but that could be 
 cause the bug's always pop up at the same spot's and so if you know what's coming up you can jump 
 it.
  
  The enemy Unit's talk to each other to call for back up which can be a big problem if they get 
 away, but also they can be alittle dim standing still letting you shoot them and the same goes 
 with the troopers there pathing at time's can be terribly bad, andat times your nice group effect 
 you were looking for is gone when one of your troopers falls behind on a narrow path and is killed 
 -_-
  
  The learning curve in this can be abit hard and your best bet if your playing this is going through 
 training it'll help you alot.. especially learning formations. Graphics by today's standards aren't 
 great but still look slick ^^
  
  Overall i gave this a 8 the thing that hurt it the most was the getting in game problem with more 
 advance computers you need patches to try and get in and even then it might not work it's very 
 picky over who get's to play it as well as the game being abit on the easy side . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carosopo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  ok first. the soun effect. that a great soun cuality. and the explotion too, what about that, i 
 mean the entire quality soun effect are just great. and the armor desing. jesus!! u became so excited 
 when u got promoted and give a new armor type. u feel just like kid with a new toy to go outside 
 an give a taste in the outside.
  and to finish the game with the same group of man and womens of ur unit. man that tough!! every 
 time that i lost one soldier i just have to exit the game and begin a new game, because u came 
 to care about ur soldiers!!!
  personaly i give a 7.5 score. why?
  well first of. the difficluty of the game not too hard. and the game its too short for my taste.
 
  there that all what i haveto said.... u happy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  I like the movie. So when I heard that their gonna make a Starship Trooper game. I though to myself 
 that is gonna be awesome. The first time I played it I had a blast. I really had agood time. I 
 need more. The story was great and so was the graphic. What I don't like is the sound is a bit 
 weak. But still I like it. The gameplay was really fun and amazing. I wanted a sequel then Starship 
 Trooper came. The graphic is way better than this one but the gameplay totally sucks. Yes I must 
 say this one is way better than the new Starship Trooper. So if anyone of is a fan of the movie 
 and likes FPS game they should try this one. It won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudmanalben
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  *This is a spoiler-free review*
  
  Gameplay: Pretty good. Heck, really good. But it can get somewhat annoying always marching your 
 units across the map. However, a lot of interesting things do happen along the way, such as encounters 
 with tankers, emergency communications, etc. 
  They also brought the power armor to life! In the book, Starship Troopers, written by Robert Heinlein, 
 all the troopers wore this power armor that increased your strength, was equipped with cutting 
 edge technology, etc. Unfortunately, the idea was not implemented into the movie. But now, this 
 game utilizes it. And it does so in a very interesting way.
  Another thing that's interesting is the customization of... well... everything! You can choose 
 your lieutenant's name, as well as your platoon logo and platoon name! Unfortunately, you cannot 
 upload your own photos for a platoon logo, but they have a couple of decent logos. You can also 
 change the names of all your platoon members. So if you wanted, you could name your men after your 
 friends, and send them into battle! Or you can name your men after your worst enemies, and make 
 it so they *cough cough* get cut off from the squad during a mission. Moreover, you can customize 
 each troopers weapons and armor before he or she goes into battle, and whether or not you want 
 him/her to be a specialist class, which are the medics, engineers, snipers, or psychics. 
  The bugs are pretty stupid sometimes. Like how the tanker always stops before spraying you with 
 it's fiery evilness. As long as you keep moving your squad, it won't be able to catch you. Also, 
 sometimes the bugs can start chasing you, but if you get away fast enough, they'll totally forget 
 what they were doing and go about their business. Then again, maybe that's how they act in real 
 life...?
  As for your men. Their AI depends on you. You're the one commanding them, so if you send them off 
 on a suicide mission, it's all your fault if they all die. What I thought was interesting, however, 
 was that when the bugs start getting close to a trooper, he'll start walking backwards while still 
 shooting. I don't know, I just thought that it was cool.
  
  Graphics: Decent. Not bad for the time, but could have been better. Still, it won't kill you. Unless 
 you're totally anal about graphics, it's fine.
  
  Sound: Once again, decent. The guns don't sound that great, and the in-game voices is nothing to 
 praise. What's weird is, when you order your soldiers to get into a formation, your lieutenant 
 usually says something along the lines of "All right you apes, fall in!" (if you're playing as 
 a male lieutenant) or "On my mark, fall in!" (if you're playing as a female lieutenant) . But what's 
 weird is their voice always seems to change every time you do it. Like it's a different person 
 talking. You should be able to live with it, but I just thought it was worth mentioning.
  As for the voice-acting of the Ensigns giving you orders during your missions. I think it's okay, 
 but then again, I don't know much about voice acting. Everything is fully recorded, no reading 
 on your part (except for the game overview before every mission, which isn't even that important 
 to read unless you want to know the story) .
  
  Value: I'd have to say that even without multiplayer, it has pretty good value. Heck, I still play 
 it YEARS after I bought it. I think the ability of being able to customize a lot of stuff in this 
 game (and changing some of the files in the game to give you more stuff) gives this game much more 
 life. Plus, some of the missions are just so fun to play. I mean, if you want to send your eighteen-man 
 strike team to battle against the bugs, go right ahead. Or you can send in one man with two nuke 
 launchers and see how much chaos he can create all by his lonesome. 
  
  Overall: Get this game, It's a little old, but get it, especially if you're a SST fan and can't 
 play the newer FPS SST because your computer sucks like me. This is a really fun game that many 
 SST fans will enjoy. It incorporates ideas from both the book and the movie, so all you people 
 who were complaining about the lack of power armor in the movie, look no further than this game. 
 
  Oh yeah, and the fact that you can name a soldier after someone that really pisses you off and 
 get him killed on purpose... yeah... what a stress reliever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishiowapunk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The game itself while being choppy and really unstable, was an outstanding game. The AI was severely 
 poorly programmed and the graphics were lacking but i would recommend this game to any fan or avid 
 gamer thats willing to risk the $. The multiplayer isnt even worth it so if your planning on buying 
 a good 1st person shooter for online look somewhere else. As for empire games they discontinued 
 all game support so MODDERS dont expect any editing tools. With that said 1st before you bad mouth 
 this game own it dont just see someone bad mouth it and make that your official opinion, that ignorant. 
 Play this game to the level called Bait and youll appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marine_Of_Light
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. I finished it myself twice. it might not look to good but itll keep ya busy 
 for a full day. Just try the game and youll love it or hate it. Its a good strategy game. You have 
 to think to survive. Ive learned that playin the game. You have to think how to survive and not 
 get your unit and yourself killed. So you have to use the right weapon for the right thing know 
 when to sneak through and kill the bugs and know to just have fun. Starship Troopers is just a fun 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2005 1:48 am PT
Review:  Starship Troopers the game has basically the same elements as the movie. You control a group of 
 space marines that defend/attack alien planets and destroy every alien bug that gets in your path. 
 The bugs are these four legged monsters that come in a variety of sizes. The grunt bugs are about 
 10-12 feet tall, have four legs, and sharp pincers which kill your men. There are also flying versions 
 of these bugs and there are miner bugs that are the size of... well they are massive. 
  The game takes place in the future. Space travel is no possible yet we still havent developed a 
 better weapon than the machine gun to kill bugs. You'd think that the creators of the game/movie 
 would come up with something better than a plastic looking machine gun. You do get the chance to 
 suit your men up in special battle suits that resemble a man sized mech. And you get a repairman/healer 
 that can heal/repair your units. 
  The story in the game is surprisingly good, despite the constant bug shooting that becomes somewhat 
 repetitive, and the graphics are pretty good looking for the game being made in 2000. The only 
 complaint i have is the camera. The camera is very difficult to control and it is always in the 
 wrong position. You will be in the middle of a battle, and if you move your men into a valley the 
 camera goes crazy and you have trouble controlling your units thus your men die. The only other 
 problem i found is that they made some levels nearly impossible. You go to an area that has like 
 50 bugs crawling and flying around and with the ai being somewhat dull, you end up losing most 
 of your soldiers that you have been training for the past 10 missions. Since you have no control 
 of what your units attack you basically just control their movement as they attack enemies themselves.
 
  Overall this game had the potential to be a decent game, but the camera and the somewhat repetitive/difficult 
 combat makes this game very frustrating. The story is decent and the graphics are good looking 
 too. You should either borrow this game off a friend or if you are a big fan of Starship Troopers 
 like me search for it at your nearest store or look for it on the internet. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
