-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek Away Team
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekawayteam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 208 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Reflexive Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 19, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a linear, repetitive, tedious game that ignores almost every lesson it should have learned 
 from previous, more successful tactical combat games. 

 With the proliferation of all sorts of games based on the Star Trek universe, a real-time strategy 
 game with individual crewmembers as characters is probably the only type of Star Trek game that 
 had yet to be made. Since it features man-to-man tactics, a variety of weapons and futuristic equipment, 
 an original story, and some role-playing elements, the possibilities for a game like Star Trek 
 Away Team are quite promising. Unfortunately, the final design didn't follow through on any of 
 these possibilities. Instead, Star Trek Away Team is a linear, repetitive, tedious game that ignores 
 almost every lesson it should have learned from previous, more successful tactical combat games 
 like X-COM, Jagged Alliance, and Commandos.           You control up to six characters through 
 18 different levels    

 The basic idea of Star Trek Away Team is very similar to that of Commandos: You control four or 
 six characters in real-time combat scenarios and lead them through a series of missions that require 
 stealth and tactical skill to defeat a numerically superior enemy. Before each mission, you choose 
 your team members from the command, medical, engineering, science, and security fields. Each briefing 
 lists the required and suggested items for that mission, and clicking on a crewmember will indicate 
 which of those items he or she has in inventory. This is a nice feature until you realize that 
 just like in Commandos, you can't redistribute inventory items -- they are permanently associated 
 with crewmembers. In addition, characters don't gain experience, and their health is fully restored 
 between missions, so you never really grow attached to anyone. The crewmembers are essentially 
 interchangeable -- you're more likely to remember someone for a particular item he or she carries 
 than for the character itself. This kills any sense of involvement in the story.   

  That's a shame, because the environments and the voice acting are both of very high quality. The 
 unit acknowledgements are rather repetitive, but the voice-overs (both in the briefings and in 
 the game itself) are well done, including those done by the voice of Commander Data. The graphics 
 are 2D, but different levels allow a lot of variation in scenery, both in outdoor and indoor environments, 
 and the result is good. Unfortunately, the game art is optimized for one resolution only (640x480) , 
 which causes the zoom functions to pixelate the screen horribly. There are also some problems with 
 some of the animations, as phaser shots can sometimes stop in midair, especially if the target 
 moves. Despite this, the graphics and sound are the best part of the game.           It's often 
 easiest to shoot first and ask questions later    

 The gameplay is tightly scripted. It's so scripted, in fact, that certain triggers for voice-overs 
 remain active even after they've become superfluous. For example, at one point on the Borg demolition 
 mission, Matrina Sedik will make a comment that's supposed to be a hint as to how to deactivate 
 the Borg security walls, even if you've just gone through the entire level doing exactly that. 
 Apparently, the game expected you to turn right at the beginning, and if you turn left, that trigger 
 simply waits until you come back and hit it. It's followed by an even more incongruous narrative 
 comment that reinforces the feeling that the missions were designed more as plot elements in the 
 larger story than as tactical exercises.   

  There are some very good ideas in the game that end up being unutilized because of the poor level 
 design. The fact that your characters will make more noise while running than walking is elegantly 
 portrayed by "sound cones," which show the distance that this noise travels; they can easily be 
 toggled on and off. Firing weapons makes noise, which can alert guards that something is wrong 
 and can make them change their patrol patterns. Had this been used as the basis for a less puzzlelike 
 level design, it could have been very interesting.    

 Unfortunately, none of this matters at all. The first third of the game (there are 18 missions in 
 all) can be completed by simply selecting all of your characters, setting them to "run," and following 
 the tortuously twisting corridors and walkways on the minimap directly to each objective while 
 pausing only long enough to shoot en masse at each enemy. Since there is no fog of war, it's easy 
 to wait until an enemy is directly behind a door before opening it and blasting him into oblivion, 
 although even these halfhearted attempts at finesse are generally unnecessary. It's a sign of how 
 badly the level designers failed when you find yourself passing up all the extra weapons and healing 
 devices that are scattered about a level, simply because they're too much trouble to stop for. 
 Completing a level is a dispiriting journey from point to point, as it simply involves killing 
 or stunning (as per your orders) a couple of enemies every now and then. Eventually you find your 
 objective, use the designated item to deactivate the final security door, and it's on to the next 
 mission. Occasionally you'll be given an additional objective in midmission, but this simply means 
 adding one more waypoint to the innumerable ones you have already. In the end, it makes no difference. 
 Only in later missions does it become necessary to give any thought to completing a mission, and 
 this simply becomes a puzzle-solving exercise (albeit not a difficult one) in which you have to 
 mechanically account for each individual enemy you'll encounter as though following a script. Since 
 you can give orders while the game is paused, you simply walk up to an enemy, kill him, pause the 
 game, find the next enemy, target him, and repeat this process over and over.           The missions 
 are tightly scripted, and have very specific solutions    

 This problem is made worse by the absolute lack of any artificial intelligence for friendly units, 
 which is another characteristic Away Team shares with Commandos. If one of your units is being 
 shot from behind at point-blank range, it will not turn around. If it can see its assailant, it 
 will not lift a phaser unless you specifically tell it to. It's a giant step back from the real-time 
 combat in X-COM: Apocalypse, which handled these issues much better.   

  The attempts at simulating guard awareness also fall flat. Guards can be alerted by the sight of 
 bodies or the sound of weapons, which would be a good idea if it didn't usually make them come 
 running straight into your poised phasers. It's possible for guards to sound a general alarm, but 
 only if one of your mission objectives is to  not  have them sound a general alarm, in which case 
 one missed phaser shot is usually enough to cost you the mission. Otherwise, guards are activated 
 (by hearing noises, seeing a dead body, and so forth) on an individual basis, and killing or stunning 
 half of the enemy security team isn't enough to make the other half wise up.           Your characters 
 don't have as much personality as their counterparts on TV    

 To add to the frustration, there is a host of annoying bugs that often get in the way. A character's 
 inventory generally defaults to selecting a phaser as the current item, which is convenient if 
 you forget to reassign your engineering officer's weapon after using a security hack. Unfortunately, 
 this tends to make everything default to a standard phaser, meaning that your security officer's 
 Phaser 3 or sniper rifle will also revert to the standard phaser, often at the worst times. Sometimes 
 if you select to have your whole team fire at a target, but one unit within the group has an obstructed 
 line of sight, your entire group may be prevented from firing. At other times you can fire, and 
 those within the group without a line of sight to the target will end up shooting into a wall or 
 other obstacle. Since the level architecture can't be destroyed, this is useless.   

  Had Star Trek Away Team incorporated real character building, included better enemy AI (as well 
 as any AI whatsoever for your own units) , allowed for more freedom in both equipment use and discovery, 
 and required actual small-unit tactics instead of mindless sprinting and head-on encounters or 
 tedious puzzle-solving, it could have been a good strategy game. As it stands, it's not much more 
 than an episode of The Next Generation that requires a lot of mouse clicking.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  After playing this game a couple of times just to explore all areas of the beam down site and doing 
 the wrong thing to get my team killed. I then wen t to play the mission for real, and found it 
 very enjoyable. I like this one as mush as the other Star Trek games I played. I then played a 
 few of the missions with different team members and found it just as challenging. All who try it 
 should experiment with different team member to discover their abilities and strengths. This one 
 is a must buy and I as glad to add it to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_da_jedi
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  excellent game, i think it is very fun, but if your not a fan of star trek then i dont really think 
 this is your thing. even though i like star trek, but that is besides the point. it is an amazing 
 game of strategy, time, stealth and completing the objectives. This game has a massive range of 
 weapons in store for you, from basic phasers to the amazing sniper rifle and the type 2 phaser. 
 and its not just weapons that is so good it is the stealth equipment aswell, such as tricorders 
 (scanning device) , grenades, bombs, time bombs, cloaking band, decoys and much much more. in a 
 usual mission you probly are able to get around 5 away team members. Each team member has there 
 own personality and speciality, might be weapons, stealth, security or engineering. having the 
 ability to control each member to accomplish different tasks is very good, because you get a good 
 record with nice clean time. the storyline in this game begins as just a precorsion, a hunch i 
 spose, but in the end you are facing the threat of being annilated, even by the borg them selves 
 (very powerful enemies of the federation) . it keeps you interested and 'going' in the game. I also 
 like the option were you can go into walk, crouch or run mode, this enables you to pass enemies 
 you don't have to take care of, if you know what i mean ; ) . The graphics were good for its time 
 and offers a range of different sounds in the game fitting with each weapon or action. Having the 
 option to save any time during the game is also very helpful.
  
  i recommend this game to any one who loves stealth/strategy games and ofcourse to any die hard 
 fans of star trek ; ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Well finaly a game, that is an RPG. Any Star-Trek fan will be satisfied with game, because the missions 
 are relativy long, there are a lot things to explore and a lot of puzzles to solve. A nice thing 
 is also that there will be many equipment and weapons from Star-Trek, of wich all of them are quite 
 usefull. However ,the AI has an old "Star-Trek" style of fighting - for example a Klingon shoots 
 Federation member, then a group of Federation members shoot the Klingon etc. --  a little clumsy 
 fighting.
  Graphics are OK, but effects are bad and character`s model are not so good.
  Sound are good, but weapons fire sound is on some guns too similar.
  Overall, I really appreciate, 
 that they have made this game, because it is one of rare Star-Trek games, that is RPG; but with 
 some improvements, this game could be quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dremun
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2004 6:57 am PT
Review:  For a Star Trek game this is a pretty good game, it does give you a good challenge and for a Star 
 Trek game that is a good, as most of them have not done very well as i have seen in the reviews 
 and from other players of this kind of game. Im big Star Trek fan, but the game also has to be 
 worth playing and a lot has to go into the game play, and this is one that does just that, the 
 graphics are pretty good, they could have been a little better, but its by no means shabby at all. 
 The Audio is good they did a very good job i must admit, the story like is pretty good, there were 
 a few points in the game that seemed a little not Star Trek but all in all it is a good game a 
 lot of fun to play, I would recommend this to anyonethat likes Star Trek and PC games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
