-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: New Worlds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startreknewworlds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.2, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: 14 Degrees
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 7, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The derivative action in New Worlds does only one thing well: It reminds you how exciting a well-designed 
 real-time strategy game can be by comparison. 

 Star Trek: New Worlds is the third Star Trek-licensed game from Interplay's 14 Degrees East division, 
 but after you spend several mind-numbing hours with it, you'll think it's the first game the developers 
 have ever undertaken. The laundry list of flaws in New Worlds is long and assorted, but there's 
 one significant problem that should be mentioned right off the bat. The only connections this boring 
 real-time strategy game has with Star Trek are the logo on the box, the names of the races, and 
 the types of weapons that your units use. You could easily get the impression that New Worlds started 
 out as any old 3D strategy game and that Interplay later decided to stick it with a Star Trek license. 
 And although that's not actually the case, the fact remains that once you get into the incredibly 
 tedious missions, you might well forget that the action's taking place in the Star Trek universe. 
   

  Since just about any astronomical phenomenon can occur in the world of Star Trek, the game's story 
 is perfectly acceptable: A Romulan weapons experiment causes entire star systems to appear out 
 of thin air, and of course they're just loaded with dilithium and other goodies that the big three 
 - the Federation, Klingons, and Romulans - want to lay their hands on. As an officer of one of 
 those factions, you're assigned a series of missions that require you to build full-blown colonies 
 capable of building vehicles and structures. To do that you'll need resources like dilithium and 
 lesser-known commodities like magnesite ore and kelbonite. You've also got to build power generators 
 to run your base, construct housing to accommodate more colonists and crew, and... you get the 
 picture. It's typical real-time strategy, but unfortunately 14 Degrees East decided to ignore nearly 
 every advance that's been made in the genre over the last several years.   

  As in other 3D real-time strategy games, Star Trek: New Worlds portrays 3D terrain and objects 
 from an isometric perspective that can be panned and zoomed. While the lighting effects are sometimes 
 impressive, the buildings and vehicles are merely adequate, and it isn't easy to distinguish the 
 units from one another. In fact, it's nearly impossible to visually identify a unit when the view 
 is zoomed out enough to get a good command perspective, so you wind up either clicking on it to 
 hear its signature response or zooming in for a close-up look. The advantage of zooming in is that 
 you can actually scroll the main display at a reasonable speed; the disadvantage is that you no 
 longer can tell what's going on or even get a good sense of where you are.   

  But that's something you can live with. What might be more frustrating is that none of the keyboard 
 commands can be reconfigured, so you must keep your left hand perched on the left-hand side of 
 the keyboard to move the camera, no matter what. There's an option to double-right-click on the 
 strategic map to jump quickly to a new area, but amazingly it doesn't work if your cursor is resting 
 over a unit or building.   

  The lack of formations and the inability to set waypoints makes unit control even more problematic, 
 and what tops it all off is that the game plays incredibly slowly. Send some tanks to a distant 
 point on the map, and you'll have time to go make a sandwich and eat half of it before they get 
 there. There's no option to adjust the game speed, just like there's no option to pause the game 
 to reevaluate the situation when things get busier later in a mission: Pausing freezes the entire 
 game, including the mouse cursor.   

  There are even more problems with the interface design in New Worlds. Each building is assigned 
 a coordinate, and over the course of the game, you'll be informed - for example - that a particular 
 mining station has exhausted its resources. But if you click on a mining station, its coordinates 
 aren't actually displayed! Instead, you must gingerly move the mouse near the building, rather 
 than directly over it, and use those coordinates to deduce whether the building you're about to 
 tear down is the one that's no longer productive.    

 An intuitive interface for building units and structures is one of the linchpins of a good strategy 
 game, but Star Trek: New Worlds' resource management and production are just a smoke-and-mirrors 
 system that initially seems deep but soon reveals itself as shallow and contrived. For one thing, 
 there's only a tiny window from which you select units or structures to build: Only three items 
 are displayed at a time, so you must click and scroll your way through a list of icons just to 
 reach that photon turret you need to defend your base - and then you must do it again and again 
 for each one you want to build.   

  You'll want to start mining dilithium as soon as possible, and to do so you need a resource processor. 
 But then, you also need to upgrade it to actually process the dilithium. Since everything from 
 the warp core to the food replicators runs off this stuff, you'd think a Federation-class resource 
 processor would come outfitted to handle dilithium by default. Perhaps the only real reason you're 
 forced to upgrade your resource processor is to make the game seem more sophisticated. But once 
 you realize you can simply fire off all six upgrades for the resource processor in rapid succession, 
 you'll see how arbitrary the system is. As another example, if you want to build a phaser tank, 
 you'll need a vehicle yard to build the tank and a science center to build the phaser to go on 
 it - but this time you'll need four different upgrades before the science center will give you 
 the phaser. This is busywork of the first order, and soon you'll wise up and simply upgrade every 
 facility immediately - you might as well, since even before the first mission is over, the game's 
 entire tech tree will have been revealed.   

  Fog of war is a given in most real-time strategy games, but in the world of Star Trek it just doesn't 
 make sense. Think of all the times that a starship's sensors spotted someone's location on a planet 
 or gave a full report on the topography, geology, atmosphere, and every other important aspect 
 of a world. But in New Worlds, you've apparently been given outdated technology: You must actually 
 have a unit in an area to know what's there, including any available resources. That's right, your 
 science vehicle can travel all over the map uncovering resources, but once it moves on, the area 
 turns dark and you're back where you started. Line of sight remains a key component of intelligence 
 gathering in this version of the Star Trek universe.   

  Furthermore, as you fumble about the map cursing the snail's-pace scroll speed, you'll receive 
 vague messages from crew members like, "We have found the plague epicenter" or "Construction cancelled 
 - assign crew to this building." This information is helpful in theory, but it never explicitly 
 refers to anything. You might get a warning from an alien race that you've trespassed, but it's 
 up to you to figure out where you've wandered that you shouldn't have.   

  Star Trek: New Worlds has even more problems - the race you choose to play as automatically sets 
 the difficulty level; the program forgets your audio settings when you exit, and they can't be 
 accessed during play; colony sound effects are minimal and uninspired; and the missions seem to 
 end before you even know why. But what's most frustrating of all is that there's no way to save 
 your game during a mission, so you'll end up having to start them all over if you happen to lose. 
   

  New Worlds is playable online against human opponents via the Mplayer service, but the game supports 
 just three players at a time. There were never any players seeking competition in the Mplayer lobbies 
 as of press time, but that's just as well because the game's lack of a single-player skirmish mode 
 means you can't practice the multiplayer game anyway.   

  Star Trek: New Worlds promises to let you "witness colony life at the most fundamental level," 
 but if that's true, then colony life isn't very exciting. In the end, the derivative action in 
 New Worlds does only one thing well: It reminds you how exciting a well-designed real-time strategy 
 game can be by comparison.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: citymaster
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it was terrible. The graphics were crap, the gameplay was crap, sound=so-so, overall: CRAPOLA!
 
  
  It's not worth more than a thirty word review. But it has to be at least a hundred words here.
 
  
  GFX: Lousy "3D" graphics. Bad zoom levels, blech.
  
  GAMEPLAY: RTS-like, but not very fun. Harder to control than any RTS I've ever played.
  
  SOUND: 
 I didn't mind the sound, but after a minute or so, I turned off my speakers.
  
  OVERALL: One of those games you download the demo, play for five minutes, then uninstall.
  
 
  EXCITEMENT: Boring. Again, a five minute play. After a few minutes, I fired up Add/Remove Programs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roelovane
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 9, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  So you're the ultimate Star Trek fan? And you want five of every single Star Trek game and piece 
 of merchandise known to man? Well. Only get four copies of this game. You'll thank me for it later.
 
  
  Star Trek is a brand name. And between multiple tv series, movies, memorabilia, and video games, 
 you could probably spend your entire life doing Star Trek related activities. Still. Not every 
 Star Trek game is perfect -- in fact, many aren't. But that's no excuse! Where's the quality in 
 this game?!?
  
  The sound is awful. The game plays badly. The story is lackluster, and the dilithium crystals have 
 to be mined before you can use them! How could it be any worse?
  
  Well, it could look worse. Some of the visual effects are actually worth noting. Mostly it's just 
 the photon discharges and disrupter blasts though. The rest is pretty average for the time. But 
 you will find that the ground textures repeat throughout the level.
  
  Why have I spent so much time playing it? To beat it! I can't beat it. The purple symboled race 
 keeps killing all my craft in the later levels..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Out of all the Star Trek games Bridge Commander has to be the best, no question about it. Yes theirs 
 a little combat but it scares me because of the music and the gameplay. And this game has a bunch 
 of strange noises that I dislike. I just wish this game wasn't such a ripoff I would have liked 
 it more if it were that way. well I give this game good luck for the future and hopefully this 
 game will become a better game than it is now. So this game is abysmal and I never want to play 
 this piece of junk game ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Like "Star Wars" games, the "Star Trek" franchise most times seems to attract people with great 
 ideas, but who in the long run destroy what could have been good games. I mean, the titles and 
 the universes they present (not to mention the fan base) should attract great games. So why do 
 we get absolute trash 9/10 times. It's a waste of everyone's time and money.
  "Starfleet Command" comes closest to satisfying those of us who would like to see large scale naval 
 battles with our favourite starships. "Starfleet Command III" came the closest, yet even then it 
 couldn't hope to compare with "Homeworld" even at entry level. "Deep Space Nine: Dominion Wars" 
 was a better, though very short space-based strategy fair, but followed the timeline of that period 
 in Star Trek very faithfully. The FPS games have meandered along, with "Elite Force I & II" doing 
 well, but "Klingon Guard" crashing us back to earth. "Bridge Commander" was fun but "Away Team" 
 was garbage.
  So who thought of inventing a land-based RTS for the Star Trek world? I hope he's run for cover. 
 The graphics are'nt even serviceable. The craft are generic blobs of grey, as are the buildings, 
 which makes it very hard to jump between them in firefights. The tutorial is confusing, so don't 
 touch it. The interface is user-unfriendly and the camera has a mind of its' own.
  This had the chance of presenting a whole new world (the same name as the developers) like "Dune" 
 did, for a great franchise. Unfortunately, you will end up using the CD-Rom as a drinks coaster 
 rather than touch your computer again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  In the past years, before the year 2000, I was wondering, when will an RTS for Star-Trek come out. And 
 then it happened.
  A was very curious, what was this gam like. I must say that I`ve had mixed feelings, but I was afterall 
 happy with this game. You have the option to play as 3 major factions: Klingons, Federation and Romulans. There 
 will be also othe factions, that will play important role in campaign. There are many buildings and 
 vehicles in this game; and some might look useless, but are actually also important. The AI is very 
 bad (especially their defending skills) and another thing-limited space for buildings. That means, that 
 you can only build on grey platforms and no else.
  Graphics are rather strange-the enviroment and effects are quite good, but vehicles and buildings 
 models are not so good. The sounds are fair here (not so much good music, no movement sound of vehicles, good 
 sound of weapon`s fire,...)
  I think, this game needs improvements, especially in gameplay.
  Otherwise, it is a nice addition for Star-Trek fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
