-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Dark Forces
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/darkforces/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,250 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 28, 1995
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of the first titles to actually improve upon the Doom formula, Dark Forces managed to rise above 
 me-too status and become a great game in its own right. 

 After the release of Doom, gamers were besieged with more first-person shooters than you could shake 
 a rocket launcher at. More imitative than innovative, most of these clones have long since been 
 forgotten. Thankfully, LucasArts' Dark Forces has not suffered the same fate. One of the first 
 titles to actually improve upon the Doom formula, Dark Forces managed to rise above me-too 
 status and become a great game in its own right.  

 The story is straight to the point: the Empire has commissioned a new type of Stormtrooper, known 
 as Dark Troopers. These devastating killing machines are being developed in several 
 remote bases. As Kyle Katarn - a former Imperial Officer who has joined the Rebellion - you must 
 investigate each exotic locale, searching for evidence and employing sabotage techniques to thwart 
 the Empire's devious plan. Along the way you'll face an entire cast of familiar foes, including 
 Stormtroopers, Imperial Guards, Boba Fett, and even Jaba the Hutt.  

 Using an enhanced engine that allows jumping and crawling, Dark Forces is more than just another 
 3D kill-fest. The levels are diverse and ingenious, with plenty of creative obstacles standing 
 between you and your goal. These obstacles range from simple puzzles that open new areas, to arcade-like 
 action tests that require you to jump along rocky crags and make your way across moving conveyor 
 belts. While they can be occasionally frustrating, Dark Forces' diverse gameplay requirements make 
 this title more mentally challenging than your average key hunt.  

 Of course, it doesn't hurt that the game is set in the Star Wars universe. It's much more fun to 
 blast Imperial lackeys than faceless monsters. The familiar setting is enhanced by your enemies' 
 taunts, like Stop, Rebel Scum! Dark Forces' only real flaws are its tragically short 
 length - less than a dozen levels - and its lack of multiplayer options or add-ons, which severely 
 limits the replay value.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: iceman_sith
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Came back and destroyed it. On the easiest diffuculty setting of course... this game is hard mainly 
 because you get lost and it is hard to find you way. The challenge of the game is the mazing and 
 leavers and doors. If I miss one leaver or door, i have no idea where i am going everything looks 
 the same SIMPLE ok the cut scenes and stuff yes low quality because of the games age but are impressive 
 I enjoyed the story.. and if there ever was a Dark Forces UNLEASHED hell yeah. But sadly this game 
 is lost in the world of doom.. where I wonder endlessly through halls until there are no more possabilites, 
 my lack of patience with this dinasour ment the cheats came out in the end.
  
  Aiming straight was defenetly not the deal in this game much more the saving my big guns for the 
 bosses smashing them down and blasting everything that moves.
  
  In terms of the difficulty I would have hated this without cheats I wouldn't have had the patience 
 to get to the end just got lost all the time, and on the hardest difficulty I just would have died 
 lots to. very hard game. These days games have those long tutorials and long ass explanations during 
 levels on how to get through stuff also the levels these days flow more even though they are more 
 free to move the true 3d dynamic environments of today with big rooms and big halls mean you know 
 where you have come from and where you are headed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashbro93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  dark forces is a classic game it is one of the best games ever made !!!!!!!!!! why don't they make 
 any more of these sweet games Lucas arts is a genius !!!!! this game has awesome game play and 
 no glitches but there is one bad thing there is no light in the room ,and only few levels ,and 
 in level three the mission is to find this one guy in the sewer go and you have to find him but 
 it is impossible to find him, but overall this game is awesome its worth 20 dollars it is the best 
 they don't make these kind of classic games anymore
  
  
  jflsdjfkldks jfkldsjfkld sjfld sjfldsjfklsd kjklf sdffffffffffff fffffffff fffllllllllll llllll 
 llllllllllllll
  ffffffffffff fffffffff ffffff fffff ffffffff ffffff fffffff fffffffffff fffffffffffkk kkk kkkkkk 
 kkkkkkk
  kkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkk kk kkkkk kkkkkkkkkk kkkkkk kdddd
  kfdsj flllllllll llllll lllllllllll lllllllll llllllllllll lllllll lllllll llllllllll llllllll 
 llllllllllllll llllllllll lll llllllllllll llllll lllllllll ll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Dark Forces was an amazing FPS and something that was new and fresh in the Star Wars gaming world. 
 Before Dark Forces, all Star Wars games either involved playing a major character or it was a space 
 simulator. Some of us just wanted to play a regular Joe Schmo and not some big shot with magical 
 jedi powers. Dark Forces was certainly a game made for those who just wanted to kick some storm 
 trooper butt with their own weapons, while using espionage and sabotage to bring down the empire. 
 The graphics and sound were just amazing for it's time and the gameplay was very fluid and smooth. 
 Also another amazing feature of this game was the fact that it actually had a decently in depth 
 storyline. This wasn't typical of early FPS's and it helped make this game even that much more 
 enjoyable to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebender
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Some games follow a safe formula, and some Star Wars games are so carefull about the movies that 
 the tiptoe past opportunities for a great game. Dark Forces is not one of those games. Dark Forces 
 is pure genious, play as the mercenary hero Kyle Katarn as he fights to uncover the mysterious 
 secret of the Dark Trooper project. This game was a masterpiece, and was only surpassed by it's 
 sequel.
  This game is the debute of one of the most famous EU Star Wars ever, and if you've played Jedi 
 Outcast or Academy, you haven't nothing yet.
  I encourage you to find some way to pick up this classic and play it, and the same goes for Jedi 
 Knight. Overall this is a good game, and a pioneer of the modern FPS genre.
  
  
  Graphics: 9, It was 1995 ok? They hadn't really developed true 3d, much less pixle-shading.
  
 
  Sound: 9, the sound is excellent. From the sound of a nearby river, to the voices of stormtroopers, 
 to your weapons, to the rambling of probe droids. The sound is incredible.
  
  Gameplay: 9, The game is amazing, what can I say? It beats doom to a bloody pulp.
  
  Replayability: 
 A lot, if you have the patience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Unlike other First Person Shooters, (Such as Doom, Rise Of The Triad, and Island Of Peril) this 
 shooter actually has missions, not just kill the monsters and find the exit. Dark Forces is one 
 shooter that is much more imaginative as well as more idealistic making real missions and playing 
 on a REAL 3D map.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  First off, understand that this game was made for DOS mode, so the graphics aren't the best. But 
 compared to a lot of other 3D shooters, they did a great job of making more detailed looks to metal 
 walls, muddy grounds, and slimy sewers. Course, the enemies were still 2D using free-floating, 
 but the way it was put together, at the time, it was a well designed and well thought out. When 
 I first played the shareware version, I was most impressed with the laser fire, the graphic detail 
 of the walls and floors, and the overall map design for the just the few maps that was made. Once 
 I played the shareware, I was hooked for life and got the full game on CD. The only unrealistic 
 was when you get captured but Jabba and you fight the giant lizards, you can tell it's poorly thought 
 out. But other than that, you will be most impressed with the graphic detail.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Unlike Doom, Rise Of The Triad and some others, you can JUMP as well as CROUCH down. 
 Plus there are icy areas so you need to use spiked cleats to walk across ice. Some areas are even 
 very dark so you need to use the night vision goggles to see. The controls themselves is pretty 
 easy to use. If you are used to playing other 3D shooters, then this game will be easy to use. 
 Most of the game is mostly about completing missions and doing one thing to do something else. 
 For example, one mission requires you to reach the reactor and plant 3 bombs in 3 parts of the 
 reactor. So you actually have to plant the 3 bombs properly.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  The only downside to this game is that there's no blood and people don't explode when you use the 
 rocket launcher. Other than that, you will fully enjoy this shooter. And for anyone who is a true 
 STAR WARS fan, you will absolutely enjoy the way you fight the Imperial Forces. If you happen to 
 find this game, buy it if only because it's STAR WARS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I always enjoyed this game. Just a blast to play. Truely a underated game that needs more respect. 
 I've always enjoyed Doom series and Dark Forces brought that back in the Star Wars universe with 
 hours of gameplay and fun makes the game a instant classic. Gameplay - Gameplay is basicly the 
 same as Doom series blasting stormtroopers and simple puzzels makes the gameplay overall great. 
 Lots of different areas and hours of gameplay give it 8 stars. Graphics - Using the Doom engine 
 Dark Forces looked great in it's day and fits the mood of the game. Graphics really are overall 
 great for 95 deserves 9 stars. Sound - Sound is always great in star wars games this game continues 
 with that with some classic sound tracks it gets a 10.0. Value 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Dark Forces allows a small chapter of the Kyle Katarn series and offers a somewhat satisfying thrill 
 to Star Wars fans. Star Wars: Dark Forces is a shining light to LucasArts The type of play that 
 is provided in Dark Forces is almost identical to all early first peron shooters. There are three 
 difficulties that one can choose from. These levels do not affect the overall talent of your enemies, 
 but rather increase their number and allow you to waste all of your reserved ammo. Relentlessly 
 shooting the bad guys, finishing the objectives, and saving the day are allhere. Of course, the 
 enemies vary, from the merciless Dark Trooper to the cowardly Imperial Officers.
  
  The level design and storyline add to an exciting play. The level designs that were established 
 by the developers are an astonishing accomplishment in terms of rendering and placement. They are 
 extremely linear, and the short count levels do not provide a true, mesmerazing gaming experience.
 
  
  The Strong storyline also allows the player to get a glimpse of the small part of the Star Wars 
 universe. The first adventure of the Rebellion mercenary, Kyle Katarn, established a long lasting 
 series, after all. Finding clues and defeating one of the most feared Imperial weapons, the Dark 
 Trooper, adds an exciting atmosphere and will impulse the player to discover the quest of Katarn. 
 As a result, most players will play the game to the end.
  
  Since the game is very old, the graphics definitely show . Simple sprites and textures are common 
 . Although the level design is rendered in 3D, the simple texture and character models show some 
 pretty eye candy. The cut scenes range from simple sprite images of characters to 3D . The sound 
 of blaster fire and taunting of enemies really puts depth to the environment. The music that plays 
 throughout the game is also well made and offers great variety. The age of DOS games are remembered 
 to be simple blips and bleeps in some cases. However, Dark Forces sets itself apart from the surreal 
 environment that is displayed due to the sound quality.
  
  Although blasting enemies gets repetitive and the graphics and sounds are clearly out of date, 
 this game provides a lasting experience. It is truly a title that Star Wars fans will remember, 
 even though the titles of this depht are almost non existent from the famed developer LucasArts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  After the success of Doom every videogame-company wanted a first person shooter. This game is a 
 product of the clone-wars, where everybody tried to clone Doom. The star wars clone is, like all 
 other clones way inferior to the original. They made up a story about a guy who works for the rebel 
 alliance and has to infiltrate enemy facilities in order to discover secret enemy projects. In 
 other words: you'll be shooting at enemies at different locations in the star wars galaxy. The 
 graphics were pretty good for the time, but nothing special. You don't want to play this game these 
 days. The gameplay is awful. You control your character with the computer keyboard and there is 
 one button which makes you jump. At one stage you need to be running with one button and then press 
 the jump button at the right time to get to a platform. If you didn't make it, you have to walk 
 around for 5 minutes and then you can try again... that sort of gameplay. I don't give up on games 
 easily, but this game really sucks and as such it is a typical star wars game, because most of 
 them suck. I liked the music though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This will always be one of my favorite games. I'm a long time crazy Star Wars fanboy. When this 
 came out, I was crazy about first person shooters and crazy about Star Wars. It was the first game 
 I really played in the universe. To me it was living another life in that galaxy far far away.
 
  
  I just couldn't get over actually feeling like I was THERE. I played this game over and over again 
 and sometimes just walked around enjoying the scenery long after everything that could hurt me 
 was dead. It was good enough for me just to visit.
  
  I continued downloading mods and conversions after that to see even more places that fans would 
 cook up.
  
  Nothing can replace the feeling I got the first time I started up this game, heard that music and 
 was REALLY walking around in the Star Wars universe. Great memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mephibo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  LucasArts was once renowned for providing excellent games that provided fun gameplay. To many, 
 however, those years of fame have now left the company. Star Wars: Dark Forces is a shining light 
 to the early days of LucasArts and to the revolutionary first days of the FPS genre.
  
  The type of play that is provided in Dark Forces is almost identical to all early first peron shooters. 
 Relentlessly shooting the bad guys, accomplishing objectives, and saving the day are all provided 
 in this title. Of course, the variety of enemies vary, from the merciless Dark Trooper to the weak 
 Imperial Officers. There are three difficulties that one can choose from. These levels do not affect 
 the overall talent of your enemies, but rather increase their number and allow you to waste all 
 of your reserved ammo. Of course, relentlessly shooting guys can get old, but the complexity of 
 the few puzzles in the game allow one to break away from the monotonous atmosphere.
  
  The complex level design and storyline add to an exciting play. The level designs that were established 
 by the developers are an astonishing accomplishment in terms of rendering and placement. They are 
 extremely linear, and the short count levels do not provide a true, everlasting experience. With 
 only fourteen missions, the single player campaign is limited. Being a DOS title, the is evidently 
 no multiplayer capabilities and as a result, the short single player c
  
  An aggressive storyline also allows the player to get a glimpse of the small part of the Star Wars 
 universe. The first adventure of the Rebellion mercenary, Kyle Katarn, established a long lasting 
 series, after all. Finding clues and defeating one of the most feared Imperial weapons, the Dark 
 Trooper, adds an exciting atmosphere and will impulse the player to discover the quest of Katarn. 
 As a result, most players will play the game from end-to-end.
  
  Since the game is over a decade old, the graphics definitely show for it's age. Simple sprites 
 and textures are abundant in the game. Although the level design is rendered in 3D, the simple 
 texture and character models hinder pretty eye candy. The cut scenes range from simple sprite images 
 of characters to 3D instances. Although the lip syncing and animations may not be all that impressive 
 and clearly resembles DOOM wannabes, the graphics have the ability to maintain ones sanity when 
 compared to oh so glorious graphics of the current generation. The Star Wars movies were clearly 
 phenomenal in terms of sound and music. The creators of this game were able to grasp the sense 
 of sound that was in the trilogy. Although low in quality, the sound that is provided is excellent. 
 The scream of blaster fire and taunting of enemies really adds to the environment. The music that 
 plays throughout the game is also well made and offers great variety. The age of DOS games are 
 remembered to be simple blips and bleeps in some cases. However, Dark Forces sets itself apart 
 from the surreal environment that is displayed due to the sound quality.
  
  Although blasting enemies gets repetitive and the graphics and sounds are clearly out of date, 
 this game provides a lasting experience. It is truly a title that Star Wars fans will remember, 
 even though the titles of this magnitude are essentially non-existent from the famed developer 
 LucasArts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treep78
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game really got me strted with gameing and I think that without it I never would have discovered 
 how great and fps could be! This game has some nice gameplay and visuals for the time. The right 
 amount of distructive power was put in the weapons making each one completely unique. That may 
 be what the second game missed. How can you compare to a weapon that makes you enemies go up in 
 hot flames of plasma? The enemies were done briliantly. They may have been lacking in number, but 
 there was more veriety than you normaly get in games today. The Dark Troopers were incredibly menecing 
 and posed a huge threat wielding the best weapons in the game and the ability to fly. I sometimes 
 long for the old days when games were simple and pure enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablocapo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Ten years ago, when Dark Forces was released, I couldn't believe my eyes. By that time, I was just 
 like eight years old, a huge Star Wars fan, and I was actually playing a Star Wars FPS!
  This is an incredible game. The graphics are obviously outdated nowadays, but they were great in 
 those times. The sounds of the weapons, the blasts, the stormtroopers and imperial officers calling 
 you names like "rebel scum" are just great. And the music, taken from the original movies, composed 
 by John Williams, is really good and goes perfectly along with the game.
  The game takes place before episode IV. You are Kyle Katarn, formerly an imperial trooper, now 
 working for the rebelion, stealing plans and info, blowing up stormtroopers, etc. You will have 
 a good quantity of varied weapons, and other stuff to help you achieve your objectives.
  The story is really good, considering that FPS in those days didn't have much of a plot, except 
 to shoot and destroy anything that standed between you and the next level.
  To sum up, Dark Forces offers a lot of entertainment, to anyone willing to play a good FPS from 
 the old days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game plays so much better than Doom. You can actually have rooms above rooms. The levels were 
 artistic and the game had a good feel for some of the weapons, especially the standard Stormtrooper 
 rifle.
  
  The story is basically told in a letter from Jan Ors to the a Rebel Leader, Mon Mothma. The game 
 took place between Episode 3 and 4 where Mon Mothma hinted of a freelance mercenary (Kyle Katarn) 
 who infiltrated an Empire base to steal the plans of the Death Star. During this time, Dark Forces 
 (DF) was surrounded by games like Descent, Duke Nukem, Doom and its trillions of clones. It was 
 also during this time when Lucasarts was at an all time high in making good use of the Star Wars 
 license and this game is no exception. The graphics have aged well but I couldn't get over the 
 limitation of sprite animations in the 3d world. I'm probably one of the few who really didn't 
 have much satisfaction in playing Doom and its many clones. Call me bias. However, DF had one thing 
 going for it:
  
  It was still Star Wars.
  
  The game's graphics stood out at that time but it wasn't so much the graphics. It was the sounds. 
 I remember playing a demo of it in Comp USA and was sold in buying it. There were weapons in the 
 game that screamed Star Wars and then there were some weapons that seemed pointless or more flashy 
 than functional. The level design made you feel like you were walking around a bonified area from 
 Star Wars and it felt cinematic shooting and running pass Stormtroopers as you hear their rifles 
 blasting while they shout "Stop, Rebel scum!". It brings great feelings when the soundtrack happened 
 to cue up as you escape to the next door. Before the full 3D breakthrough of Quake, the game also 
 allowed you (much like other FPS at that time) to look 50% up and 50% down. You couldn't look directly 
 above or below you thanks to the limitation of sprites and 3D engine. This made crouching useless 
 and jumping a chore. It was one of the most annoying and gimmicky reasons which kept me from buying 
 other FPS games at that time. 
  
  The game had many weapons to play with. Some of the weapons were outrageous. Outside of the standard 
 Star Wars fare (Bryar pistol and Laser Rifle) you would come across some really potent firepower. 
 You never see these weapons in the movies but they are really fun to use. The Repeater gun was 
 my weapon of choice since it had an extremely fast fire mode which pushed enemies back when they 
 make contact with the ammo. Other enjoyable weapons included the mines, assault cannon (equivalent 
 to Doom's BFG) , and the enjoyable Mortar Gun. It lobs huge mortar shells, takes up half your field 
 of view, and cleans out groups of baddies. However, despite these weapons, many people wondered 
 if we could find that one weapon everyone wanted to use in the game...
  
  The lightsaber.
  
  Anyway, it wouldn't make any sense to have the lightsaber if Kyle Katarn 
 was not training to be a Jedi or didn't have any inkling of force powers. According to the Star 
 Wars universe, he would probably hurt himself.
  
  Dark Forces is a good game on many different merits and is still playable during this time. If 
 you're into starting the Kyle Katarn marathon, you should start with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Dark Forces came out during the era in video games where first person shooters were 
 just mindless romps through random levels loosely connected by what the developers called a "plot". 
 When Dark Forces came out it was criticised as being a Doom clone, but Dark Forces was more than 
 that, and it helped improve the FPS genre as a whole.
  
  In Dark Forces you assume the role of a mercenary, and Rebel Agent Kyle Katarn as he prepares to 
 steal the plans for the dreaded Death Star at an Imperial base on the planet of Danuta. After this 
 the story skips ahead to some time after the Death Star's destruction when a Clone Wars veteran 
 General Rom Mohc is presenting his Dark Trooper project to Darth Vader. After the Dark Troopers 
 decimate a city and Rebel base on Talay Mon Mothma calls upon Kyle Katarn in hope that he will 
 help the Alliance shut down the project. Kyle agrees, and along with his trusted mission officer 
 Jan Ors he begins to learn more about the project, and shut down its production facilities one 
 by one.
  
  Dark Forces plays like most first person shooters. You use weapons, and you kill any hostiles that 
 stand in your way. Dark Forces brought some interesting ideas to the table, however; the first 
 being mission objectives. Dark Forces requires you to perform certain objectives during every mission 
 to succeed, it may be stealing an object, or planting charges and destroying a production facility. 
 Dark Forces also allows you to look up and down rather than simply straight ahead like the rest 
 of the FPS games of that period. You may also jump and crouch; which are widely used features in 
 modern shooters.
  
  The graphics in Dark Forces are obviously outdated. Enemies are 2D sprites, and despite the environments 
 being fully 3D the textures have hardly any detail on them. Fans of modern shooters will most likely 
 be turned off by the less than impressive graphics, and that is understandable.
  
  The sound is excellent. You'll hear traditional Star Wars sound effects throughout the game, and 
 stormtroopers will shout out "Stop, Rebel scum!" when they see you. The voice acting is also surprisingly 
 good considering that the game came out in a time when voice acting in video games was the last 
 thing that developers and publishers worried about. Finally there's the music which is mostly an 
 original score in MIDI format that occasionally includes some classic themes from the original 
 Star Wars trilogy such as the Imperial March.
  
  Dark Forces is a classic shooter in every respect. It was one of the first story based shooters, 
 and helped introduced several features to the shooter genre that are commonly used today. Star 
 Wars fans will love it, and even general FPS fans will enjoy it if they can get past the extremely 
 dated graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestroll
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay, it's kind of dated and the graphics have the resolution of a cell phone, but back in the 
 day, Dark Forces delivered. The story was amazing and when I was a kid, following the adventures 
 of Kyle Katarn was highly addictive. 
  
  Although the game has no multiplayer, and this has been said many times by others, it does offer 
 a great single player story mode with a great mix of maps. And you get to uppercut stormtroopers 
 20 feet into the air! Furthermore, the game explores the timeframe between episode 3 and 4. Alright, 
 there was no episode 3 back then but it was still fun to see how the rebellion got the plans to 
 the death star and how the Dark Trooper came to be. Most people who play battlefront can't figure 
 out where the Dark Trooper even came from. I find it's kid of fun to see Lucas going vintage on 
 his modern games and bringing back a classic villain.
  
  Weaponwise, it was just your basic rifles and such, but a few stood out, like the five barrelled 
 blaster and the shockwave gun, they were always fun to shoot.
  
  Anyways, it's a timeless classic, no two-ways about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Classic, straightfoward, shoot 'em up combat; weird level design (in a good way)
  BAD: No AI to speak of; graphics are an eyesore; incredibly easy; no multiplayer; cliched story
 
  
  Yes, Dark Forces is an old game. Does that stop it from being good? Of course not! 
  
  The gameplay is still fun. Classic level design (the deceptively simplistic type of level design 
 that's found in old games and seems weird but awesome today) mixes with the first real use of puzzle-solving 
 in a shooter game. Dark Forces, I believe, was the first game that featured multi-level structures, 
 jumping, crouching, and looking up and down. The controls are severely outdated and it's a pain 
 to actually re-configure them, but after 20 minutes or so of playing you should get used to it. 
 Otherwise it's a simple, classic shooter/puzzle game. The levels are extremely linear and the game 
 has no AI to speak of (with the number of enemies increasing for the difficulty levels instead 
 of getting smarter) and the campaign in extremely easy. After playing through the campaign 50+ 
 times, you memorize every hallway, nook, corner, cranny, enemy position, and secret area in the 
 level, and after that the replayability goes sharply downhill due to the lack of multiplayer, and 
 I was able to burn through the entire campaign on hard difficulty setting in one 8-hour sitting.
 
  
  The graphics are obviously severely outdated for today, but for the time they were average. The 
 giant square pixels that are visible everywhere can be distracting, but it's easy to see through 
 the bad graphics and enjoy the classic gameplay. I left the sound at a 7, since it's been a long 
 time since I've had a bad enough computer to hear the sound, but from what I remember the music 
 was simply Star Wars music and the voice acting was bad with normal gameplay sounds.
  
  So, overall, Dark Forces is a classic shooter/puzzle game that can still be extremely fun. It was 
 also the first game to really expand upon the original Doom formula. So if you enjoy old-school 
 shooters, haven't played this game, have $5 to spare, and know a good bargain bin store, go ahead 
 and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This was one fo the first FPS's and it really got the genre going. Classic Star Wars story with 
 a great plot and awesome action. What a great freaking game. I played this for hours and beat it 
 twice. I probably played the first level, my favorite about 200 times. If you have a PC old enough 
 to play it and you appreciate good games, you need to have this. The graphics are pretty good for 
 their time and there are some good sound effects, including nice voice syncing in the cutscreens. 
 Value and Tilt and Gameplay are 10's, amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2004 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The game is revolutionary for allowing you to be able to jump and crouch and look up 
 and down. Sadly, the mouse cannot be used for looking around like we're used to in FPS today so 
 it suffers slightly from that. The 'auto aim' makes up for the keyboard's lack of precision aiming 
 but it still will feel quite strange for those who have never played the game before.
  
  This game is very similar to its sequel, Jedi Knight, in that it puts a balanced focus on action 
 and puzzles. It has no MP, but the 14 mission single player campaign is more than enough to have 
 kept me hooked.
  
  Graphics - Ugh. The game's one weakpoint to today's standards. I think the enemy models and most 
 of the textures look pretty decent for when they were made. It can get a bit nauseating at times 
 but you can toggle the 'head wave' which may be the cause of that.
  
  Sound - The sound is old and crummy quality. But the sounds still convey everything that is Star 
 Wars. Plus, the music has alot of original stuff woven into the movie soundtracks so unlike all 
 of the other games of the series, it has its own unique feel to it that none of the others had.
 
  
  The voices of the enemies are all great; no complaints anywhere in this department. The voices 
 in the cutscenes, save for Kyle's, are all great. Kyle's isn't necessarily bad, but it's nothing 
 like what he sounds like in any of the other games.
  
  Value - As I said before, the game has no multiplayer, but that doesn't affect me any. I play games 
 for the single player campaigns and this one has a rich storyline full of colorful, original characters 
 as well as a few from the movie. I seriously have put in close to 100 hours into this game in the 
 past 10 years. It's well crafted level designs and secret areas may beg you to go back and replay 
 them as I have.
  
  All in all, a great game. It costs less than $10 today so why not give it a go if you call yourself 
 a fan of Jedi Outcast/ Jedi Academy? See how Kyle's legacy started! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  A 7. something?!? What in the world is that about? This is one of the greatest first person shooters 
 ever made. Everything about it is fantastic. From the gameplay to the graphics, it's top notch. 
 This is by far the best Star Wars game ever made. Even better than KOTOR and Jedi Knight. It's 
 the first and the best! As far as action first person shooters are concerned this is one of the 
 best there ever was. There is no way in hell this game deserves a 7. something. I really recommend 
 everyone goes out and plays this game right now, even though it doesn't really hold up well anymore. 
 Bah! Fine, play Jedi Outcast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
