-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Empire at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsrts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dual-layered design lets you think on both a strategic and a tactical level.
 Epic-looking battles.
 Sound effects are spot-on for what you'd expect from a Star Wars game.
 Rebellion and Empire offer contrasting play styles.
 Large array of heroes that have a real impact on gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Can get a little repetitive.
 Land battles aren't as compelling as other aspects of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 10,167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Petroglyph
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 15, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Wars fans finally get to play a strategy game worthy of the license. 

  The Star Wars franchise has seen its share of great action games, role-playing games, and space-combat 
 simulators, but the strategy genre is something that, for some reason, has proved elusive for LucasArts 
 to truly capture. The efforts to date, including Rebellion, Force Commander, and Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 have ranged from poor to pretty good. Petroglyph's Empire at War is the game that's finally gotten 
 the formula down just right. In Empire at War, the action takes place both in outer space and on 
 the surface of planets, but the interconnection of the two is one of many important strategic aspects 
 that you'll consider as you make your way through the campaign and galactic conquest scenarios. 
 Logical differences in the optimal playing style between the Empire and Rebellion, as well as an 
 epic presentation befitting of the license, contribute to a fantastic overall package that any 
 strategy-game player can appreciate, whether you have a stormtrooper outfit in your closet or you 
 just have a passing familiarity with the films.  

          Strategy-game fans won't be disappointed with Empire at War.     

  The real-time action 
 in Empire at War takes place on two different layers -- a strategic layer, and a tactical aspect, 
 which are the battles you fight in space and on land. The strategic layer takes place on a 2D galactic 
 map, which shows all the planets in the galaxy. If you're playing the campaign, you'll worry about 
 more than 40 different planets, while some of the galactic-conquest scenarios have as few as eight 
 or 10 planets arrayed. Most planets can support space stations and land buildings such as barracks, 
 mining facilities, factories, or even planetary defense systems like turbo-laser towers or massive 
 ion cannons that shoot up into space. You can get more detailed information on a planet by zooming 
 in on it, which gives you something of a Civ-lite view, listing all the units and structures there, 
 as well as the things you can build on that planet. The Rebel side see all Empire-controlled planets 
 on the galactic map, while the Empire must deploy probe droids to seek out the Rebels. The important 
 thing to remember is that the action takes place in real time, even on the galactic map. So if 
 you spend too much time considering what to build or where to send a fleet, you may invite the 
 computer to attack one of your systems.  

  Some of the planets have unique bonuses, such as letting you build units more cheaply, or making 
 all of one type of unit more powerful. The biggest ships like Mon Calamari cruisers and Imperial 
 Star Destroyers can be built on only a few different planets, so as you'd expect, there are relative 
 values for the different planets in the galaxy. All planets you control, however, add to your daily 
 credit income, which allows you to purchase improvements for your planets and, of course, the soldiers 
 and war machines that make up your military-industrial complex. There are a lot of demands on how 
 you spend your credits -- if you go all troops and no improvements, you risk falling behind in the 
 technology race, or not having a stout defense in place if a raiding fleet arrives at one of your 
 planets. One of the main differences between the Empire and the Rebellion is that the Empire usually 
 generates a lot more money. Over the course of a campaign you can eventually build an economy so 
 powerful that you build up massive forces to overwhelm Rebel defenses. The Rebellion doesn't have 
 the luxury of limitless resources, so you'll find that they're more difficult to play and learn, 
 but you can still steal technology and money from the Empire to weaken them and advance your cause. 
 They also have the unique ability to make small raiding parties that can land on a planet and bypass 
 any space defenses the Empire may have in place.  

          The galactic map gives you an overview of the entire galaxy, so you can plan your next 
 attack.     

  The tactical-combat layer comes into play when the two factions meet on a planet. If two space 
 fleets meet up, a space battle ensues. The game gives the defender some advantage in that any existing 
 space station in orbit over a planet, as well as planetary defenses like ion cannons or hypervelocity 
 cannons, can contribute to the battle, along with whatever fleet happens to be around. The higher-level 
 space stations are fearsome indeed, with multiple laser and torpedo batteries, as well as its own 
 small navy to harass attacking capital ships. The space-combat battles look great -- the sense of 
 scale between the huge Imperial capital ships and the smaller Rebel gunships and corvettes is plainly 
 obvious. Fighters like TIEs and X-Wings buzz around the larger ships like gnats on an elephant. 
 If you've got the graphics options turned up, the explosions look fabulous, with electrical fields 
 shimmering around a ship disabled by ion cannons, and downed capital ships breaking apart into 
 large pieces while falling slowly out of space. You'll also see distortion effects around exploding 
 hardpoints, which brings up another interesting aspect of space combat in Empire at War. The space 
 stations and capital ships all have hardpoints pertaining to different systems, such as shield 
 generators and weapon systems. You can target individual systems to cripple larger ships in specific 
 ways. Getting rid of the hangar on Imperial capital ships will thin out the fighter cover, while 
 targeting engines can slow down ships. In most cases, the order in which you want to take out hardpoints 
 is obvious, but ships that have special features, like the gravity well on the Interdictor cruiser, 
 add even more tactical considerations. If you don't remove that gravity-well generator, for example, 
 you can't retreat out of a system and save some of your fleet.  

  Land battles in Empire at War probably aren't quite as fun to play or look at as the space battles, 
 but they offer their own unique nuances. The number of units you can control at once in land battles 
 is limited by the number of reinforcement points you control. The attacking side is usually under 
 a good amount of pressure to find and control more reinforcement points so they can call down more 
 help, which is important if the defending team has a large number of units or emplaced defenses 
 like shield generators. There are elevation and line-of-sight considerations, as well as weather 
 effects such as snow or heavy rain that hamper visibility and accuracy of weapons. Special hardpoints 
 on a map can also be controlled by either side for building small turrets or healing and repair 
 stations for troops. If you control a fleet in orbit over the planet you can call down periodic 
 bombing strikes that are powerful enough to take out major structures like factories or barracks. 
 What's odd is that the defending team can't produce additional units directly out of the structures 
 on the planet. Building units puts them into your reinforcement queue, but you still have to call 
 them down on specific, controlled reinforcement landing zones in order to bring them to bear.  
    

  The primary reason that the land battles don't seem as fun as the space battles, though, is that 
 the maps are all kind of bland and feel very similar, whether you're fighting in an urban area, 
 a rainy swamp planet, or on snowy tundra. The enemy artificial intelligence is also not very devious 
 on land maps, aside from its use of long-range artillery units. It will generally send waves of 
 troops headlong at you, and there isn't much you need to fight them off. Contrast this with the 
 space AI, where the computer will hide squadrons of bombers in asteroid fields or nebulae and spring 
 them on the flanks of your destroyers, behind your front line of corvettes. You'll also see the 
 computer execute some hit-and-run action with smaller gunships trying to bait your fighters out 
 of the protection of the capital ships. There just isn't as much clever tactical play from the 
 computer in the land battles. At least from a strategic sense, the computer knows well enough to 
 strike at where you're weakest, but once you get a handle on where all the activity is, you can 
 still easily rein it in by positioning defenses and fleets on the front lines.  

          Empire at War looks fabulous on land...     

  Hero units are also worth noting in Empire 
 at War, as they're generally very powerful and can easily swing the tide of any battle they participate 
 in. Each side has quite an array at their disposal, all with their unique traits. Palpatine and 
 Mon Mothma, for example, can reduce production costs on any planet that they're stationed on. Boba 
 Fett can crush concentrations of fighters by dropping a seismic charge in space maps. C3PO and 
 R2D2 can hack into turrets and turn them against their owners in land battles. All the heroes are 
 very difficult to kill, but they're not completely invincible, so you do have to keep an eye on 
 them. Losing one can hamper your war effort; at least until the hero is automatically replaced 
 over time.  

  After you get a handle on all the activity going on across the galaxy, Empire at War boils down 
 to amassing raid fleets and invasion parties and knocking over one planet after another while trying 
 to hold on to the ones you've gained control over. The larger and more sprawling your sphere of 
 influence becomes, the more difficult it is to keep tabs on everything, and you'll probably find 
 yourself swearing under your breath when your opponent raids a lightly defended planet that you 
 forgot about. Thankfully, the game includes an "auto-resolve battle" button that lets the computer 
 determine the outcome of battles for you, in order to save time. Still, the fun is in the details, 
 and playing a campaign of Empire at War will definitely keep your mind busy as planets change hands 
 back and forth.  

  The game ships with a story mode campaign for the Rebellion and the Empire, as well as a handful 
 of "galactic conquest" scenarios. These play out quite similarly to the story campaigns, except 
 with varying numbers of planets available, as well as variation in the technology level. The objectives 
 don't change up that much, but you can tweak the amount of money each side starts with, as well 
 as the starting tech level. There's also skirmish mode, which allows you to play single tactical 
 battles against the computer on land or in space. Acquiring credits for units requires you to capture 
 and control structures or areas of the map that generate money. Most multiplayer battles will be 
 skirmishes, and you can play up to eight players online or over LAN. Thus far, the online performance 
 has been pretty good, and it's been easy to find matches through LucasArts' matchmaking system. 
 It's also possible to play a multiplayer head-to-head campaign match against a friend -- obviously 
 these can take a while, so you have the ability to save the match and reload it to continue later. 

  The graphics and sound in Empire at War are uniformly breathtaking. We already mentioned the epic 
 nature of space battles and the sense of scale imparted by the different ships. The land battles 
 are also impressive, as you'll see huge AT-STs and AT-ATs lumbering around while dozens of infantry 
 scurry about underneath their feet. The weather effects look great, and there's a good variety 
 of different tilesets. There's even a neat cinematic camera that you can switch to in order to 
 give you a more movielike view of the battlefield. You lose control of the game in this mode, so 
 it's not something you're going to be using a lot, but when you do steal a peek, it can show some 
 great perspectives of the battlefield, even if the texturing up close doesn't look so hot. The 
 camera's not perfect -- a lot of times it'll show you a view of nothing in particular, but you can 
 cycle through different angles using the space bar. The only graphical caveat is that the game 
 can chug at times, even on a moderately-outfitted computer. On our 2.53GHz Pentium 4 rig with a 
 GeForce 6800 card, we'd experience some slowdown with all the settings turned up at 1600x1200, 
 but nothing that made the game unplayable. The sharp-looking explosions and shadow effects were 
 well worth it.  

          ... or in space.     

  The weapons all look and sound as you'd expect them to. By now, the noise of a laser gun firing 
 in Star Wars is ingrained into the psyche of just about everyone in the world as the way a laser 
 "should" sound, and Empire at War doesn't disappoint in the weapon-effects department. The voice 
 acting in the game is also quite impressive -- Petroglyph did a great job at bringing in soundalikes 
 to handle all the major roles in the game, like Darth Vader. The game's soundtrack is suitably 
 epic but not overbearing, lending great support to the overall ambience of Empire at War.  

  As a strategy game, Empire at War delivers a true Star Wars experience. If you're into AT-ATs 
 stomping around battlefields, Darth Vader knocking over 20 soldiers with Force push, or space battles 
 thick with dozens of fighters swarming in between gargantuan capital ships, Empire at War will 
 deliver all that in a fun, compelling package. You can't really lose in any game in which you can 
 blow up a planet with the Death Star, can you? Combined with a presentation that is as epic as 
 the films that inspired the game and a slick, dual-layered strategy design, Empire at War is easily 
 recommendable to any strategy fan, especially those who are fond of George Lucas' space classic. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (609 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  Let me just point out that the gameplay in this game couldn't be much better. It is fun and the 
 environment looks very realistic with wind blowing objects so it makes a realistic RTS experience. 
 I enjoyed galactic conquest and watching battles (especially space battles) in cinematic style. 
 You might think now that I believe it is a game worth of editor's choice, but there are many other 
 things to be considered.
  
  The music is the same, but remains great as always. I think what really turned me off was the high 
 difficulty in ground combat. In campaign and galactic conquest you could only call in a small number 
 of ground reinforcements and the enemy often outnumber you a hundred to one. That is what pissed 
 me off. The main highlight is the space combat. It is often my favourite thing in skirmish and 
 perhaps what makes me vote above a 6.0 ... so it obviously outranks the brilliance of ground combat. 
 
  
  So yeah, the difficulty is annoying sometimes. Another thing that I dislike is the graphics. Even 
 for a 2006 RTS, they were pretty poor on object modeling. I know that Company of Heroes had first 
 class graphics and does so even now, but even Rome Total War had better graphics than this Star 
 Wars RTS. The storm troopers were as skinny as dolls so it was not the prettiest thing to look 
 at. 
  
  This is a pretty fair RTS with a lot of good little things, but with a small number of large bad 
 things so I think it is best to say that there are better choices out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMadman94
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a brilliant game for both Star Wars and RTS fans alike. It sucks you 
 into it completely after playing it for about 10 minutes and you never want to stop. The campaign 
 modes will eat away your social life ("Just one more battle...") and the Galactic Conquest will 
 have you strategising your plan the whole day. The amazing visuals along with the fantastic quality 
 of the sound will make you really feel like you are in the battle. There are 3 different modes 
 in the game (excluding the multiplayer) . First there's the campaign. You can play as either the 
 Empire or the Alliance in a story driven series of missions (along with taking over planets here 
 and there to boost your wealth and army) which starts long before Episode IV. Reliving great battles 
 from the movie and fighting in those you've never seen before are both equally thrilling experiences. 
 Galactic Conquest requires more of a strategic mind as you fight against the opposing faction for 
 control of the galaxy. Unlike the rest of the game, this part requires a bit of previous experience 
 of RTS's to play. The Skirmish mode is pretty simple as it lets you jump straight into the action, 
 build your army from scratch and destroy the enemy's base.
  Anyway, I would highly recommend this for fans of Star Wars or RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic setting, Best music I have ever herd, get to play Darth Vader, get to play 
 all of the Star Wars characters you see in the movies, one of the best strategy games of all time, 
 excellent story.
  
  The Bad: Minor bugs and glitches, old school graphics, poorly executed cutscenes, terrible voice 
 acting, terrible physics engine, short single player campaign, incredibly dull planetary battles.
 
  
  Get ready for hundreds of hours of enjoyment because Star Wars: Empire At War has it all. Like 
 every Star Wars game they always make you feel like your in a Star Wars movie mainly how they properly 
 execute everything just like a Star Wars movie and that's a good thing, I almost forgot I was playing 
 a game. The story gets off to a slow start but after the second single player campaign mission 
 then everything falls into place. Terrible terrible voice acting, Darth Vader doesn't sound like 
 Darth Vader at all. The space battles are a trillion times better than the planetary battles. Definitely 
 buy this, this is a must have for anyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss4paul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Over all this is one of the best star wars games ever to come out with the space and land battle's 
 are very good and you are able to use your favourites heros its great. in space u can use han solo 
 darth vader and more oh and dont forget luke each side has there space station to protect. You 
 have to level up the space stations to be able to use diffrent units if u get to level 6 u can 
 use heros like home 1. Land games you can see darth vadr and obi one fight it out in a claic light 
 saber fight just like space u have a command center to protect and its able to level up but just 
 3 levels u r able to build t2b tanks and of course the AT AT'S and of course if u want to take 
 down AT AT'S u need speeders i could talk more about this game but i keep it simple if u like star 
 wars and dont own this game what have u been thinking get it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War was a new experience for me. I had never played a game like Rome Total 
 War before and wasn't used to making units and then only using those on a battlefield. So when 
 I first played Empire at War I was a bit nervous. I got the hang of the controls soon enough though, 
 and eventually I was having the time of my life sending in AT-ATs and waves of stormptroopers to 
 crush those pesky rebels. Then I discovered something about the game that I loved and made me play 
 it for ages more. Space battles. Oh yes, space battles. I found it so fun to pound away at the 
 Rebel space station with Star Destroyer's and swarm them with Tie-fighters and bombers. The campaigns 
 are fun with both sides, allowing you to play out the story between the films, and the skirmishes 
 add some length to the game. But the mode that I loved the most was Galactic Conquest. You would 
 start out in a galaxy as either the Rebels or the Imperials, and you have to accomplish a certain 
 objective in a certain amount of time, such as destroy all the Rebels, or something similarly brutal. 
 All in all, Empire at War is a great game if you are a fan of Star Wars and also a great game if 
 you enjoy strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clo44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  great game if u are a fan of the saga star wars good game similar to dawn of war no resource gathering 
 required lets u get right into the action. if ur looking for something different then u should 
 definitely try this out it works like dawn of war the whole squad thing but u cant add more units 
 to a squad so if u lose any ur stuck without those units
  
  great game if u are a fan of the saga star wars good game similar to dawn of war no resource gathering 
 required lets u get right into the action. if ur looking for something different then u should 
 definitely try this out it works like dawn of war the whole squad thing but u cant add more units 
 to a squad so if u lose any ur stuck without those units
  
  great game if u are a fan of the saga star wars good game similar to dawn of war no resource gathering 
 required lets u get right into the action. if ur looking for something different then u should 
 definitely try this out it works like dawn of war the whole squad thing but u cant add more units 
 to a squad so if u lose any ur stuck without those units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game I thought "that is cool", and I got my expections up. I got the 
 game, played it, and it was amazing. The feature I really like about this game is that you can 
 do space and land battles, and use strategy to win both. Also the cinematic feature is nice since 
 it lets you see your battle as if you were watching a star wars movie. Most of the characters from 
 Episodes 4, 5, and 6 are here and each have their own unique abilities. You probably will also 
 recognize the planets.
  
  The story mode is pretty good, but kind of short. Its nice that you can play it as either the Empire 
 or the Rebellion, and both have special abilities that the other side does not. For example the 
 Rebellion can see all Empire planets while the Empire cannot see Rebellion planets. You can also 
 play skirmish games to try and take over all the planets in the galaxy.
  
  This game is a must for all Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NethenT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I had had high hopes for this game, it looked like it was going to be excellent. It had good graphics 
 and help fairly true to the movies.
  
  I started a galactic campaign and it look great, excellent interface for doing a galactic scale 
 war, when I did a space battle it was cool, I love the critical points on space stations and capital 
 ships. i was a little disappointed by the size of the map but still seamed well rounded.
  
  I then did a ground battle, what a disappointment, indifferent enemy spawn, very few units at any 
 point in time, and it seemed ridiculous the way a square of troops moved an fought.
  
  It was an interesting game but only worth the money if you find in for a good deal. I hope my review 
 will help you decide on whether or not to get this game, make sure to check other review to get 
 a well rounded opinion.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.0
  Color: 9.0
  Gameplay: 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeadlyFred_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to toss this out as a quick review simply to say that I think developers could learn 
 a bit from this game. It's ok to take chances and try new things, a handful of unique game mechanics 
 (which actually work pretty well) can make and otherwise average game much more worth playing.
 
  
  Firstly I will say that had Empire at War been a more traditional cut & dry RTS it would be decidedly 
 mediocre. Nothing about the game is broken but little about the core gameplay is especially exceptional 
 or worthy of note. The overall formula boils down to the same sort of "paper-rock-scissors" kind 
 of thing we've been seeing for years in the genre. Although that aspect is at least not quite as 
 prominent here as it is elsewhere, it exists none the less.
  
  What sets EaW apart is how it -handles- gameplay and in this, it manages to differentiate itself 
 from the crowd. Rather than your basic "meta-map joining countless series' of skirmish after skirmish 
 battles", EaW divides combat into a few separate styles of engagement:
  
  1.) The Galactic map: Rather than just being a hub for battles and place for you to arrange your 
 toops, you can actually resolve battles effectively with proper force disposition right from here. 
 This curtails the need to constantly break up your broad strategic planning phase by personally 
 dealing with every little conflict which pops up.
  
  2.) Orbital Battles: Though this isn't exactly Homeworld or anything of the like, its an interesting 
 little distraction from your standard ground-based warfare. Any time a fleet meets a hostile fleet 
 or a planet upgraded with a starport you get to wage battle above the planet itself. It's a pretty 
 straight-forward thing for the most part but an interesting change none the less, and helpful because 
 you can often prevail against otherwise overwhelming odds by applying a bit of good tactics in 
 person rather than accepting a loss on the Galactic map.
  
  3.) Planetary Invasion: Upon landing on a hostile planet, you will be faced with a limited-force 
 surface battle -- so bring plenty of "doodz"! What's nice about this mode is that any damage you 
 deal to garrisoned units and structures on the planet is persistent so even if your assault "fails" 
 you can come back with more "doodz" to finish the job and possibly have a slightly easier time 
 of it.
  
  4.) Planetary Defense: When you're running with home-court advantage you'll be able to get a steady 
 if somewhat slowish stream of reinforcements, as well as other benefits, from any of the base structures 
 you have built on the planet's surface. This doesn't mean you can skimp on garrison units but it 
 will give you a slight edge in manpower. Getting to keep any defensive structures you've built 
 on the map is a bonus as well, and all you actually need to do to win is drive the invader off 
 the planet (by recapturing all the reinforcement points) , rather than actually obliterating them.
 
  
  Eh, call me easily amused but I like games that try different things and I especially like when 
 said things actually work somewhat. Empire at War isn't a great game but its a solid one with nothing 
 glaring broken about it though its probably something more appealing to those who actually like 
 Star Wars. It's nothing that redefines the genre but it at least suggests that you can try something 
 a little different and get away with it -- you could definitely do worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Great game but not as great as everybody thinks.
  In the campaign you can play as the rebellion or empire with each their own missions and cutscenes, 
 the missions are great and so are the ending cutscenes, you can play online skirmish on land, land 
 control and space with a lot of maps, you can also do a galactic conquest with a lot of different 
 scenario's.
  Their is also a Lan mode and online mode their are a lot of players and you can do a quick match 
 but sometimes lag issues can be found.
  The game has also got some other bad things like the units are sometimes hard to control, like 
 sometimes when a unit is attacking a structure and you order it to attack an other stuctures it 
 wont respond or units get stuck in turrets.
  Their are a lot of different units both for the rebbelion and empire like: At At walkers, t2-b 
 tanks, rocket troops and a lot more that you have never seen in the Star Wars movies, their are 
 also a lot of heroes like: Darth Vader, The emperor, boba fett, han solo, Chewbacca and more.
  The base building is weirdn on skirmish you cannot choose where your buildings are, you can only 
 build on the places your allowed, you can also build a lot of turrets but also only on build pads, 
 in space you can choose where your space station is and you can't really choose where your turrets 
 are.
  In space and land you can buy upgrades also this system is weird and when the building is destroyed 
 you lose them and you need to buy them again, their are a lot of special abilities witch change 
 the game.
  The population cap is annoying as attacker in land skirmish you can land your troops on command 
 points and you can capture more of these command points to have more drop-of points and you will 
 be able to have a bigger population cap. as defender you cannot drop troops down the units on the 
 planet defend it, in space the population cap is still anoying, like there is a cap of 20 that 
 means the maximum that you can build is 4 star destroyers and you can't really have epic battles.
 
  In the galactic view mode you must build units and structures as well as sending smuggles to steal 
 credits from your enemy and sent bounty hunters to track down enemy heroes.
  Some parts of the game clearly doesn't make sens like in land skirmish you need to build a factory 
 to build At At 's but the At At will land on a command point, why do you need a heavy factory if 
 the unit doesn't get made there and just gets transported from space.
  But its still a great game with good campaign and great offline and online skirmishes but space 
 is still the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game is playable and bug free, although a little on the easy side.
  While the game looks like a Star Wars game should it lacks in something. 
  
  I can't put my 
 finger on it exactly, maybe the space battles don't feel epic enough which at times can be understandable, 
 we need our frame rate too but it gets repetitive quite quickly.
  
  The ground battles are very easy, for the most part the heroes feel way too overpowered and once 
 again these battles don't feel expansive enough. 
  
  On the other hand it does have its positives the turn based galactic map is quite cool and adds 
 a slightly different and tactical dimension to the standard RTS formula it isn't really enough 
 to save this game.
  
  It's not bad entertainment and it fills in some details between episode III and episode IV but 
 there's nothing that ground shaking storywise.
  
  This is the best Star Wars RTS to date but that isn't saying much really. We can only hope for 
 better next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptortank4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  I am sure you won't have played any other Star Wars RTS game out there like this. It takes what 
 we've all wanted and put it into action. You finally have the ability to command your own fleets 
 and armies to quell the Rebellion or overthrow the Galactic Empire. 
  
  The most addictive part of the game would have to be the space section. I haven't been able to 
 get this kind of "blast it all" experience anywhere else and EaW has given the huge fanbase what 
 it's been wanting.
  
  The game has different classes of ships starting from fighters, to patrol craft, to frigates, to 
 capitol ships. Each different category have different weaknesses. The ISD has a specific weakness 
 to bombers and other capitol class ships. However, it'll dominate any frigate or smaller ship. 
 Though, you will need your own TIE squadrons to counter the X-Wings or bombers.
  
  Besides the general strengths/weaknesses of the different types of ships is combined with the different 
 strengths of the Galactic Empire and the Rebellion. 
  
  The Rebellion overall have weaker ships, but have the capability to have more ships out in the 
 battlefield while the Empire has much more powerful ships. It comes down to quality vs quantity 
 with a mixture of strategy to mix up the balances.
  
  Now there's... land combat. I was very disappointed here and is why the score didn't go past a 
 nine - as well as some other issues I'll get to next. 
  The land combat isn't anything like your previous RTS games (Starcraft, Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 Age of Empires, Dawn of War, etc.) as the AI seems much stupider as you'll commonly find squads 
 of Rebel troopers or Stormtroopers running past your tanks. Typically the computer will also just 
 throw out their units on random quests to randomly adventure the map with no particular interest 
 for grouping different unit types to get a balanced attack group prepped to attack your main base.
 
  
  This game has great potential with mods that will no doubt be released for this game. It can take 
 this fast paced RTS game to be a more realistic sense or you can add countless more ships to your 
 arsenal. 
  
  If you're looking for a new Star Wars RTS game to try, then this game is definitely worth it - 
 even without the amazing mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a Star Wars RTS game that is set between episodes III and IV. The rebel 
 story starts as Raymus Antilles and his squadron of Rebel Blockade Runners attack an Imperial Space 
 facility. Then they get orders from Mon Mothma to take R-2 D-2 and C-3PO to a computer on a planet 
 (I can't remember the name) to find out what the heck the Empire is doing. Then later they send 
 ground forces to pick up the brand new X-Wings.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the player can either save the galaxy as the Rebel Alliance 
 or take control of it as the Empire. Zooming in on the battle action makes it like watching a new 
 Star Wars movie. A big galaxy to control. Heroes such as Kyle Katarn (from the Jedi Knight series) , 
 Han Solo, and Chewbacca are in tha game. Great graphics.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that you'll rarely get a chance to know when the enemy is 
 going to attack a planet you own.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best Star Wars RTS' ever. Intense battles. Zooming in on the action 
 make the game an amazing Star Wars experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spore_fanboy343
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I admit, it was a while before I bought this game ever since its Spring 2006 release. I aquired 
 this game on Thanksgiving and have enjoyed the many hours I've spent playing it. The gameplay is 
 good, and I often found myself getting many more credits than the NPC and when I expanded my territory 
 so much so that the NPC only had 1-3 planets, I found myself pulling all my forces away from the 
 surrounding planets, hoping that the enemy would mount an invasion on my unprotected planets, but 
 they never did which makes it lose a few points.
  
  Speaking of points being docked... The graphics are second rate. Often the terrain on land battles 
 seems more at place in Age of Mytholgy. Also, there are only about 90 people playing online, and 
 whats even worse are that most of the servers there are reserved.
  
  The worst thing about this game though, is the fact that the rebs suck at space combat, and the 
 Empire sucks at land battles.
  
  But, all in all, if you like RTS'S OR Starwars, then you should check out this game!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well EaW is a great game to start with its entertaining at all times but can get tedious and very 
 repetitive on harder difficulties. The biggest thing in this game is its attention to detail, it 
 really did bring Star Wars to life and all around it was a very well made game. 
  
  My only qualm is that the amazing space battles can be a little repetitive, and that the other 
 side of game play (the land battles) fall horribly short of anything but mediocre. 
  
  The multilayer is fun and interesting especially when mods get involved, personally being in a 
 eight person game and all of us having super star destroyers and such is just a hell of a lot of 
 fun. All in all pick up this game if you have the cash, or if its been price slashed at your local 
 EB.
  
  If at all possible you might even want to pick up the expansion, which adds another side to the 
 story and will keep you interested for even longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Not just because it's Star Wars, but the fact that you can now play on 
 the side you want and see how the vehicles/ships fight as well as command your own army into battle. 
 This is a very good concept of a RTS game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Absolutely fantastic. They did such a great job with the designs, maps, even the explosions look 
 so realistic. And I love how you can view exploding ships up close either manually or by watching 
 the battle cam. Every ship and vehicle is precisely detailed right down to the hanger bays of the 
 Star Destroyers and Calamari Cruisers. Plus the battle detail of the lasers and how ships slowly 
 fall apart when they explode is a very nice tough. They took notes and did their homework when 
 it comes to graphic detail.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Very nicely done. I do like the fact that it's fairly simple and straight forward, no need to learn 
 much. The only thing you will need to learn is that certain ships are better equipped to fight 
 certain enemies. Just because you have a Star Destroyer doesn't mean you can defend yourself from 
 every star fighter that comes your way. The only thing I would have liked is if the game allowed 
 you to manipulate true 3D while your in space, similar to how Star Trek Armada II did. This way 
 you have to pay close attention to everything, make you think more and react more. I also don't 
 like the fact that you are limited to how many ships and soldiers you can make. Not to complain 
 too much but the way I see it, if you have the resources, we should be able to make as much as 
 we see fit. Plus as long as we can handle the upkeep (Such as having 2 outposts to add more soldiers) 
 I don't see why we can't have more than the limits.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  A very brilliant concept with a good mix of game play and knowing the strengths and weaknesses 
 of every ship and vehicle. This is one RTS you can't go wrong with. Plus it's a fantastic multi-player 
 if you're into that kind of thing. You can't go wrong with this title or game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Before you rate this review as unhelpful, read the whole thing! Then rate it whatever you want.
 
  
  It's a fun game with some things that other RTS games don't have, such as a choice of battling 
 land or space, a wide variety of units, heroes (extra powerful units such as Vader's TIE Squadron) , 
 and a few other things. 
  If that were all I had to say, this game would probably get an 8.5+
  
  But that's not all I 
 have to say. Here are the negatives of this game.
  
  One resource, collecting the resource is too simple (send any ship, even a figter, to an asteroid 
 and click build mining facility for the mining facility to build itself, your ships can move away 
 and it will still build) , population limit (this is the worst. In space, the limit is 20! Augh!) , 
 and a few other things.
  
  Combine the 8.5+ of the good parts with the bad parts, and you'll get close to a 7. 
  
  Conclusion: 
 
  If you're an RTS newb, this game is great. If you need something more advanced (more population, 
 resources, and more) you should go for a different RTS. Rent the game if it's one of your 1sr RTS 
 games, or if you don't know what type of RTS gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  In the midst of the great Star Wars franchise, we've seen several adaptations of the RTS games 
 that attempt to bring to life the great battles of the movies and lore. Empire At War, the newest 
 and possibly most interesting entry, gives the gamer and fans of the franchise a chance to take 
 the roll of either the Empire or the Rebellion. Much of this title is based on an older, and lesser 
 known title by the name of Rebellion. Although there is quite a bit to this title that will draw 
 the fans of Star Wars, there are some annoyances within that will make some RTS fans critical.
 
  
  Set during the time of the original movies {Episode IV, V, VI} , the premise of the game is to either 
 control the galaxy with the iron fist of the Empire, or to free the deziens with the sheer will 
 of the Rebellion. You will find several of the campaign battles to take place in many of the most 
 familiar places such as Hoth, Endor, Corellia and many more. However, you won't find too much that 
 re-inacts the events of the movies like Galactic Battlegrounds. With this in mind, many of the 
 battles that are lackluster on the ground, actually come to life in the outer reaches of space.
 
  
  Stay on Target...
  
  Much of the gameplay that you're encounter here in Empire At War is your standard RTS fare in which 
 you much control your faction and create units, counter-units and bases in order to win the day. 
 There are several different vehicles and units to choose from in the form of AT-AT's, Stormtroopers, 
 Rebel Commandos, and the lore units such as T4-B tanks and TIE Maulers. In the grand scheme though, 
 the amount of attack/counter-attack units really doesn't play much into the strategy as it only 
 takes several powerful units from each side to zerg your opponent and win the day.
  
  Once you've selected your faction and begin to play, you'll find that it takes a bit of time to 
 get used to scrolling to your planet, setting up the bases, collecting money and then building 
 up a decent force. There are several different buildings that you can place on these planets, but 
 all of them have a different building cap that you have to work with. For instance, if you have 
 six slots on a planet, do you spend those precious spots creating mines to make money, or offensive 
 buildings to build up your army for the next attack. It's a matter of risk versus reward, especially 
 once the game is truly underway.
  
  The space battles on the other hand, is really where all of the action in EAW shines and is where 
 most Star Wars gamers will spend their time. As you fly into the different areas, the battles are 
 intense, with most of the strategy being on whether or not you can flank your opponent and cut 
 off the escape. As with the ground game however, you'll find that the same problem lies within 
 in which you simply need enough of one type of ship in order to destroy everything in front of 
 you with no problem. This is one of the few down-falls that I can find with EOW in the respect 
 that it is a solid playing game, but those with no patience will not bother with more than build 
 and zerg.
  
  Another excellent feature to the game is that there are multiple styles of play as well as different 
 ways that you can play the game. Want a short jaunt into EAW, pick a small map with only a few 
 planets. Want to stay for the duration, choose the largest map and be prepared to sit for a few 
 hours to complete your choice. One problem that I've found with the campaigns, is that if you aren't 
 there for the real-time battles, and you choose to auto-resolve, regardless of what you have in 
 that area, you'll generally lose.
  
  With an AI like that, it is hard to try and micro-manage your gameplay in terms of building bases 
 and defenses, especially late into the game. Your opponent is constantly attacking you and if you're 
 not careful, you can end up losing important territories and gimping your attack force as well 
 as your money pool. The auto-resolve is an interesting feature, but again, it seriously hampers 
 your play because eight out of ten times, you'll lose the battle and end up having to fight for 
 that planet all over again, expending your precious resources and time to do so.
  
  That's no moon...
  
  Possibly one of the best looking Star Wars RTS games to date, you have 
 to look at the shine along with the tarnish in the different aspects of the game. The ground battles 
 and units look a bit under the radar in terms of effects and movement and even the overall battles 
 seem a bit lackluster compared to the epic scope of what they are supposed to represent. While 
 the units move fluidly, there is a bit of want for something a little more than block characters 
 {when you scroll the camera in} fighting across the map. Weather effects are also a bit dull, even 
 though they can sometimes have an effect on your troops and how they fight.
  
  Space battles on the other hand, are immense and visually appealing. For those of you who liked 
 the epic space battles in the movies, you'll come to find that they are recreated {in a fashion} 
 to the same fast paced dogfights that you remember. The smaller ships such as the TIE Fighters 
 and the X-Wings move and look stiff, but the captial ships such as the Star Destroyers and the 
 Mon Calamari Cruisers are full of detail abd life. As you fight your way through space and you 
 destroy the enemy {or they destroy you} your captial ships explode in flames, break apart and fade 
 away.
  
  One last feature with the visuals is the movie camera. I've seen this particular type of camera 
 used in a Star Trek game from a few years back and it was a nice bonus to have it here again. When 
 you select the action camera, the view switches to a full flowing capture of the battles without 
 the heads up display and switches according to the action going on. A problem with this mode is 
 that the camera does not always run in the direction of the action and occasionally hangs up if 
 the action becomes too intense. Regardless of your machine specs, I believe this to be something 
 in the programming and not with the speed of your video card.
  
  John Williams... where are you...?
  
  One major aspect of the game that I found to be relatively 
 disappointing was the soundtrack and the voice-overs to go along with it. Although most of the 
 battles tend to be huge and there is alot of action going on, there really isn't much of a track 
 to go with it. I found myself playing something off of my I-Pod while playing the game, simply 
 because I couldn't take the lack of music along with the horrid voices. Something that I found 
 was that the voices seem to be forced, or that they were read with contempt and coupling that with 
 the fact that the registering voices when you switched units was enough to drive you mad when selecting 
 multiple units.
  
  Control... you must learn control....
  
  Like most RTS games, the control here is clunky and the keymap takes almost a degree in foreign 
 literature to get used to. Although there is a button for nearly everything, there are dozens of 
 functions that serve no purpose and not remembering what does what and when you need to push what 
 you need to push can cost you a hard-fought battle. The camera zooming is rather nice with the 
 space battles, but on the ground, the further away you get, the harder it is to see just what's 
 going on. Selecting units is the standard fare of click and drag, but movement across the map takes 
 a bit of getting used to.
  
  Meanwhile... in another part of space...
  
  Empire At War is not a bad game for a Star Wars entry, though it doesn't necessarily top the charts 
 as the best of all time. Those of you who enjoy the lore, and the theme, will fall in love with 
 this title, regardless of the downfalls and short-comings that it has. While there is plenty to 
 do and there are plenty of different ways to play the game, you'll find that the auto-resolve is 
 enough to make you scream and the lack of a good soundtrack is almost enough to make you cry. For 
 the RTS fans, this is something to do while waiting for the next big thing, and for the Star Wars 
 fans, this is probably the pinnacle of the franchise RTS titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is the latest Star Wars RTS game. It is based in the Civil War era with 
 the rebel alliance and galactic empire.
  
  Gameplay- The ground combat isn't anything amazing. You land your troops bu are limited to reinforcement 
 "points". To get more points you need to capture certain areas on the map so you can get more points. 
 Nothing very special, but where the game shines is in space battles. The space battles are superb, 
 the only downside is they are repetitive, but they look so cool most Star Wars fans won't care. 
 You basically have a space station that serves as your base which can be upgraded to have better 
 armor and defenses. You win by destroying the enemies Space Station or all their units. You gain 
 resources by taking over asteroids and building mining facilities from them.
  Graphics- This goes hand to hand with the space awesomeness. While on the ground, the vehicles, 
 terrain, and effects look great the humanoid infantry units are lacking. They look stocky, and 
 not that great, but you won't really notice and you shouldn't care to much. In space, the ships 
 look awesome. The units are made to scale well. You will see mammoth Star Destroyers dwarf all 
 other ships by it. The effects and the animations are great. 
  Sound- The music is probably one of the best parts of the game. When you engage in battle you get 
 this really epic music, really setting the mood for an epic battle. The blasters, lasers and other 
 weapons all sound great and well done.
  
  This is probably one of the best Star Wars games out there, definently the best Star Wars rts game. 
 A must have for any Star Wars fan, and rts fans will love it also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Single Mission sucks. Many Story themes are confusing. This game should complete all the starwars 
 trilogies series from Star Wars A New Hope, Star Wars Empire Strikes Back and Star Wars The Return 
 of The Jedi but it never did. Game Ends Adruptly stupid after I have played.
  
  This game should emphasis more on the empire on what if the empire has won all odds against the 
 rebellion instead of trying to follow the movie content again and over again. And I am tired of 
 play Star Wars Game because all game theme has been stick the movie content instead a new leading 
 of game content itself. As for the rebellion, simply following the movie content.
  
  I like the ideals of RTS about preparing your units before going to wars, Dual-layered design lets 
 you think on both a strategic and a tactical level and call for reinforcement for your war effort 
 during game play.
  
  Best of all Money and resources are fast to gather and not wasting one's time during playing.
 
  
  Skimish Space Battle is my favourite, short and fast but Enemies AI are stupid when we select easy, 
 medium or hard AI! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubledoi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I always thought how cool it would be to play a rts star wars game. I was thinking of an rts star 
 wars way before the game came out. So, once the game came out, i just had to buy it. The game was 
 fun and entertaining at first, but i think they could have done alot to make it better. When i 
 saw a picture of the in game play, it showed thousands of jedi fighting and the truth is far from 
 that. In fact, depeding on who u play you could only have 2 jedis at the most. This is because 
 jedi aren't a primary unit but a hero, sort of like tanya and yuri in red alert 2, or war elephants 
 in age of empires 2. however in those games you could have more then 1. In this game you can have 
 ONE hero at one time. Another problem in the game is the land battles. Instead of normal rts games, 
 you have to put reinforcements on planets instead of building them on planets. This means who ever 
 has more units at the start of the battle will usually win the battle. There is no rts involved 
 here. Also, i would of made this game at around the clone wars (instead of the galatic civil war) , 
 so that way jedi could be a major unit. The game had alot of flaws, but there were good things 
 too. These things included the cool creaters and igningious life on other plantes. Also, there 
 was very little lag. In conclusion, this game is fun the first few weeks you play it, but if you 
 are looking for an rts game, do not pick this game. Instead, pick any of the command and conquer 
 games, or the age of empires games.
  
  foeva keepin it real,
  
  da phh (playa hata hatas)
  
  p. s. da phh is my gang and dont be hatin on it lest u wanna wind 
 up in da hospital wit a cap in yo butt!!!! p out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool13011
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Empire At War is a great addition to the Star Wars franchise. I got it a few years ago and I've 
 never gotten tired of it. This is a game you don't get bored of. With the dynamic community and 
 great gameplay and matching system, the multiplayer experience is the best part of the game (even 
 though there's so many noobs who don't know how bad they really are) and there are so many strategies 
 for so many different maps. Unlike a lot of games, both land and space are just as interesting 
 and well done. It all depends on personal preference. I'll start with the land skirmish mode. You 
 can either start out with buildings or build them at the start of the game on predetermined build 
 spots. Unlike a lot of games, you can't just set up camp where ever you feel like, you have an 
 established base at the beginning of the game and the maps are symmetrical in geographic design. 
 This is a relieving aspect for me as experienced players like myself can easily attack the enemy 
 efficiently without using scouts. There are scattered build spots over the map where players can 
 build turrets, sensors, healing stations, or repair stations. Every unit has a certain price and 
 resources (credits/cash) are gathered by obtaining upgradeable mining facilities and smaller resource 
 stations. All units in land skirmishes are brought into the map via landing shuttles and transports 
 at established areas. These areas or Reinforcement Points are already established on the map; however 
 are neutral and must be captured. Once a team captures a point, the enemy team can take it over 
 by putting units on it, but it does take more time to capture an enemy point than a neutral one. 
 As for the combat, it's pretty straight forward. You build and command units and kill stuff in 
 the most violent ways possible which usually are: blowing them up, calling in air strikes from 
 bombers or bombardments from capital ships in space, shooting things, blowing them up with grenades, 
 using rockets, or just walking all over them, and when I say "walking all over them," I mean it 
 literally. Units such as the At-At's and AT-St's can walk over units crushing and killing them 
 whereas the maullers can roll over them with armored treads and then self-destruct to destroy larger 
 structures. Marching on a rebel base and watching screams and tHe constant "NOOOOO DONT KILL ME!!." 
 I usually march in with a line of AT-At's led by Emperor Palpatine, Colonel Veers, and Vader with 
 the occasion Mara Jade or Boba Fett. The game also has a cinematic mode so that you can watch all 
 the battles just like a movie. Now, the land combat is fun and all but the real excitement comes 
 from space. Each team starts out with a space station and you can upgrade the station which makes 
 it bigger, stronger, and allows you to build more units and heroes. Flying through space with a 
 fleet of piet, and 4 regular star destroyers led by Boba Fett is just such a satisfying experience. 
 Overall, this is my favorite RTS or actually Strategy game for any system. I highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  As a strategy game, Empire at War delivers a true Star Wars experience. If you're into AT-ATs stomping 
 around battlefields, Darth Vader knocking over 20 soldiers with Force push, or space battles thick 
 with dozens of fighters swarming in between gargantuan capital ships, Empire at War will deliver 
 all that in a fun, compelling package. You can't really lose in any game in which you can blow 
 up a planet with the Death Star, can you? Combined with a presentation that is as epic as the films 
 that inspired the game and a slick, dual-layered strategy design, Empire at War is easily recommendable 
 to any strategy fan, especially those who are fond of George Lucas' space classic. 
  The weapons all look and sound as you'd expect them to. By now, the noise of a laser gun firing 
 in Star Wars is ingrained into the psyche of just about everyone in the world as the way a laser 
 "should" sound, and Empire at War doesn't disappoint in the weapon-effects department. The voice 
 acting in the game is also quite impressive -- Petroglyph did a great job at bringing in soundalikes 
 to handle all the major roles in the game, like Darth Vader. The game's soundtrack is suitably 
 epic but not overbearing, lending great support to the overall ambience of Empire at War. 
  The Star Wars franchise has seen its share of great action games, role-playing games, and space-combat 
 simulators, but the strategy genre is something that, for some reason, has proved elusive for LucasArts 
 to truly capture. The efforts to date, including Rebellion, Force Commander, and Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 have ranged from poor to pretty good. Petroglyph's Empire at War is the game that's finally gotten 
 the formula down just right. In Empire at War, the action takes place both in outer space and on 
 the surface of planets, but the interconnection of the two is one of many important strategic aspects 
 that you'll consider as you make your way through the campaign and galactic conquest scenarios. 
 Logical differences in the optimal playing style between the Empire and Rebellion, as well as an 
 epic presentation befitting of the license, contribute to a fantastic overall package that any 
 strategy-game player can appreciate, whether you have a stormtrooper outfit in your closet or you 
 just have a passing familiarity with the films. 
  
  The real-time action in Empire at War takes place on two different layers -- a strategic layer, and 
 a tactical aspect, which are the battles you fight in space and on land. The strategic layer takes 
 place on a 2D galactic map, which shows all the planets in the galaxy. If you're playing the campaign, 
 you'll worry about more than 40 different planets, while some of the galactic-conquest scenarios 
 have as few as eight or 10 planets arrayed. Most planets can support space stations and land buildings 
 such as barracks, mining facilities, factories, or even planetary defense systems like turbo-laser 
 towers or massive ion cannons that shoot up into space. You can get more detailed information on 
 a planet by zooming in on it, which gives you something of a Civ-lite view, listing all the units 
 and structures there, as well as the things you can build on that planet. The Rebel side see all 
 Empire-controlled planets on the galactic map, while the Empire must deploy probe droids to seek 
 out the Rebels. The important thing to remember is that the action takes place in real time, even 
 on the galactic map. So if you spend too much time considering what to build or where to send a 
 fleet, you may invite the computer to attack one of your systems. 
  
  Some of the planets have unique bonuses, such as letting you build units more cheaply, or making 
 all of one type of unit more powerful. The biggest ships like Mon Calamari cruisers and Imperial 
 Star Destroyers can be built on only a few different planets, so as you'd expect, there are relative 
 values for the different planets in the galaxy. All planets you control, however, add to your daily 
 credit income, which allows you to purchase improvements for your planets and, of course, the soldiers 
 and war machines that make up your military-industrial complex. There are a lot of demands on how 
 you spend your credits -- if you go all troops and no improvements, you risk falling behind in the 
 technology race, or not having a stout defense in place if a raiding fleet arrives at one of your 
 planets. One of the main differences between the Empire and the Rebellion is that the Empire usually 
 generates a lot more money. Over the course of a campaign you can eventually build an economy so 
 powerful that you build up massive forces to overwhelm Rebel defenses. The Rebellion doesn't have 
 the luxury of limitless resources, so you'll find that they're more difficult to play and learn, 
 but you can still steal technology and money from the Empire to weaken them and advance your cause. 
 They also have the unique ability to make small raiding parties that can land on a planet and bypass 
 any space defenses the Empire may have in place. 
  
  The tactical-combat layer comes into play when the two factions meet on a planet. If two space 
 fleets meet up, a space battle ensues. The game gives the defender some advantage in that any existing 
 space station in orbit over a planet, as well as planetary defenses like ion cannons or hypervelocity 
 cannons, can contribute to the battle, along with whatever fleet happens to be around. The higher-level 
 space stations are fearsome indeed, with multiple laser and torpedo batteries, as well as its own 
 small navy to harass attacking capital ships. The space-combat battles look great -- the sense of 
 scale between the huge Imperial capital ships and the smaller Rebel gunships and corvettes is plainly 
 obvious. Fighters like TIEs and X-Wings buzz around the larger ships like gnats on an elephant. 
 If you've got the graphics options turned up, the explosions look fabulous, with electrical fields 
 shimmering around a ship disabled by ion cannons, and downed capital ships breaking apart into 
 large pieces while falling slowly out of space. You'll also see distortion effects around exploding 
 hardpoints, which brings up another interesting aspect of space combat in Empire at War. The space 
 stations and capital ships all have hardpoints pertaining to different systems, such as shield 
 generators and weapon systems. You can target individual systems to cripple larger ships in specific 
 ways. Getting rid of the hangar on Imperial capital ships will thin out the fighter cover, while 
 targeting engines can slow down ships. In most cases, the order in which you want to take out hardpoints 
 is obvious, but ships that have special features, like the gravity well on the Interdictor cruiser, 
 add even more tactical considerations. If you don't remove that gravity-well generator, for example, 
 you can't retreat out of a system and save some of your fleet. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars has long been an intriguing universe to base games in. On one hand, it has limitless 
 expansion, amazing source material, and lightsabers. The opposite side features a strict PG-13 
 restriction on what could have been the most glorious license of all time. ... well, it still is, 
 but the point stands that it could have been so much more. Imagine lightsabers doing what solid-light 
 beams would when met with flesh, or the infinite possibilities of the Force. Regardless, I have 
 yet to play a poor Star Wars game, from Yoda Stories to Jedi Knight, from Rogue Squadron to Battlegrounds. 
 Sure, some are better than others and some are remembered for larger production values, but not 
 one has been bad.
  
  Empire at War is no exception. It features exceptional space combat, and an average ground combat 
 game, but even the mediocrity of one half is complimented by its subject matter. Even when a good 
 deal of the missions are ground-based, rooted in what appears to be the Empire Earth engine (I 
 do not know this for sure, and is simply an observation of the camera controls, sprite-based explosions, 
 and lack of unit detail) , navigating an AT-AT and Darth Vader never becomes tiresome. There's even 
 a late-game mission where Emperor Palpatine becomes controllable with his force lightning.
  
  I played through and beat Empire at War several months after its release, but replayed it recently 
 so I could fully experience and appreciate Forces of Corruption, as I'd forgotten the gameplay 
 and most everything Star Wars-related. That said, I can't help but draw comparisons to the more-proficient 
 expansion. For starters, pathfinding in Empire is atrocious. In fact, it's downright embarrassing. 
 Space battles frequently become frustrating mish-mashes of curse words and mouse-to-desk pounding. 
 For example, I specifically command my group of Star Destroyers to destroy the shield generators 
 of a space station. Instead, the Destroyers turn 180 degrees in the opposite direction and begin 
 concentrating their fire on a Nebulon-B frigate located in the exact wrong direction. I click again. 
 Any guesses? The Destroyers locate several squadrons of Y-Wings and attempt to shoot down the bombers 
 with turbolaser batteries. Pathfinding on the ground segments is not much better, and any large 
 unit from witch-mounted rancors to AT-ATs will move as though piloted by a schizophrenic twelve 
 year old.
  
  Luckily, the subpar ground gameplay is proved tolerable because the missions are far superior to 
 that of Forces of Corruption. Perhaps this is because Empire expands on the original trilogy core, 
 and shows more behind-the-scenes action. For example, how the Rebellion came about the backing 
 of the Mon Calamari (although the inaccuracies abound: Mon Calamari cruisers are converted cruise 
 liners - it wasn't for years that the species began constructing cruisers born for combat) , or 
 how Han Solo and Chewie collected data through a gauntlet of Imperial soldiers. Overall, the missions 
 are superb.
  
  Empire at War is a lesson to inferior Star Wars real-time strategy games that proceeded it: Battlegrounds, 
 Force Commander, and Rebellion. All were potpourris of good ideas executed poorly. Empire is built 
 upon good ideas which are executed brilliantly. All the parts, from strategic overlay to space 
 combat, are pulled together well and everything adds up to spectacular game in and of itself.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Empire at War isn't quite the game it could have been. The graphics are subpar, 
 both campaigns begin to drag towards the endgame, and the pathfinding is unbelievably frustrating. 
 That being said, I never regretted a single moment in the eight or nine hours it took to blast 
 through both campaigns. Sure, Forces of Corruption is a superior product, but the base game is 
 not a farce. You will be satisfied, I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Insane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away
  
  Star Wars is great. We all love it, don't we? There's something about being a Jedi that makes us 
 all want to get a lightsaber and start having crazy battles with our Force powers and stuff. Yes. 
 Well, this game is not about Jedi, nor is it about lightsabers.
  
  Star Wars has moved across a lot of genres as far as games are concerned. We've had platformers, 
 action, adventure, beat-em-ups, shoot-em-ups, flight sims, racing, RPGs and RTSs. The last genre, 
 Real-Time Strategy games, is one of the least-tread as far as Star Wars related games go. So far, 
 we've had one game, Galactic Battlegrounds, and its expansion, the Clone Campaigns. Although the 
 games weren't bad, they were basically Age of Empires with AT-AT's. So, its refreshing to see an 
 original Star Wars RTS come out in the shape of Empire at War.
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Basically, Empire at War takes place between Episodes III and IV. Darth Vader has risen to power 
 and Darth Sidious has become the Emperor of the giant, Galactic Empire. With the Jedi slain, the 
 two Dark Lords of the Sith, with their massive planet-destroying ship, the Death Star, control 
 the entire Galaxy with an Iron Fist. A small uprising against the Galactic Empire, known collectively 
 as the Rebel Alliance. They, led by Mon Mothma, have been silently turning the planets to their 
 cause and building a small but sizable army against the Imperials through espionage and tactical 
 battles.
  
  You take control of either sides  the mighty Empire or the fledgling Rebels  and take over the 
 galaxy, bit by bit.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The gameplay adds a nice spin to traditional RTSs. Basically, you have two views, the Galactic 
 View and the Battle View. The Galactic View is your base of operations. Here, galactic days pass, 
 each day adding more money from the planets in your power. The more planets you own, the more money 
 you receive, and, the more units you can house. Each planet can be built on, allowing you to create 
 more units or receive more money. When you have built enough units, you can send them into a planet 
 to start a battle.
  
  Battles take two distinct forms. There's the Space Battle and Land Battle. A Space Battle takes 
 place above the planet, and is needed to allow your forces to invade the planet by destroying any 
 blockades the enemy has put up to protect themselves. Space battles are great fun, sneaking around 
 clouds of gas and dust as well as asteroid fields to engage your enemies.
  
  The game uses an ingenious form of creating units. Instead of making a base and training an army 
 to launch upon the enemy, you create an army within the Galactic View and send them in your convoy 
 to the planet you wish to attack. From this pool of units, you can call in reinforcements to aid 
 you in battle. In a Space Battle, you can call in reinforcements to any area where there are no 
 nearby enemies or nebulas to annoy you. In space, however, you have a population cap to stop you 
 simply sending in all your forces for an easy win, so you have to be tactical as to how many ships 
 you bring in, and what type they are. The wrong type can mean instant death.
  
  The space battles are epic, allowing you to launch wave upon wave of TIE fighters, Star Destroyers, 
 X-Wings, Y-Wings and all manner of other ships at your disposal towards your enemy. You can even 
 have ships, like the Star Destroyers, that house smaller squadrons of TIEs to attack the enemy. 
 All ships have shields and hull health, the former of which will recharge over time. You can even 
 target different parts of larger ships, such as the engines, torpedo launchers, laser cannons etc. 
 to give you a better chance at destroying them.
  
  Once you pass the Space Battle (or even bypass it altogether by raiding the planet) you switch 
 to a Land Battle. Land Battles, like Space Battles, allow you to call in reinforcements to a battle. 
 However, you can't just send in troops anywhere. Only specifically selected areas, known as Reinforcement 
 Points can used. The Reinforcement Points have two uses: They, obviously, allow you to send more 
 units into battle, and they also increase your population cap. Each reinforcement point increases 
 your population cap by a certain amount, generally five or ten, allowing you to bring in more troops. 
 
  
  Thus, as well as assaulting the enemy, you must be aware of how many reinforcement points you own. 
 The enemy, of course, can also use them as well, and taking control of all of them within a field 
 is vital to any battles success.
  
  This adds an incredibly tactical element to the game, meaning it's more than just sending in an 
 army into a base and hoping for the best, there's more strategy involved and makes you feel more 
 involved than simply ordering a few troops to walk somewhere.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. When you're looking at the different characters from the normal over-head 
 view, they look nice enough, all 3-D and they move realistically enough, generally meeting your 
 requirements. When you zoom in, however, they start to lose their charm, as they have a tiny amount 
 of polygons each and look like badly-constructed Lego characters. This is just the troops however, 
 all the rest of the units, especially the spaceships, look awesome, particularly in "Cinematic 
 mode" when a battle can be seen in a cinematic fashion, making the proceedings very exciting.
 
  
  That said, even if the infantry are ugly, the game still squeezes in hundreds of them into a battle 
 without a second of slowdown, which is remarkable. The planets in Galactic View all look very nice, 
 rotating as normal, with their separate moons floating around them realistically.
  
  When a battle takes place, and I mean a big one, not a small scrap between eighteen Storm Troopers, 
 I mean a full scale war, with AT-ATs, troops, tanks, AT-STs, speeder bikes and Darth Vader running 
 through the field, its beautiful to behold, with the lasers and the sparks and the explosions. 
 Great.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  The sound is, as usual, great. The music rules, changing from Star Wars ambience during the quiet 
 recon, into a tense music when you're nearing an enemy's base, right into full theme as you start 
 fighting them. All your favourites are there, including the opening theme, Imperial March and Duel 
 of the Fates. The blasters, shots, lasers, explosions and screams all seem very real and authentic.
 
  
  The only problem with the sound overall is the voices. Although most seem authentic, the Heroes 
 sometimes seem very badly impersonated, especially Darth Vader. Lets face it, he hasn't been done 
 well in any Star Wars game, so it's no disappointment, I'd just like to hear James Earl Jones again. 
 Man is a legend.
  
  Presentation 7/10
  
  The whole game is presented very nicely, all the menus are well laid out and the HUD gives you 
 all the information you need about the battle at hand. The game also features a full help system 
 to help you if you haven't played the game before and will drop hints about what units to use and 
 when to activate their separate powers.
  
  Control 10/10
  
  Most of the control is done by the mouse, such as selecting, moving, issuing orders and activating 
 the different unit's special features, such as bombs or taking cover. The keyboard can be used 
 to automatically move around the map or to assign different units into different groups for ease 
 during a battle. All controls are completely customisable within the game options.
  
  Extra features 7/10
  
  The game itself has two main adventures: The campaign mode where you 
 choose either the Galactic Empire or the Rebel alliance and slowly take over the planets; and the 
 Galactic Conquest mode, where you select a map, each one differing in size from about ten planets 
 to the mid-fifties and you play that. As well, there are random skirmish missions, multiplayer, 
 create your own game and such. You will be playing this game for years.
  
  Play Time 9/10
  
  The campaign mode takes a good few hours to complete, about fifteen, and 
 that's only with one of the two factions. Selecting the other group will bring you another fifteen 
 hours of enjoyment. This is before you've even thought about playing the Galactic Conquest missions, 
 so the whole game should last you ages all together.
  
  Replayability 6/10
  
  You could easily play the missions again for the fun of it, or purposely take a different route 
 by losing missions that you need to win, forcing the storyline to adapt. Although most of the replayability 
 will come from multiplayer and random skirmishes.
  
  Buy or rent? 10/10
  
  Buy. A rent cannot possibly get you through this massive game, and its well worth buying cos it's 
 Star Wars!
  
  Overall, it's a fantastic game, made better by the fact that it has the Star Wars name on it. A 
 definite game for any Strategy fan, it's new, slick and well put together.
  
  Percentage: (The separate scores added together) 82%
  
  Gamespot score: (Not an average) 9.0
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireballx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Empire at War is a great game. It follows the Star Wars story line with the Rebellion and the Empire 
 very well. With stunning visuals, total control, great sound, and fast learning curve for anyone 
 who's played and RTS game, Empire at War is Star Wars at its best. It runs smoothly, has lots of 
 replay value, and can keep you going for hours in single player or online. Galactic Conquest is 
 a revolutionary new mode that gives you so many options to choose from as you liberate the galaxy 
 with the Rebellion or squash your opposition with the Empire. But truly, space batttles are what 
 make this game so great, and the only flaw of Star Wars Empire at War is the land battles. They 
 are not as in depth as the rest of the game. The spawning of units and reinforcement points are 
 a little sketchy, but in the end this game pulls out to get a 9 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is a good game and that's all. Some factors of the game or uniquely awesome while others 
 are just crap.
  
  Let's start with the ground battles. Totally letdown. They pretty much suck becuase there no strategy 
 and its no different from other games. The ground units are lame and unappealing. 
  
  However, the space battles are uniquely fun. Build ships and duke it out with the enemy. That's 
 where this game shines. Awesome space battles.
  
  There is also a TBS mode in this game called "Galactic Conquest" which is very cool. And the campaign 
 is much like this "Galactic Conquest" mode but, your forced into limits to what you can do.
  
  This game needs some inprovement on. Hopefully there next game Universe At War, will be a lot 
 better.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelukey
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Sure the graphics are decent and all, but the campaign and lack of choices on how many tech trees 
 there are are disappointing. If you like Star Wars don't play this game. If you like other RTSs 
 don't play this game because it puts to shame. If you were expecting an rts such as Age of Empires 
 or Empire Earth, you were wrong. The big shame however is that they sold it for fifty dollars at 
 most stores for a year. I bought from my friend for ten dollars i regret the transaction. All hands 
 down don't whatever you do, buy this piece of crap. Don't even rent it (if you can find a place 
 that rents computer games...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tolwan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Empire at war is probably the best Star Wars RTS out there. If you want your Star Wars fix, then 
 this is where you get it right here. Offering both the ground and space element of the movies, 
 you can attempt to relive many great movie battles from the original trilogy. Featuring key units 
 from the movies such as Star Destroys and AT-AT's. Also including characters such as Darth Vader 
 and Obi-Wan Kenobi. However, while this may allow us to get our Star Wars Fix in the strategy genre, 
 it's not a game you'll be playing for very long. You'll get your fix then move on, only to come 
 back when Star Wars comes calling again.
  
  Now, this game has a lot of different parts, Conquest map, Ground Battles, and Space battles. It 
 also has great graphics and sound effects. Now, some developers can pull off having a game with 
 a lot in it, while having them all be very deep and complex, this game is not one of them. It may 
 have a lot in it, but that lot is also very watered down. So watered down infact it's about 5 miles 
 deep in the North Atlantic. 
  
  Lets start with the conquest map. This gives you a good way to see one battle carry over from another. 
 But it also fills it in with a bunch of pointless battles. Any and all ships are instantly repaired 
 after the end of a battle with no price attached. All planets are also linked by "Trade Routes". 
 These essentially are the only path you can take between planets if you want to get there before 
 your funeral. While this may lead one to believe in creating choke points for great battles, it 
 merely allows one to become aware of the other problems. If you want to win in conquest, the best 
 strategy is to just stack every single unit you have into one fleet, and then crush and invade 
 all of the enemies planets. In Singleplayer, only a handful at a time are made available, making 
 them easy picking. You can't auto-simulate campaign missions, but if you bring enough stuff you'll 
 find it easy enough.
  
  How do we get this "Stuff?" Well, you just wait. That's right, your income is based merely off 
 of how many planets you have and how many credit buildings you have. The best strategy is to create 
 2 or 3 planets to pump out your units and then have the rest just filling you with cash. In singleplayer, 
 you can essentially wait while your credits build up, only having to fend off a couple poorly executed 
 attacks by the AI. It seems to favor fighters and small corvettes and frigates. In the end, most 
 of your time in conquest will be spent hitting "Auto-simulate". Unless of course you feel like 
 fighting 100 battles over the same planet against 50 X-Wing fighters and a corvette. Oooo, exciting. 
 Cliff Note: There is no real strategic element to the Conquest mode, and no real depth to the mode 
 at all, it's just a gimmick to link your battles together.
  
  Space battles look fantastic in this game, they really do. However, the maps can make one feel 
 clausterphobic. Dont expect an epic Return of the Jedi space fight. Trust me, you'll never, ever, 
 EVER, get that many star desteroyers on one map. You have a pop cap of 20. Which means a max of 
 4 or 5 star destroyers/mon cals. If you choose not to bring anything else into the battle. This 
 brings up another problem. If you bring a huge fleet with multiple ships, you dont get to choose 
 which ships actually appear at the start to fill up your pop cap. The computer automatically chooses 
 for you. And there's no "Self Destruct" or "kill button", so you have to wait until the enemy decimates 
 your units, and by then you may not have time to hyper in those units you ACTUALLY wanted. The 
 battles themselves are, well, simplistic. They tried to advertise the Subsystems as adding a new 
 tactical element, but it is watered down as well. There are no really "Critical" Subsystems, nothing 
 that's going to make the ship go "boom" or the captain yell "Too late!". Also, your ships will 
 automatically target and rotate through subsystems, as a matter of fact, that's ALL they can do. 
 There's no "Just targeting the hull" and punding until it dies. A Ship doesnt die until all subystems 
 are destroyed, and that's all you can shoot at on a ship anyway. So essentially, battles result 
 in killing the engines and shields and then letting your ships automatically blast through the 
 rest of the enemy subsytems. Amazingly enough, Star Destroyers and Mon Cals dont seem to have anything 
 sensitive in their ships. No reactor breaches, and no bridge explosions. You can't shoot the bridge 
 and put Admiral Piett out of his misery in this game, apparently the bridge isnt considered a vital 
 target in this game.
  
  Land Battles in this game will make you cry, while at the same time make you feel like your trapped 
 in a tiny box, that's how small the maps are. You can capture tiny posts that allow you to create 
 turrets or defensive buildings, but these locations are all fixed. You do not get to choose where 
 you place the buildings. So no strategic building in this game. The units, as well, will be limited. 
 You might try spamming rocket troopers, but your best bet is to pick fast units that can run over 
 soldiers. The giant tank for the rebels and tie maulers for the Empire. The rebels have a bit of 
 an advantage here, their tank is a more all in one package, while the AT-AT remains slower and 
 much lousier at stepping on soldiers. However, because of the rather slow and uninteresting ground 
 combat, you'll find you wouldnt really care either way, and avoid them altogether.
  
  Though one could make a seperate section detailing multiplayer, you actually can't. It's pretty 
 much the same. Conquest, land, or space battles are available, all with the same problems. You 
 and your allies all share the same base however you each have your own pop cap and resource pool, 
 allowing for more units in play on the maps and much better coordination in multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is unique in this aspect and allows for much more coordination, or it would if the game required 
 coordination. The game in multiplayer boils down to capturing the resource centers in the beggining. 
 Whoever gets the resource advantage early on generally wins the game. Theres no real balancing 
 of resources/research and combat either. Generally in team games, you'll delegate all of the upgrading 
 to one tema member while everyone else focuses on units. Gaining the resource center is as simple 
 as getting there first with more units and setting up a beachhead. The enemy may eventually take 
 them but at that point you'll have such a huge resource advantage, regaining them wont be a problem 
 for even the most average of players. One last, and major, problem with multiplayer is the lag. 
 Empire at War experiences some of the worst Ping rates in RTS gaming. The game will often freeze 
 trying to connect all players, and units will often move very slowly due to poor connection rates. 
 And this is even with everyone on broadband connections with good computers. Slowdown and low framrate 
 is common even today unles using some of the more high end computers. In the end, this only ruins 
 an already mediocre experience.
  
  In the end, this provides an excellent Star Wars experience, and a mediocre gaming experience. 
 It gets a score boost for allowing us all to relive those excellent moments such as vaporizing 
 a planet with a deathstar, or raiding a base with AT-AT's. But in the end, it's watered down mechanics 
 and small maps make this game a shelf-warmer. It get's a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I love Star Wars. I love strategy games. So, give me a strategy game set in the Star Wars universe, 
 and I'm typically close to needing a new pair of pants.
  
  Not so with this game. I guess I was hoping for Master of Orion 2 (NOT 3!!) as a Star Wars game, 
 and it just wasn't that.
  
  I prefer to be in control of my own strategy games - I want to find my resources and build up to 
 what I can cover and fight for. Being resupplied with enforcements and having that limitation on 
 the tactics was a big bummer for my style of gameplay.
  
  Also, the ship to ship combat wasn't really fun at all. None of it felt as "epic" as the franchise 
 is really known for (as compared to something like Star Trek, which doesn't strive for an epic 
 adventure) - and that is something that surprised me a bunch. I would think a game that allows 
 me to conquer complete planetary systems would at least feel somewhat epic, but it just didn't. 
 Everything seemed very myopic but yet it didn't give me enough control over the details to let 
 me get comfortable with a smaller gameplay scope.
  
  Overall, I did play it, but my impression is "eh" versus the YAY that I was longing for... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Just like everyone else, i was extremely excited about the game. I got it the day after release, 
 but no...
  It had to fail me. Firstly, the box never stayed closed. i had to move all my disks in that box 
 to another one. now let's get on to what you really want in a review:
  
  ~-gameplay~-
  Not gunna cut it. The battles are not numerous. We want battles! Not occasional units shooting eachother! 
 Why is this? Because the stupid creators decided to make a VERY VERY low unit limit. There is absolutely 
 NO strategy. You just scout the enemy base, see what units are there and drop anything that kills 
 them onto the planet. But some of you will say: who cares? The cinematic camera will fix those 
 flaws since we won't notice them! YOU STAND CORRECTED!! The cinematic camera sucks. no! NO NO NO! 
 terrible! One moment it zooms onto the battle, you enjoy then fling! It zooms to some random unit 
 on the map that's not doing anything. And plus it has this very irritating rattle movement!
  The space battles are moderately decent with nice special effects. The camera somewhat looks good 
 in them! If only they put collision geometry into it! I often see fighters, corvettes, heck even 
 CAPITAL SHIPS noclipping right into space stations and each other. Noclipping is going through 
 as if it or you are a ghost.
  
  So total gameplay: 4/10
  
  ~-Graphics~-
  The most decent part of the game are the graphics! It's all so purdy!!! ^_^
  The shading has 
 very nice effect on the ships. What more must i say? It looks great!
  Best of all, my PC can't run brothers in arms at every lowest quality but it can run this at highest 
 quality without lag! Buuuut it has one flaw: The heat distortion only makes your screen blurry 
 and that's it.
  graphics:9/10
  
  ~-Replayability~-
  What must i say? Its totally replayable, yet the battles are very repetetive after a few weeks. 
 replayability:7/10
  
  ~-sound~-
  Ehhh... no...
  The ocasional movie music is fine. But the music they made for the game is just terrible and noisy. 
 All the sound effects are true to the movies though. (BUT the death voices of the infantry sounds 
 like a cat)
  total: 6/10
  
  ~-value~-
  49.99$ is SO going too far. 1/10
  
  so 4+9+7+6+1=27 / 5 = 5.3. The closest thing i can rate compared 5.3 is 5.5. So there you have 
 it. the review.
  
  and if gamespot deletes it for whatsoever reason, this review that took me half an hour, i'll spam 
 your forums!!! &gt;: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RafdaConqueror
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Mediocre, stradegy component is a cheap and broken rip-off of the Total War Games, and the gameplay 
 is boring due to horrible camera and unimaginative layout. This game looked amaizing as it was 
 released and everyone gave it great reviews, especially for a Star Wars game. As a huge Star Wars 
 fan and a RTS game addict I was really excited about this game. But upon running this game i was 
 greatly Disapointed!!! This game is MEDIOCRE, it SUCKS!!! The ground battles are the WORST of any 
 game i have ever played. I'd rather play the old 1990's CoC games than this!!! The unit AI and 
 balancing is so off the game looks silly. As mentioned the pathetic attempt at adding a stradegy 
 layer is uninvolved and boring. If you are going to copy Rome: Total War's strategy map, DO IT 
 RIGHT!!! The space battles are the only thing that saves this game from a score of 0. The battles 
 are decent at best due to the Star Wars theme, average graphics, and the cinematic feel. But the 
 cinematic camera is almost completely uncontrolable and half the time wonders off to an irrelavent 
 perspective. The capital vs capital ship action is awesome and really good, but the pop limit is 
 so small only 4 Star Destroyers can be built in the skirmishes. This game had such great POTENTIAL 
 but the no name publisher failed. EA (Westwood) or TheCreative Assembly would have done a much better 
 job. I play this game once in a great while for an hour or two, the most it can hold my attention. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War. Where to start? AWESOME, would be one word. This game could've easily 
 gotten a 9.0. That's what I'm giving it. The game itself has awesome game play and great tutorials 
 that teach you the ropes pretty easily. Some of the stuff you'll probably forget, but most of that 
 you won't even need to beat the game. The units are awesome, though I would've like to be able 
 to play other factions like the Republic Troopers before they turned Stormtroopers, etc etc. The 
 only problem I saw with the game was that the objectives were sometimes unclear. For example, it 
 would say something like, "Build a fleet and escort Lord Vader to Planet A." What kind of fleet? 
 A space-attuned fleet, or a ground-assault fleet? Or both? What planet is Vader on? Little things 
 like that. Though, on the bottom left corner for the campaign there is a little R2-D2 droid that 
 tells you everything and shows all the holograms. I think this was an awesome touch. A++ from me 
 to the makers of EaW, easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  For years, Lucasarts has been trying to nail down a strategy game that still captures the Star 
 Wars feel. Galactic Battlegrounds is an example. Now, Lucasarts has finally gotten it right with 
 Empire at War. 
  
  Lke the title suggests, this is set in the Rebellion era. It has three modes. Campaign: This mode 
 takes you through the Star Wars timeline. Only single battles involved.
  Galactic Conquest: This mode is set with an entire galatxy to battle for. The amount of strategy 
 involved has drastiically increased in this mode.
  Skirmish: If you just want a single battle where the Empire & Rebellion duke it out, choose this 
 one.
  Skirmish can be played either in space, or on the ground, since it is only a single battle. But 
 Galactic Conquest & Campaign have to be placed in space & the land because they are a series of 
 battles.
  
  The thing a lot of people may look forward to is cinematic mode. If you don't know about it, I'll 
 tell you: Cinematic mode is a mode which you click on during a battle, and it shows you the battle 
 like a movie. Rotating cameras, zoom-ins, the works. It sounds good, but it's not what it seems. 
 For instance, it will do random pictures, even if there is an obvious battle. Second, you cannot 
 control your army while in cinematic.
  
  Besides the not-so-great cinematic mode, Empire at War is a great game that is the first great 
 Star Wars strategy game, so it is a must for Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a great way for any fan of the movies to relive the joy that the movies 
 brought to them. The space battles are just as magnificent as they were in the movies, the cinematic 
 camera makes you feel like you're watching the movies as you command a fleet of ships head on into 
 your enemy and watch as they unleash a torrent of destruction. The land battles tend to lose the 
 flare that the space battles have, this is due to the battles always being tilted in the direction 
 of the defender.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics give the game the look of the movies without the annoying costs, the game is beautifully 
 rendered from troops trudging across the ground to capital ships crumbling into scarp.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is great from the laser whine as they tear through space, to the great 
 voice acting for the units.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay is great, it's not too challenging to figure out , but it does take some time to perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangerfaramir
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  If Petroglyph was trying ro recreate the brilliant strategy game, Rebellion, they failed... MISERABLY. 
 On the other hand if they were trying to create a game to cater to the masses that want quick and 
 easy Star Wars themed combat where they can destroy planets with the Death Star and save the galaxy 
 with Luke Skywalker..... they succeded, if what happened can be called succeeding.
  
  A far cry from Rebellion, Empire at War creates an enviroment where victory can be achieved at 
 the press of a button, and no strategic thinking is required. Build a Death Star in a minute and 
 then watch it blow up system after system with no repercussions (it even comes with regenerating 
 Victory Star Destroyers and can only be destroyed by one hero!) . Or lead the Rebels in 'raids' 
 past Imperial Blockades and assault heavily fortified Imperial Strongholds with impunity, and don't 
 forget the overwhemling supperiority of Rebel weaponry. No AT-AT can touch the snowspeeders and 
 artillery the Rebels bring to the battlefield.
  
  In 30 minutes of playing I had taken Coruscant and killed the Emporer (not that it mattered the 
 heroes regernate automatically after 5 minutes) and defeated the invicible Imperial Navy with a 
 rag-tag band of Uber-powerful Mon Calamari Cruisers and regenerating fighters and corvettes.
  
  To sum up this castrophe, it is marketed towards the masses who care neither about strategy 
 nor Star Wars canonicity. But if you are a gamer that loves strategy and thinking, and staying 
 true to Star Wars canon doesn't hurt, be sure to steer clear of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I've been gaming since I was 9 years old ( I was 32 on Oct 3rd 2007) .
  
  I bought the Gold Pack which includes both Empire at War and Forces of Corruption .
  
  The 
 game version is listed as: v 1.05.48824 08-07-2007
  
  I played the Rebel Alliance campaign mode on Medium difficulty ( the default difficulty was set 
 to Easy - which I thought was strange at the time ) .
  
  The ambiance is top notch: the John Williams score, the characters and voice acting.
  
  The 
 story really sucked me in and kept me playing until 2 AM... until I started noticing the problems 
 in the interface.
  
  First problem with the Galactic Map interface:
  
  Transferring ground troops between land and space is a joke. You have to click and drag each icon 
 from the ground into the fleet section. Since you might have 4 soldiers, 4 missile carriers, 4 
 tanks just for one fleet raid and since you might have 6 different planets with troops on it and 
 since the galactice map is played out in real time ( ie. everything is time-critical ) , the Empire 
 AI can send a fleet in and destroy transports, within seconds, before you have time to react.
 
  
  The sad thing is that Master of Orion 2: Battle at Antares already showed how to create a complex 
 game with a simple interface.
  
  The rest of the problems deal with the interface in the Space battles:
  
  The Tab key is supposed 
 to zoom you in and out but that did not work at all, so I had to use the mouse wheel.
  
  The ratio of ships to larger objects is such that a space station takes up half of my screen on 
 a 15 inch CRT at the default resolution of 1024 x 768. The game supports 1600 x 1200 ( which probably 
 makes for a better gaming experience ) . It helps if you can see your own fleet as well as your 
 target... *laugh*
  
  The concept of targeting hardpoints ( ie. the shield generator on the ship ) is great, it's just 
 a shame that in order to move to a destination you have to right click and in order to target a 
 hardpoint you also have to right click. Sometimes my powerful marauder ( missile firing ships ) 
 with weak shields and armour start flying off to the four corners of the map. A simple right-click-dropdown 
 box would have solved the problem.
  
  The space map is a 2d isometric which tries to simulate 3d motion; it's cheap, lazy coding, which 
 ends up with unpredictable ship behaviour. The game Homeworld should be the benchmark for 3d, RTS 
 combat in space.
  
  The straw that broken the camel's back was when I alternated between using Ctrl-A ( to select all 
 ships ) and then double clicked on my massively armoured ships to raise their shields and the GUI 
 ship-selection section started malfunctioning - flicking back and forth between other ships ( which 
 I did not want to select ) , thus preventing me from raising the shields!
  
  So basically, at that point, I decided to uninstall the game and write this review.
  
  The 
 real shame of it, is that if the coders had put a little more effort into the game, they could 
 have had a nice Master of Orion / Homeworld combo, which would have been truly epic...
  
  Luca$Art$ does not necessarily mean quality any more.
  
  A for effort.
  
  F for failure.
 
  
  - Andrew Moore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  A good RTS however it could have been given better graphics and some of the units and factions 
 were uneven still the game is good. If your a star wars fan i recommend that you get this game. 
 You have heroes that normally get a vehicle like a super star destroyer for example. For each ship 
 there are key parts that if destroyed weaken it not just taking off health like if you take out 
 the engines it won't be able to move that much at all. The space battles were the high point of 
 the game for me they are way funner than the land battles for me and quite a few land battles are 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Considering the franchise that is Star Wars, and its great role-playing games, action, and space 
 simulators, Empire at War naturally developed a large amount of hype. Alas, Lucas Arts' lack of 
 worthy real-time strategies left fans wanting more. Now with the arrival of this RTS jewel, fans 
 alike want to know how it measures up. Star Wars: Empire at War certainly measures up to its name, 
 using very potent strategic and tactical elements to keep you enticed. The strategic layer involves 
 a 2D map where you must manage anywhere from a few to forty planets. On these planets you will 
 build your troops and buildings, anything from barracks to mining facilities, anything you would 
 expect in your run of the mill RTS. That's where the game differs from others in its genre. Your 
 buildings are built in the space mode, as you cannot build them when you are in the land battlefield. 
 Your troops are also summoned as reinforcements in a seperate tab. The gameplay altogether is quite 
 interesting, althought fans of traditional RTS' most likely will not enjoy its uninspired land 
 battles. The games true skills rely in its space battles, which are both enourmous, and incredibly 
 fun. To support the stellar gameplay, the impressive visuals further advance the games qualities. 
 An interesting mini feature is the addition of the cinematic view, which allows you view the chaos 
 of battle in a movie-like aspect. Every model is designed well and looks exactly like it should. 
 They also sound like you would expect.
  Overall, Star Wars: Empire at War is an impressive accomplishment, and it solidifies the fact that 
 Lucas Arts is now a complete and excellent gaming company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPhil747
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  When you first open the game, the first thing most everyone does is play a skirmish (or tutorial 
 obviously) . DON'T DO IT. Seriously, stop right there, and save yourself hours of repetitive idiocy. 
 Space skirmishes are honestly not bad, but the land ones are just horrible.
  
  Instead, hover your mouse over Galactic Conquest, by far the best mode of the game. Even at lower 
 difficulty levels, the mode has you constantly attacking, building, moving, and planning. When 
 you reach higher difficulty, the game takes on a new level. The balancing job between the Empire 
 and the Rebel Alliance is amazing, with no one really gaining the upper hand easily. You'll find 
 yourself fighting over the same planet multiple times as the balance shifts, and the battles, despite 
 what you may read, rarely get repetitive. Ok, so maybe land battles are generally similar, but 
 planetary defenses, native forces, and of course, 5 AT-AT's marching on the enemy's base keep things 
 interesting. Space of course, is my personal favorite, and the idea of only being able to build 
 capital ships (Imperial Star Destroyers, Mon Calamari Cruisers) at 3 planets means that in order 
 to gain the upper hand in the skies, you need to also be a proficient land player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War reminds me of Rise of Nation. Good resource management [not so much in 
 SWEAW] but that was part of why this sci fi strategy game is a hit. EAW is fun because you can 
 do the story line campaign mode or conquer the galaxy in free play. You can choose the Rebels or 
 the Imperial. One major flaw is that the Imperials are so superior. Sure the Rebels are cool and 
 all that, but the Imps have a freaking Death Star. You can blow up planets. How can you beat that? 
 Empire gets old after a while. I found myself not playing the game for months and then coming back 
 to discover the hidden gem. I also must confess that I have not played Forces of Corruption [the 
 expansion pack] so I can not review that for you. Darn ;)
  
  Empire at War had decent graphics but had some glitches with starfighters flying through star destroyers. 
 They also seemed to have forgotten the z-axis in space. It's a minor detail, but it's alright.
 
  
  I liked the voice acting. No James Earl Jones or Mark Hamill [who's that? ;) ] but the voices were 
 convincing and sometimes just outright hilarious.
  
  Overall, I like Empire at War. You get to take your anger out on whichever side you oppose. It's 
 not over the top though, but a very, very decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is great but has a few flaws. The Good aspects: the sound and music kick ass, great 
 gameplay, the units are innovative and balance the factions, space battles are by far the best 
 types of battles. Now for the bad: the turbolaser turrets are overpowered and could decimate your 
 army in a matter of a few hits, sometimes infantry won't die and it takes a few vehicles to annihilate 
 just one infantry squad, the scroll speed is also very slow takes a while to scroll across the 
 map to see where let's say your units are engaging the enemy, also all the buildings where you 
 produce soldiers and vehicles look the same I end up clicking on every single one in order to find 
 which one builds the desired unit, my biggest kvetch (means complaint in yiddish) is the galactic 
 conquest and campaigns I have no idea how to have my entire army engage the enemies if I drag my 
 troops to the planet only one unit fights and gets his ass handed to him so I just stick with skirmish 
 mode. Overall space battles are practically flawless except the enemy is always too easy (never 
 building fortifications, no capital ships, just fighters and small ships) takes away a bit of a 
 challenge. Land battles are flawed but to me more stressful than fun but hey overall i love this 
 game and I reccomend it to any star wars or RTS enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1234575
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  star wars EAW is very much an average game, but it is however one of the few good star wars games 
 which gives it more credit than it deserves.
  
  first of all, the content and gameplay quickly gets old. usually the same battle is fought over 
 and over again despite different maps. without the help of mods or patches, this game wouldnt last 
 very long.
  
  second, you might think fighting for control of a whole galaxy to be lots of fun. but it really 
 isnt. one space battle and one land battle ( if you want, it really sucks il explain later ) and 
 thats it, theres is your planet.
  
  the auto balance option to fix these otherwise lengthy battles is very messed up. especially if 
 your playing the Empire. one alliance raiding party of a hero and 2 units can easily overwhelm 
 a moderate force and a small base. you might wonder why. making it almost impossible to quickly 
 defend a planet from the alliance in a short amount of time. even heavily defended planets are 
 open to these attack and theres is a good amount of chance you might lose the planet. needless 
 to say, this can get very frustrating.
  
  graphics and sound wise are okay, not that bad or great, but value and gameplay is really where 
 it takes a crash landing.
  
  good game, but needs more content and massive balancing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionwaiter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I have some problems with this game that stop it from being above an 8.
  
  The first being that the unit limit seems too low . It may be that the RTS's I play are usually 
 more like Age of Empires or LOTRBFME. These games usually start with small skirmishes of 15-20 
 units. But towards the end you build MANY more units, sometimes hundreds. The problem with this 
 game is that it starts ou like those two games, and stays that way the whole game. I understand 
 that it each battle is supposed to be more of a skirmish instead of an all out war.
  
  It also seems to be a bit TOO watered down in the economical are of the game, and again this is 
 probably because I play too much Age of Empires.
  Even though it is fun too guard your resource pads, they never run out of resources. You'll never 
 have to move to another resource pad, and there is no worker type units, it's all soldiers. You 
 NEVER have to actually build buildings, you just buy them.
  
  Other than those two areas of the game it is great!
  
  Casting unit powers is a lot easier 
 than in something like Warcraft.
  
  The squad sizes are perfect.
  
  The space battles are really good, there are tons of different types of starfighter and spaceships. 
 And the resource management fits well into space battles. I actually play WAY more space battles 
 than land.
  
  This game is more of a starter RTS (except for the campaign, which is fairly deep) .
  
  So if 
 you're new to RTS's you should get this game, but if you've been playing them for a long time, 
 don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is the most recent Star Wars RTS from Petroglyph, which is partially made 
 up of C&amp; C veterans. Despite their experience however, Petroglyph's first game turns out to 
 be unique, but very messy.
  
  The game offers a few modes for single player and multiplayer: you can play through two single 
 player campaigns, one of which lets you play as the Rebellion, the other as the Empire. You can 
 play a basic Galactic conquest game against another player or the AI, or you can just setup a land 
 or space skirmish. The biggest mode here is undoubtedly the Galactic conquest, but it is also the 
 least well thought out.
  
  In the galactic conquest mode, you are set in a pre-set setup of the Star Wars galaxy. The number 
 of planets shown depends on which map your playing, some maps feature very few planets, while others 
 feature almost all of them (Which counts up to about 40 something planets!) . So you have to keep 
 track of what your producing and what you already have on all of these planets- and then you have 
 to also move your troops about to get them into position to either defend your planets or attack 
 another one. Great scott! Talk about micromanagment! The interface for the Galactic conquest is 
 absolutely horrid in that for example: see those AT-ATs on Corusant? Lets say their needed at Tatooine. 
 No problem- first zoom in on Corusant, and one by one- drag all of the AT-ATs into one of 3 fleets. 
 Once that's done- zoom out and drag their fleet to Tatooine... And make sure you drag to the slot 
 on the planet itself- lest you leave your AT-ATs in space... Ugh- there has got to be a better 
 setup for all that! Ultimately, the galactic conquest mode is manageable only on the smaller maps. 
 Larger maps are almost unplayable unless your a micromanagment junkie.
  
  When you do finally engage the enemy however- things start getting a bit better. These battles 
 have the basics down well enough in that their fun- but the maps they're put on aren't very well 
 designed. Combine that with a terrible AI (In all arenas: Land, space, and the galactic map) - and 
 we've got some serious issues for the battles. That and there really isn't all that much to do 
 during battles other than move your men towards the enemy- use their abilities to your advantage- 
 and then hope for the best. It's all the same- land or space regardless! Despite this utter simplicity 
 however- the battles still are decent enough to hold your attention for a while.
  
  Graphically, Empire at War manages to capture the Star wars universe quite well- but there is absolutely 
 nothing outstanding here. The units all look just fine- if a little ugly up close, though that 
 shouldn't be surprising. Sound wise- the game has the Star Wars musical scores- along with familiar 
 Star Wars sounds. The game's voice acting is all over the place though- with units like Darth Vader 
 or the basic troops for both sides sounding just fine- but others like Obi-Wan being stuck with 
 bad voice acting.
  
  In the end, Empire at War is another disappointment of a Star Wars RTS. Its not horrendously bad- 
 but its not very good either with its serious problems of a bad AI and poor interface. It'll hold 
 your attention for a while with decent battles in both the land and space arenas, but other than 
 that, there's not that much to be found appealing here. So your better off going for the better 
 options that are available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSamTX
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  My dreams were answered the day Star Wars: Empire at War released... I mean, come on, how cool 
 is it to command the Republic and kick Rebel rear with the dark knight himself? I absolutely love 
 the time frame, scale and overall Star Wars-y feel. LucasArts usually nails it, and they hit it 
 right on the head this time. It's like getting insight to a lost chapter in the Star Wars saga... 
 especially after (how should I say this?) 'slightly' disappointing episodes I and II. The planet 
 hopping rocks, and I totally dig the reinforcement system, which makes for a fresh RTS experience. 
 Best Star Wars game since Tie Fighter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldelite60
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people seem to complain about this game. Saying that its not all that its portrayed as. 
 I can't help but disagree. Empire at War features impressive visuals, stunning effects, and an 
 addictive gameplay that lets you keep coming back. Petroglyph did a nice job on the RTS style. 
 The fact that you don't have to wait around to gather different types of resources, or make walls, 
 build shipyards and watch droids chop down wood or mine metal is GREAT!! I don't know about you 
 but I'm sick of waiting around for five hours trying to get just enough metal or gold or whatever 
 to make some type of building that makes only one type of unit. Don't get me wrong though, the 
 gameplay isn't such that you can just go straight in and get whatever you want. For instance, you 
 can't immediatley start construction of a Star Destroyer or the Death Star. You have to have both 
 a lot of money, and you need a certain tech level. If you're with the Empire you raise your tech 
 level by constructing research facilities or if you're playing the rebellion you raise your tech 
 level by stealing tech from the empire. With Empire at War there is a strategy that you need to 
 discover to become economically powerful, the typical way is to build mining facilities or else 
 build a smuggler and have him steal credits from your enemy. Space battles are the most fun.... no 
 question that sending in a wave of Star Destroyers to spearhead an assualt on a rebel space station 
 is better than conducting Stormtrooper movements on the ground. Although Land Battles can be just 
 as fun too. Spreading chaos into Rebel lines with AT-ATs is perhaps the most fun. Some people complain 
 that the Empire has no air units and that a single towcable from an airspeeder can bring down any 
 AT-AT. That's not entirley true, there are tactics for foiling that advantage. Building an air-defence 
 turret and putting your AT-AT next to it is probably the most known. But another trick is too simply 
 not have your AT-AT moving while that's happening and it'll survive. Although it won't be able 
 to move for the next 2 minutes or so. Overall the gameply is very well structured and balanced. 
 The game cause you to gather recon about an enemies strength, build the proper forces to nullify 
 the advantage certain ships may have over others and then either play it out yourself or have te 
 computer do it for you. Petroglyph forces you to think about both Tactics and Strategy simultaneously. 
 When you're done with the game that Petroglyph develops you can try out Mods that other players 
 have developed. Just search for it on the web and you can find really interesting mods that either 
 tweak minor aspects, completley change the era, or to just add new units. Mods I have tried let 
 you control the Executor SSD, the Vengance and Soverign SSD and the Eclipse SSD (seen in EAW Forces 
 of Corruption) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlobalHazard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is awesome. I would of thought it would of sucked. I mean, I never saw 
 a star wars game in RTS so I was kind of, well not sure it would even get a 6.0 on grading. But 
 when I played it, I thought it was endless fun, I love the space battles, not to fond of the ground 
 battles, it is lacking what other games have for that. But the cinema mode plus space battles makes 
 it so awesome.
  
  There are so many things you can do in this game. It is fun chasing enemies around cutting their 
 main routes to other planets where they ambush and take out your lower defended planets. This game 
 was just well done, props to Lucas Arts on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enix165
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I thought Ooo, looks decent. Galactic Battlegrounds was great, so this should 
 be just as good . I was proven totally wrong when I tried it. The graphics are decent, but that's 
 it. The sound was quite bad (Adm. Piett had 2 voices, his movie voice and a TIE-Pilot like voice, 
 and a lot of quotes were ripped off from the movies) , but the gameplay's what killed this game. 
 There were no workers, and no building a civilization at all (that's a bit of the fun, in my opinion, 
 and you couldn't even choose where to build) , the unit cap was too strict (15's the max, and that's 
 pretty lame) , you couldn't get individual units (it's 18 Stormtroopers or no Stormtroopers) , the 
 Empire had no air units, the Empire's best land unit could be 1-hit killed (if an Airspeeder uses 
 its cable on an AT-AT, it dies automatically) , there wasn't a map editor that came with it, and 
 the one you could download was all weird and hard to use (I've used Warcraft 3, Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 Warcraft 2, Battlefield 1942, Neverwinter Nights, Warlords 3 and Heroes 3's map editors with no 
 problem, but the EaW one wouldn't even let me put a unit down) , there were only 3 Jedi (Obi-Wan, 
 Vader and the Emperor, who's an uber) and the back mentioned you could be Luke? You could be Red 
 Squadron, but that's as far as it goes. They didn't seem to put much effort into it. This game 
 is the worst RTS I've ever played, and I hope there isn't a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good strategy game, I'd have to think of it about just as good as some of 
 the Command and Conquer Games. The only flaw I see is that online one person must build and sit 
 there and watch while others do the directing and fighting. The space battles seem to be more popular 
 in the game, because well in my opinion they are better. Land battles aren't as fun but still utilize 
 cool things like the Jar Jar Binks bubble shield. Jedis seem to be very overpowered on land but 
 hey, who said that was a bad thing? Its fun when you have a jedi that can kick ass against multiple 
 opponents. Also the special abilities your units can do is very cool, it's the first time I've 
 seen this in a strategy game. Overall this game is a good buy if your a strategy fan or a star 
 wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdodo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Good, but not that great. In my case it took about 2 hours to get the game and countless hours 
 more to any good at it. The campaign was REALLY boring until a couple missions in. Overall the 
 whole game took way too long to get interesting. Positives, this game was different. The galactic 
 conquest was a whole new aspect to the RTS experience and seemed more strategic than some. The 
 wide variety on unit types and maps was really good. The turned based aspect in galactic conquest 
 didn't alter the playability of the game, it contributed in many ways (than again Galactic conquest 
 would have been really hard if it was real time. I liked the game, but i thought you had to play 
 it for a while to really enjoy it, unlike starcraft, or homeworld. Overall the game was good, but 
 not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Empire At War (EAW) is a very well put together real time strategy game from lucasarts. The graphics, 
 sounds, and voice acting were all done very well and the visuals are just fantastic on a machine 
 that can run them, which does require a somewhat good system to fully them enjoy them. EAW also 
 have some pretty decent AI with minor path finding flaws as with most RTS's. Only problems I have 
 really found are: the lack of units. EAW does have quite a many units... but these are only the 
 tip of the ice berg when compared with the amount of possible units from the Star Wars Franchise. 
 Also certain units seem to easy to destroy. Star Destroyers and AT-AT's seem to go down very quickly 
 when up against certain units. Granted, it is a way to help keep balance in the game (which is 
 needed of course) but some avid star wars fans might not take to kindly to that aspect. Also certain 
 units seem a bit unbalanced as well. All in all though it's a great game and I would recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlfrnt2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War takes a different view on the Star Wars galaxy by allowing you to control 
 either the Empire or the Rebellion strategically.
  Gameplay - EaW isn't too much different than other RTS control-wise but it is still a whole lot 
 of fun. My favorite part of the game is controlling capital ships above a planet in space combat. 
 It's just plain fun to control a fleet of Imperial Star Destroyers each with their own swarms of 
 TIE fighters. The land battles are fun as well, but aren't as satisfying as space.
  Graphics - The graphics of EaW are very good and the character models and planets are quite detailed 
 for an RTS and all of the space battles are just detailed enough to convince you that you're actually 
 controlling the Imperial/Rebel forces above that planet. The land battle maps have good detail 
 too, but some are lacking in certain areas.
  Sound - The sound-effects and music are ripped straight from the movies, just adding to the feel 
 of a climactic Star Wars battle. Some of the voice-acting is a tad repetitive, but that's not why 
 you bought the game in the first place.
  Value - EaW has three single-player modes; Galactic Conquest, Skirmish, and Story, each with the 
 option to play as the Empire or Rebellion. There is also an online Multiplayer mode that lets you 
 face off against people world-wide.
  Overall, EaW is well worth a buy and will keep you entertained for a long time. I highly suggest 
 that any Star Wars fans or RTS fans pick up a copy sometime, it's worth it for only $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathscyth68
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun but it lacked in the ground battle portion. It had great space and galactic portions. 
 It was innovative in the fact that it has the galactic overview and you can move your troops from 
 the planets. The ground could use to be more like Starcraft or Generals where you can build up 
 your forces and your base so you can have a longer and more fun battle. The space battles could 
 to be the same way. But the fact that you can use the Deathstar to obliterate planets is one of 
 the greatest parts of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texansrule1227
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is good and doesnt get boring for a long time. But this game isn't like the best game 
 in the world. The grafics are good. Pretty much everything in the game is good but if you play 
 the game alot it gets boring. It's takes about 45 minutes to learn the controls. The Conquest mode 
 is very hard. Overall good game. The thing that sucks about this game is at first you love it then 
 you play it for a while and get bored of it. Worth buying good pc game better than most pc startagy 
 games the best mode for me was just skirmish. The other modes blow. Sorry star wars fans this game 
 isnt that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars RTS games weren't good in the past. They were failures or semi-failures but now it seems 
 Petroglyph and Lucas Arts found a good way of putting together the pieces and making a good Star 
 Wars RTS game.
  
  The game lets you choose between the Rebellion and the Empire. Each have different missions and 
 stories. I only passed with Empire. The Empire bases on well trained armies and very good space fleets 
 while the Rebellion bases on stealth andstealing+the strong will of their soldiers. The gameplay 
 is good. You have 3 parts.
  1: Real-Time Tactical Map (attack planning, defense, sabotage, this is the starting point for the game; here 
 you make up your armies)
  2: Land Battles (become annoying fast but there is action)
  3: Space Battles (brilliant, simply brilliant; you have to destroy enemy space stations by attacking 
 specific points on their surface; action is great)
  Heroes are present both in space and land battles. They have powers and they do their job well.
 
  The best part is that you can capture the entire galaxy, or destroy3/4 of it with the Death Star.
 
  It's a good game and the best Star Wars RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abigorus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed emotions for this game. I love the space battles, but hate the land battles. I was 
 very disappointed to see that I couldn't build my own base (technically) and that I couldn't build 
 units from the building. That being said, let's get on with the review.
  
  Graphics: Decent. They're pretty well done comparing it to other RTS's. One thing I did love about 
 this, when in space battles, was shooting chunks out of battle cruisers and such, watching pieces 
 float away in space.
  
  Sound: Had a lot of the sounds from the Star Wars movies, along with some new ones. They had some 
 classical Star Wars songs in it as well.
  
  Gameplay: It was okay. I loved the campaigns, taking over planets, building planets, gathering 
 resources, moving your armies from planet to planet in real time, and the space battles.
  
  Opinion: I would buy this only if you love the Star Wars movies and games. If you're a die hard 
 RTS fan, this isn't for you. It's fun for a while, but it gets old pretty fast. I haven't tried 
 the online on this game, so I can't make a comment on this.
  
  Gamespot rating: 8.7
  My rating: 7.7
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Abigorus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erccmmo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  No... im not gonna rant about it... just check it out some time... its ancient but has a level 
 complexity that empire at war lacks. Not saying that empire at war is all glitz and no glory... 
 it does have good deep strategic and even tactical elements that rebelion lacked... but the strategy 
 laspect lacked some of the depth that rebellion had... n'ough said...
  plz don't scream at with without trying rebellion out...
  if you have... feel free to execute 
 me...
  fudge... this is supposed to at least be a hundred words so I have to keep typing for a bit....
 
  phew... there we go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeoFS
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I never saw a RTS game get that level of action, whit good graphics and a simple game system, easy 
 to control and learn not like another games of the genre take for example Homeworld 2, it's difficulty 
 to learn how to control camera and the space ships in the space, but this don't happen in Star 
 Wars: Empire at war for sure this is a game to everyone play, include who never played that type 
 of game before.
  Epic battles happens all-time in the game, showing the high fidelity em relation
  to the movies, 
 heroes are present: Luke, han-solo, etc.., such as the villains: Dart Vader, Boba feet, The emperor, 
 etc...
  This game will mark the history of RTS a long of the years, this is a game to remember and turn 
 it into a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QWERTY099
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Starwars EAW is a superb game. It has smooth graphics and awesome gameplay. No other starwars stategy 
 is as good as EAW. Not even Battlegrounds. One bad thing about the game is the campaign. I don't 
 like it. It lacks something i can't describe. But skirmish and galatic conquest is fun. The multiplayer 
 is fun but sometimes if the other player is as good as you it can take a while for some one to 
 win. If you like stategy games you should get this game. If you like Star wars too, this game is 
 a game you should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 20, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War is a great Star Wars game, with plenty to offer, but the battles just aren't grand 
 enough, like in the movies. The space battles are where it shines, but the ground battles cancel 
 it out.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Gameplay is okay, nothing innovative, save the space battles, where the fun never stops, but it 
 is stopped abruptly by the horrible ground battles.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Looks pretty generic for an RTS game.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Same, same. All the lasers, voices, 
 and stuff from the movies.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Pretty good now, considering it's in the Best of PC pack, which includes Republic Commando, Battlefront, 
 KOTOR, EaW itself, and Jedi Outcast, along with a free trial of Galaxies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Gustaf
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  From new boys on the block (but no less experienced) Petroglyph, Star Wars: Empire at War is a 
 decent, but not astounding RTS. The hype for the game built up a little over the actual game, with 
 many people disappointed when it was released. However. It is still a good game. In Galactic Conquest, 
 a player picks a team, Rebels or Imperials, and chooses a scenario, varying between full galaxy 
 maps, and a few planets. The player then has to build up and defend their planets, while being 
 able to take over empty and enemy occupied ones. There are two types of battles. Space and Land. 
 In Space, your fleet warps in (up to the pop cap) You then select where your ships go and attack, 
 with some degree of AI autonomy. The problem with space combat is the pop cap, which is relatively 
 small, to keep the system impact low. It's hard to recreate a classic starwars battle with 2 ISD's 
 and a handful of corvettes. The graphics in space are pretty good, with Light bloom, soft shadows, 
 heat distortions, and other eye candy. However, a good graphics card is useful, as the minimum 
 specs are pretty misleading. I'd hate to consider what it would play like on a system with 256mb 
 RAM and a 32mb Graphics card....
  
  On Land, the battles take a turn for the worse. Land combat is quite boring in places. It takes 
 a while for your units to get across the map, it is quite hard to acquire a decent landing party 
 without infringing on the popcap, enemy defenses usually rip you to shreds. Map Design is good, 
 with a lot of nice scenery and props around for you to oggle whilst waiting for that AT-AT to get 
 across the map. Skirmish is much more fun. In Space Skirmish, you start off in a normal space battle, 
 but with a station that can build units. It then becomes a frenzy to control the map resources, 
 as when you control them, you control the game, being able to bring in reinforcements faster then 
 the enemy. In Land Skirmish, you and your enemy have a base each, and you can build units with 
 that too. It then becomes a unit spam fest, with taking drop points as a priority. Multiplayer 
 is basically skirmish, but with real people. It's quite fun, but performance can take a hit at 
 the end, with a lot of particles flying around. You can also do a campaign mode, where you play 
 a 1v1 galactic conquest.
  
  The game fails in the fact that it said it would be moddable, and it is. Up to an extent. You can 
 change and add new content, but many of the things that modders want to add are hardcoded. Overall, 
 it's a good game, pretty standard RTS, nothing special. Just a fun game to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stickslemon
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It takes ordinary RTS battles and blows them up to a galactic scale. The 
 galactic map is like a huge planetary map, and you use the planets like one would use buildings 
 in command and conquer. The game is refreshing to play, as you have to do more than just sit around 
 gathering resources as fast as possible. Money certainly helps, but it doesn't guarantee a victory, 
 just as a lack of it doesn't guarantee a loss. Empire at War's heroes are quite well done, as they 
 are powerful, but they can't be everywhere and do everything themselves, so you have to use them 
 wisely. The story of the campaign is a great addition to the expanded universe of Star Wars, although 
 if it had actually taken place, there would be no episode 5 or 6. All in all, it's a great game 
 for RTS gamers and Star Wars fans alike, and should keep them playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagr_Zero
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 11, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Strategy games and Star Wars, thought to be a great combination, haven't quite worked out that 
 well. Rebellion and Force Commander were duds, although Rebellion is a different type of strategy 
 game, and Galactic Battlegrounds was decent, although it's exactly like Age of Empires. Empire 
 At War is the latest attempt at creating the right strategy game that captures the essence of the 
 movies. Sadly, it falls short.
  
  Empire At War is set just before the events from Episode IV. You can choose to play the single 
 player mode, galactic conquest, or multiplayer. The single player mode will take players from the 
 start of the Rebellion to the destruction of the first Death Star, following the movies rather 
 closely. But when choosing the Empire, you get to follow some missions that don't follow the movies 
 at all. This was probably done to not upset the balance of the timeline, yet you do feel a little 
 disappointed not being able to change the timeline, like what was done in Battle for Middle Earth. 
 The galactic conquest mode has you choosing how large of a galaxy you want to play in, and the 
 objective is to conquer every planet on the map.
  
  The game itself is split into three different components, once a game type has been chosen. Every 
 game starts out with the player looking at the overall galactic map and this is where all the managing 
 takes place. All the troop training, base building, and money will be done in this part of the 
 game. This is also where you can send your fleets to attack in a turn-based style of gameplay. 
 This leads to battles, which are done in real time. Space battles occur when two opposing fleets 
 (duh) or if one fleet is attacking a defended planet. The game is shifted to a real-time screen 
 where you can order your ships into attacking position and whatnot. If you succeed in space, or 
 lose in space, a land battle is sure to follow. This is where the game fails. Land battles, unlike 
 space battles, are seemingly much harder to control, as there are a lot more troops to look after. 
 While this may seem a good thing, with a lot of troops on screen, the AI in the game is so cheap 
 and smart, it really makes players feel like their wielding a huge claymore for the first time. 
 This will be discussed a little later on. The objective of each the space and land battles is to 
 just utterly destroy your opponents, just like every other strat game, and depending on the planet 
 and faction you've chosen, 3rd parties can ally with you, ally against you, or just be a 3rd party 
 and annoy both sides.
  
  The actual real-time gameplay is a mixed bag. Each side has their strengths and weaknesses. Like 
 in the movies, the Empire has the advantage with better capital ships, but the Alliance has the 
 superior fighters. The same can be said on the ground campaign with the Empire having the mighty 
 AT-AT, reigns supreme when it comes to vehicles, but the Rebellion has the upper hand with better 
 troops. Most units have special abilities, like the Nebulon-B Frigate can increase power to its 
 shields, and the TIE Maulers can self destruct. While the special powers may seem like a nice addition, 
 on the ground, they are really used to annoy, as if you're facing the Empire, they will use all 
 the special powers to inflict massive damage, which can get very annoying and frustrating, when 
 your troops are being killed by a speeder that just dropped a thermal charge and left almost unscathed. 
 Talking about the Ai, they are made too smart, they seem to know who to attack and with what. The 
 game does feature a rock-paper-scissors combat, but when the computer is taking complete advantage, 
 it takes away the fun of the game. Luckily this doesn't apply to the space battles, as the combat 
 system is more well defined. Just watch out for the Empire sending all their anti-fighter ships 
 at you at the beginning. Also, during each battle, you can toggle a cinematic view which will shift 
 the camera to stay right behind a unit and watch it fight it out. This is one of the pluses of 
 the game, as it really helps capture the essence of the movies. Oh, and lets not forget the heroes 
 in the game. Heroes come in a couple of different types. You have smugglers, bounty hunters, space 
 only heroes, land only heroes, and space/land heroes. Smugglers can be used by the Alliance to 
 take away a percentage of an opponent's income on a select planet. The bounty hunter is the Empire's 
 way of canceling that out, as they can be used to eliminate any smuggler presence. The other heroes 
 can be used to turn the tides of battles with devastating special powers.
  
  Overall, Empire At War is a great attempt, but falls short of delivering the great strategy game 
 this universe needed. The cheapness and smarts of the AI and the clunkiness of the ground battles 
 ruin an otherwise good title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  so i got bored and started playing this to see exactly what its like. my brother bought this game 
 a few months ago.. its alright i guess, you pretty much just take over the enemy bases, destroying 
 everything in the process. you can pick ethier rebels or empire, and can also have hero's join 
 the battles as well once you have enough points to buy them. i dont know if their even called points, 
 cause after a period of time they just regenerate, and you can get as many points as you want i 
 guess.. only you have to constantly buy troops, walkers, and other ships to try to maintain a fight. 
 you can do space battles as well, which is kinda cool.. just if you hit into astroids your beat 
 pretty much. in the story mode if thats what you want to call it you have to take over all of the 
 planets, which is impossible. for me atleast. the battles just take way to long, and i dont have 
 the patients to play the entire time. i played one battle for an hour and a half.. and it still 
 wasnt even over, so ill never beat this game ever. but its alright to play every once in awhile 
 i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napospan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  this game feels pretty cool in the 1st few hours of playing .Later on it seems to grow on u.
  The sound effects are typical to what u might just expect from a star wars game. On the flip side 
 the Gameplay sucks a lot. Its not a worst experience
  but it isn't extraordinarily cool either. The campaign is pretty boring and u would breeze through 
 it without any enthu. Luckily this game proves graphically fit. The units look realistic if the 
 settings are turned out quite high.
  The boring part of this game is the so called HERO unit. They have not much special powers as u 
 might expect from LOTR or Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeseinator
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Star Wars lacks any good RTS titles. Rebellion was a fun game but didn't do so well. Galactic Battlegrounds 
 was a shameless rip off of AOEII. (It even says so on the case) . So having a new star wars RTS 
 was exciting but nothing to get your hopes up about. First if all if appearence is anything then 
 EAW is a boring game indeed. The Grahpics are lacking in many areas and the scale is terrible. 
 Star Wars fans might find it a little strange that Darth Vader is only a few feet shy of an AT-ST. 
 And the Millenium Falcon is about 1/5 the size of a star destroyer. The gameplay is mediocre at 
 best. Land battles and space battles are essentially the same with little difference. This is a 
 rusher's game. Defensive fortifications are limited and easily countered and you'll find many units 
 in the game that have no particular purpose other than to be cannon fodder for the enemy. Petroglyph 
 tried a grotesque rock/paper/scissors/balance which ends in several horrible situations. For example: 
 You have an ATAT walker. You see a rebel infantry squad. You order the ATAT to attack them. Those 
 of use familiar with games like Star Wars battlefront know that being shot by an ATAT means instant 
 death for you and those around you. The ATAT shoots and those rebels are still alive. It shoots 
 again. One of em might have died. In the end your ATAT spent 3 minutes trying to kill a sqauad 
 of rebel infantry that was not even moving. But this same ATAT can destroy a rebel artillery piece 
 with 2 shots. Realism was thrown out the window. Common sense does not apply often in this game.
 
  
  The single player galactic conquest mode is an interesting yet flawed experiance. It's remiscent 
 of Rebellion but sped up much more so that today's generation of gamers with short attention spans 
 can stand it. I never played galactic conquest mode much but the thing I found immensly annoying 
 is that you can only get some units depending on what planets you hold. For example, to build star 
 destroyers you need one of a few planets in the galaxy. Without control of these planets you cannot 
 bulid star destroyers. Which once again. Defies common sense.
  
  So really if you want some good star wars RTS action Empire at War is not the way to go. Go for 
 rebellion and Warlords (the star wars mod for homeworld 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Blurb: When Petroglyph released EAW it became the real pinnacle of RTS gaming. Instead on being 
 heavily micro-managed, like Empire Earth, there are only two fundamental resources: credits and 
 population. This means that instead of focusing on resource gathering players could focus on building 
 their armies and the coming battles. It also is probably the first strategy game to offer a true 
 three-tier combat system.
  
  Gameplay: For Star Wars fans and enthusiasts, the gameplay is brilliant. All of the ships from 
 the films, and most of the heroes, make an appearance in the game. The Galactic Map is also fairly 
 accurate to most canon sources.
  The three-tier system is very successful with EAW; the first battles are the ones for the space 
 above the planet, conquer that and you move in to take the surface with ground troops, vehicles, 
 artilleries, jedi, and bombing runs too.
  Once you capture a planet, you'll be back in Galactic view (events in the rest of the galaxy are 
 paused during an active battle) where you can examine your empire (or republic) and take an overview 
 of the entire war.
  My only grievance with the Gameplay is AI, which is ruthless and unforgiving sometimes even on 
 easy difficulty
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a good quality for an RTS game, but have obvious room for improvement.
 
  
  Sound: A lot of the original Star Wars scores are used in the game, which should please the fans. 
 But the SFX is also of a high quality, and the sound of battle is what you would expect from the 
 Star Wars Universe
  
  Value: Great value for money, and is also now part of the Best of PC pack, so there is no excuse 
 not to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjrandall79
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best that Lucas Arts has to offer (and the best in the Star Wars gaming cataolg) &amp; 
 a must for any strategist... if you're looking for a challenge then you'll find it in EAW... and 
 its well deserved; (finally the Star Wars 'galaxy' has adopted a fitting RTS game for the PC that 
 nearly encompases all facets of the saga's story arc and almost comlpetely entails the full bodied 
 genius of Lucas himself... I haven't even begun to play the online, muliti-player scenarios and 
 am only 'knee deep' in the single player campaigns but what I've experienced so far will surely 
 excite even the most avid game player... be careful, this one will have you searching for the strategy 
 guides in no time but give it some thought because, it's what the game was designed for and above 
 all else; Rome, or should I say, the Death Star, after all, wasn't built in a day...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good on my standards. It has good graphics, nice online, good sound. Thers 
 just onething it lacks constant action. In this game it just seems like you just send your troops 
 in to a battle that will last forever, because for 1 infanty rifleman to kill another it take like 
 10 shots that b/s. If you looking for an action packed strategy game I'd have to say look somewhere 
 else. I'd at least look at another game first. I mean i like Starwars and i say this game = i dont 
 no... half-ass id say. SO unless ure some fat **** swinging around a plastic lightsaber look one 
 more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberjannie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  The Overview: --------------------------------------------------------------------
  Star Wars: Empire at War is not as empty as it seems at first. The gameplay are good and the graphics 
 are clean to look at.
  Even though I've had some technical problems playing it on multiplayer.
  You have 2 campaigns 
 to choose from, The Empire or the rebellion.
  The latter is of course the good guys and the first is the evil factions as anyone who have seen 
 the movies would easily known. In the campaign you have a space map with planets for the star wars 
 universe, all with their own bonuses. For example some planets have increased credit income, which 
 is the ones I think is the most important. Others make production of certain units cheaper and 
 some have other bonuses.
  
  You have to build buildings on your planets so you can manufacture different units. Barracks for 
 stormtroopers for example. The number of buildings you can have on your planets depends on the 
 size of the planet, some can have 3 some can have up to 8. The buildings varies from ION cannon 
 which shoots and disables big spacecrafts others to credit income buildings.
  
  The fighting: --------------------------------------------------------------------
  The gameplay 
 in the campaigns is all about conquering planets. First you send a fleet above the planet, then 
 you have to crush everything in that space to be able to send in the troops.
  The space combat is 3D, but you only control your units from a overview 2d perspective, which makes 
 things looks alive and really simplify the tactical movement of your units that you have to make.
 
  
  As soon as you crushed your enemies above the planet its time for you to start sending in the cannon 
 fodder. The planet have its native population which is either on your side or the enemy's side. 
 So if they are on the other side of your barrel you need to slaughter them by the dozen and then 
 kill their buildings from which it keeps spawning units until it is blown up.
  
  The owners of the planet that gets invaded always have a base on it. He could have made big turrets 
 (which is one of the buildings you can make on your planet) , and he will have the small turrets. 
 The small turrets are made on these manufacturer pads which is on the ground. The invading force 
 can easily capture these to help them in the war effort. Emplacements that you can build on these 
 is : Anti Infantry turrets, Anti vehicle, Anti Air, Vehicle Repair, Infantry Healing and Sensor 
 (boost your viewing range from that spot) .
  
  Both space and land combat include several heroes you can use. Ranging from Han Solo to Darth Vader 
 and even the emperor himself!
  These hero units have boosts, special abilities and basically is far more powerful than anything 
 else on the battleground. You also have 2 minor heroes. The field and the fleet commander, which 
 boosts the units health and line of sight. The story: --------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OK, I am an honest person and even though the biggest Star Wars fan out there, I cant feel a bit 
 sad about the lack of storyline here.
  You get a mission and a few hours later you manage to overwhelm that planet and then you get a 
 new message. And the only buffer between this is a hologram of Darth Vader, The emperor and all 
 the other known Star Wars heroes. I had the feeling like Thats it? All those hours for that? feeling.
 
  
  Not even a sequence when you complete the game, just the credits coming up. All this and lack of 
 varied missions kinda made me feel a bit out in the cold. But hey, its an RTS so that is too be 
 expected, but cant really overlook the lack of movie-sequences.
  
  Technical/Bugs: --------------------------------------------------------------------
  I bought 
 this game for about 10 months ago. Started to play the campaign and then I felt like playing against 
 a friend of mine. Sure everything worked fine, but when we started to play we eventually got a 
 synchronization error and the game couldn't continue. This is a shame because you can play the 
 campaign map on 1vs1 which would make for an cool game.
  So i put the game back to my shelf at home and stopped thinking about it.
  
  Here I am, one 
 10 months later, 2 patches later and 2 patches that have it in the description that they fixed 
 the multiplayer. No luck. tried to play the game multiplayer again, but no luck. Still the Sync 
 error. What a shame. Technically speaking it is a good game. Good balance from a unit perspective 
 and pretty flawless design. Still the land combat can be a bit stressful because some of the units 
 are really clumsy and refuses to do what i tell them. Like the AT-AT that often refuse to shoots 
 and just walks randomly about and looking at the enemy.
  
  Summary: --------------------------------------------------------------------
  All in all, a 
 good game. Even with it multiplayer flaws (that it doesn't work) this is still a good game which 
 might be worth the prize that is on right now (consider the game is over a year old) you can buy 
 it just to play as the Empire to show those rebel scum once and for! Everybody knows where the 
 force is the strongest!
  
  //Uberjannie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  WHEN I FIRST STARTE PLAYING THIS GAME I WAS VERY IMPRESED BY THE MAKING OF THE STPRY IT IS NEARLY 
 THE SAME AS IN THE MOVIE WITH SOME SLIGTH CHANGES BUT NOT REALLY WORTH TO MENTION THE BEST THING 
 THAT CAPTUER MY ATTENTION WAS THE SPACE BATELS THE GRAPHIK IS VERY GOOD AND EVERY THING FROM THE 
 LITTEL SPACE CRAFT TO THE BIG SHIPS IS VERY DETAIL ALSO THE MULTIPLAYER MODE IS VERY GOOG SPECIALLY 
 OVER THE INTERNET AND LAN PARTYS WITH MULTIPLE PLAYERS. ONE THING THAT I DIN'T LIKE SO MUCH WAS 
 THE CAMPAIN THEY ARE VERY LONG AND AFTER A COPLE OF HOURS PLAYING IT GETS A LITTEL BORING BUT THE 
 ONLY THING THAT KEEP ME FROM NOT STOPING PLAYING WAS THE OWESOME GRAPHIK OF THE SPACE BATLE AND 
 THE AMOUNT UNITS YOU CAN CONTROL IN SPACE BUT AFERT ALL ITS A VERY GOODGAME RESAMBLING THE MOVIES 
 AND WORTH BUYING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow218
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  all in all a good star wars game... could have done more things in it and more improvements but 
 hell.. it was awesome.... just hope there'ss more were this come from.... and lets hope that the next 
 is better than this one.... and lets also hope that there will be a new star wars battle front.. lol 
 aaahah.. but any ways.... good game.... awsoem grpahics.. if u can run it... and really good game play 
 the space battles was awsoem the gorund not so goo in my opion.. but who knows.. it was a good game.!!!!!..... but 
 yet ... it need stuff done to  
 blah blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah 
 blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah blah bla blahblah blah blah 
 bla blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of the RTS genre. While I loved the Warcraft series, and StarCraft, as well as C&amp; C 
 RA 1 and 2, and I'm currently enamored with Company of Heroes, I really just don't dig the RTS 
 games. It's not them, it's me. I just suck at them. Mostly, I get bored with them when I can't 
 win. Put me in front of most game types, I'll dominate just fine, or at least hold my own. But, 
 for whatever reason, I've never been able to wrap my head around them. However, this game holds 
 something special for me. There's something different about this than, say, Age of Empires. What 
 makes this game special? The Star Wars license. Now, I'm not a Star Wars nut, but I enjoy the movies. 
 I've loved a lot of the previous Star Wars games, especially X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter, to which I 
 devoted a good chunk of my life many years ago. This game doesn't disappoint my appetite for laser 
 blast and Jedi powers. Why all the back story on me? Because it might help you understand where 
 I'm coming from on this thing. I enjoy this game. I can't imagine myself becoming obsessed over 
 it, but it's something I can see myself diving into every now and then for a while. I bought this 
 game out of the bargain bin at an Office Depot for $2.50. I saw it, and remembered the reviews 
 I'd seen were relatively good, and there's a giant Star Wars logo on the front, and a screen shot 
 of Vader leading an army of Storm Troopers across the battlefield, and I thought: it's worth a 
 couple bucks. For the game itself, it's very well built. Obviously it's a few years old, but I'm 
 amazed at the graphics quality. Everything is spot on, and the most impressive component is the 
 scale. AT-STs tower over the Rebel forces, X-Wings buzz around Reclamaters like Gnats. The effects 
 are truly amazing, explosions bloom brilliantly, and even the simple blaster fire is impressive. 
 The sound is also spot-on. There's something almost familiar and comforting about the sound of 
 an imperial blaster, or the engine of a TIE fighter. You know what it sounds like, and they get 
 them right on every point in this game. In addition to the sound, the voice-a-likes they hired 
 are pretty amazing as well, and there are points that they say things you think must have been 
 cannibalized from one of the films, except the words were never spoken in film. The game play is 
 great as well. There's so much to do that it's hard to warp your head around. There's a cute little 
 card that comes with the game, although it's less card than thick poster, but it contains the units 
 and the upgrade pathways for both the Rebels and the Imperial Forces. Several hours in, and I've 
 yet to get them all. The other thing that's great is the multi-layered play style. You get to fight 
 both in planetary land battles and massive space confrontations. You get to build your forces tactically 
 from a Galactic map, and then move from point to point initiating space and sky battles. It's fun 
 to try and keep an eye on all your resources as you build up your Galactic Empire. My only gripe 
 about the maps, though, is that there are a lot of limits imposed on your paths. You don't get 
 to dominate a massive landscape / skyscape, but instead, you get to move through an almost gauntlet 
 like series of corridors. Also, the maps seem to get a little repetitive after a while. The last 
 thing I'll mention is the brilliant interaction and components. Hero characters give you an edge 
 on the battle field, bring unique abilities to the battles, while each unit has its own pluses 
 and minuses. The fact that they don't include anything that isn't a true Star Wars component, and 
 that it all works together so well, makes it that much more fun. Overall it's a rich and immersive 
 game with no end of fun. It's definitely Worth Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Co_quitos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I never tried the other star wars games like shooters, but this one, i think is a really good game 
 !!!! it mixes a lot of mapping like medieval total war and Roma total war, creating troops and 
 ships, even you ca build the death star ( it moves too slot anyway ) , but the most exiting part 
 is the space battlefiels, even the sounds are like in the movie, i really like that part og the 
 game... once you get thru the campaign you get into other campaigns to continue playing with different 
 missions... good game ! ! ! All ages ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Although the other Star Wars RTS games weren't (very) good, Star Wars Empire at War proves out to 
 be a hell of a RTS. The graphics are really nice, but the effects, mainly the ones from space battles, are 
 superb realised. The sound is simply perfect, although the soundtrack is exactely the same as it 
 is in Star Wars Battlefront II. The gameplay is really good, vast &amp; not boring. You will experience 
 various missions, conquer planets (or destroy the with the Death Star) , boom your economy, train a 
 lot of different units, construct &amp; upgrade stations &amp; buildings, etc. The battles in space 
 are superb, intense, innovative &amp; breathtaking. But the ones from land are quite boring, like a 
 RTT where you just take reinforcements, capture points &amp; use some special abilities of heroes 
 you command (Darth Vader, The Emperor, Luke Skywalker, etc.) The story is good, but nothing else happens, so 
 you allready know it. So, Empire at War is a great game, an other pride for the Star Wars series 
 &amp; for the classic strategy games (; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golden_eagle93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is one of the best Star Wars RTS games for the PC. With good game play 
 you'll be playing for hours. Empire at War gives you a great RTS experience. With cool units, weaponry, 
 and vehicles you'll be exploding a lot of things. When not battling, you're at the star map, were 
 you can think about what you're going to do, build, or destroy. Once ready to capture a planet, 
 you take your fleet to the planet, and destroy all space forces above. Once done you send your 
 ground troops to the surface to get rid of all of the enemy forces. Then you win the planet. Star 
 Wars Empire at War is a really great Star Wars RTS game. You can either relive the story or change 
 Star Wars History forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avc4eva
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  With Starwars: Empire at War you will have amazing fun at first, but becomes very repetitive after 
 a while. The Good: Very Good graphics and sounds, good cinematic scenes, very good rts game play, 
 story line sticks with original starwars with addition of a few new characters, excellent space 
 battles, lots of units and spaceships you will stare at for days and a star wars game worthy of 
 its name.
  
  The Bad: Can become very repetitve, mostly every every unit counters it each other makes even more 
 repetitive, land battles are not as good as you would expect being very small and units often don't 
 play a huge role in a battle.
  
  Over all Starwars: Empire at War is a very good game you will enjoy for a lot of time get this 
 even if you do not like starwars well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  While great Star Wars games are plentiful on other genres, the RTS has proven rather elusive to 
 nail down. Enter Petroglyph, formed by former Westwood employees who left the company after it 
 was assimilated into EA Pacific. Their first crack at a Star Wars strategy game proves to be a 
 good one. Empire at War successfully combines epic space battles, land based engagements and running 
 a galactic empire into a well presented and often satisfying experience that any RTS fan will likely 
 enjoy.
  
  Gameplay in Empire at War consists of two separate, but intertwined sections. The first is the 
 galactic map, where you run your empire as you see fit. Presented before you is a 2D map of the 
 galaxy, with all its various planets and travel routes. This is where you run the simple management 
 issues, such as building and moving fleets, training troops, outfitting planets with various structures 
 and seek out the enemy. Zooming in on a planet with the mouse wheel provides a handy, although 
 bare bones information window for the planet in question. Listed are units stationed on or around 
 the planet, available structures, local flora and fauna etc. The second section involves the actual 
 fighting, be it in space or on a planet. Every time you run into an enemy controlled planet or 
 fleet, a message prompts you to either engage in combat or throw the dice and let the computer 
 calculate the outcome for you. The latter choice is always the riskier one, so its use is not 
 recommended. Space battles are the real meat and potatoes of this game, especially when compared 
 to the cookie cutter land battles. An interesting aspect, and one that turns out to work great, 
 is the fact that capital ships and space stations all have hardpoints that represent individual 
 systems, such as hangar bays, shields, torpedo bays and laser cannons. You can have your ships 
 target these specific points simply by clicking them. This adds a nice strategic flair to the combat, 
 as shooting out a ships engines actually slows it down, while wiping out the hangar bay means less 
 fighters harassing your own ships. Some ships have special features that are important to take 
 into account when deciding the order of attack. For example, the Imperial Interdictor-class cruiser 
 has a gravity well that keeps enemy units from fleeing a losing battle. Also a nice touch that 
 more strategy games should adopt is the Cinematic button. When pressed, the game literally 
 evolves into a film, changing cameras and angles to let you see the fighting from dramatic angles. 
 The feature works very well, with only a few times the game missing important events (like the 
 downing of a capital ship) only to show you blank space. Unfortunately, the awesomeness doesnt 
 carry over to the planetary based engagements. They frequently devolve into nonsensical click-fests, 
 devoid of any strategy or tactical thinking. Land units have no hardpoints, there seems to be no 
 balance of power (just watch as a squad of Rebel Plex-troopers take down an AT-AT and cringe in 
 horror) , and the maps are just utterly terrible. Instead of giving us a planetary surface on which 
 to freely roam and command units, for some odd reason Petroglyph decided to make each map a corridor 
 crawl. Im not kidding you dear reader, the planetary surfaces are literally just a bunch of interconnected 
 corridors, with a few rooms spread in between. This takes out all meaning from the battles, 
 as you no longer have to consider what forces you commit and how you distribute them on the frontlines. 
 You just gather up a group of units, run through corridor after corridor and click at enemy units 
 until either victory or defeat is proclaimed. And let me tell you, even at the easiest setting 
 the latter is almost always the pre-eminent conclusion. This game is seriously hard, especially 
 when it comes to ground engagements. No matter what, your forces always seem to be the inferior 
 ones, with a group of AT-STs invariably losing to a squad of four rebel troopers. Baffling! Also, 
 while a nice concept, the idea of having to ferry troops from space back planetside to join the 
 fighting is cumbersome. You can at most only land four squads of any given unit on a single landing 
 zone, after which you have to capture a new landing zone to ferry in more troops. The problem with 
 this is that the enemy gives you such a hard time of acquiring those additional LZs, you almost 
 never actually succeed in getting to them before your original force is wiped out. The only good 
 thing I can gleam from this part of the game is that the Cinematic camera also works here, 
 although not as well as in space. You frequently end up looking at the boots of your Stormtroopers 
 all the while they are busy kicking some Rebel behind. Also a great idea is the addition of heroes. 
 There are a bunch of major and minor heroes, ranging from Vader and Luke to Mon Mothma and Captain 
 Piett. Each have their own unique strengths, and if used wisely can mean the difference between 
 victory and death.
  
  Graphically Empire at War is beautiful. Particularly worthy of mention are the space battles. Watching 
 as capital ships get into firing positions and fighters scurry in between them, lasers racing across 
 the sky, ion torpedoes tearing ships apart and seeing the pieces drift into the reaches of space 
 never gets old. I almost always end up enabling the Cinematic camera and just sit back and 
 enjoy the show. It is that good! Even though once again the land battles get the short end of the 
 stick, they are still fun to watch. I was particularly impressed as a speeder employed its grappling 
 hook to trip an AT-AT (a la the Empire Strikes Back) , crumpling it into the ground and having its 
 head explode. Also, zooming in on units reveals the amount of detail poured into this game. Each 
 is crafted meticulously and resemble the originals nicely. From a technical standpoint, EaW is 
 also solid. There is nary a frame rate hiccup or graphical glitch during my lengthy play sessions.
 
  
  The sounds in EaW are top notch, as is the custom with most any Star Wars game. Sound effects and 
 music are lifted from the movies, and thus are of superior quality. Hearing an X-Wing open up on 
 an unsuspecting TIE Fighter sounds just like in the movies, and John Williams classic score never 
 ceases to amaze me. Even though there is not much of it, voice acting is also quality work, and 
 the actors sound like their silver screen counter parts. Although not as intensive aurally as Company 
 of Heroes, Empire at War is certainly no slouch.
  
  In the end, while Empire at War delivers a great strategy title set in the lovable Star Wars universe, 
 it ends up feeling like it could have done so much more. Particularly disappointing are the land 
 battles, that manage to do just about everything wrong, with the exception of heroes. When contrasted 
 with the superior and thrilling space battles, you cant help but feel that in some ways, EaW was 
 a missed opportunity. Nevertheless, with a robust single player portion (with campaign, skirmish 
 and galactic conquest modes) and a good multiplayer portion, this game is definitely worth checking 
 out for strategy buffs. As for Star Wars fans, its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a good game that has it's heart in the right place but falls somewhat 
 short in game play execution. In many ways it's your basic RTS game with a few interesting twists. 
 Planet upgrades have a fairly limited number of options which is probably good considering that 
 each planet has a limited number of slots for available upgrades. Setting up a game where players 
 have to carefully consider how they want to deploy their upgrades is good in theory, but in practice 
 feels artificially limiting. Similar constraints exist when the player wants to invade a planet. 
 Fleet limits feel like they are more well thought out but the limits on how many ground units can 
 be landed at a time feels clumsy. In addition space battles are more interesting and have a higher 
 level of tactics involved while ground battles quickly turn into an exercise of massing forces 
 and obliterating opposing armies as quickly as possible. Attempting to use other tactics or strategies 
 becomes an exercise in frustration due to unit limits and the rock, paper, scissors feel to unit 
 combat.
  
  Recommended for die hard fans of Star Wars and RTS fans who are not looking for anything but a 
 decent game. Others may find as I did that this game fails to hold their interest after just a 
 few hours. Final thought, now that the price has been discounted if you have any interest go ahead 
 and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, though cheesy at times, you should buy it. I'm not much of a Star Wars 
 fan, but I bought it just because I was looking for a relatively new RTS that was actually playable. 
 And that's what I got. The building pads can be frusterating at times because you can only build 
 in a few exact places, making it hard to defend a location. The only bonus about the build pads 
 is that you don't need  to build things, all you need is some infantry 
 to capture the pad, and build on it. The land battles aren't great, but the space battles are very 
 good. The ships and space stations are fun to play with. The rebel campain is very hard, the rebel 
 campaign played on hard is impossible. Once you get going on the campaign, it's surprisingly fun. 
 It reminds me of Risk. The best thing about the campaign it that you don't need to follow directions. 
 if you want to conquer a planet that you don't need to, you can. If you can find it a decent price 
 buy it, it's a good game that will keep you playing for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gufu
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  How do I begin my first review? Let's do so with the basics - the basics of any Real Time Strategy: 
 - Easy Economy (or Let's play - find another tree to cut ) - Different base and unit creation systems 
 (with no difference from 1992) - Many different units types (or two same models with different 
 colors) - Sides which look and work the same - so they won't confuse the player - Brain dead Artificial 
 Intelligence (or lack of it at all) - Fun and repetitive campaign (or something people forget to 
 even try) - Indigenous life which is always allied to you're enemy - I see all AI player with unlimited 
 resources with scripted attacks - Cheap crap graphics The economy of Empire at War is simple as 
 1+1 (Unless you're IQ level does not include tens of digits) : Capture a planet, upgrade a space 
 station, build a mining facility - and suddenly you are drowning in credits! And on what do you 
 spend you're riches? On building bases and training Guys and Gals to join the suicidal attempts 
 to capture Kashyyk, of course! You build buildings and units at the galactic screen (about which 
 I shall tell you later) - and then you send them to battle or leave them to defend the planet (and 
 to be bombarded by enemy ship fleet in orbit of the same planet) . Of course space stations with 
 they're hard points (and points to Petroglyph for originality) defend planets with easy... until 
 enemy brings a few star destroyers and blasts you're shield generator to bits. Each side have different 
 looking units with different jobs - but for empire, prices soon go up (thanks to smugglers and very 
 annoying need to leave at least on unit at the planets surface) . This means what in the end games 
 empires AT - AT's would be swarmed by hundreds of rebels troops and tanks. Each side doesn't look 
 or work the same way other does (and as said earlier - both sides change roles at end games) . The 
 AI sadly can only win by outnumbering you - meaning what with fresh reinforcements - you will pretty 
 much always take any planet (or not if you love to auto resolve) . In skrimish you would find AI 
 to go for resource points first - forcing you to blitzkrieg or to fight for those points to the 
 end (or until that damn AT - AT finally crawls to where he is needed) . The campaign works in two 
 different views: Galactic screen and tactical battles. In galactic screen you build buildings and 
 units, initiate research, and send you're troops to victory (or defeat if you auto resolve) . There 
 are two types of missions: Story missions and simple ones - both there are space and land missions. 
 space missions are greatest - as battles take huge scales from time to time - meaning what even 
 one space station can devastate imperial fleet (Under manual control that is) . The ground missions... 
 let's say what there are not enough explosions. You can either follow missions only - and finish 
 in... around two day. If you are to conquer the galaxy - you are in a long, time taking, cold sweating, 
 Rome: Total War kind of time. Each planet has it's own indigenous life forms - which either hate 
 you or love you. that's all depends on you're side - if you are a rebel - you're goind to have 
 Wookies (Let the wookie win!) , Mon calamari (Caviar!) , and little Jawas under you're control. As 
 empire - you despise all non - humans, and will only have humans to help you. Sometimes they help 
 you, sometimes they eat you, sometimes the rip you're hands off - but they add great atmosphere 
 - forcing you to prepare more to the counter -attacks of these damn wookies. Sometimes when you 
 fight against AI though - you feel like he/she/it (AI has gender?) is blind - meaning you actually 
 CAN ambush computer! If only AI actually tried to capture those neutral planets a little bit earlier. 
 The graphics in this game allow you to actually be happy for seeing you're little Darth Vader (Don't 
 choke me!) blocking rebels laser fire. In space battles you get confused in the chaotic light show 
 of laser shots. You can easily see antennas on you're Millenium Falcon - and so you will not have 
 problems seeing you're men. and the Cinematic Mode allows you to send you're troops to attack enemy 
 positions and then look as they march right into wookie encampment who are allied to you're enemy. 
 Frank Klepacki music still holds as the best video game composers of all time - and the soundtracks 
 add to the atmosphere. At the end of the day - we will just be happy to fight another cold battle 
 at Hoth - but this time we can actually stop those AT - AT's... I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChemistGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars universe has produced many great games- starfighter sims, RPGs, shooters, platformers. 
 Empire at War attempts to bring RTS into this category. It ultimately fails. Itll never make any 
 Top 10 of either RTS or Star Wars. Its an alright game. The 3-layer approach, galactic, space 
 and land is enjoyable, as is the choice of units, most of which have some sort of special ability. 
 The main problem is the tiny unit cap for both type of battle. While its always handy to have 
 reinforcement, you never have enough units to guard any resource points or chokepoints. Graphics 
 do the job, no more, no less. Sound is great, the proper music, effects and sound-alikes in place.
 
  Buy this game only if you love Star Wars, love RTS, and hate paying full-price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirCrabcake
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I'd totally suggest getting this game. And the graphics have no impact on my review because I have 
 a piece of crap computer that can barely run this game, so this review is all about the gameplay. 
 The campaign mode has epic feeling, heavily strategic land and space battles. There's also some 
 very entertaining strategic elements to this game, like taking the orbit of dangerously hostile 
 planets, so you can destroy any garrisons, or raid fleets that might try to invade one of your 
 planets, and having a space cruiser as part of your land garrison, so you can call in air strikes. 
 This game has so many smart, well equipped, and destructive enemies, that they're able to put the 
 fear of God, or rather the Galactic Empire in you. There are also a wide variety of ships, vehicles, 
 and buildings to construct, and an immersive storyline to use them on. So if you ever wanted to 
 be a galactic commander, or just hear some great Star Wars character impersonaters, get this game. 
 But make sure to use the Can I Run This? feature on this website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  this game is so much fun I couldn't stop playing even for lunch, the game is just right not too 
 easy yet at the same time it has some difficulty to it. Now I'm not really into those kind of games, 
 and haven't played many RTS games as it is, but after playing this one it made me think that RTS 
 games aren't that bad after all. Lucas arts has really out done them selves this time, with a great 
 RTS game, I would definitely recommend it to those that like RTS games and even those that don't 
 really like them, the game is cool and worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealkw
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars : Empire a War is a good game to think but if you don't like stragy game then don't play 
 this game, but if you like star wars or you like stragy game then get this game. I am not saying 
 its not bad its good, the graphics is just little not to good but you can use the old video cards 
 like ati 7900 or other card you like. The sound is fine by me, it has good a sound in it for 2.1 
 or 3.1 or what ever. The game is grat I like the space battle but ground battle is not too bad 
 because it takes to long to bet it. So its ok be me but if you like star wars or stragy game then 
 this is a ok. I got this game when came out the first day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War combines turn-based campaign map strategy with real-time, battlemap tactics 
 rendered in full 3d. The concept is pretty much borrowed off the Total War games, and, seems to 
 be the new thing in strategy games. Which is a good thing. In EAW, the 2d turn-based campaign game, 
 which comes in several different play options, is addictive, challenging, and fun. The 3d tactical 
 space maps are also superb, with huge Star Destroyers clobbering away at Rebel cruisers and space 
 stations, and little fighters wizzing in-between them. Visually, it's great, and, fun to play.
 
  
  However, the 3d tactical ground battles are noticeably lacking compared to similar RTS games, and 
 alot less fun than the space battles. The unit cap is shocking small, so your grand imperial army 
 will consist of a few units of stormtroopers, a couple tanks (which blow instantly if hit by a 
 ground-trooper's missle, strangely) , and a few walkers. I was very underwhelmed by the ground combat. 
 Indeed, Star Wars Battlefront II does a much, much better job of giving you a sense of being involved 
 in a grand Star Wars battle. Ground combat is also tedious. Units seem to be made of glass, exploding 
 at the slightest touch, and infantry just stand around and shoot at each other, until one group 
 has been blown up by the other. Units do not seek cover, respond to threats, or have any morale 
 values. If only the ground combat from Company of Heroes could somehow be molded with EAW...
  
  Overall, the game is very enjoyable. I found myself auto-resolving all the ground battles, 
 but, aside from that, the game visually is superb, the sound track is obviously fantastic, and, 
 the game's campaign map adds alot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  great game that is probably the most stunning graphic star wars game there is and it has gameplay 
 like no other. the strategy here is real strategy especially in the space battles where you must 
 decide what part of the ships you are going to atack and wether or not to bring in reinforcements, 
 and if so, from what side, you must think where how and when the actions you make will be most 
 effective. unfortunantly the space battles seem to be what lucas arts concentrated on. the land 
 battles are ok, although they could use some work, but they still have great units and gameplay 
 as well. and as always to all the star wars fans, may the force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arian-Caldon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is a fast paced real-time strategy game set in the Star Wars Universe. 
 As fun as it is though it can, depending on how you play, get boring real fast.
  
  Lets begin with the actual battle, sometimes called skirmishes. These battle can be slow but they 
 can be quick. In reality though, they are just point and click fights. You select you AT-AT attack 
 base, your done. The same goes true with space. However, there can be instances were strategy is 
 key. Like when you are stuck on Kuat with an AT-AT being eaten by Rebel Snow Speeders. you HAVE 
 to build anti-aircraft guns nearby- if you do not want to die. This is were the Unit-over-Unit 
 comes in. Besides the above mention though, it doesn't. TIE Fighter STILL d as much damage to a 
 carrier as a TIE bomber, slightly annoying.
  
  The real action of the game, and perhaps the funnest part, is the Galaxy Map, which shows you all 
 the worlds you control. From her you have to spend your money wisely- building Credit producer 
 / space stations/ fleets. It can be annoying though, such as when the planet you conquer keeps 
 randomly switching to the enemy before you can reinforce troops.
  
  But alas, perhaps the best part to the EAW, is the ability to mod it. LcasArts/ Peteroglyph give 
 you the resources to make your own maps, units, and galaxies. While you will have to code in units 
 and galaxies, (which is as simple as going into the XML, copying and changing names) . There are 
 also several groups competing to make a full conversion Clone Wars mod, such as Imperial Assault 
 II.
  
  We can conclude with comparing EAW with other games in the genre- Space Opera Strategy, and what 
 come to mind is the sweet old Homeworld Two. Comparing the two we find that while EAW IS in the 
 Star Wars Universe, it lacks the 3d movement or strategy of Home World, but then, you are not waiting 
 half an hour to get all the resources on the map.
  
  Star Wars Empire at War is a good game but if only if you just want a quick space-Strategy. If 
 you want a game that you can play for hours, it is not the best. If you want to mod like crazy 
 this is your game.
  
  Arian Caldon gives this a 4/5.
  
  (or 8.1 f you want to speak in GameSpot terms.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Game play is good it's a turn based and RTS mixed together and the fighting is intence, 
 especally the space battles, they can be very crazy with all the little planes flying around and 
 it's cool watching the bigger ships shooting there lazer cannons. I could say less for the ground 
 battles on the planets. They are just not as fun as the space battles, but still not bad. You get 
 a set base with some troops and you can build up your army and build your buildings again if they 
 get knocked down. You can also can have heros like R2-D2 and C-3PO and hack in to war machines 
 and make them shoot at one another. The fighting on the ground reminds me of the gameplay of the 
 game called Preatorians which was also a good game but was a really underrated game so you probrably 
 never heard of it. With the empire you you have large amouts of money, troops and technology but 
 you can't detect where the rebels are. With the Rebals you don't have much money and as big army 
 but you can decet with enemy troops are and can go though ememy bases with cloking decises which 
 works to the advantage of you if your playing as the Rebels. Anyways you can send lazer beams to 
 blow something up on the gound and vise versa when your in space and you can send troops to other 
 planets in the campain mode. There are several other modes too, There is skirmish mode, a small 
 campain and a large campain and there is a multiplayer part to it as well.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are very good expecally in space when your fighting and such, in space it 
 really gives you a cinamatic feel when you watch your ships going around. I wish I could say the 
 same on the planets, they are not as detailed as i wish they would. They should of added more deails 
 like mouantains, hills and tranches so they your troops could hide behind something and ambush 
 the enemy. Sound: The sounds is great, the voice acting is well done and the sound of the lazer 
 blast to the explotion of some machine/building sounds the way they should sound.
  
  Value: The replay value is not bad, There is always a good multiplayer to play and the large campain 
 will keep you busy for a long time and you might even want to dominate again.
  
  All in all this is a good game thought it could of used some more work in some areas like the gound 
 floor on the planets and the fighting on the ground. I give this game 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semplew
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  his game is one of many different Star Wars games to date and like usual exceeds in providing an 
 extremely fun Star Wars experience.
  Its game play is the high point of it and really makes you want to play more and more especially 
 when your a person like me and loves to feel in control and to take over plants and space bases 
 etc really make you feel like you in control of the Empire or the Rebel Alliance. The many heroes 
 included in this game like Darth Vader and Obi Wan make this game even more fun and destroying 
 a building with Darth Vader and his destructive capabilities is a classic when you first do it 
 and really makes you feel like a powerful sith in a battle to take over a planet. The graphics 
 are very good; especially in space battles where the ships
  lighting effects really show and lasers are firing every where. The sound is one of the highest 
 points of the game because it makes you feel like you are actually watching a Star Wars film not 
 playing a game.
  All in all this game is one of best Star Wars games ever and maybe even strategy game in my books!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dea7htrap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  All Star Wars fans remember the classic star wars games, Jedi Outcast, Battlefront 1, and 2, Knights 
 of the Old Republic, and so on. But something was missing. Great shooters, and RPG's but no real 
 time strategy games. Lucas Arts and Petroglyph have heard Star Wars fans cries and pulled together 
 and created a unique and superb game. SW: EaW (Star Wars Empire at War) is an awsome game. And what 
 makes it so awsome is its orginality. Almost all of the RTS' in the past are the same basic, build 
 buildings, build units, and last attack. EaW is different. Almost all of your building goes on 
 in the galatic map, where you can see all of your planets. You build space stations, troops, factories, 
 barracks' you name it, all from an overhead planet view . Each of the 43 planets has 3 fleet slots, 
 where you can take your units on the planets and add them to your space fleets. You then take your 
 fleet/land units and hyperspace to a planet. If there is an enemy fleet above that planet then 
 you enter into a space battle. Your units (or a group of them) warp into the sector. You then fight 
 the enemy until they are destroyed or you die. Of course of you are out matched you can always 
 hyperspace away (unless the Empire has a gravity well generator online, then you are screwed) . 
 After you have destroyed the enemy fleet you can attack the planet itself. Your units (or a group 
 of them) land on a reinforcement point and you go attack the enemy. But there is a catch, you can 
 only have a certain amount of units in space or land. You can get more by capturing more reinforcement 
 points. (for example you can only have 3 points of units on the field, this does not mean that 
 you only have 3 units, it just means that you have 3 groups of units. Some groups are larger than 
 others, ( (ie, your stormtrooper group has about 40 stormtroopers in each group) ) . Same goes with 
 space battles. Different ships have different values, (so do not expect to go into a battle with 
 40 star destroyers. ) After you have destroyed the enemy on the planet you gain control of that 
 system and can start building on that planet. The graphics of the game can go from ok, to superb 
 depending on how good your computer is and how laggy you want it. I think one of the coolest features 
 on the game is the Battle Cam, where you can see all of your units fighting from a camra/movie 
 perspective. Its quite neat, and can make the game a lot more exciting. Overall this game is superb, 
 just awesome. If you are a Star Wars fan, or a Real Time Strategy fan, Pick this up, you wont regret 
 it.
  
  Dea7htrap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faceless_Grunt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Overall this game was very good, I enjoyed it. With EaW's release it showed the fans of RTS games 
 that there is more than one look when it comes to those sort of games. It brought in a new design 
 into the genre that was different than famous RTS games, such as Age of Empires. Therefore it packed 
 a punch when it was released.
  
  Empire at War has some flaws like most games do. The graphics were somewhat decent, they could 
 have been better, but with the engine that they were working on, it was fine. There were some glitches 
 and flaws with the graphics, such as when a unit dies on a hill or slope, their body is a couple 
 inches above the ground (a common glitch) . The graphics with the units weren't all that great because 
 the movement of the units showed grids and blocks in their design (pixels as well) . With the environments, 
 it was excellent, I felt that each planet had its own unique environment which had crystal clear 
 graphics, same goes with the color and design of the planets. A marvelous job by Petroglyph.
  
  The gameplay wasn't all too bad and I enjoyed the fact that the holocrons were your main source 
 of information in the game. What I didn't like was the fact that the opposing side was repetitive. 
 They would attack when you least expected it and after the space battle it would immediately go 
 right into the land battle. They would keep on doing this and doing this until you pretty much 
 lose your planet. The AI wasn't all that great besides that note, that I just pointed out. It would 
 even get more repetitive when you are attacking on land battles because the opposing units would 
 just keep on coming and coming. There was no real threat from the AI besides the fact they were 
 extremely repetitive.
  
  With, sound the game was exciting and dramatic. They did an excellent job with the sound and had 
 a few old and familiar songs here and there. The gun shots, and lightsaber noises were marvelous, 
 I thought it depicted what George Lucas would have wanted very well.
  
  Overall, I thought this game was moderately easy and an overall good game to get into, especially 
 if you are a Star Wars fan like me. I recommend it to the RTS game fans and to others who think 
 they will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funzers
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  While I am not usually a fan of RTS (there are some exceptions) , EaW is a game that truly stands 
 out as one of the better in this genre as well as games within the Star Wars universe (KOTOR and 
 BF2 are still personal favorites) . The wide variety of options that a player has in EaW truly gives 
 the game its never put down quality; the addition of the multi-player/on-line play is something 
 that I am truly looking forward to exploring. The only drawbacks I see with this game lies in the 
 brevity of the campaign mode combined with the length of time it takes to progress up the tech 
 tree. Overall this is a must game for any Star Wars or RTS fan. I am definitely looking forward 
 to the expansion pack EaW: FoC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is excellent fan service, an innovative RTS title that takes a lot of what's 
 to love from board games, moves it onto the PC screen, and offers you a better way to be a part 
 of the battles you love than any other Star Wars game does. But it also has some pacing issues 
 and loses a few points for rookie RTS mistakes. Star Wars fans, hang in there for a minute. We're 
 going to talk about things like Mon Calamari cruiser capabilities and Red Squadron in a minute. 
 For now, we're going to look at what really works for EAW as an RTS and what nicks it down from 
 being surreally good to just amazing. The campaign mode covers the uncontroversial period that 
 takes place from a bit after Episode III's end to just after the end of Episode IV, while the Galactic 
 Conquest mode is composed of choice snippets of that era. Campaign mode moves at a sort of jerky 
 pace, and at the endgame, quite suddenly, the Death Star bears down on planets, Luke makes an appearance, 
 and everything moves too quickly to really enjoy. It's climactic, yes, but the abruptness cuts 
 short your time to enjoy finally accessing your ultimate technologies. The maps included for the 
 Galactic Conquest mode are well realized, giving you more chances to pick the heroes you want to 
 play with, the level of tech you feel like starting with, and the general scale of conflict you 
 want to command. Skirmish mode, with its centralized production and cool maps, still doesn't feel 
 like a traditional RTS -- the Galactic Map may not be there, but you can practically feel its presence 
 looming over you. When you need more resources, you take a planet or you set up a smuggling operation 
 in an enemy's territory. You don't send out miners like some feudal crackpot -- you send a fleet 
 and an army! This Empire is at war, son! Just complicated enough to keep you moving at stress speeds, 
 the Galactic Map is a great piece of Risk-style strategic warfare made real time, forcing you to 
 move units to the right place at the right time and sometimes just pray that you gambled their 
 lives correctly. More important, it makes the combat maps all about combat, not about you micromanaging 
 as a construction contractor-cum-landlord. Victory requires using the right units at the right 
 time -- a high-difficulty A. I. opponent might not be smart enough to press every advantage on the 
 Galactic Map, but it will definitely punish you for stupid unit matchup choices in combat. Sometimes 
 you will actually find yourself hyperspacing out of a fight you can't win to regroup and check 
 your intel before launching back in. Planets never exhaust their resources, so if you control even 
 a single planet, you can fall back, rebuild, and continue the good (or evil) fight. And while EAW 
 feels properly epic at the galactic level, it feels properly down and dirty at the combat level. 
 Hero units are, like their base units, larger than life, crushing armies of lesser beings under 
 their boot, armored footpad, or head-mounted laser. But there's no excuse for having to hunt down 
 every unit and structure on a map to win. The unit balancing on the ground lacks the depth that 
 having an air plane of combat would introduce, and all combat lacks upgrades for resources or experience, 
 which could have given more strategy to your choice of units (and upgrades) . Combat can instead 
 come down to whether you twitch one second faster and wipe out your enemies' counterunits before 
 they wipe out yours, and an entire battle can snowball from an unlucky first encounter when a key 
 unit is destroyed right off the bat. EAW has neither an in-depth morale system nor unit transports, 
 and the mediocre pathfinding means that units will spend a lot of time tripping on each other. 
 In short, to make the game more accessible to Star Wars fans, the RTS elements -- while innovative 
 and fun -- lack the depth that can define genre greats. Nevertheless, the Force is strong with 
 this one. It's worth it for fans of Star Wars to see their dreams unfurl in pyrotechnic, high-tech 
 3D glory (careful, because this has some slowdown even on a high-end machine) , and it's also worth 
 it for RTS fans to see some of the most experienced and respected designers in the genre go to 
 work on a truly innovative title with the backing of a major publisher. As the series gains clout, 
 I'm sure we'll see more depth added to its expansions and sequels -- everything is proceeding exactly 
 as I have foreseen... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazypanther
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  Yeah I really enjoyed this game the action and the graphics. And everyone is in it even yoda, and 
 c3po, r2-d2, chewbacca I like travelling from planet to planet and help destroy thigns. And the 
 good thing about this games you can play as the rebel and Imperial forces. I have always liked 
 start war games for ps2 and pc and now that I have a Xbox #60 I await to see what games they bring 
 out for that system. I can play this empire at war game for days and hours on end. When I get playing 
 they become so addicting and nothing else really matters to me at the time I concentrate myself 
 to the entire game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky86
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  A lot as previously been said about this game so I will try to be short. Innovative, fresh, revolutionary... 
 I'd say new genre. This is not the best RTS ever made, others might have had done things better 
 on some particular points. What's my point giving a game i say is not the best a 9.7 score?? Well 
 only the fact that it brings new ideas, mesh them with elements that have been proved perfect and 
 create a symbiosis between strategy, fun, and skills should be enough.
  
  Graphics will be fast, they're really good. Not the best around, but great still. Better than most 
 wil sum it up.
  
  Sound, well it's a Star Wars game, what do you expect???? Great sounds in the Star Wars universe 
 just need to be duplicated and approved by LucasArts and the job is done.
  
  Gameplay???? Old thought patterns coupled with new thought patterns make a rolling wheel, the definition 
 of revolution. New elements like providing two tactical fields (space and land) to every battle 
 and making them affect one another is a not so new as a move but its the scale that counts. Well 
 its like Starcraft's lurkers could attack marines and ships could blow out lurkers from air. Separate 
 yet tied. Sure we all seen ground vs air, airstrikes, under the ground surprise attack. But what 
 of ground battles containing those elements and a space battle that is another world completly. 
 Well you have to see it to understand, the feel of huge armies crushing one another while having 
 to control landing zones and small pop caps. Restriction for strategy, overwhelmingly powerful 
 units for fun. New ideas orbit around the old stuff (most of the elements here are old, they just 
 feel different) strenghts and weaknesses, counter this with that, use that to get him to do that.... 
 Well why change whats good??????
  
  Multiplayer? Well it's entirely based on : Are you a galactic conquest fan???
  Basic skirmish 
 is on my standards very average. New elements but its still gather ressources and overpower the 
 other. Most gamers out there are on a very similar level, so battles are either dull or unfair. 
 Sometimes it can be fun but its not very challenging, ground or space is just defines where one 
 side rules and one side crashes. The real challenge is the conquest mode on multiplayer. No more 
 predictable AI that will go for tactital choke points or strike you relentlessly till you just 
 drop dead. Now sure I must confess the expension adds a lot to the package. Empire vs Rebels is 
 in conquest like a chess game where the small moves count and the big moves are just small moves 
 put together. Decisions like making a rear planet a credits provider instead of a unit churner 
 are crucials. Sometimes the decision is less clearer but on most multiplayer maps, the decision 
 is obvious. Sometimes all you need is an Ion cannon on a chokepoint to win. Sometimes its loads 
 of troops created with the credits you made comprosing defense. The point is you will be put to 
 the test, if only your opponents doesnt leave after 10 mins because you are just too smart.
  
  Because here smart means something, rushing garantees nothing. Because overly defensiveplayers 
 are not always meant to win a war. Offense is valued because without offense there is no war. Imperial 
 arsenal vs rebel forces created legends in movies. They do the same in this game. This is Lucas 
 Arts gift to the fans: take these toys and have fun, you guys deserve it....
  
  Fun, for fans or non-fans, but lets be cleary either you like Star Wars (a little or a lot) or 
 you dont in that case you might either be a non-sci fi fan or a Star Trek geek. Let me just say 
 that if your not a fan you might think the game is a bit short on the lifespan.
  
  Try the expansion, it's even better!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerwiz09
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS out there. Not to mention one of the best Star Wars games as well.
 
  
  I didn't find the graphics that great though. But the sound makes up for that. You can't get better 
 star wars sound. the blasters fire, veichles blow up, ships explode, lightsabers buzz and clash, 
 and more great star wars sounds.
  
  As its been said the space battles in this game are alot funner and intresting then the land battles. 
 Especially with the neat idea of ship hardpoints that you can individually target, this allows 
 you to take down ship stategicly.
  
  The addition of the cinamatic camera mode is also a cool way to watch your battles. There is only 
 2 factions though, the rebals and empire. but with the new upciming expansion that sould make things 
 more intresting.
  
  Overall this game is really good, it does have its flaws, but its got lots of good qualitys. It 
 is a must have for any Star Wars or RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttime32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Star Wars: EAW was coming out ... I was really excited. I had waited a while 
 for a game like this for PC and man was it great. First of all ... the graphics are pretty amazing 
 and truly capture the look of Star Wars. Next ... the sound is one word, AMAZING. The only sound 
 better in a game is in the Call of Duty series ... in my opinion. All of the character voices ... 
 sound effects ... everything! The gameplay I thought was very cool. I love how you can target a 
 certain hard point on a ship or base ... which adds some extra strategy to it. I love all of the 
 little extra powers that come with special characters in the game ... very cool. For example ... 
 if you are Chewie ... you can steal enemy vehicles or ... in many rebel ships, you can focus all 
 power to shields and stuff like that. The more fun part of the game is the space battles. On average 
 ... I probably play 10 space battles for every 1 land battle that I do because it is that much 
 more fun. The only problem that I had with the game is that the multiplayer needed a little bit 
 of tweaking ... but after a few patches, it is much better than at the beginning. Online is very 
 fun and usually is very fast paced, you can have up to 4 vs 4 (even though it will probably lag 
 because of people with bad connections) but 3 vs 3 is still very fun. Now you will also find many 
 custom maps on there and that definitely adds to the experience. So if you are a Star Wars fan 
 who loves great graphics, sound, and RTS gameplay ... you should run out and get this game fast!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattatat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  It takes a little while to get it down but once there it is a great game. The 3d effects are great 
 and there is a great cinematic camera view for battles. I've played both sides and it is a good 
 game either way. I highly recommend that you check your video card against the specs for the game 
 and if it is not listed then get a card that is. It is worth the price of the card. This is not 
 a shoot up game but a game of strategy and if you are not a tactical thinker you will learn from 
 this game. Worth the 20 that I dropped at a local store to get it. Will make a good Christmas gift 
 for the Jedi or Sith Lord in your family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Great innitiative to make a real-time strategy game of star wars (I believe it is the second real-time 
 game of star wars) . It has great graphics, wonderfull gameplay. Almost how a real-time strategy 
 game should be, the only little problem I had was that you couldn't construct any buildings on 
 land, and the very few units you max. could have, attack the enemy with 4 vehicles or so just isn't 
 enough, but its a little detail. The space battles are very innovative, altough it looked a lot 
 like Homeworld 2. its a little better than that but I think the creators took a little inspiration 
 from that game.
  As I said great graphics, music is ofcourse the songs from the movies.
  Little dissapointing was the lack of more factions, only two. There are a lot more factions shown 
 in the movie than that, so a faction or two more couldn't hurt anyone.
  So except for the few units you could make, the buildings you couldn't build and the few factions, 
 its a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_need_help33
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Again, Lucas Arts entertainment has outdone themselves by presenting this fantastic gane to the 
 gaming world. Unlike other Star Wars games, Empire at War is a strategy game where you will have 
 to think ahead, plan, and spend your money wisely on troops and ships. In this game, you can command 
 ground forces, or command your troops in space and fight your enemys. In campaign mode, you will 
 play events that will lead up to Star Wars Episode IV : A New Hope. You can choose which faction 
 to be, either empire or rebellion. If you are a beginner, i recommend you start with the empire, 
 as they are the easiest to use, and use overwhelming numbers to win. Plus they have the Death Star 
 =) . There are other game modes like galactic conquest, where you will start off when a few heroes 
 and a small force. Then, there is another mode called Skirmish mode, where you can fight with CPU 
 or human players. In this game, you will see a few new characters and veichles such as the rebel 
 infiltrator, and the Tartan patrol cruiser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  What game lets you assemble an army big enough to conquer the whole galaxy, or lets you create 
 a device to destroy every last planet? This game does. You have the power to create soliders, to 
 huge mechs, to the huge and destructive star destroyers, to the feared Death Star. Of course those 
 last two on the list are exclusive to the Empire, but don't worry the Rebels can make massive Mon 
 Calamari cruisers. You make your units on the galactic galactic map. You select a planet that you 
 have control over, and if you have the propper structures, start constructing your army. The space 
 battles in this game are the cooler ones. It is extremely fun just watching tine ships swarming 
 around larger ones like small flies, or seeing huge ships firing at eachother causing massive explosions. 
 Each campaign takes about 5-10 hours so there is quite a bit of the story based gameplay. Then 
 there's conquest which is like the story mode, but without the story, or the set objectives. The 
 last mode is skirmish. Skirmish is a little different because there is no use of the galactic map 
 and you never leave the battlefield. For resources you capture resource points, and as long as 
 you have control over them you get money. You start out with every building availabe, so you just 
 buy your units then you send them in. Empire at War is a great Star Wars game and a great rts game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rivonan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game puts you in the star wars universe as a supreame galatic commander. conquer land or space 
 as the empire or the rebels and battle the odds to destroy each others hopes and dreams. there are 
 several units to choose to buy and help conquer the universe. you can even buy ships from pirates 
 and crimanals. But there are some bad points, the skirmesh battles in space you cant build a death 
 star and the ai's some what lack a bit but all togeather if you can build an army and conquer a 
 whole planet i give it all thumbs up!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! yahoo !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! yahoo !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellies1324
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Not too long ago, in a Star Wars fan's gameroom not too far away...
  
  'If you control the largest army ever in the galaxy, what will you do?'
  This is the question 
 that players will have to answer in this SW RTS.
  
  In this game, players get to take total control of the Civil War's Imperial Forces and the Rebel 
 Alliance. This RTS has incredible variety of units, ranging from the basic Stormtrooper infantry 
 and the Rebellion grunt, to the Sandtroopers, Darktroopers and Merr-Sonn-wielding Plex troopers 
 from the Rebel faction. Terrain and local weather adds a sense of realism to the game, with winds 
 affecting missiles and rain deflecting laser bolts, causing inaccuracy.
  
  Vehicles, too, range from crawlers and walkers to speeders alike. A wide range of vehicles to build 
 from your plant is supplemented by upgrades and special abilities. You get to commandeer TIE Crawlers 
 and AT-ATs to crush the puny Rebel forces. Or counter-attack the Imperial assault with the variety 
 of rocket tanks and attack speeders! One thing that adds to the excitement in this game is the 
 cinematic view of the battles, be it on land or in space. Heroes are also included in the game 
 just like SWB: II. Han Solo and Boba Fett battle it out as the YT-1300 Falcon exchange fire with 
 Slave I... not to mention Darth Vader himself on ground to lead the assault on the Rebel base!
 
  
  So. Do what a commander has to do and 'May the Force be With You'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm so satisfied with the space battles adn the strategic map. I'm so disappointed with the land 
 battles. I'm so freaking thrilled that Steve Blum (Spike Speigel from Cowboy Bebop) did so many 
 voices. Again, those damned land battles.
  
  If the land battles had been good, I wouldn't hesitate to give it a 10. The land battles are interesting, 
 sure... but way too small. This is STAR WARS, for crying out loud, I don't want a rediculously 
 small unit cap for my land battles (at MAX, maybe 15 AT-ATs and nothing else, or 30 squads of stormtroopers 
 and nothing else, or 60 AT-STs and nothing else... 15 units max... rediculous) ! I don't want a 
 rediculously small map (the emperor could walk from one corner to the opposite corner in under 
 2 minutes, and he moves slow) ! I want 50 AT-ATs and 200 AT-STs bearing down on a few thousand republic 
 soldiers! Petroglyph should've brought in Relic to do the land battles. Can you imagine these space 
 battles mixed with Company of Heroes land battles??!!? This game would go unrivaled in awesomeness 
 until they make a Homeworld + Supreme Commander mix...
  
  So yeah. Nice try, space battles and the galaxy strategy system are freaking awesome, but don't 
 ever try making another land-based strategy game, Petroglyph, until you're going to make it worth 
 our while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  My brother got this game for his birthday and started installing it. While this was happening, 
 I picked up the manual and looked through it. The pictures were black and white so I thought it 
 looked O. K. So when it was done installing, the shortcut menu popped up with battle sound effects 
 and I pressed the play button. When it was done loading, I was in for a surprise.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the background. A real battle cinematic was play out right behind 
 the menu. Everything was 3-D and the explosions were colorful. As always, I went to the options 
 to find out the graphic capabilities, and I was shocked. The graphics could be altered to better 
 than any game I have ever seen before. The first thing I played was the skirmish battles in space 
 (Star Wars space battles, as everyone knows, rock.) . You can play as either the rebels, or the 
 imperials. This was set out like a very colorful combination of Age of Mythology/Advanced Wars. 
 A real time strategy game in witch you may move you troops in every witch way but the town center 
 is your only building and you build every thing from it and A. W. because there are set buildings 
 that can switch control. You have a set unit capacity (20 points for the imperials, 25 for the 
 rebels.) In witch you may build ships. All fighter squadrons cost 1 point but bigger cruisers and 
 capital ships can cost from 2 to 4 points. Ground battles work a bit differently. You start out 
 with multiple buildings, each with their own purpose. You can build a bigger variety of units as 
 you tech level increases (you must buy tech increases) . As in the space battles, you have a unit 
 capacity, but you can change it by capturing reinforcement points, witch give you a set increase 
 in points. They are the only places you can bring reinforcements, unlike space battles, were you 
 can bring in aid to anywhere. There are sometimes neutral parties that live on that planet. The 
 either side with the imperials is the rebels. There are also the campaign battles. Play through 
 the story line as either the rebels or the imperials on easy, normal, or hard difficulty levels. 
 In the campaign, there are planets. You gain control of a planet by achieving land dominance, which 
 the imperials gain by destroying rebel space fleets and then sending down the ground troops. The 
 rebels can send down raiding parties, which are groups of less then 3 units, which can go right 
 to the ground assault, with no confrontation with imperial space ships. There are many planets 
 and you capture them as the campaign goes, and as you capture them, the campaign allowing access 
 to more of them. Rebels rule some of the planets; imperials rule others; but the other hunk of 
 turf belongs to the Black Sun Pirates. They appear yellow on the map. They have big fleets, but 
 do not be afraid, for all of their ships are old models of newer ships, and are no match against 
 even the weakest of your own ships. The last category is galactic battle. This is like the campaign, 
 but you have one set of goals and all planets are accessible from the beginning.
  
  Like every game, there are several problems, which are listed below:
  
  &middot; If you play 
 for a long period of time, the game gets kind of repetitive.
  &middot; Land battles are bad because infantry die slower than AT-AT walkers.
  &middot; If you 
 were to look closer at a mob of fighters, you would notice that occasionally one would go through 
 another.
  &middot; Magnipulse gun misses quite a bit, witch really shouldnt happen.
  &middot; Sometimes vehicles in ground battles wont move, which usually proves fatal.
  &middot; 
 It is impossible to kill a Jedi with infantry, event if they are getting hit like 100 times a second.
 
  &middot; You cant build while your space station is upgrading, which slows the game down a lot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hosamov
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I had bought Star Wars: Empire At War early this year and found it to be a very enjoyable title. 
 As soon as I played this game, I was frankly addicted to it due to the fact that they presented 
 something new to, not only the series, but to the PC. And I don't mean story-wise. Your goal is 
 to control and possess all the planets in the star wars galaxy and you will be playing as 2 different 
 factions: The Empire and the Rebellion. Of course the empire is way cooler so yeah...
  
  This game is great and should be played by all star wars lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I been waitng for another star wars RTS for a while now and it took over a year to play this one. 
 Gameplay: The game play is rather easy to get ahold of. If your used to playing RTS than you can 
 catch on quickly. It has a similar feel to Command and conquer games witch i despise but S. W. E. A. R. 
 Is very good. They put a new twist on the game where you have to move all of the re-inforcements 
 to the planets and then invade the planets. Which is awesome. The sad thing is you are limited 
 on the amount of units you can create, which i dont like at all.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. The explosions look good and the action looks good as well. 1 
 of the cool features is that when you are in battle you can choose movie mode which the camera 
 pans around in a sort of movie. Looks great in space battles. The space battles are fun as well. 
 Cant say enough about them
  
  Sound: Typical awesome Star wars sound. Explosion and lazers and space ships. All awesome. Overall: 
 The game is allot of fun. Its not the typical RTS where you go on the planet build a barracks gather 
 resources and spawn men. This is different. Very fun game. The only bad thing is that you are limited 
 on the amount of men you can create which is sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chamoen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, but unfortunately not great. I have a great time playing it, but there just 
 isn't enough depth in here to make it a strong strategic game. I wanted to be a big fan of an older 
 game called Rebellion - but it had it's challenges... and Empire at War appears to solve many of 
 them. The biggest issue I have with the game is the land battles - they're just not any fun. I'm 
 continually inclined to hit the auto-resolve button. However, space battles are a ton of fun. They 
 look great, play out well, and have a good back and forth. I look forward to picking up the new 
 addon (forces of corruption) , especially for the super star destroyer! I suppose that reveals my 
 tilt here - I'm a big star wars universe fan, and am one again willing to overlook shortcomings 
 because of the content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee222222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The graphics are just surprising. The space battles are epic. Only draw back 
 is the ground battles are a little slow. The campaigns are going in missions duh!! There is a galactic 
 take over mode where you take over the GALAXY DUH!! True fun is in the skirmish's. There is also 
 something i need to add I was playing this game for two hour and did not notice the graphics suck. 
 So I went to the menu and went to video and set the graphic to high Smart me. Now go and buy this 
 game and buy the new expanision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game sold for around fifty dollars. It is not worth more than five, despite graphical representations. 
 Empire at War is clumsy, poorly structured, with pisspoor game options. I wasted good, real money 
 on this and the gameplay is barely more than moving pawns and expending funds for a limited set 
 of buildings.
  
  Instead of purchasing this game, purchase Rome: Total War or wait til LucasArts has new and capable 
 management. Living proof that the best a Scientologist can do is produce raw sewage.
  
  If there is room for improvement in this game, it should try all the more to emulate the Total 
 War series and even to surpass it, if it can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  for &pound;20 though, this is a good game it is nicely put together but i would like better graphics 
 as it looks like they didnt put enough detail into it.
  but the value of this game is great. galactic conquest is extremely fun to play as it is the first 
 that you cannot build everything anywhere, and each planet has a unique ability that you can take 
 advantage of.
  and i found this extremely amusing!!!.
  this is extremely appealing to star wars fans as it has all the units and for them , this could 
 be a 10. but if you hate star wars then you are bettter off testing first e. g round friends, or 
 not getting it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  There are better games in the genre then this such as star craft, Company of heros, Command &amp; 
 Conquer 3, and Diablo 2... This game is just ok its nothing to get hyped up about. Though the menu 
 screen is pretty cool, I think this game lacks many features. It lacks first person more then anything 
 if I could have went into there heads and watched what they were doing in a first person event 
 added to the camera angles it would have made for better then the constant 3rd and 2d perspectives 
 I was getting out of it.
  
  Its highly strategic though by combining sorts of vehicles that you may need more or less of to 
 be victorious. Also in most landscapes there are other lost soldiers and buildings you can commandeer 
 or ally with which makes for some fun.
  
  Worth getting I guess but nothing to be hyped up over there are better games then this in the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This has to be my favorite RTS I've ever played. Graphics are great for an RTS. It's worth every 
 cent you pay for it. It never gets old. It's always fun to try out new strategies with the Empire 
 or the Rebels. The campaigns are fun, the galatic conquest is fun, and the skirmish battles are 
 fun. People who rate this game bad are those who stink at RTS's. Because that got no tatical skills. 
 You have to good to get the most out of this game. I've played this game from May til' now and 
 I've been playing it almost every day. I can't even play it online and I still love it. When the 
 expansion pack comes out its few flaws will be corrected, and the strongpoints will be perfected 
 even more. More units to come along with the bigger maps and bigger battles. Right now it's very 
 close to the best RTS. When the expansion comes out, best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmarrow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Star wars empire at war is one of the best rts's ive seen in a long time. The land battles are 
 a little slow-paced as it takes u back to searching round the map for every last soldier the enemy 
 has deployed. the base seiges are also quite unfair as when you have a lot of troops on the ground 
 with sheild generaters it is almost impossible to be beaten which in my view is quite unfair. one 
 thing that i love about empire at war is the space battles. these are very memorable and very replayable 
 and i think is when the actual stratagy must come in. the sound effects are also amazing as when 
 u have the cinematic camera on then u feel like ur in the movies. oo the cinematic camara. the 
 biggest problem is that u spend most of your time staring off into space and not at the action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tauis
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I personally don't quite like this game. At first, I thought this was pretty good. Don't expect 
 much from this. The animations are quite nicely done but the graphic is not as good as it should 
 be. The storyline of this game is not too intriguing if you are truly self-proclaimed big Star 
 Wars fan. If you have a slow computer, the loading time for each individual map will take some 
 time. But, other than that, you dont have to worry about that if you have a fast computer. The 
 character and objects are quite nicely modeled in-game. Well, I dont recommend getting this game 
 or you will be somewhat disappointing as this is not the best real-time strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is hard to explain. It is so complex yet so not. It captures star wars' atmosphere yet 
 it doesnt. That's one thing i can explain, how it does and doesnt get star wars right. it does 
 by having all the worlds characters sounds and everything else from the universe, it doesnt becuase 
 it doesnt do it very well. for instance, the battles dont really feel starwars-ish they feel more 
 generic RTS-ish for example, in star wars the 2 forces which are fighting are generally usually 
 kind of small, here grand armies are duking it out, which is cool, but kind of doesnt feel very 
 like the movies. and the way the battles happen even more doesnt feel that way. example being all 
 your foot soldiers will just stand out in the open in a big group and fire, whereas in starwars 
 they spread out and find cover, its just those little things, or as how instead of the vehicles 
 being pretty rare and all powerful, they are plentiful and easy to destroy. youll even cross times 
 when the REBELLION has about 10-20 tanks rolling across the map, when did the empire even have 
 that many? im not saying this is bad in gameplay terms, im just saying it makes it feel less like 
 star wars which is what they were trying to do
  
  gameplay- there is simply too much to do, space is ok, but land battles are kind of broken. like 
 i said, i dont know how to explain it, it just doesnt feel quite right. overall the units are balanced 
 on both sides, but certain tech levels will leave one faction weaker than the other, and let me 
 just say, the rebellions artillery is waaaaaaayyyyyyyy too powerful against the empire, and once 
 you do get an AT AT, they dont seem powerful enough compared to the movies, they dont even scratch 
 infantry they fight against. space on the other hand is really fun. that is one thing they got 
 right, and it does seem perfect in the star wars setting.
  
  graphics- if your computer is good enough the graphics really do look good, nothing revolutionary 
 of course, but they look sharp and just good overall, you can see nice details such as footprints 
 in sand or mud from soldiers, tank treads, other thinks like that, it really does add to the whole 
 experience
  
  sound-what do you expect from a star wars game in the sound department? really good sound. this 
 is star wars quality sound, which can tell you something. some of the music doesnt really sound 
 like star wars, but other than that this is really good sounding game
  
  value- there is actually lots of value with multiplayer and galactic conquest. they basically give 
 you a lot to do in this game, so it should last you a long time before you run out of things to 
 do.
  
  dont take my tone wrong, this is still a really fun game and well made, but i just think it doesnt 
 really grasp the hole atmosphere of starwars very well, (with space battles as an exception) and 
 that takes a little of the quality out. land battles can also be a little awkward, but this is 
 still an amazing RTS, and if you do like star wars, it is still fun to battle it out on the different 
 planets.
  
  p. s.- the skirmish map endor express is possibly one of the worst versions of endor i have ever 
 seen, it doesnt even remotely represent endor accurately. haha sorry, someone had to say it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Mate1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  i like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei like this gamei 
 like this gamev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying that the Star Wars setting has been used for some truly awful strategy games. 
 Rebellion was a steaming pile of Bantha poo and Force Commander was only slightly less nauseating 
 than seeing George Lucas in one of those gold bikinis. The only bright spot was Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 a title that applied a thin Star Wars veneer to Ensemble's The Age of Kings. We were understandably 
 squealing with delight when we heard the gang at Petroglyph hoped to set things right with the 
 full on one-two punch of a galactic level strategy game and a cool tactical battle engine. The 
 result of their efforts, Star Wars: Empire at War, manages to convey all the coolness of the franchise. 
 Players will be able to take hold of nearly every cool toy featured in the original trilogy: stormtroopers 
 shooting it out with rebel soldiers, Rebel frigates blasting away at Star Destroyers, bounty hunters 
 tracking down smugglers, A-wings chasing TIE Fighters through asteroid fields, AT-ATs blasting 
 away at shield generators, the Death Star blowing the crap out of planets. It's all right there 
 in front of you and it's all undeniably authentic. Sadly, the overall presentation and setting 
 is only half the story. Star Wars: Empire at War still has to succeed as a strategy game. On that 
 level, Empire at War offers up more than a few interesting innovations as well as a handful of 
 disappointments. The innovations and the authenticity of the Star Wars setting will likely encourage 
 die-hard franchise fans to look past the weak points, at least for the short term. Hardcore strategy 
 junkies who are looking for more than just a chance to relive their backyard battles won't stick 
 with it nearly as long. Where Galactic Battlegrounds merely asked the player to fight a series 
 of battles, Empire at War lets the player take part in nearly every aspect of the Galactic Civil 
 War, from managing production and strategically maneuvering forces around the galaxy all the way 
 to leading bands of soldiers and spaceships into direct combat with the enemy. Empire at War manages 
 to integrate and balance the two experiences very well. Determining just how to build up your forces 
 and take over the galaxy is every bit as important (if not exactly thrilling) as squaring off against 
 your enemy in a face-to-face battle. The basic setup of the galactic level gives the players a 
 few starting planets and some starting units and a bit of cash. You can use the money to buy facilities 
 on each planet -- mining facilities to boost a planet's credit income, barracks and factories to 
 produce military units, and a handful of other buildings designed to defend the planet or increase 
 its ability to produce. Space stations can be built above the planet and used to create the fleets 
 you'll need to take over the galaxy. Some specialized buildings can only be built by certain factions, 
 or on certain planets. The Ion Cannon, which disables ships in orbit, can only be built by the 
 Rebel player. The Hutt Palace, where you recruit bounty hunters, can only be built on Tatooine, 
 Nal Hutta and a couple of other planets. As you build up your fleets and armies, you'll want to 
 send them out to take over neighboring planets. If an enemy owns the planet, you'll need to defeat 
 their space forces before sending your troops down to the ground to take control of the planet 
 itself. Owning more planets gives you more resources that let you build bigger armies to take over 
 even more planets. Each planet offers unique bonuses: gaining Mon Calamari will let you start pumping 
 out cruisers and Star Destroyers, Naboo gives Rebel tanks a bonus, Bespin generates bonus mining 
 credits, etc. The galactic map also makes use a wide variety of heroes, each of whom has a unique 
 role to play in your overall strategy. C3PO and R2D2 allow the rebel player to steal technology 
 from the Empire. Mon Mothma can set up shop on a Rebel planet to reduce production costs on that 
 planet by 25%. In a planetary battle Chewbacca can take command of an enemy vehicle while Colonel 
 Veers can deploy additional squads of stormtroopers from hit massive AT-AT. These heroes can have 
 a massive effect on the battles you're involved in. To counter this effect, generic bounty hunters 
 can be hired and paid off to eliminate a rival hero from the game. In keeping with the spirit of 
 the franchise, the two sides in the conflict have unique advantages and limitations. The Rebels, 
 for instance, have ready access to all kinds of information on the status of Imperial forces. The 
 Empire enjoys no such luxury. In order for the Imperial player to discover what's going on, he 
 or she will have to send out bounty hunters or probe droids to gather information. The Empire will 
 also find it a bit easier to build up massive armies to smash their way through the Rebellion's 
 defenses. Though the Rebellion can't exactly beat the Empire in terms of production, they can form 
 small groups of units into raiding parties that can easily work their way past Imperial fleets. 
 There are plenty of other differences in the way each side plays but that should at least indicate 
 that the two sides will have to employ very different strategies on the galactic map which definitely 
 adds to the replayability of the game. There are two storied campaigns, one each for the Rebellion 
 and the Empire. The campaigns basically cover the events between the two trilogies through to the 
 end of A New Hope. Players will be able to take part in many of the more exciting moments -- from 
 helping Han Solo rescue Wookiees on Kashyyyk to intercepting Princess Leia as she flees with the 
 Death Star plans. The story doesn't ever really go out of its way to provide much context for these 
 events but since everyone on Earth has seen the films, it's not too hard to piece it together yourselves. 
 Things are a little more bewildering in the Empire story. It seems to revolve around Darth Vader's 
 efforts to uncover a traitor but the story never really has anything to do with the missions themselves. 
 In addition to the two story-driven campaigns, the game also offers a handful of more freeform 
 dynamic campaigns. There are a few scripted objectives here and there during these open-ended campaigns 
 but it's basically up to you to wipe your enemy from the galaxy however you want. I did run into 
 a few bugs in these campaigns. One in particular simply refused to let me invade the Rebellion's 
 final planet. Though annoying, it seems like the type of bug that can easily be patched. While 
 the galactic management of the game is satisfying, the game really doesn't take off until you actually 
 take part in the full battles. The space battles come damn close to capturing the excitement of 
 the films. The appeal of seeing the different units blasting away at each other is undeniable. 
 Watching the TIE Fighters and X-Wings mixing it up with massive Star Destroyers and Rebel Cruisers 
 will really give you a strong sense of scale. Throw in the massive planet below the action, tons 
 of asteroid fields and tactically significant nebulae and you really start to feel like you're 
 watching a Star Wars movie. The range of units includes everything from the films, from A-Wings 
 to Star Destroyers. You can even make use of cool hero units, like Darth Vader's TIE, the Millenium 
 Falcon and Boba Fett's Slave 1. Every ship, hero or otherwise, has unique skills that they can 
 use. X-Wings can trade firepower for speed by locking their S-foils. (Most Rebel ships can actually 
 redirect power from weapons to either shields or engines.) On the Empire side, you can make use 
 of tractor beams to hold enemies in place or sensor pings to reveal part of the map. I was a little 
 disappointed that the Death Star can only ever be used against enemy planets. I guess only the 
 second one was able to target capital ships as well. One of the big problems here though is that 
 there's not much latitude to create unique forces. Because of the way the counters work, you have 
 to create a relatively balanced force if you want to be able to meet whatever threat the enemy 
 puts in front of you. This basically means that both you and your opponent are going to be coming 
 to battle after battle with roughly the same force mix. There's really no room for player innovation 
 or surprise here. Sure, you can bring in Interdictors to stop enemies from fleeing or use Y-Wings 
 to disable enemy ships but space combat is rarely more sophisticated than simply picking the order 
 of targets. There are some interesting innovations to be found once the combat moves to the planet 
 itself. For one thing, the buildings here don't actually produce any units. (There is a skirmish 
 mode where they actually do produce units but not as directly as you'd find in most other RTS games.) 
 The planet is defended by whatever units were in place there when the invasion began. The invading 
 force is ferried down unit by unit at pre-selected reinforcement points. Each reinforcement point 
 entitles you to have a certain number of troops on the battlefield. Once you reach the limit, you'll 
 have to wait until an existing unit dies or you capture more points with your infantry before you 
 can bring down more units. While the idea of reinforcement points makes for an interesting game 
 mechanic, it seems a little artificial. Nowhere in the game is it ever really apparent why those 
 areas are more suitable for bringing in new units. It also means that your initial invasion force 
 is limited to a mere handful of units. To be fair, one unit usually consists of multiple figures 
 -- one AT-ST unit is actually made up of four individual walkers that fight and move as one -- 
 but it's still barely enough to allow for the epic battles that characterize the Star Wars universe. 
 (This concept of reinforcements applies to space battles as well but since the capital ships spawn 
 their own fighters, it doesn't feel as limited.) Whatever buildings (mines, cantinas, factories, 
 etc.) that have built on the galactic map will be present during the tactical battles. Though few 
 of them actually play a big role in the game, you'll definitely need to worry if the defender has 
 built shield generators or turbo laser cannons. Fortunately, things like shield generators require 
 a separate power generator. Once you take it out, you're able to call in bombing strikes from any 
 bombers you might have left up in space. Each map will include a number of build pads that you 
 can capture with your infantry. Once captured, you can use them to construct healing stations for 
 your vehicles or units or turrets to protect you from your enemies. It should be mentioned that, 
 while heroes can play a big role in space battles, they tend to be much more effective on the ground. 
 You can basically take out an entire planet with Obi-Wan or the Emperor. Even some of the lesser 
 powers, like Han Solo's machine-scrambling pulse, can really have a massive effect on the outcome 
 of a fight. The planetary maps aren't quite as open or as large as I'd have liked. They're all 
 full of valleys and impassable mountain ranges (or for the urban levels, streets and large walls) 
 that funnel the action into predictable paths. As a result, there's not much chance to maneuver 
 around your enemies here, which reduces almost every invasion into a head-butting competition with 
 your enemy. In fact, the only variety you're going to find during the planetary battles is the 
 change of scenery brought about by the Star Wars tradition of having a single planet devoted to 
 every possible type of geography and climate. Desert, snow, lava or forest -- they're all here 
 and they at least keep the action from getting too monotonous. But while the visual differences 
 are a welcome touch, the actual graphics on the ground aren't all that hot. Sure, I like the walker 
 animations and, sure, the laser fire is pretty to look at, but the geometry and texture of the 
 unit models leaves a lot to be desired. After seeing games like Company of Heroes, these sorts 
 of models really just don't cut it anymore. They manage to support the basic action of the game 
 but they're certainly a real distraction during the cutscenes. This blocky quality is less of a 
 problem with the space units, which are, for the most part, intentionally more angular. The textures 
 on the space units are much better as well. Ironically, a game based on a lesser-known franchise 
 (or a complete original property) might be able to get away with the types of textures seen here. 
 While it might have worked in Homeworld 2, for instance, too many people know exactly what a Star 
 Destroyer or AT-ST looks like, so any faults are going to stand out even more. Even games that 
 don't have as strong a visual reference, like Emperor: Battle for Dune, can get by with fewer details. 
 The good news is that the effects and explosions and what not in space are all very well done. 
 Seeing a Star Destroyer crackle with blue ion energy or watching a wave of enemy A-Wings explode 
 in flame is damned exciting. Best of all the larger ships and stations can be destroyed in pieces. 
 Taking out a shield generator or a cannon will cause the part to separate and float off into space. 
 While most ships will eventually completely explode, the largest ships in the game, the Mon Calamari 
 Cruisers and Imperial Star Destroyers will actually tear into pieces that linger throughout the 
 battle. I was very pleased with the camera options here. A full range of tilt, twist and zoom options 
 have been included and they're all very easy to manage. In fact, we may be more disappointed in 
 the appearance of the units simply because the camera lets you get so close to them. A lesser developer 
 might have limited the camera's zoom ability so Petroglyph at least gets points for being brave 
 enough to let us get right down on the action. At any point during the battle you can activate 
 a cinematic camera that will show you the action from a (theoretically) interesting angle. I say 
 theoretically because every once in a while the camera seems to be pointing at absolutely nothing. 
 When it does work though it really highlights the spectacular moments of the fight -- whether it's 
 the Millenium Falcon making a run on an Imperial space station or on an Imperial missile frigate 
 dealing a death blow to a Rebel frigate. As with all Star Wars titles from LucasArts, the sound 
 in Empire at War is very good. With access to the entire library of effects and cues from the films, 
 LucasArts is always able to create a completely authentic aural experience for their games. Since 
 so many of the brand's heroes make an appearance here, it's particularly nice that the sound-alikes 
 match so well.
  
  Closing Comments
  Star Wars: Empire at War definitely scores big in terms of style. Gamers who are looking for an 
 authentic Star Wars experience will not be disappointed with this one. It evokes all the charm 
 and excitement of the childhood action figure wars that have been fought all across the nation 
 over the last thirty years. When you add in the great sense of scale and the comprehensive roster 
 of units available, Empire at War is like the ultimate digital toy box, at least for the original 
 trilogy. What really stinks is that the actual gameplay isn't exciting enough to support the setting. 
 Admittedly, the developers are hampered by the two-sided nature of the fight and by the limited 
 roster of units, but there's just no escaping the sense of repetition that starts to kick in after 
 the first few hours. You'll still enjoy seeing the units fight it out in front of your eyes but 
 you just won't care as much about the tactics of it all. If you're hoping to enjoy this game because 
 you really like Star Wars, you'll probably be satisfied for quite a while. As I said, the game 
 is remarkably faithful to the brand. If, on the other hand, your interest in the Star Wars property 
 takes a back seat to your desire for a solid strategy experience, the few innovations aren't going 
 to be enough to overcome the repetitive nature of the fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I was VERY excited when I saw all Images and stuffs.
  
  But when I got this game it was totally to trash. It has a very bad limitation, the heroes are 
 useless, even Darth Vader is a piece of crap...
  
  I dont recommend for many reasons.
  
  The map is very ugly, you dont have many kind of buildings and (again) the unit limitation 
 is a thing you wont like in this game. I dont think why they did that, maybe to imitate Warcraft 
 3, but it just didnt work (at least for me, and some of my friends) .
  
  I play RTS since 1994 (Warcraft 1 was my first game) and I never saw a big disaster like this envolving 
 such a big company.
  
  The sound is PERFECT, the units appearance is PERFECT, but the gameplay is the worst I EVER saw!
 
  
  If you like games like Command Conquer, Warcraft, Age of Empires you will hate this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is alright, for the first week! Then the game is boring. It could be so much better. The 
 game's graphics were good, but just something unexplainable was wrong. For example of some things 
 that I can explain when you tell you're guys to take cover, they just duck down instead of hiding 
 next to trees or something. It is very realistic...... in some parts. It has some cool realistic 
 parts, but then some parts are horribly unrealistic. However I wish I kept it so I could play Forces 
 of Corruption to see if they made improvements that I was looking for. It isn't horribly bad, but 
 could have been better. I give it a 5.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daifu
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Having played this through as the Rebel Alliance, and partially from the Empire's perspective I 
 have to give this game a thumbs down. This game lets you play with the cool toys that the Star 
 Wars license give you... but not in any new or exciting ways. Its probably a case of a company 
 paying so much for the licensing that they didn't want to invest too much into gameplay. It has 
 some superficial level of enjoyment, like I said from playing with the cool toys like AT-ATs and 
 Star destroyers, but falls far short of where a Space RTS should be. Homeworld came out in 2000. 
 So 6 years ago Relic took Space RTS to the 360 degree battlefield. 6 years in game development 
 is relative to pre- and post- Industrial revolution. So what makes LucasArts so confident in the 
 power of their license that they can take space combat back to 2D six years after its already been 
 done the right way. To me that smacks of hubris. Oh the fanboi customers will love the star destroyers 
 so much they won't care that it only moves forwards backward and side to side, despite the fact 
 that its in FREAKING SPACE! Combat on planet surface is restricted to small battlefields, the same 
 small battlefield no matter how many times you visit the planet - so an entire planet only offers 
 about 2 sq miles of battlefield. Kinda lame. There's more to talk about such as the campaign/galactic 
 map but that part of the game is quite shallow, and I have already raged about 2D space battles 
 so I am worn out. So to sum it up: PROS - cool toys CONS - lack of imagination and constraints 
 placed on combat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameerkid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  its a rts........... you fight................. you take over stuff.................. blah blah blah.
 
  there are 43 planets and a few units and only 2 sides... your better off playing civ IV but its 
  should be a pro to play.
  (dead zombie drops on it) ugh.
  its a great but not very overall-defining game.
  i like but not love it.
  the map edtor is 
 easy.
  mods are hard.
  its back-forth game.
  it has bad graphics.
  it has okay gameplay.
  it has bad sound.
  its vaulblel.
  the expanshone is comeing shoone.
 
  there are about 7 heros.
  i wish this was over.
  its fun but gets boreing fast.
  check that it gets boring slowly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I was one of those people who said This is the suckiest RTS ever when I played Galactic Battlegrounds. 
 I had been waiting forever for a Star Wars RTS and they dissapointed me. But not anymore.
  
  Empire at War is everything you'd want from a Star Wars RTS and more. EaW focuses more on the 
 actual fighting rather than the resource gathering and such. Resources are important, but they 
 never really divert your attention from the actual fighting and their is only one type of resource 
 (money) .
  
  In my opinion, the land battles are not that fun. The space battles are where it's at. I am actually 
 willing to excuse the land battles because of how great the space battles are makes up for it.
 
  
  You can advance through several tech levels which will unlock you different ships (or tanks and 
 such if you play on land) such as Imperial Star Destroyers. The game has a great sense of scale, 
 considering the tiny little X-wings flying around a huge Star Destroyer.
  
  The graphics are what you'd expect from an RTS: blocky up close but that doesnt really matter because 
 most of the time youll be in huge battles. And far away they look good.
  
  The value is great, considering the campaign is rather short, but then you just go and do either 
 Galactic Conquest or random battles. Most of your time will be spent doing random battles most 
 likely.
  
  The sound is what youd expect from a Star Wars game: stunning. From the little bing! as an X-wing 
 fires to the booosh when one is destroyed, its all here.
  
  All in all, Star Wars: Empire at War is the best RTS I've ever played. It's a must buy for Star 
 Wars fans and RTS fans alike. Even if you're not a fan of either, chances are you'll have fun with 
 this engaging and fast-paced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is the first Star Wars real time strategy game that is fun to play. It 
 takes the concepts of the previous Star Wars strategy games, (Rebellion, Galactic Commander) , and 
 makes them work. Empire at War allows for Space and ground combat, as well as a strategic map of 
 the galaxy contains up to 52 planets to conquer. Units are purchased on the strategic map, and 
 planets are up graded with factories, and defenses. To initiate a battle groups of units are moved 
 about the galactic map, when opposing forces meet, a battle ensues. You can play the battle, or 
 simulated it. Generally Capture of a planet is a two phase process, requiring a space battle, followed 
 by a land invasion.
  
  During the Space and land battles in the Galactic conquest mode, you play a typical RTS game, but 
 do not have to collect resources or build units. If you are defending your space, you can purchase 
 upgrades and re-enforcements from the buildings you purchased earlier on the strategic map. Victory 
 is obtained by destroying the Oppositions units (and facilities for the invading army) .
  
  Multi player and Skirmish mode work more like a resource gathering (traditional) Rts, but with 
 bases pre-built, and players fighting over pre existing build pads.
  
  Most of the Iconic Star Wars equipment is modeled, Start Destroyers, Tie fighter, AT-AT, and AT-ST, 
 X-wing, A-Wing, Nebulon-B frigate, Mon Calamari Cruisers, To name just a few. The Rebels get some 
 assistance from Tanks/Hover tanks for their ground forces, which are not scene in the Films.
  
  Overall Empire at War is a good strategy game. It is the first really good Star Wars based 
 RTS, but it doesnt take and innovative leaps forward for the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game quite a lot, but after awhile you get bored and you go play something else. They 
 should make an expansion for the Clone Wars half of the game because once you beat the game all 
 you can really do is play Galactic Conquest and that gets really boring after a while, but there 
 are some good points too! Like Space Battle was fun, put it in Camera Mode where it looked like 
 a movie was cool, playing as Dark and Light was fun, Using heroes like Darth Vader was cool. Maybe 
 there should have been more content in the game than what they have, more depth. I gave this a 
 7.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gadwall
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  EAW starts out being a fun game with great graphics and decent game play but eventually becomes 
 very repetitive and tedious. After about 4 to 6 hours of playing you will find yourself doing the 
 same basic things over and over again. There really is no strategy other than trying to build a 
 big army. The land battles and the space battles are basically the same toe to toe slug fest repeated. 
 I found the neither to be any more fun than the other. The space battles become infuriating because 
 you have to micro-manage every single unit or it will be destroyed within about 30 seconds. You 
 can pause the battles to redirect or command your units but it makes the fun of a frantic pace 
 of RTS game boring. You just get to watch your units destroy or be destroyed while there is nothing 
 strategy wise you can do to increase there chance of victory. The overall game becomes extremely 
 slow moving at time you have to conquer a few planets in order to achieve your next objective. 
 The game is just no fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this is just like any other RTS game. Build up some units, watch them blow stuff up from an areal 
 view. this game has no revolutionary features for the RTS genre. so with that in mind, if you buy 
 this, you wont find anything you havent seen before. That being said, it is the best RTS star wars 
 game ever created. So the space battles are more fun than the ground battles. i found the hoth 
 invasion very dissapointing. it was over before i knew it. and i didnt even get to the shield generator 
 before it telling me i was victorious. This game is very repetitive and im not so sure i'd reccomend 
 it. If you're a star wars fan, go ahead and pick it up. but not for $50. I'd wait for it to go 
 down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cres_10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Summary: Set before and during Episode 4. The game lets you take control of either the Empire or 
 Rebels and lets you re-write history in the Galactic Civil War. Control everything from Space Fleets 
 to Ground Units as you defend, attack, and conquer more than 30 different planets.
  
  Gameplay
  Space Battles: This is definetly the strongest aspect of the game. Every ship has it's 
 own special abilities such as shield boost, engine boost ,weapon boost, etc, this really beefs 
 things up making the game alot more tactical. The hero ships have even better abilities such as 
 Han Solo can make the Millenium Falcon invulnerable for about 30sec, Luke can use lucky shot which 
 causes massive damage, Admiral Piett's Star Destroyer has a Proton beam which again causes mass 
 destruction. There are loads of ships to choose from for each faction. If you go the Rebels you 
 can build fighters such as X Wings, Y Wings, A Wings, B Frigates, Mon Calamari Cruisers etc... even 
 command Admiral Ackbars Home One campital ship.
  The Imperials also have many fighters such as Tie Fighters, Victory Class Star Destroyers and Imperial 
 Star Destroyers. The space fights are extremely intense and fast pased making the experience a 
 sheer pleasure. Watching an Imperial Star Destroyer blow in half is a complete delight.
  Ground Battles: This is probably where the game suffers most. The fights are quite similar to Ground 
 Control 2, but the A. I is quite dumb in my oppinon, expessially compared to the space battles. 
 The A. I will just keep sending swarms of enemys at you from time to time not caring if your army 
 keeps on blowing the hell out of them everytime. Graphics: Both Ground and Space graphics are great. 
 Every fighter, person has extreme detail and the Explosions look awesome. If you can't run the 
 game on high settings... you are really missing out.
  
  Sound: The score is superb, the voice acting is well writen. They're only 2 draw backs. The lack 
 of speech from Units can get very annoying and plus the person doing Vader's voice is quite hmm... not 
 good.
  
  Value: Easily worth te money. Skirmish, Online Play, 2 Campains and a great galactic conquest mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palmei
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I am a suspect to speak about Star Wars subjects, because I really love it!
  About the game, I&acute; m loving it until now. Is not the strategic game that I dream but is very 
 good.
  I love the effects and graffics, the sound and the feeling that we have, that we are inside the 
 story, and that is fantastic for me!!
  I think that this development team is in the good way to create the perfect strategic game in a 
 previous future. Let&acute; s wait for that...
  I would like a game that we don&acute; t have to acomplish a mission, that we have a final objective 
 (ex. control all galaxie, in this game) , but weu can go were we want and do what weu want. We could 
 create all the strategie to get the final objective of the game. To be a real leader of some force, 
 country or planet... that woul be a perfect strategic game for me.
  This one is in the right way, but for me needs to develop a little more. I hope that in a previous 
 future can get there. A conection betwin a Rome Total War format and the format of this one, would 
 get there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frag_Master666
Rating: 3.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun when it actually played. If you have an LG DVD-ROM player, the SecuROM copy protection 
 may accuse you of having a cracked copy. Then, if you get SecuROM support to issue you a patch, 
 and the game starts, you may find your Sound Blaster Live may only give you stereo sound instead 
 of surround sound because SW: EAW doesn't seem to support software-based surround sound. Then, getting 
 around that, some of the missions are buggy... Like if you run the first Han Solo mission five 
 or six times, failing each time - or you kill Boba Fett during that mission but fail anyway - your 
 Rebel campaign is stuck!
  
  But if you play the game like a normal player without messing around with what if scenarios and 
 you have a decent machine with a good brand name DVD-ROM or CD-ROM player, then this game has awesome 
 graphics and kicking sound. Kinda weird that a single hero or name character can take out entire 
 platoons of enemies without a scratch though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamtastik
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Good game. Got rather boring after beating it several times though. Would recommend if your a star 
 wars fan. Do yourself a favor though and put it on the most difficult settings off the bat. decent 
 graphics but not the best ive seen. Like the ability to play as either the light or dark side. 
 The dark side has better weapons though. Simulating any battle causes your losses to triple though 
 so be prepared if you dont want to do the battle. Great soundtrack though.. Gotta love john williams. 
 Well thats my .02 cents worth on it take what you will and burn the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIAIP
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  If you are hardcore Star Wars fan this game is a most have. Others, like myself, can enjoy the 
 dept of details this game offers. The graphic and the movements of the units are amazing. The game 
 seems to be inspirated by (other then the Star Wars univers) a game like Hegemonia . Which is good. 
 The difference is that Empire at War has a The Galactic map view and the space battles separate. 
 What makes the game uniqe is the fact that it also has land battles, which makes the game all the 
 more interesting. However Empire at War doesn't seem to be well balanced. The Empire is the best 
 and most fun to control (since they have the Death Star) . And its don't easy to control the units 
 and you feel from time to time you loose control and navigation. Alot of the newer games have unit 
 in groups (such as, well this game of course and LOTR: BFME 1/2) , instead of individuel units which 
 doesn't give the player a feeling of total control. At least that's how I feel. Empire at War is 
 overall a great game, buy a few adjustments here and there could make it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST RTS game for Star Wars because it adds much more better graphics, units, and missions 
 than what Star Wars: Galatic Battlegrounds Saga did (please also note that I also owned and rated 
 this game for the PC) . The downside is that this game only has 2 sides you can play as instead 
 of the several sides you could play in Star Wars Galatic Battlegrounds Saga. The sounds are also 
 good. The two sides also have unique units and other conditions that make them have certain adventages 
 and disadventages that wasn't really the case for Star Wars Galatic Battlegrounds Saga. The graphics 
 are mostly good, the sounds are good, and the gameplay is good. I would reccomend people to buy 
 this game and the expanison coming out for it next month called Star Wars Empire At War Forces 
 Of Corruption because it is a great game. The value is good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keveroo83
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  If you like Star Wars and you've been waiting for a good RTS game to come out for it, don't be 
 too disappointed when EAW misses the mark. The premise is great, a wonderful starting block from 
 which to build on. Unfortunately, that's about as much as you can give to this game. EAW is extremely 
 weak on content so that while you're hoping for some great advanced and powerful ships to have 
 some fun with, you realize there aren't any other options.
  
  There are also some serious balance issues which are adjusted on patch levels to be a bit better 
 but there are still some serious flaws in what you would expect from the game. For example, picture 
 a group of rebel footsoldiers taking out an AT-AT. Not exactly what you'd hoped for?
  
  The other big problem with this game is that planets with factories on them are nearly impossible 
 to capture since you're only allowed to bring in a certain number of troops from your fleet at 
 a time to invade. As you drop more troops, more are pumped out of factories and barraks. Eventually, 
 you run out of assaut forces, the factories and barraks do not.
  
  The other thing that bugged me a bit about this game was the lack of innovative gameplay. While 
 the game mechanics suggest that you could have a great deal of strategy in it, there really aren't 
 many ways to get creative with the gameplay.
  
  EAW is a good game, but it misses out on the things that could have made it a great game. Hopefully, 
 expansions can extend what is good about this game and make it a more complete game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgolden
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay chums, I've been waiting for this title for a long, long time. It's the game rebellion should 
 of been combined with all the RTS' games that Lucasarts threw at us over the years except with 
 fantastic graphics and sound. If you don't have 5.1 surround sound or better, you are missing out. 
 The rumble of star ships through space and epic size battles make this game a must have for any 
 Star Wars fan. You can almost smell the ozone from all the laser blasts. This game takes place 
 after the clone wars and has you build upon the new galactic empire or infant rebellion. Enormous 
 space battles and earth pounding ground battles leave you wanting for more. Empire at War is so 
 addictive, you'll want to install it on your laptop so you can play it in the bathroom! If you're 
 not convinced, go look at the screen shots. With the latest price drop, Its definitely worth picking 
 up. I suppose if you're patient enough, the expansion pack is due out in October 2006, you might 
 be able to buy the game and expansion together for a reasonable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugm_2511
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War finally succeeds in creating one of the best Star Wars RTS games since 
 LucasArts was founded. This game has surpassed Force Commander and even Rebellion with good graphics, 
 good game play and splendid space battles. The events in this game happens between the end of Revenge 
 of the Sith to the beginning of A New Hope. The game allows you to take control of two factions, 
 the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance as they battle it out for total galactic domination. 
 The bad side to this game is that you cant build bases during land battles, which will give you 
 more time to send your troops into battle and concentrate more on that. Even so, the limit of troops 
 you are allowed to deploy on the battlefield is also very little, limiting the size of the battles 
 fought.
  
  Still, despite its ups and downs, this game truly has done what its predecessors failed to do and 
 that is to deliver a good RTS experience in the Star Wars universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Theres way too many games base on episodes 4 to 6 era and i just wish they made this game for time 
 of the clone wars instead. Why not clone wars somthing that still fresh on people's minds and not 
 that same old empire versus stupid rebels. I seen games of that era for too many years and now 
 finally kick ass game comes out like this only one problem wrong era i mean this game good and 
 expansion pack is good but story sucks i mean who ever heard of corruptors lol what they should 
 of done was made expansion pack to do clone wars instead but nooooooooooo lets just continue same 
 old starwars nothing ever changes but good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3989
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most starwars games this one is an RTS now most people think.... RTS ok its already been 
 done, but this game does a wonderful job at integrating both RTS gaming from the ground and space, 
 it blends them together with such efficiency that you can easily control both with little practice...
 
  
  At times the camera angles can be a little awkward though,
  
  The Galactic Conquest mode is where most of this games replay value lies as it grants more freedom...
 
  
  However after a while just like any RTS the game grows repetitive, also the computes tend to cheat 
 in the conquests modes, somehow managing to conquer planets at twice the rate of you, this is probably 
 done to balance the game but it gives kind of a false feeling to it all....
  
  Also if you are playing a campaign with more than 14 to 15 planets it can become really difficult 
 to manage and keep an eye on every vulnerable point....
  
  overall it really is a good game but it has a few flaws that could have easily been fixed with 
 a little more work.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mavrickx888
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Ah, yes. The Star Wars RTS genre. Such great memories, such great games... yea... Lucasart's new 
 crack at the RTS genre has finally arrived with Star Wars: Empire At War and it certainly brings 
 with it a lot of punch unlike its predecessors.
  
  Usually as far as RTSs go, people don't usually expect much on the graphics side of things, seeing 
 as how the RTS genre has acquired most of its fame through the game play aspect of games... BUT, 
 this game actually does a really good job with handling the graphics. Space Battles are especially 
 good looking. It is really satisfying when you construct a fleet of 3 Imperial Star Destroyers, 
 15 squadrons of Tie Fighters, 5 Tarkan Cruisers, 3 Broadside Cruisers, and 5 squadrons of Tie Bombers 
 and watch them rip apart the rebels piece by piece. Explosions and Lasers really bring the game 
 to life and add color and excitement to the dull black abyss of space. The actual space craft and 
 space stations themselves are pretty good as well. But, upon closer inspection, one can see a few 
 glitches and deformities. Fortunately, they are few and far between and the game looks wonderful 
 from the top-down view. The only reason this game doesn't deserve a 9 or even a 10 in the graphics 
 section is because of the land combat. Units just don't look as good or as well done as they could 
 be. The heroes look nothing like their human counterparts (Except for Vader) and the vehicles loose 
 their quality when zoomed in. However, the land battles still look relatively good zoomed out, 
 but not nearly as cool looking as space battles.
  
  This game has relatively few controls, which is pretty nice and straight forward. Unfortunately, 
 it's using all these controls and functions coherently to form a viable strategy is what is the 
 tough part. Users probably won't be able to just pick this game up and run with it their first 
 time playing. It does take a little time to get used to and acquainted to the control before you 
 can just set out to conquer the galaxy. I would say the learning curve if for the controls of this 
 game is about 1-2 hours.
  
  EAW (Empire at War) features the Rebels vs. The Empire (As any Star Wars game has) . You are basically 
 in control of everything. You can attack planets, raid planets, steal credits/technology from your 
 opponent, make heroes (Such as Darth Vader, Han Solo, Luke Skywalker ect.) , create starships and 
 space stations, create planetary defenses, and on and on and on. All the normal space ships for 
 both sides are there, such as the X-Wing, Y-Wing, Tie Fighter and Tie Bomber, and there are a few 
 variations of ships that you may not recognize. There is also pretty much every planet in the Star 
 Wars galaxy you can imagine.
  
  Secondly is War itself. Battles are either fought in space or on the ground on a planet. In Space 
 battles, the two factions duke it out for outer planetary control. Basically, each team has a set 
 population of units they can deploy at any one given time. Different units take up a different 
 amount of population. This is where the strategy comes in. You can't just build 20 Nebulon-B Frigates 
 and expect to kill all of the Empire's ships. You have to plan out which ship has what strength/weakness, 
 and use tactics to form a good offense/defense. EAW helps out with this by providing handy tool 
 tips that display what each ship is good or weak against. If you don't form a good strategy, well 
 hello POW camp. Special planetary weapons can be constructed as well that may aid you in destroying 
 the enemy fleet (That is, of course, if you own the planet your fighting over) such as the Rebel's 
 Ion Cannon, and the Imperial's Hypervelocity gun. Land battles also work in a similar fashion as 
 Space battles. The unit cap is still in effect, but there is one main difference. In order to call 
 for reinforcement troops, you need to secure a drop zone. This will allow for you to bring more 
 troops in and increase your unit cap. Upgrades are purchasable from different facilities you acquire 
 or already have built on the planet. Once again, tactics are needed for winning a land battle. 
 You can't expect to come out on top if you just amass a giant army of T2-B tanks.
  
  On top of all that was just said, every unit in the game has some sort of special ability only 
 that unit has. An example is the ability of Boosting Shield Power, which enhances a unit's shield 
 at the sacrifice of slower speed and less firepower. Heroes have even more powerful abilities and 
 techniques they can use to aid you. If you use these abilities correctly, the battle can be swift. 
 There are many different game modes to choose from, as well as online game play. You can download 
 custom maps, play with your friends, and check out stats all online, which is very nice. You definitely 
 won't get bored of this game any time soon.
  
  This game is definitely worth picking up. It's a beauty to look at, and even better to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nopenoway0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  -Gam play Game play in EAW is awesome. Special abilities, for example, are well thought out and 
 are appropriate to their character. Such as, the "Take Cover" ability, which is for infantry, tells 
 your soldiers to take cover and take advantage of appropriate defense., giving them a boost in 
 combat.
  
  Space battles are very good too, though since you fight so much of them can get somewhat repetitive, 
 after a while that is. But no matter how much you fight those Calamari Cruisers, watching them 
 be picked apart by 4 Victory Cruisers always has a... ZING to it. One problem which doesn't lower 
 the game value because it can easily be modded, is the populations cap. You usually do run out 
 of capacity fairly quickly. All types; Space Cap, Galactic Cap, and also Ground Cap.
  
  -Graphics Okay so on the videos and images ( if you've looked) the graphics might not look 10 worthy. 
 Reason for that is because;
  1. When in zoomed in unit preview (c) the graphics somewhat represent BF2, not in normal zoom but 
 unit preview will alway be your ultimate zoom
  2. The requirements are awsome, if you have a laptop like mine
  AMD athlon 3200+
  512 Ram
 
  Radeon express 200m, or stronger, than you can run everything but soft shadow and max shadow, 
 on tops.
  
  -Sound Sound is pretty good explosions and voices, but those lasers, O they get annoying. Especially 
 after about 20 hours. Aside from that the sounds are pretty good. Like when one of your soldiers 
 dies, he will give a half grunt half scream.
  
  -Overall  This game is definitely good for people who like RTS's or for people who want to try 
 the genre, and DEFINITELY Star Wars fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperial-J
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Lucas Arts did it again. This is a great strategy game. It has great graphics. you can use special 
 move like force corrupt and force heal. Although the maps that they give you are fun, you can get 
 Petroglyph Map Editor and design your own. Give it a try. Search Petroglyph Map Editor on Google 
 and get it. There is a walk through included. If it says you need a .dll file get it off the Internet. 
 Read the walk through and do exactly what it says, then try some experiments. If you like it get 
 the game. if you don't like, get the game any way. Again, trust me, worth every single penny!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is headed by the employees of former westwood boys and girls. It rocks. It is what every Star 
 wars fan wished for. I will admit there are things they could of done better or token the time 
 to add more units. But thats what expansions are for. The graphics are awesome for a starwars rts. 
 especially when you are in a space battle and you go into like the cinimatic camera it shows the 
 battle from like a movie.
  
  Gameplay it is great you feel like the ultimate star wars commander. Especially when you play galactic 
 conquest. When you play someone online for the first time its so great. Galactic conquest allows 
 you to fight for the galaxy or a select part of it. The death star is awesome you shoot it bomb 
 planets gone then you see a giant field of astroids. The space battles are by far the most fun 
 and coolest thing to see you see lasers flying all over its a true star wars experience. George 
 lucas must be proud. Land battles are not as fun but hey its a land battle space is more exiciting 
 but lane battles definantly play how they should. The only problem i have is the limitation of 
 units you can buy.
  
  The sound is great except when it comes to the voice overs. Heck battlefront 2 has awfull and the 
 emperor in this game makes me want to turn my sound off its horrible. Darth vader is not as great 
 either. I think that veers has the best one though.
  
  All in all i would definantly recommand this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta1238
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Again, Lucasarts creates a new rts game, and this time, they seem to have gotten the formula right. 
 However, there are a few flaws too! Lets start with the gameplay; the gameplay in space combat 
 is very good, because of the many options. The player can order his ships to start bombing the 
 enemy shield generator and then destroy the enemy ion cannons to prevent them from doing too much 
 damage to your own ships, but to do this, the player must first take down the enemy fighters in 
 order to make a safe passage for the bombers. But the rebel mon calamari cruiser has an indestructible 
 shield generator, which means that the empire has to resort to an all new tactic when facing these 
 ships.
  
  But now we get to the ground battles, where tactics seem to be a bit less important. Sure, every 
 unit has a weakness and a strength, but flanking seems to have no effect! This means that ramming 
 in the front of the enemy is the best tactic.
  
  The graphics are very good, but you can't enjoy it because the game tends to become very laggy 
 at high levels, but even with a very low detail level, units are still very good. The holographs 
 are very nice too!
  
  The sound is, just like any other star wars game, made from blaster sounds, lightsabers, explosions 
 and the classic music. The units say some things when you give orders, but that is really all the 
 sound that there is, and it's great.
  
  The replay value is high, as there are two campaigns and a lot of galactic conquest maps.
  
 
  So, lets say empire at war is a good star wars game, and a must have for any star wars fan. A 
 hardcore rts gamer may be disapointed by the minor flaws, but most people should really enjoy this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  The game is probably the best sw rts game. This is probably 100 times better than the pos, galactic 
 civilizations (?) . I really love the space battles. For the ground battles there's still a lot to 
 be desired. A thing like individual unit figthing animation would have helped this thing out a 
 lot. Like the hero animations, for darth vader for instance, wherein he kills an infantry by standing 
 near it, then waving his blade once every 0.75 seconds like an idiot. It's like p-nis fencing! 
 Simply what the hell. The land battles would be good for mutliplayer games. The single player galactic 
 conquest though is really boring and monotonous. All in all this is a good game, though the space 
 battles was the only thing that really caught my eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tactician93612
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the games entrance to my PC on it's initial release to the gaming public, I felt 
 I was left high and dry. Bugs and such. Sure, now a days, a PC gamer can expect bugs. That's a 
 sad statement, but true. However, patience is what makes the PC gamer ! Patience can be painstakingly 
 long. A solid game developer knows that PC gamers have a very short attention span with patience. 
 And, this is where LucasArts comes into showing their true commitment. After various patches, and 
 implementing what the PC gaming public had to say, various tweaks have been done and bugs squashed... 
 I have to say, don't pass up on Star Wars Empire @ War. If you played it at first and got rid of 
 it. You have done yourself a great misjustice. After the v.5.0 patch, this game has never been 
 more solid and balanced with gameplay. I give a solid 9.0 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scratzin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  When Petroglyph made this game, they made history. This is -to my opinion- the best RTS I've played 
 since Red Alert. It's also the most original RTS since C&C and AOE. Petroglyph could've made "AOE 
 in a Star Wars skin" has you can call it, but they didnt. The campaign mode is the creation of 
 a team of genius's. You have the entire Star Wars galaxy as a map on the screen, you get missions, 
 missing gaps between the episodes are filled up, you get to know the relationship between Han and 
 Chewie, all that kind of stuff. The battle modes are also superb. Basicly you have 3 levels on 
 which you can battle. The Galactic Level (auto-resolve battles) , Space and Land. If you want to 
 conquer a planet and built spacestations there, you do not only have to conquer the space, you 
 also have to conquer the planet, which is a bit harder than space. Because the local inhabitants 
 mostly don't like it much if you want to dominate the planet ;-) Now I want to get to the only 
 big drawback in this game; the graphics. These are to cry for. They're ALMOST so bad that it sits 
 in the way of fun. I just placed my screen 8 inches further away (thats weird if you shut down 
 the game :) Another drawback are the sounds. The laser (peeeew peeew) sounds are good enough. The 
 sounds of the characters (Yes commander/Complying with orders!) are also not bad, but I want better 
 than not bad ! Empire at War: The new Trilogy is gonna get a 10 ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time Lucasarts had really took a stab at real time strategy game 
  and suceed. This game lets u control the swift xwing to the mighty death star. One problem though 
 is that all land battles seem way too similar and quickly become annoying. Graphics is where this 
 game shines. seeing xwings fighting ties or sds battle mon cal cruisers it seems like your watcing 
 a star wars space scene every time u play a space battle. Galactic Map is always fun because its 
 a lot like risk accept on two fronts space and land. Youll have get technology levels up to a point 
 at the beginning you ight two or so moderate fleets to very large fleets with big humungous ships. 
 It also set it up perfectly fro a sequel or expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schfive
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Star Wars fan and I that's why I bought this game. This game does have some great aspects 
 to it like it's grahpics (especially in space) and its sound and gameplay. The space battles are 
 epic. The Star Destroyers are quite a sight around the tiny TIE fighters and such and the laser 
 effects are great. The land battles aren't as great but they're still pretty good. The units are 
 realistically detailed and modeled. But my main problem is how small and short the game is. There 
 aren't many units as I was hoping to be. I have Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds which has a huge 
 amount of units and technologies but this game hardly has any. And I was disappointed by how small 
 the maps were. It is a good game, just not expansive enough for me. Hopefully, the new expansion 
 pack will satisfy me a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusn1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is well done, especailly in the light of previous star wars games. I probably speak for 
 most people but the best element of the game are the space battles, the land battles are part of 
 the weak aspect of the game. The Campaign modes for both the Rebel and Empire factions are great, 
 tho i wish it had a few more surprises or a bit longer. But that is balanced quite well with the 
 other play mode such as the galactic conquest and skirmish modes. Which give a great amount of 
 replay value. And you have modsd and player created maps which give an open end expierence, just 
 be careful (with the mods lol) . Mutliplayer is quite fun given than you have people with a good 
 internet connection, and at least with people that are somewhat familar with the game. 
  
  Overall, if you like starwars or are just a plain out starwars fan, this game is just a must. Or 
 if you are an RTS fan and are not that insterested in starwars, check out the demo, if you like 
 it, i think you should buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game was disappointing, when it first came out I wanted it so bad, but when I got it, it wasn't 
 all that amazing. You spend alot of time, to much time, in the galactic map setting up armies and 
 building things on planets. The gameplay is pretty boring, the idea of building everything BEFORE 
 entering a battle was a bad choice, it makes the game really dull. The multiplayer is just sad, 
 because noone knows how to host a good game. The fact that the game doesn't come with a mission 
 editor was a let down, and the ones that came out later all sucked.
  
  Overall it was pretty boring, and the fact that it takes a high end computer to run makes it even 
 worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  I was reluctant to buy this game when it came out because I'm not into RTS for the moment. I finally 
 downloaded the demo and tried it out. After getting through the demo, I wanted more. The full version 
 provided that and then some.
  This is not the most complex RTS in the world, but its still challenging. The demo set you up for 
 an easy space battle, but when you begin playing the full version, you're losing units if you're 
 not careful. The game doesn't overwhelm you, but leaves little forgiveness for slipping up and 
 not paying attention to what's going on.
  I have to say that this is one of the first games I've played in a while that was just right on 
 the challenge aspect.
  The graphics are pretty. Sound is immersing. I'd say this game is at least worth trying the demo 
 for. If you liked the demo, then you have to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  So are you looking for a great rts to play on your PC? Well pick up civ or rome total war, but 
 if you have beaten them and you need a fix untell the next total war game comes out Empire at War 
 is a great game to play. The game looks good but i have seen better. Lets just say this game is 
 just a run of the mill rts with a few fun features, but what makes it so fun is that well it Star 
 Wars, come on who does not like star wars. If you don't um what did Mr. T say "I Pity The Fool" 
 yeah i pity you to. well this review has to be one hundred words so i just killing words so to 
 say so you can stop reading any time. Still reading ok, almost done you came this far so might 
 as well just read to the end, ok i am done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game could have been a strategy masterpiece for all times, but if falls short just enough 
 to make it just a solid strategy game (just?) .
  
  There's no point in telling the story and setting, it's a starwars game, but it's the best SW strategy 
 game to ever be released. It's almost a combination of rebellion and force commander... but good 
 this time!
  
  The campaign mode isn't particullarly exciting, what I really love is the galactic conquest mode. 
 In this mode, instead of a storybased campaign, the game is more like a Total War game, with a 
 strategic map of the galaxy where you build structures and train units and move troops to conquer 
 planets. When armies clash, a battle on a tactical scale ensues. The difference between this and 
 a Total War game is that battles occur in space, between fleets of starships in orbit of planets 
 and on the ground, for the actual conquest of a planet.
  
  The space battles are awesome. They achieve the strange goal of being impressively simple to play 
 but still complex tactically.
  
  However, and the reason why the game falls short of grateness, the ground battles are rather dull, 
 with undetailed maps and not any tactical complexety, most of the time it's sending units to the 
 fight fast as you can. Of course there are exceptions, with some units that a little more depth 
 to the overall tactical situation.
  
  Finally, graphics are great for a strategy game, specially the starships and vusual effects, sound 
 is awesome both with starwars sounds and original ones that fit like a glove. Music is what you'd 
 expect. Most of it is John Williams' score for the movies and there are a few original pieces (of 
 much inferior quality, but still very good) .
  
  The game is excellent, but its shortcomings prevent it from being the ultimate SW strategy game 
 that fans have been waiting for a long long time ago. Perhaps the expansion will bring it even 
 closer...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefgile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  I saw this game in a magazine, and i realised that this is the best Star Wars game.
  First, graphics, both at land and in space are perfect.
  Units are like the units in the SW movies, 
 so you get that feeling like you are in real SW world.
  There are two sides in Empire at War- Empire (emperor Palpatin, Darth Vader...) and Rebellion (senator 
 Mon Mothma, Chewbacca, Han Solo...) .
  Every side has advantages. Empire has stronger army but they cannot see planets in Rebellion possession. 
 Rebellion can see all the planets but their forces are weaker, their other advantage is that they 
 can steal technology from Empire.
  Main goal for both sides are eliminating faction leader and destroying Death Star...
  Overall 
 this is THE Star Wars game that all SW fans are been waiting for!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_man_1989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Pros- Great space battles, the galaxy map is also really awsome looking.
  The graphics also are really great. The sound is good, like being in
  the movies. The campaign 
 is also fun, with both the Empire and 
  Rebels haveing there own challanging campaigns. The custom 
  battles are also a great addition 
 to the game cause it gives you
  something else other than the main campaign.
  
  Cons- The land battles are ok, but get old quickly. You only get a set force
  to invade at one 
 time, where the defender gets troops after troops to
  send at you. also there are only 2 factions to choose from, they
  could have added in the cis 
 and clones in the custom battles.
  
  Overall this is a really great game and a must buy for star wars fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at war is another of the large assortment of Star Was titles by Lucas Arts. This 
 one a real time strategy for the PC. 
  
  Empire at war features many game modes and online mutliplayer, so there's plenty of wars to experience 
 the game depending on what you'd rather play. You have two kinds of battles throughout empire at 
 war, land and space. You can play skirmishes at one or the other but perhaps the best way to experience 
 the system is to play through campaigns with use of both considering your tactics.
  
  In Campaign you follow more lineal missions through either the Empire or the Rebel's point of view, 
 you are given troops and a hero and are given selected objectives which aim towards eliminating 
 the opposite army. These usually are, at least towards the beginning, aimed towards teaching you 
 certain things you'll encounter throughout battles. 
  
  The gameplay is generally very good and as always in real time strategies each unit has a strength 
 and weakness which can be exploited to counter the other teams' forces. There are an assortment 
 of buldings, technology, vehicles and units at your disposal so no battle is the same.
  
  The backbone to the Star Wars universe helps heavily in the game overall. The variety of units, 
 indigneous creatures, machines, buildings, planets and terrain make fans of Star Wars feel right 
 at home and give an expansive array of opportunity for new-comers.
  
  The game's hardware requirements are lean considering the battles in the game and the about on 
 combatants on screen at any time. If you have a some-what modern pc you shoul be able to run this 
 at at least medium graphics. For the best experience you'll want to be playing at highest or high 
 graphics while keeping s teady 30-100 frame rate. If you have a few years old pc it's likely to 
 be one or the other, so you'll have to sacrifice graphics for gameplay or viscre versa. At it's 
 lowest the textures are blurry and very unimpressive, which will draw attention away from the good 
 gameplay.
  
  In all the game: is quite impressive graphically, lean in it's system requirements, vast in it's 
 star wars universe, has a great gameplay, a decent level of replayability and is worth checking 
 out if you're an rts fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Nothing Beats a good rts game especially when it has star destroyers. I am waiting patiantly for 
 a mod or the new expansion pack to come out so I can play as the old republic or something cool. 
 Guys there are so many mods being made out there for this game qui-gon-gin is rolling in his grave. 
 one mod lets you play Warhammer 40k its nice to see a game that is mod friendly. But the game itself 
 is highly addicting, much like star wars rebellion was back in 96. I have loved star wars my whole 
 life and this game lets me rule my favorite galaxy far away. The only thing it is lacking is a 
 good 3d space camera and luke as a main character, but I can't wait for forces of coruption. Build 
 a death star blow up the galaxy and leave noone alive if you wish it. Just don't be a stupid nerf 
 herder and loose. Deffinately a must have RTS game of the year in my book. But one downside i didn't 
 mention was that there is unfortunatly no base building from an rts point of view, strictly battle 
 oriented. but there is too much onscrean to worry about anyway. May the Force be with you young 
 padewan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo136
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  With its new concept on RTS, Empire at War (EaW) has success in making another hi quality game, 
 and this time its on RTS genre. 
  EaW is worth to play for everyone who like starwars. 
  Somehow, it's poor of cinematic scene between campaign (too bad) . This make the story not strong 
 enough. The game also doesn't have good surprise. There are almost no new technology or unit (beside 
 from the cinema) . Maybe this is because of the game has to stick with the star wars movie story 
 line. 
  Anyway, good graphic and easy control (much much easier compare to master of orion) makes it worth 
 to play. The new look of game play is also awesome. We may see the game through cinematic perspective, 
 so we can enjoy the game as we watching a movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogviamask
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I grew up with Star Wars. Now my kids are somewhat too. A good story lasts a long time. And a good 
 story makes a good game. I like any form of animated chess if you will. Something that makes you 
 think rather than just testing your reflexes. This is a perfect medium for that. 
  
  The logistical and economic aspects of the strategic portion of the game really set this apart 
 from any other RTS I've played, and because of that, it's refreshing. 
  
  Tactically, it's like any other RTS with groupings, drag select, and the like. Some units are designed 
 to be better killers of others, etc. Hero characters are particularly flashy and fun. If used properly, 
 can turn the tide of a tactical battle.
  
  Overall, I'd say that anyone with an affinity for RTS would not be disappointed with purchasing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoisfat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Wehn i heard that they were gonna make a strategy game of star wars i was so excited. I was thinking 
 clone troopers, droids, jedis, siths, and more jedis! But i was wrong........ This game was pretty 
 much the opposite what i believed. Instead what i got was a couple siths and one jedi. What also 
 surprised me was that it was based on the old 70-80's episodes. Ben kenobi, darth vader, darth 
 sidious, han, and chewie and others but not what i hoped. I played this and i wasn't expceting 
 it to be that good. IT was actually pretty fun. The special abilities of all units and heroes rock! 
 The action cam which you can use on battles like vader vs kenobi to see it close up and it looks 
 like they are really fighting like in the movies! What was also surprising is that you can also 
 fight in space! x-wings and TIE fighters and more! Some things that brought it down were the population..... 
 very little population, only like seven unit squads can be there......... for each command zone 
 though. So 2 command zones equals 14 unit squads. They have the expansion Forces Of Corruption 
 which will be coming out soon that should improve this game but only adds i think 2 jedis.. luke 
 and Yoda thus adding to the old story! What i think they should do is keep this game but make a 
 large expansion change that will contain the cone wars... i'm talking darth maul, dooku, anakin 
 (good and bad) , young kenobi, mace windu, and the other jedi council members and general grievous. 
 Along with clones and droids. I think that expansion would probably boost the fame of this game 
 by a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  the good thing about this game is the galactic conquests in other games you are always stuck on 
 this smaal map and you always hav to play skirmish maps , well here you don't . with the expansion 
 pack coming i think this might be one of thhe greatest strategy games ever 
  it also gives a great sw feeling and it doesn't bore quickly . space battle may become a little 
 repetitive. for the rest it is great that you can play as heroes and rebels and empire have unique 
 advantages and it istnt just a matter of the having the most firepower 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  when I first heard that lucasarts would be coming out with a new RTS I thought to myself oh great 
 another boring and dull game to add to the star wars RTS lineup. But after seing screens and reading 
 reveiws I thought I should give it a try so I downloaded the demo and I love it. soon after I bought 
 the game and I spent 4 stright hours playing it. The heroes are cool the modding community for this 
 game are great and space battles were amazing!!! The only thing about the game is its to easy in 
 some places. For example, if you have y-wings above the planet you can call for a bombing run from 
 above, the thing that makes this cheap is the fact that you can use the sensor droid to lift the 
 fog of war, hide your troops, wait for the bombing run to become available and bomb the crap out 
 of everything. But besides that flaw the game is very good and a must buy for any casual or avid 
 star wars fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ght759z
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Pro:
  This game is fun to play, and easy to learn. It has many different types of gameplay for the amount 
 of time you want to play for. There are 2 campaigns, land, space, and land control skirmish, and 
 galactic conquest, and each of these can be played on 9 difficulty levels overall. They used the 
 actual Star Wars music by John Williams, so that makes the action more exciting. The sounds are 
 also taken right from the movies. Graphics are nice, especially in space battles.
  Con:
  After playing for a while, the battles seem all the same. However, it is still fun. Also, there 
 are serious bugs in the game even after about 4 patches. Some of the patches create glitches in 
 the campaign, which prevent you from completing them. On LucasArts support forum, there is a thread 
 with about 600 posts from people who's game crashes with the same exception error. LucasArts doesn't 
 return emails or respond to the thread. Their patches don't fix this issue. The forum does not 
 provide advice, only asks more questions.
  Summary:
  This game is fun if it works on your machine, otherwise, you might feel like a beta tester who's 
 out $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  The game is not that bad but they need to make it so you could make as many unit as you want. Other 
 than that the game has great graphics and good gameplay. It is pretty cool how you can hit a button 
 and make the game go into a movie type view. I like the characters. I can't wait for the expansion 
 pack to come out because they added a new side. The game still need improvement because like i 
 said before, you're only allowed certain number of units. it would be better if you could build 
 as many as you wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War is the latest installment of Star Wars game, it is based on real time strategy game. 
 You can play at land and at space. It is has good graphic but when you use Battlecam, it is different, 
 you can't see where the lasers coming from and suddenly your troops or enemy troops just die. You 
 can also control Star Wars heroes!!! They have special power that can bring down some infantry 
 easily, they all have different power. The sound effects is also good, almost like in the Star 
 Wars movie. I recommend you this game because it is so special that sometime you never leaves your 
 seat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Just like I said, I really liked the space battles. There's lots of different ways to play and 
 strategies for your to use on the field of battle in space, and you can watch your ships tear into 
 your opponents with the cinematic mode. However, this view is very grainy and the various fighters 
 and cruisers really don't look like ships at all, but rather like flying blocks. I didn't get much 
 into the land battles though, because I found them to be quite boring. You order units by using 
 a dropship, which can only land in specific jump points. While it is strategic to capture these 
 points, all they do is make your job of killing the enemy a little quicker. I just didn't like 
 the land battles that much so yeah. If you like starwars a lot, then I'd suggest giving this game 
 a shot, but if your not really into that kind of stuff, then just let it pass by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frrrkk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  space battles in this game were great. But they also had ups and downs, such as the rebels if there 
 fighters jump into battle could be wiped out when a marauder passes by!. And the empire you have 
 to wait by that time the rebels have deploed and attacked you.
  
  though these are things that are irritating they did not damage gameplay much at all, infact in 
 some respects they made it more challanging!
  
  Personally i preferred the space battles to the land for i fealt i had more freedom while controlling 
 an imperial slug sardestroyer or mon calamari oaf of a cruiser, and there were loads of explotions 
 in space battles with tonnes of debry from capital ships making it great fun for you to watch.
 
  
  i did have 1 worry though however and that was what if you blew up all the planets? well 1 thing 
 it would be dull and 2nd who could wait for the deathstar to move i mean its more of a slug then 
 the stardestroyers!
  
  but all in all i loved the music, the graphics when your machine can handle it were great, and 
 the gameplay learning curve was small and easy. so in an all round hit i would say, 9 out of 10! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raclo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I'ts just the best game 
  i cant wait for the expansion i want to have this game ultemaitley.
  And with the expansion it 
 is so everybody buy the game and i want to play the game online so come online if you have the 
 game because its a masterpiece. Just buy it oke oke oke oke oke oke oke ok oke oke oke oke oke 
 oke its just a great game oke oke oke oke oke ok oke ok ok ok  
 ok ok ok o k ok k o k ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok o k okk o kok k k k k k  
 okokokokokokokoikkpoen het spellllllllllllllllllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. I agree with a lot of what most say that LucasArts finally did it a Real Time 
 game in the Star Wars universe worth playing. The first attempt Rebellion was a lack luster game. 
 It was good but not great. The replay factor was small, where as this game is so good, not only 
 with the graphics but with the lack of micro management that can happen a lot with most real time 
 games. Galactic Battlegrounds I felt I was playing Age of Empires, not real exciting, somewhat 
 boring. 
  
  The major highlight of this game is the space battles, its probably the best part of the game. 
 There is times that the space battles are some what difficult. The land battles are good, but somewhat 
 easy. Basiclly if you come with a sizeable force you are going to win. The campaigns are ok, they 
 can be at times slow and not exciting and can be at times easy. 
  
  I recommend this game for any Star Wars fans and for any RTS fans. I do not feel you will be disappointed 
 with this game.
  
  Overall I want to give this game a 9 and a .7 since its Star Wars 
  
  Oh and in addition, I can not wait till Forces of Corruption comes out later this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soniczero1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! You can make almost every kind of star wars vehicles and troops and even 
 some not even in the movies! The mod made it even better as it brings pop cap up to 36! That makes 
 space battles more entertaning as you can make giant armies of ships without having most of your 
 fleet as "reinforcements" waiting for your ship to blow to make cap go lower so it can be brought 
 out. Also it adds the Venetor in mod and though it may not be strong, it has a advantage as since 
 it has missle launchers it can cut through shields. And if you alot of them in your fleet they 
 can be overwhelming as you can use them to take out shield generators and with them gone, use more 
 powerful ships to take it down! I gotta admit, it did stink when it first came out but mostly it 
 was online as when you tried to play a game almost 90% of the time is says you can't connect or 
 lock up forcing you to quit by restarting the game, but with the patches it's been running smoothly. 
 This has gotta be the best RTS Lucas ever made, so just wait until Forces of Corruption comes out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke1138
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big Star Wars fan and a fan of the games and was really looking forward to being able to 
 command the armies of the Empire and Rebellion. But the game mechanics were awkward, the battles 
 not very satisfying, and very little strategy.
  
  Good: Being able to build an attack squad of your favorite Star Wars ships and attack vehicles. 
 Watching battles in "cinematic" mode is pretty cool the first couple of times but that takes you 
 out of the action.
  
  Bad: Managing and deploying resources through the galactic map is a bit awkward. Minimal strategy 
 involved. Somehow, it's just not very fun. 
  
  Playing this game gives me the same feeling I had when playing the first Battle for Middle Earth 
 game. High anticipation, pretty good basic game but wasn't all that fun. At least BFME had a few 
 more interesting campaigns.
  
  Empire at War is a good first attempt and maybe the expansion wll help but personally, I think 
 the basic gameplay and game engine need to be re-worked in the same way that Battle for Middle 
 Earth II was an overhaul of the game, not just an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBeavers
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. I agree with a lot of what most say that LucasArts finally did it a Real Time 
 game in the Star Wars universe worth playing. The first attempt Rebellion was a lack luster game. 
 It was good but not great. The replay factor was small, where as this game is so good, not only 
 with the graphics but with the lack of micro management that can happen a lot with most real time 
 games. Galactic Battlegrounds I felt I was playing Age of Empires, not real exciting, somewhat 
 boring. 
  
  The major highlight of this game is the space battles, its probably the best part of the game. 
 There is times that the space battles are some what difficult. The land battles are good, but somewhat 
 easy. Basiclly if you come with a sizeable force you are going to win. The campaigns are ok, they 
 can be at times slow and not exciting and can be at times easy. 
  
  I recommend this game for any Star Wars fans and for any RTS fans. I do not feel you will be disappointed 
 with this game.
  
  Overall I want to give this game a 9 and a .7 since its Star Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BetaDecay
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this was the best game ever.... it wans't. although it was a very good game overall 
 and it isn't a horribly bad game NEVER was. Maybe in a couple years it wil be"da". it does have 
 a lot of downs but also a alot of ups. its had great game-play, good graphics, and lasts quite 
 awile. EaW also has a bad storyline, hard to grip conseps on campaign (A WHOLE LOT) , and also it 
 runs very slow on a lot of comps. people who have ok (or better) computers should at least try 
 the game if possible before they judge ,if not they don't judge at all EVER!!!!!! i am glad that 
 they had patches and mods or the game would be much worse in alot of ways as well as. i do hope 
 that the expansion will help. oh, one more thing who ever says this is piece of junk either has 
 no taste for RTS's or is a hard core RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 106728
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  SW: Empire at War is an initially promising but ultimately disappointing strategy game that becomes 
 repetitive within days.
  
  The game's real time nature squanders much of its appeal. Essentially, there are two phases of 
 play -- a galactic phase, in which you coordinate assaults on planets and build structures, and 
 an assault phase, in which you lead air or space battles directly. 
  
  The galactic phase is incompetently designed, however, because the action never really stops. When 
 you control several planets, juggling between various upgrades and obscure buildings while managing 
 fleet movements becomes virtually impossible. All the more frustrating is that the computer (whose 
 AI also has noticable shortcomings, especially in noticing your weakest planets) has no such coordination 
 problem. The designers should have taken a page from Civilization IV's playbook and made a competent 
 turn-based segment here instead of a frustrating real-time mode. 
  
  The space battles are repetitive but at least look pleasant. The player can call in reinforcements 
 but strangely cannot choose his initial starting forces (if you send in 20 units, the game might 
 randomly pick 10; as they die, you can gradually draw reinforcements from the 10 left in reserve) . 
 The AI here is competent but the only strategy is targeting hardpoints on enemy ships, which is 
 not terribly engaging since your choice ultimately does not effect much. Simply focus-fire, and 
 repeat.
  
  The ground battles are even more terribly repetitive. The AI is weaker here as well. The only novelty 
 is the coolness of using the Emperor to decimate an enemy infantry division. But you will simply 
 not want to use this mode or the space modemore than 5-10 times, which is pretty damning since 
 they make up 1/2 of the gameplay; and, as mentioned, the galactic mode is designed poorly as well.
 
  
  The designers had a good idea but their game has virtually no replay value. You'll probably put 
 it away in a few nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wpgamefreak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I have been playing strategy games since I was somewhere around five and this is the best 
 I have ever played. To tell the truth I have only had seven battles that were under one hour and 
 the were in space battles. The other hundred some-odd battles were mostlyin space because that 
 is my favorite type of battle but that is not to say ground battles aren't fun. The galactic map 
 is amazingly built even better than Rebellion's actually the space battles are better than them. 
 The ground battles are like Force Commander's but with the command posts like Battlefront. This 
 has more units than other any games I have played. The strategy concept is there like a lighthouse, 
 it is awesome. If someone says rent it first don't listen to them just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensionrev
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  It just seemed like not a complete game. I guess in some respects it is a real time game, like 
 individual battles are in real time. The non-realtime thing is that whenever an individual battle 
 commences, all time stops, so nothing is being build, no money accrued, etc. I guess that is the 
 type of trade off when you are dealing with something like 40 different planets, but it would be 
 cool if it were more real like you could be managing a battle in space over one planet, and switch 
 quickly to another battle somewhere else. Also, the games difficulty settings were weird; easy 
 was impossibly easy, medium was easy, and hard was flipping impossible unless you had saved up 
 some money on another skill level before you flipped to hard (at least for me) . Plus the rebels 
 are pretty much superior to the empire all the way around. On the ground, some regular troops, 
 missle guys, and snipers are pretty much all you need to take over any map, as long as you go slow 
 and take out the imperial tank things that can run over your guys, but they are not tough at all. 
 Also, the only economy in the game essentially comes from the number of planets that you own and 
 the amount of mines on the planet's surface. This kinda takes a lot of the "strategy" away from 
 the rts experience. 
  
  The cool thing about the game was the units themselves. it was cool to have control over Imperial 
 walkers and star destroyers. The sound was really cool, but I guess it would be hard to screw up 
 Star Wars sounds, since everyone knows what things sound like.
  
  I guess overall, when you compare it to other modern rts games, like age of empires 3, I think 
 aoe is far and away a better game. It takes much more strategy and has much more replayability. 
 For a SW game, it is pretty good, but as a rts, it is mediocre at best.
  
  Still, SW: EAW is a start, and hopefully the developers will improve on this with the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I think that you like or not this kind of game, but as i love total war for its strategy map and 
 their combat, i should have been please by empire at war which is slightly the same for its strategy 
 side.... but honestly every part of this game is like a copy and paste of what we know already, 
 except for the space combat map. But overall Empire at war is boring and i wont continue to play 
 this game to see if its less boring after 10 hours of gameplay. Finally, this star wars title is 
 like every title of star wars game (except knight of the old republic... great game) .. a deception 
 and a copy and paste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chang2103
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Its about time Lucas Arts came out with an RTS thats as good as decent. all the other RTS games 
 that came out with the title "starwars" suck like crap, with the exception of Star Wars Rebellion, 
 Battlegrounds was ok. All aspects of this game is very nice, although the graphics could use some 
 polishing. Otherwise the gameplay sound difficulty level and story are better than decent. This 
 is "THE" Star Wars RTS game that all starwars fans have been waiting for. The expansion STAR WARS 
 "FORCES OF CORRUPTION" should be even better. The only downside is during LAND and SPACE battles 
 there is no base building like in tradditional rts. what this means is you dont start from scratch 
 and build your way up. I was hoping for something a little more like a COMMAND & CONQUER type star 
 wars. But its still a good starwars rts, kind of reminds me of starwars rebellion. If your a TRUE 
 starwars fan i suggest you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing in it's graphics gameplay and sounds
  
  The graphics simply stunning and on my computer it rocks because it looks great and plays perfectly
 
  
  The scale of the space battles is amazing but it requires tactics like go in with 10 fighter use 
 battleships to defend them until they destroy the weak spots i mean that this game si cool very 
 cool
  The land battles are not very impressive but still they are cool you can gather a huge army of 
 mechs with the empire or infantry or make many vehicles as the rebels to take your enemy out
  The galactic map thing is good but i don't like because i never win in any combat : ( ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poslannik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Yo i thought tihs game will suck but actually it rules. Almost in every game i use cheats but this 
 game is so cool so cheats are not a object. I hope there will be another game in Star wars :Empire 
 at war. I have played the demo and it was cool so i thought i could ask my mom and dad money for 
 the full version. And they did it they gave me money. and in 23 march 2006 i got this awsome Star 
 wars game wich i am playing 2 hours a day. IT RULES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So anyone who wants it do yust 
 like me and Star wars: Empire at war will open the galaxy for a new commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  For a long time now there have been Star Wars RTS's (Real-Time Strategies) but they just weren't 
 very good at all. But at least Empire at War does a somewhat decent job, it's just too bad that 
 it's not so good to be highly recommended.
  
  Star Wars Empire at War takes place right after Episode III and right before A New Hope (Episode 
 IV) where the Rebellion is just starting their rebellion against the Empire.
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from an RTS, the top down view of the battlefield and whatnot, 
 and Empire at War does a good job doing it, it's just a shame that there aren't too many units 
 to command from other RTS's. Empire at War is a bit different from other RTS's because you have 
 to take over planets which, when under your control, produce credits for you after each 'galactic 
 day' which allows you to build units or buildings. You must attack planets and be victorious to 
 take control of the planet, and you must defend your own. There are 2 kinds of battles in Empire 
 at War: One is where you fight on the planet, and the other is in the airspace of a planet or asteroid 
 field.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing for an RTS but some users (like me) who don't have most of the 
 latest graphics cards or RAM will be severely disappointed by what we have to look at.
  
  The music in this game (like any other Star Wars game) is definitely one of the best I have ever 
 heard. The sounds of lasers and missiles hitting a ship are pretty nice too, but it just sometimes 
 doesn't sound real.
  
  The value of the game is pretty high because of a decent single-player and good multiplayer. But 
 the hardcore RTS fans will look away from this game. I just wish you didn't have to sign-up at 
 Gamespy for multiplayer though.
  
  And my tilt is pretty high because I'm one hell of a Star Wars fan, and Empire at War is a pretty 
 good RTS.
  
  Many more casual RTS fans will enjoy Empire at War, but the hardcore RTS fans may want to look 
 somewhere else.
  
  If you're thinking about getting this game, just wait until Fall when the expansion pack, Forces 
 of Corruption, will release.
  
  In the nutshell: good but not great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I want this game very badly. I'm getting it as soon as i get my allowance, but till then, this 
 looks great, sounds great, can't wait!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it will have a-wings, and it will 
 have, at at's, and it will have x-wings ect...... It will be fun, just looking at the trailer makes 
 me drool. And as for the video review on here, i have seen it 6 times, i love watching anything 
 i can about this awsome looking game. Until i get this game, hopefully next week, i will have to 
 watch it from afar, but the knowledge that it will soon be mine, excites me everyday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenfun1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars franchise has seen its share of great action games, role-playing games, and space-combat 
 simulators, but the strategy genre is something that, for some reason, has proved elusive for LucasArts 
 to truly capture. The efforts to date, including Rebellion, Force Commander, and Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 have ranged from poor to pretty good. Petroglyph's Empire at War is the game that's finally gotten 
 the formula down just right. In Empire at War, the action takes place both in outer space and on 
 the surface of planets, but the interconnection of the two is one of many important strategic aspects 
 that you'll consider as you make your way through the campaign and galactic conquest scenarios. 
 Logical differences in the optimal playing style between the Empire and Rebellion, as well as an 
 epic presentation befitting of the license, contribute to a fantastic overall package that any 
 strategy-game player can appreciate, whether you have a stormtrooper outfit in your closet or you 
 just have a passing familiarity with the films. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PainTrane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with hard earned money and it was over all worth the work. I downloaded the 
 demo and just had to have the full version. The graphics weren't very impressive, I guess it was 
 because I turned down the detail for better gameplay. I only had the game for about a week and 
 almost completed the whole thing, it's highly addictive!!! I would totall recommend this game for 
 strategy game based people (A. K. A - nerds) . I stopped playing it for a few days because my brain 
 needed a break. i have to have at lest 100 words so. . . . der der der der der der der der der 
 der der der der der der der. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was, in my opinion, a waste of hard-earned money. Not to mention wasting an extra$10 
 on the collector's edition! That was a rip-off.
  
  Now, I am serious when I say I am a huge star wars fan. Even to me, though, this game did not deliver. 
 It lacked essential elements that good RTS games have. I was looking forward to this game coming 
 out SO MUCH, and now LucasArts ripped me off.
  
  Gameplay: The space battles are great, but that's it. The land battles are dull and repetitive, 
 and completely unbalanced. Micromanaging the galactic map is tough at first, but it gets tolerable. 
 Don't even get me started about how bad the skirmish battles are...
  
  Graphics: The graphics deserve SOME credit. The ISDs are awesome and the lasers look cool, but 
 they could've worked a little harder. On anything but high graphics qualities, the textures lose 
 their... attractiveness.
  
  Sound: What can I say? All the starwars sounds and themes you need. Some of the heros' voices sound 
 a little off, but other than that, pretty good.
  
  Value: This is where the game dies. After playing through the galactic conquests as the rebels 
 and imperials, you've literally done all that you need to to get the full game. The campaign is 
 short and boring, and they really didn't delve into the storyline of pre-episode IV to the end 
 of episode IV. So the death star blew up. Woopee. How about some interesting side stories like 
 something about one of the Imperial admiral's parents were killed by bothans and he wants to take 
 revenge on them or something? Don't expect any twists or turns in the storyline.
  
  Tilt: I gave this an 8 JUST BECAUSE IT'S STAR WARS. No other reasons.
  
  Buy Battle for Middle-Earth 
 II or something. It's much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imop45
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  In the demo, and in the real game, there was too many errors especially with the larger space ships. 
 All of the hype didn't amount to anything. The game-play and controls were slow and just terrible. 
 I was, probably like many, expecting way more. Way more functionality and easier interfaces. But 
 no!!! I thought this game slowed down and got too boring way too fast. More than half of the time 
 on that game you weren't seeing any action. You were just fixing things ad buying stuff. I would 
 have liked to see more game play, as what I thought from the previews and the reviews. Maybe on 
 the second/next one, if there is, they will do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  star wars empire at war. i was expecting it to be more like the older version which was the some 
 with age of empires 2 but i never expected it was going to happen. well star wars empire at war 
 dissapointed me because of its very narrow choice of whar part of the galaxy to play because um 
 well... there is only two. the republic and the rebels. the graphics are quite good and it is really 
 amazing to watch space battles ecause they have a close relation to the movies and is very satsyfing. 
 the galatic conquest mode is quite easy and its just in a matter of hours that u can complete it 
 and its not that challenging. its like total war with no cream or cheese added in the middle. there 
 are no upgrades and it is not as complicated as starwars: galatic battlegrounds which is already 
 thrown out of shops by now. skirmish mode is not that hard either and the funny part is that u 
 absolutely don; t get to build except turrnets and beta packs. the land battles are very dissapoingting 
 with not much tatical options. even if u use cover for your units and all their special powers, 
 it is almost the same as pressing the delet button to kill of your units. if this is an RTS then 
 it should BE like one but there are rarely any elements of it present in the game. even i a used-to-be 
 starwars fan, can't find a way to enjoy it because everytime, the games leaves something to be 
 desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bololo6644
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Lately there has been great progress in the quality of Star Wars games, thanks to such pearls as 
 Knights of the Old Republic and now Empire at War. The game manages to please mostly everyone with 
 nice graphics and a good gameplay, a decent story and cool battles on ground and in space.
  
  You can choose between Imperial and Rebel forces in the single player campaign, which wasn't 
 as good as I had expected. I have only played the Rebel campaign so far, but although it was fun 
 for as long as it lasted, it ended quite abruptly. I was expecting to see episodes V and VI as 
 well, but it ended with the destruction of Death Star as it happened in episode IV, and the ending 
 cinematics weren't very spectacular. The story begins from the building of the Rebel Alliance, 
 so despite the short length, it's refreshing to see what happened before the movie.
  
  The game looks good if there's some kick in your computer, but with low video settings it looks 
 quite horrible when you zoom in. However, as I said, if you can keep the settings high, the game 
 is as pretty as Jessica Alba and Keira Knightley combined. The sound effects are very good as well, 
 with the Star Wars laser blasts we're familiar with and John Williams' music so fans will feel 
 at home.
  
  The fans will also be excited to see all the locations seen in the movies and books, and the heroes 
 and units as well. All the planets have quite unique atmospheres and most of them have inhabitants 
 that take sides depending on which faction they like better. You get to move your fleets in an 
 Age of Wonders -style galaxy map and when you engage in combat, you see only the area of battle. 
 Despite some flaws the gameplay works well and it doesn't take too much time to get a grasp of 
 it. 
  
  The game can be recommended to Star Wars fans and friends of good science fiction strategy as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that the single player is okay and the multiplayer is just AWSOME! 
 The glactic conquest is too easy as empire as you just blow up planets when you get the death star. 
 The rebles are at a major disadvantage on the ground but a little better on the ground. The people 
 who made this game evedently thing giving rebles raids makes up for the empire having the death 
 star. HAHA, yeah right. This game gets much better when you plug into the internet and play w. 
 people. An actual chalenge. And to make it better, lots of nice mods to play w/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeBoy0910
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  For starters, the graphics on this game is really good. The gameplay is also very good but there 
 r quite a few downsides to this game.
  
  Firstly, it can get very boring. Its the same as any other strategy really, except the fact its 
 star wars. Anyway, after a while, u encounter the same old battle on land and space, and it just 
 gets sooo boring.
  Secondly, its very annoying when ur planets get attacked every time you build expensive things 
 on it and you have no ships/units to defend it. 
  Finally, the story just isnt what i thoguht it would be. It was very disappointing.
  
  Other 
 than these, its a very good strategy game. It can be fun at points, but thats about it. My favoutire 
 part is the fact that you can have space batles, which is cool, except it can get boring if you 
 keep repeating the battles. So not one of the best games, but i reccoemend it to all those star 
 wars fans out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfoxagent
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting to play this game since I heard of it months before it came out, and I wasn't 
 let down. it goes perfectly on the PC using the mouse to control the action in the game. the graphics 
 are less than you'd expect, but every PC game I've played glitches or slows down when you turn 
 up the graphics. the game has no cinematics but there are scenes in the game graphics to start 
 you in the story mode missions. you don; t even need to play campaign to enjoy the game. you can 
 play a mode of you versus either the empire or rebels. you start out with three planets and must 
 take over the rest of the galaxy to win. I love the game and have no problem with it at all. if 
 you love STAR WARS games go pick this up. you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Augaumon1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME IS PERFECT I GIVE 100 OUT OF 100% THE GRAPHICES, THE SOUND, THE GAMEPLAY, THE VALUE AND 
 THE TILT. ALSO IT'S HIGHLY ADDICTIVE. I GIVE IT A  
 I also give the company who made it 100% guys!!!!! I give 100% to all the stuff in it and more 
 stuff like things and stuff and stuff, stuff, stuff, stuff, and stuff... MORE GAMES LIKE THIS PLEASE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 AND ALSO 100 OUT OF 100% SO IT'S 100% MORE GAMES AND GAMES AND GAMES AND ETC ETC!!! AND MORE AND 
 MORE OMG I WANT IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WANT IT WANT IT WANT IT WANT IT WANT IT WANT IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut172
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I think that you like or not this kind of game, but as i love total war for its strategy map and 
 their combat, i should have been please by empire at war which is slightly the same for its strategy 
 side.... but honestly every part of this game is like a copy and paste of what we know already, 
 except for the space combat map. But overall Empire at war is boring and i wont continue to play 
 this game to see if its less boring after 10 hours of gameplay. Finally, this star wars title is 
 like every title of star wars game (except knight of the old republic... great game) .. a deception 
 and a copy and paste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pie30000
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  i have only played the demo ( it takes ages to download so if ur not patient then dont download 
 it ) but the game is really good, the ships need a bit of body-work but apart from that the ships 
 are great, the maps are OK but i dont like the asteroid fields they are really anoying and so are 
 are the big bubble things, ( cant remember what they are called ) the menu's in the game are good 
 and easy to get around but the tool-bar in the game is hard to get around at first but after the 
 tuturial you kind of know your way around.
  
  in the shops the game is 35 which i cant be arsed to bay so go on Ebay and buy it it's much cheaper.
 
  
  thanx for reading,
  pie300000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gidzis
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  i think it's cool, so i think it should be in the firs place. the story line is coll, the character 
 are cool, and everything is cool. Coool :) Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
 
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  Coool :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 31, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  This time around things looks above avarage, and for a change its a SW title that is refined and 
 pretty solid in form and funciton.
  
  But im still no impressed.
  
  Graphics and sound all look pretty sweet and hold true to the SW universe. The complete spoiler 
 for me is the way the game forces you to play "the way you are suposed to". This robs the game 
 of any intuitiv gameplay, makes it predictable and dont give you much of a personal feel for your 
 campaign, You are mearly along for the ride and do more or less what you are told or alloved to 
 do. Most of the gamefeatures such as hardware, characters only fitt in designated slots on planets, 
 surfaces and so on to give you special abilities, this simplifies things well into the booring 
 range and makes everything very predictable.
  
  Combat itself is mostly like any other rts game out there, very litle tactical or stratigical, 
 mostly just build and pour it on fast enough wins the day, booring!. If you havnt been around the 
 block befor in games im sure you can find entertainment here, for anyone whos played game for some 
 years this will bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is basically a command and conquer game transformed into the star wars universe you control 
 many vechicles, speeders, battlions of men and of course darth vador this game is fun on many levels 
 first there i must mention there is a hell allot of planets in the game which is good because more 
 battles basically the game goes like this you either own or capture planets and then build on them 
 after the fighting ends you dont have to collect money the money comes in after a whole day (a 
 little meter shows it) also most of the time you have to have two battles to get the planet one 
 space battle and one on land i cant tell you how nice the graphics are in the space battles you 
 can actually hit a button that shows the battle like a movie removing your mouse and menu also 
 certain planets give you more power like one planet might be good and making ships faster or training 
 troops faster etc etc the only problem i had with the game is the single player (the main game 
 not galatic conquest or skrimish) isnt that good if you play as the empire its ok all you do is 
 conquer and build your fleet and the campaign lasted a while yet if you play as the rebels you 
 feel like all you do is get your ass handed to you and can barely conqure planets and basically 
 all you do is sneak and steal stuff from the empire and that campaing lasted too short other than 
 that there are other single player modes to pick from to make the game worth your time and money 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Empire at war is an incredible game. That said it has some glaring drawbacks that will hopefully 
 be filled in with future expansions. EAW does an excellent job of immersing the player in the Star 
 Wars universe. So much so in fact that you may often feel compelled to go back and play other Star 
 Wars games or watch the movies. As a rebel you could amass a large fleet, but with the mess of 
 TIE fighters and bombers that are garrisoned in every Imperial fleet you are always outnumbered. 
 As an Imperial you have numbers on your side, but the constant threat of Rebel raids and hit-and-runs 
 mean that you have to be effective at spreading those forces out. These are exactly the sorts of 
 feelings one would expect a Rebel or Imperial commander to have.
  
  The tactical combat plays out like any other RTS with some nice additions. Hard points on larger 
 ships means that as you slowly destroy an Imperial Star Destroyer you can limit its effectiveness 
 adding new depth to the RTS formula. The presence of targetable structures and the fact that they 
 are linked to the overall galactic campaign means that hit and run tactics are viable and often 
 necessary. Ground campaigns play out quite differently and do not quite stack up to the thrill 
 of space battles. Ground battles do little to differentiate themselves from other RTS titles and 
 so an average player will be left feeling like they have played this before.
  
  As can be expected hero units play a prominent role in EAW. While they occasionally feel overly 
 powerful it does nothing to take away from the game; these units are often the first targeted and 
 first to be destroyed. Proper use of hero units can tip the scales, even in battles that may seem 
 to be hopeless. This is especially true of Jedi units in ground battles. Darth Vadar could defeat 
 an entire outpost with some patience, TIE bomber coverage and a bacta tank outpost.
  
  There are two major areas where the game comes up short. First of all, the research system feels 
 shallow and rushed. As an Imperial your only research options are Level 2, 3, 4 and 5. As a Rebel 
 your options are slightly different, but basically correspond to the Imperial options. The ability 
 to research improvements for components is limited to tactical combat, but even this research feels 
 shallow and it is not linked to the galactic scale. The second are where this game falters is it's 
 lack of any sort of encyclopedic information. One of the joys of Star Wars is its rich and engaging 
 universe. The galactic conquest and campaign modes suffer a lack of story and info that does an 
 injustice to the amazing wealth of information available in the Star Wars universe.
  
  While the AI generally does a fairly good job it does cheat and doesn't get nearly as difficult 
 as it should. The cheats are minor but very noticeable, such as a faction building captial ships 
 when it does not own a planet capable of doing so. In terms of difficulty there are a couple minor 
 problems. If you build your defences past a certain point it will completely prevent the AI from 
 attacking. When left unmolested for any period of time there seems to be a maximum number of high 
 level units that the AI will build and garrison on any single planet. The AI also seems to be reluctant 
 to build defences of its own prefering to attack weak or recently conquered systems. The AI also 
 gets a bonus to its units on higher levels making it less of a fair fight. It would be peferable 
 it the AI simply was able to bring more units and command them more ably than to cheat. Most of 
 the problems with the AI are more noticeable in the galactic conquest and campaign modes however, 
 so if tactical combat is your thing you may be spared.
  
  All in all, EAW is an excellent Star Wars strategy game. Star Wars is a franchise that seems to 
 lend itself so perfectly to the strategy genre. With so many disappointing Star Wars strategy games 
 out there, it is encouraging to finally see a title get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1599510
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has been on the top selling list, i think numero uno pc game in the first Quarter. And 
 for a reason. You do not have to be a star wars fan to love this game or atleast enjoy it. I love 
 strategy games. And comparing this game to.... ooohhhh.... lets say AoE3. I would say that this game 
 beats it. Im not saying AoE 3 is bad, its just that this is EVEN BETTER!!!!
  
  The gameplay is really cool and the double layered strategy thing is just perfect. The galactic 
 conquest "Galazy" mode as i like to call it makes this game feel as if you actually are the ultimate 
 commander. Its not like you click on one building and wait untill they "magically" fall out of 
 the sky. no, you have to send units or fleets around, build this on this planet and build that 
 on another. There is even strategy involved in what planet you attack!!!. Maybe it is because of 
 its strategic location, or its special bonus, or the tons of bling it gives you, or, just because 
 you like the planet.
  
  
  Anyways to make a long long long long time playing this game summed up in a number between 0-10, 
 i would say...... ummmm ........ between 9 and p.5 
  
  P. S  did i mention that the sound is amazing and that you can blow up planets withe the death  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uziel126
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  It will be. If one can look beyond it's graphics and overcome the steep learning curve, this game 
 will easily win your heart. 
  
  The space battles in this game are epic, with heroes which are powerful, but not invincible. Trust 
 me, the thrill of seeing a group of Y-Wings taking out an Acclamator class cruiser twice it's size 
 is one you won't easily forget. Or the sight of a huge wave of TIE-fighters swarm over a Mon Calamari 
 Cruiser and bringing it down (albeit with huge losses) One disappointing factor is that you practically 
 have to monitor every unit closely. If you leave it out of your sight for more than a minute, it 
 will either drift away into an empty space on the map, or worse, into the enemy-controlled portion 
 of it. 
  
  Land battles however, are much more difficult, and much less fun. Maybe it's an "acquired taste", 
 but you'll most likely be playing space battles in the end. For some reason, I find the sight of 
 an AT-TE less appealing than a Tartan Cruiser. Also, in terms of graphics, zooming in to a land 
 battle to view it in cinema mode is horrible as opposed to the space battle, where it is infinitely 
 better. 
  
  The third way of playing is the tactical way. Here is where you determine what goes where, and 
 what to build. You can invade other planets, or build up your strength on your current planet (s) 
 waiting for your opponent to attack.
  
  One should first play as the Empire before attempting the Rebels, as the Empire campaign is easier. 
 The Empire simply gets more resources than the rebels, since they control more planets. The Rebels 
 are weak in the beginning and you'll find yourself hitting the screen in frustration at the third 
 mission. Then again, you might want to just forget about the campaigns and simply fight the skirmishes. 
 It's fun but it gets boring quickly, especially if you're playing on easy.
  
  In conclusion, if you're a fan of Star Wars or RTS, get this game. If not, you may enjoy the space 
 battles all the same, but the land battles will be sure to put you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 27, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting more from this game. Think about it. To plan and execute the conquest of an entire 
 galaxy, you are going to need to consider and be aware of details that are not implemented in this 
 game. 5 squads of stormtroopers and a few AT-ATs and you have taken over an entire planet? gimme 
 a break! 
  Also its unrealistic that the rebellion is a conventional enemy to the empire. What i mean is that 
 the rebellion of the movies is a shadowy organization working in secret. For all practical purposes 
 the rebellion in the game is a conventional Governement/military just like the empire. The way 
 it shoud work is that there should be many different factions (Mon calamari, the Wookies, Nabbo, 
 etc) that would have different diplomatic stances towards the empire, a model similiar to Rome: 
 Total War. With the rebellion working behind the scenes. 
  I still like the game and play it sometimes but it is definitely nowhere near the top of the RTS 
 genre in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calpalg
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Like Star Wars? Like RTS games? Buy this now.
  Here's the reasons: the graphics are fantastic if you can get a fast computer with a high level 
 graphics card, though it still works well if you can't. The sound, also great, with familiar Star 
 Wars themes blring out with gusto, and the laser fire and missiles sounding just like real.
  The battles themselves can be epic if you manage to get a large amount of units squaring off against 
 each other. The space battles especially are fantastic looking, and incredibly satisfying. The 
 land battles are a bit of a letdown as they are slow and firefights between groups of infantry 
 can go on for absolutely ages. Still, you can weild the power of the mighty At-At, or if you prefer, 
 take its legs away with a snowspeeder. That's another great thing about Empire at War: you can 
 recreate classic Star Wars moments, or make your own. The campaigns add a fair amount of challenge, 
 and the galactic conquests are absorbing for the most part. The galactic map feature works very 
 well, with switching units from planet to planet, and setting bounty hunters to assassinate rival 
 heroes, after a while becomes a doddle and you will be setting massive strategies in motion. If 
 you finish the campaigns, there isnt a great deal more to do, but the multiplayer has a lot of 
 life in it. Overall, the revolutionary galactic map and battle features make this a Star Wars game 
 well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 27, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of hope for this game, being a Star Wars fan, but I can't seem to get hooked on it 
 like Star Craft as far as an RTS or Battlefront or KOTOR as a Star Wars game. Let me explain why 
 this game wasn't stellar in my eyes.
  
  Gameplay: Eh, standard RTS game play with the point and click and build. Resource gathering isn't 
 as much a chore or part of the gameplay itself as it is in Warcraft. Build a bunch of units, do 
 some sort of mission or another. For a RTS game, it's good, but there just isn't much of a Star 
 Wars type feel, this could be some other original concept game, and just slapped Star Wars on it. 
 
  Put it this way, for anyone who has played Star Craft, Command and Conquer, Warcraft 3, or any 
 other RTS, you've played this. Not necessarily a bad thing, but not a good thing either.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are reminscent of Warcraft 3. Warcraft 3 had a great graphics 
 engine at the time, but here that style of graphics kind of lags. My computer isn't the top of 
 the line anymore but with 3.2 GHZ pentium 4 EE and over 1 gig of ram and a 256mb Radeon X600 it's 
 no slouch. To see crisp details one has to push the graphics to the limit, otherwise jaggies and 
 polygons are noticeable at close zoom. This is less of an evident problem in space due to the angles 
 and polygonal shapes of space ships. Also the nebulas and star clusters are well done. Space gets 
 a 9/10 graphically while land based missions get a 7/10. I like the concept of the cinematic battles, 
 but it rarely gives a good perspective, and to actually direct your troops in battle doesn't allow 
 you to use this function.
  
  Sound: This is the shining point of this game. The soundtrack comes through with shining colors, 
 blaring the Star Wars fanfare and Imperial March when appropriate along with other Star Wars style 
 opera soundtracks. The classic blaster fire is there in all forms. The voice acting is top notch, 
 although it is a voice actor stand in, you would never know for most of the recognizable characters. 
 
  
  Value: I suppose if you like the gameplay, then you might find more to like about this game and 
 replay it longer, but I find that just one faction to choose from in a RTS is pretty bland, having 
 Starcraft and Warcraft as the gold standards now. The whole game is a a "this class of units beats 
 that class of units", not necessarily having a strategy. It's like a rock-paper-scissors deal here. 
 
  
  Tilt: I expect more out of Star Wars licenses after Battlefront and KOTOR quality games. I will 
 say this in the words of a great Jedi, "Star Wars label does not a great game make". To make this 
 game in an oven, this is how you do it. Take 12 ounces of generic RTS cake batter and 4 ounces 
 of Star Wars Licensing liquid, blend well and bake for 3 hours, which is about as long as I could 
 play this without getting bored with it. If it wasn't so generic and repetitious, it would have 
 been a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoriNibori
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at war, The RTS Based on Star Wars. Even though they had some major problems 
 with balancing and Multi-player, after a few patches the managed to make it work a lot better then 
 when it was released.
  
  Game Play: Unlike most RTS, where you have builders, and you choose where on the planet to put 
 your building, and your builders harvesting resources that you need. In this game, the more planets 
 you control the more money you earn at the end of a "Galaxy days", And when you select the planet 
 you choose what you want to build on the planet, each planet has a number of building slots where 
 you can choose what building takes up what slot, then the game generates your base on the planet 
 for you. Another unique thing is the way land and space units are produced, as you build the base 
 on the planet, you will build a space station in space with different levels, the higher the level 
 the more, and better space units you can make, same with the ground units, they higher level of 
 building on the ground the more you'll powerful units you can create. As with most RTS you have 
 a population cap, and with this game, that cap raises with the more planets you control, and the 
 high level of space station you control. Depending with who you play as, there are tech upgrades, 
 The Rebellion can steal tech from the empire with use of spies, While the empire use research facilities 
 to upgrade there tech level. So as you can see, it gets real intense when you're watching for space 
 battles, while trying to defends your bases, and while watching for enemy spies. Also with a great 
 storyline that takes you to end of a new hope, you'll be playing the game at least a few hours, 
 and Multi player skirmish battles will make you want to test your skills against others.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are really great in this game, the "Battle cam" lets you watch the game in a 
 cinematic view, which is great, many times I have sent in an army against a base, where I know 
 I have them beat, and I just sit there watching the armies fight, this is a better way to view 
 the battle, keeping it interesting. One bad problem is sometimes when the battle is really going 
 on, and all forces are fighting at one spot in land or in space, the frame rate really goes down.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is really great in this game, from the unit acknowledgements, down to Darth Vader's 
 light saber sound. There isn't really much to say about sound, just that it was well done, synced 
 nicely with every animation.
  
  Value: I bought this game the day it came out so it was around 50$ Canadian, it was a great game 
 for it's value, even now I'm sure it's cheaper, and with Multi player I can just pick it up, and 
 play it again against someone on-line.
  
  I am really impressed with how the developers made a lot of patches to fix a lot of major problems, 
 with a few more patches even more will be fixed making it even more enjoyable. I look forward to 
 it's expansion coming out soon, and I plan to buy it since this one did very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The space battles rock.
  The land battles suck.
  The death star rocks.
  Darth Vader rocks.
  Hand and Chuey suck.
  R2D2 and C3PO suck.
  Empire Rocks.
  Rebels Suck.
 
  
  Game could have been stellar, but they chose to go with just fun and repetitive; a pattern many 
 RTS games are going with. Let's change it up please.
  
  It would be cool in the future if you could control the empire units much like you control mass 
 armies in Rome TW, and control Rebel units like Warhammer 40k. smaller units, but more diverse 
 in abilities for Rebels. 2 schemes for one game. That would be cool. Rebels need more attention 
 while Empire just needs mass units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader1987
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Ok Whats with people now, a couple of mistakes and they start cring that is a bad game??? Whats 
 the matter with you? I think is an Excellent game, Idont see any vsible or important mistakes in 
 the programing and if sometime one poped up i just get a atch or a mod and its fixed so I dont 
 know why people whine about something so little, may I remember everybody that even "the almighty" 
 Windows XP crashed on Bill Gates when he turned on his computer at the OS's opening press conference 
 so don come whinning about a game that a couple of fixableand little mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingoffoxes
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  that's right ive only got the demo version and i still like it (i need it!) its primeraly a space 
 game RTS even though its on the ground it just lacks something but the space has all the atraction. 
 even though its on land and space it still has a galatic overview one step up on Battle Front 2's 
 galatic conquest mode.
  the ships may look a bit out of scale and the space and land maps are a bit small.
  the game 
 uses all of the theme music in the right places but if you love Star Wars and you wan to relive 
 the movies or pilot a Star Destroyer this is the game for you one way or another 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  The first feeling I had when I'd started playing this game was - Star Wars is immortal series and 
 now it is strategy! And I was right, the hole game is very interesting and breathtaking. Starting 
 from tutorial I had explored the way the war is carring out in Star Wars.
  I will start from minuses, cause there are only few of em. The army is sometimes hard to control 
 espesialy in the space battles, the ships starting to make a huge turns to reach their targets, 
 while there is much shorter way. Plus the limit on you army is too small as i think, sometimes 
 it is impossible to deal with the enemy with the such a small group of fighters.
  And now the good points of the game: The graphics is looking good. Sounds are nearly perfect, plus 
 the system of planet invasion is also very cool. I really like to take control over more and more 
 planets in the galaxy. Plus this game is the real present for the SW fans as I am. It is opportunity 
 to try to change the whole history of the Empire!
  I don't think that any words need to say. This game is one of the brilliants of the video gaming 
 world. It will be interesting not only for the SW fans but just for those who like the quality 
 and good games. Personaly I don't like the strategy games but even with it I still enjoy this game 
 It is really worth of money for it!
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipeman99
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  FINALLY! Lucas Arts has made a good solid RTS. Their first attempt was none the less, pitiful. 
 (battlegrounds) This game is amazing, the detail, graphics, and of course the star wars locale. 
 I also liked the resource collection, there isn't any. The method is neat, but it takes away the 
 strategy in resource collecting the right amount. Instead, you have to capture mining facilities 
 or make them. I personally wish there were more infantry units, but thats just a personal preferance 
 (especially for empire) . The multiplayer is good, but is ruined by the constant lag. No matter 
 which server, you usually have one laggy person, making the game laggy. 
  
  The Conclusion: If you like RTSs, and star wars, then you definately would want to pick this one 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephant_6
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 20, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game stunned me when I first got it, as many other games have, I thought it was brilliant while 
 I was playing the tutorials I had fun and I couldnt wait to try some huge galactic battles and 
 play online! So I played the game for about 3 hours, went to bed, got up the next morning, played 
 it for about another 2 hours, went out, then when I came home I realised something strange... I didnt 
 want to play the game anymore. I thought maybe I was just tired so I started up the game and I realised 
 I didnt find it that fun. And yep I never did find it fun again. This is one of those games that 
 was highly anticipated and was really really fun for the first 5 hours I played it.... And then 
 you realize, this is a really crappy game! The graphics are cheasy but they have a nice 3D touch 
 to them that I just love. The sound is great, especially in space combat the endless sounds of dozens 
 of lasers and cannons firing off.... But the gameplay is the weakness, its so repetitive and not 
 that challenging because enemy AI is of course like in all other star wars games, idiotic! They attack 
 you in small little melee groups of like 5-10 men so if youve got a huge garisson of men you can 
 crush them in like 2 seconds! I'm not even gonna talk about the galactic map but just take my word 
 for it, this game is not worth 60$ its more worth 5$. Thank you for reading and remember, dont buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire At war is a Fun and Great RTS set in the Time where The Empire at Rebels fight. (No 
 More Clone wars) the Game it self has a 2 layer combat system. you can fight ether in space with 
 Tie fighters and Star destoryers. or you can fight it out on Land on some of your well known star 
 wars planets. Ranging from Naboo to Hoth. Now each Planet has Some Strategic Value. Bespin say 
 for example Has a Larger than normal Credit Rate since it deals with Tabana Gas. or Hoth Makes 
 it So your enemy can not detect any Ground force's dew to the Weather. This Kind os Gameplay Add 
 great Fun when conquering the Galaxy for total control.
  
  Graphics: Graphics looks Really Nice All the Units just look like their movie Counter Parts. What 
 is their more to say. even the SFX looks Great from turbo lasers from the Star Destroyers. to the 
 Might Death Stars Attack. all i can say that they Captured the Star wars Look really Great.
  
  Sound: Ohh Boy! Man they Great. the Sound Is Super the Music the Laser Blasts the Voice's even 
 most are done by normal Voice Actors they still sound Great! The Music is Great for Both sides 
 Nothing really wrong here.
  Even the Main menu sounds Great. and the Music Lets you know that you have one heck of a star wars 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: It Plays Like Most RTS game out there Space Battles is where the most fun is to be played. 
 Lands Good But all you really doing is Gettin a Large Force and Attacking. Witch dont get me wrong 
 its Not a Bad thing. i wish they could of been Base Building for Both Sides. And not just the Defending 
 Side. Multi Player is Great! Nice and Fun to use. and allways freinds to be Made. Story Not Bad. 
 kinda Fun the empire when you Get To higher Tech Levels. Rebels are kinda more stealthy And the 
 Empire use's that Brute Power Tactic.
  
  My Say: I Would Get it Great Game. Fun And last for some time in term os Fun Factor. Just Kinda 
 Lack Luster Story Mode. But Still games Very Fun. 
  
  ***GET IT!***
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vix-blue
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Take command in Star Wars: Empire at war and enjoy the ride!
  
  The game takes place right after Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith. You can help the Rebels with liberating 
 the galaxy from the Empires iron grip or the Empire with spreading fear and order in the galaxy.
 
  
  The graphics in the game looks good. Both in the galactic view and in battle mode, when you are 
 fighting the enemy. There is also a cinematic view button, so you can get a more movie like view 
 of things happening. 
  
  The sound is as always up to the high Star Wars quality.
  
  The game has almost everything from X-wings to Star Destroyers, which you can play with. The game 
 has a good variation from liberating wookies on kashyyk to destroying pirate bases in space.
  
  Try to play it on Normal difficulty for a real challenge.
  
  And to them who are disappointed 
 to not get the chance to play as the Pirate faction, there is an expansion, Star Wars: Forces of 
 Corruption, on the way where you get this chance.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, which all Star Wars fans should play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  When I first downloaded this game I was skeptical. I thought it would be like glaactic battlegrounds 
 and even more ruin the Star Wars reputation for RTS gamers. I have never been more wrong!!! The 
 space battles are really fun and they have this really cool cinematic camera thing that makes your 
 battle seem like one of the movies. I personally really like the land battles even if most people 
 don't. The heroes are pretty cool for both factions. With the emperor killing an entire group of 
 soldiers with one shot, and R2-D2 and C3PO making enemy turret kill their own soldiers. Both of 
 the factions are great. With the empire it's a little bit easier because you can easily learn the 
 technologies and overcome the rebellion. The rebels have to steal their research and money and 
 are a bit harder. The single player campaigns can last from 4 or five planets to control or over 
 50!!!! Graphics and sound both good but not anything revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekrmme
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first spotted Star Wars: Empire at War on Lucasart's page a year back or so, it really made 
 me stop and take a second look. It didn't look like most of the RTS's I had seen before; the graphics 
 looked incredible for the bird-eye views of the map, and the space battles looked absolutely astounding. 
 The gameplay looked solid, and, well... there was the Death Star, which automatically makes just 
 about anything cooler than it really is. However, upon actually playing through this game, it just 
 doesn't live up to the hype in my mind.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay, unfortunately, brings little new to the table. That's not to say it's bad; 
 just... repetitive. I do like the targeting of "hard points" on capital ships, and the galactic 
 map with land and space locations, but really, most of it is just straight up marching/flying and 
 shooting. Really, the repetitiveness of the gameplay is what irritates me the most about this game, 
 because once you get through an hour or so, your mind goes numb as you robotically send your superior 
 forces to annihilate your enemy, be they Rebels or Imps.
  
  Graphics: One of the redeeming qualities is the graphics, however. This game looks gorgeous... 
 in space. The land models don't seem to be very detailed (especially infantry) , but I suppose you 
 can only ask so much with the technology the average gamer has at his/her disposal. Back to the 
 space battles. There is little more enjoyable in this game than igniting a battle between two massive 
 space armadas and then slipping into cinematic mode, where the camera dramatically follows the 
 action while you sit back and enjoy the beautifully animated explosions of twin ion engines and 
 turbolaser turrets. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game gets a high score primarily because of the borrowed score. Tired 
 and overused though it may be, the Star Wars theme remains a classic. Honestly, however, I was 
 slowly driven mad by the responses of the units to your mouse clicks. I swear, if I hear "Little 
 sphere, big boom," one more time...
  
  Value: This game was severely overpriced when it came out and the price doesn't seem to be going 
 down all that much. Really, it would be worth all $49.99 if it didn't become a series of IDENTICAL 
 battles, each fought with the same (or remarkably similar) tactics, troops, and technology. That 
 and the sub-par land battles make it the kind of game that just can't be worth fifty bucks. Sorry, 
 Petroglyph.
  
  All things considered, it's a good, but not great, game. Don't believe the hype; unfortunately 
 for Lucasarts, plastering the Star Wars trademark all over a relatively stock RTS didn't quite 
 fix the minor flaws that make Empire at War "just another" Star Wars game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi10
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  que porkeria!!!!!!!! este juegoooooo es aburridooooooooooooo de verdad nose como le pudieron dar 
 un 8.7 y a juego mejores k este le dan menos!!!!! creo k a los unico k les gusta este juego es 
 a los nerd de star war...... baaaa esto es una basura.... en 1 dia te aburres...... muy repetitivo 
 y aburridoooooooooo no tiene sentido!!!!!! el peor juego de estrategia k e jugado en mi vida..... creo 
 k lucasarts deberian seguir haciendo juegos como ''knights of the old republic''esos si son buenos... pero 
 esto?? ba!!! pura basura.... creo k ni a los fans de star war lo kieren....
  en conclusion.... prefiero jugar otra cosa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Mccloud666
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 16, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Well if your a star wars fan or just like going toe to toe in space or land battles then you should 
 try this one out. EAW offers Single and Muliplayer modes which are both a decent play.
  
  The graphics on this game are real as well as the sound... it fits perfectly with every noise that 
 is made. You can either play a campaign, which means you and your opponent (only a 1v1 in campaign 
 mode) takes over the planets and of course whoever has the superior force over most of the planets 
 wins. Then there is just a plain space or land battle which you can go up to 4v4 and you just build 
 an army and go at it, taking over that paticular region. Pretty fun for awhile.
  
  Let me talk about the graphics a bit more, yes they are very good and fit very well from the movies 
 of all star wars, the space battles actually look like your in real space, not just some stars 
 all over for a black and white scene. Land battles have good detail but they could of added some 
 better weather effects.
  
  Overall this game does not suck, its just a little repititive. After awhile yeah, you will probably 
 get bored with doing the same stuff over and over. I would get this game if you are a star wars 
 fan and enjoy the battle scenes.
  
  A 3 out of 5. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is crazy i live the movies i've read the books and this game puts it all together, the 
 game play on this movie is great and an awsome interface
  (it does take time to learn it) the great this this game is all about the space battles! the space 
 battles are allmost *all most! as fun as Warcraft 3 FT
  but on the other hand the ground battles are a wast of time dont even bother with them. 
  
 
  here are my pros and cons of this game
  
  PROS
  1. the "renforcments" system ( in space battles )
  2. Galactic Conquest
  3. game interface
 
  4. the cinamatic views
  5. the detail to the books and the movies put in to it
  
  CONS
  1. ground battles renforcments
  2. online constent surver crashes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathStorm123
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 13, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Ever since the Star Wars movies became a succes, dozens of game developers have made games set 
 in the SW universe. Unfortunately, not every game was a succes, and too many previous titles have 
 misused the license and brought shame to the franchise.
  
  Petroglyph, a newly founded game company, based in Vegas, has given us "a new hope" towards SW 
 RTS games. When EA games took over Westwood the talented people who worked on the C&C series, decided 
 to start on their own and founded Petroglyph.
  
  And now the game itself... EaW offers lots of action on the ground as well as in the space. The 
 game has a single player campaign, where you must choose whether you'd join the Galactic Empire 
 or help the newly formed Rebel Alliance. Set between Episode III and Episode IV, EaW offers all 
 the classic units from the films such as AT-AT walkers, snowspeeders, Imperial Star Destroyers 
 and even the Death Star. During the campaign, you must conquer planets to gain a larger flow of 
 credits and special units. The goal is simple: Destroy the Empire/Rebels... 
  
  The other aspect of the single player mode is the galactic conquest mode, you basically own half 
 of the planets and your mission is to take them from the enemy. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. you may look at a Star Destroyer and don't anything special, but if switch 
 to cinematic mode, you'll see all the small fine details on every ships. The sound effects are 
 also great. John Williams' well-known symphonies are a must in every Star Wars game.
  Unfortunately the space/ground battles may quickly become a linear and a repititive experience. 
 But if you want a great Star Wars RTS game, then look no further! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boris1701
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Although Star Wars Empire at War is a good game, the designers decided to leave out most of the 
 units that are favoured by the community. With this in mind after about 30 minuites of play the 
 game become a bit repetative, and some what lacking in quallity. 
  LUCAS ARTS made a brave move with new company Petroglyph as the games designers which did eventually 
 pay off, Petroglyphs graphics are superb, with explosions that seem like their straight out of 
 a hi-sfx movie.
  Offering the option for heavy modification via the up-coming 1.04 patch Empire at War has a lot 
 to look foreward to. 
  
  WARNING THIS GAME IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE REGARDLESS OF LOW QUALITY!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdortega
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 11, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  It looks good, it sounds good and for the first few hours it is good. Then you have to repeat over 
 and over again. 
  
  Personally, I have not found the ground battle enjoyable at all. There is no method to add units 
 to a battle. You are restricted by control points as to the number of units. It makes the ground 
 battle methodical, long and mundane. Maybe just me but I prefer the model of classics like Command 
 & Conquer, Age of Empires, Rise of Nations, etc. Make money, make units, take names. If I spend 
 the time and money to build 100 AT-ATs, I should be able to use them!
  
  Now for the space battle, I like it. Instead of writing this review, I would be writing George 
 Lucas himself if the game did not have the space aspect. It still has the down side of restricting 
 the number of units like a ground battle and the maps are rather small but it is fun. 
  
  Overall I am not sure it is worth $50 - maybe $30. 
  
  BTW - I did find a Galactic Conquest 
 that is fun. You have the Death Star and you can blow up every planet which means NO ground battle! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosbrigade
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Seemingly it's almost been a millennia since the last SW RTS game released, which was merely an 
 above average contribution to this well-respected genre. Recently Lucasarts decided to give SW 
 this perfect RTS material another laser shot with SW: EaW.
  
  EaW is heavily inspired by numerous games in the RTS genre, as well as many others in the SW series. 
 
  
  It contains Campaign mode for both the Rebel and Imperial factions, although each obtains no more 
 than 20 missions each, most latter missions require you to build up specific armries, or taking 
 over other secondary planets first as a stepping stone for your primary missions, so the actualy 
 playtime length of the campaign mode can be considerably long. 
  
  Besides the "always-there" story/campaign mode, EaW, just like the Battlefront series, features 
 a Galatic Conquest Mode. Ignore its fancy and sophisticated name, it is basically a Campaign mode 
 stripped without the plot elements, it still requires you to build armies, take over planets until 
 you conquer the entire galaxy. 
  
  Thirdly, there is the standard skirmish mode, where players can decide specifically on which side 
 to play as, which planet to battle in, ammounts of starting credits (money) available to initially 
 train armies, etc. However, there are just a few options players can customized with, and time 
 will tell if a new patch will arrive to enhance these settings. 
  
  The game is fundamentally divided into two different gameplay, space and land battle.
  
  The 
 Space battle can be labelled as the selling point of the game. It's most likely exactly what you 
 expect a SW space battle to be played out in a video game as you have watched from the classic 
 movies: swarms of X-Wings and TIE Fighters flying around, shooting colored laser shots on eachother; 
 truly gigantic Imperial Star Destroyers blast it all out with Rebel capital ships, the entire black 
 emptiness of space full with red, green and blue laser and misiles charging in every direction 
 and the firework explosions of ships being blasted into pieces and debris etc. It's fun, it's intense, 
 it's SW. 
  
  Unit capacity system seems to be the trend of RTS games these days, and EaW, inspired heavily by 
 these counterparts, is no exception. There is a unit capacity limit on both Rebels and Imperial 
 in space combat. Rebels is allowed 25 units maximum in battle in the same time, while the Imperials 
 20. It seemed as if the Rebels has a larger force with a higher unit capacity. However the Rebels 
 is required to actually build its fighter planes such as X-Wing and Y-Wing, while the Imperial's 
 fighter planes such as TIE Fighters and TIE Bombers automatically respawn at any capital ships 
 (the big ships) the Empire builds. Additional units outside of the allowed unit capacity are stored 
 as reinforcements, and can be summoned into battle anytime and virtually anywhere in the space 
 battlefield once the unit capacity has adequate vaccancy. This actually allows room for more thought-out 
 tactics, as a reasonable reinforcement can always change the balance of power upon the battlefield, 
 ambush on the enemy space station, etc. 
  
  Space combat is played out in a paper-rock-scissors style. There is no single superior unit that 
 can dominant the entire space; there is always a counter-unit against it. Yes, not even the jaw-dropping 
 Imperial Star Destroyers can swipe the entire galaxy , they can be easily downed by a reasonable 
 fleet of Rebel Y-Wings. However, the Y-Wings are flies when faced against the Imperial Tartan Curisers, 
 and therefore you will most likely have some units such as the Assault Frigate or the Corellian 
 Gunship tagging along to protect the Y-Wings. The most combatible space fleet is often a well balance 
 of several different type of units mixed in, covering eachother's weakness.
  
  Elements that turn the tides of space battle exist, such as the "super-weapons", space station 
 and heroes.
  
  The name "super-weapon" is substantially misleading. They are not space nukes or any of the fearsome 
 destrutive weapons you would come to expect from the words. They are simply a Ion Cannon for the 
 Rebels, and a Hypervelocity Gun for the Imperials. Ion Cannon immediately elinminate the shield 
 of a single capital ship (the big ones, such as Star Destroyer) , allowing the Y-Wings or any other 
 crafts to damage it directly on the hull without first destroying the shield. The Impieral Hyperveclocity 
 Gun is an assault weapon based on the surface of the planet, aiding Imperial forces in space by 
 attacking larger Rebel ships. Both the Ion Canon and the Hyperveclocity Gun can be used unlimited 
 times during a space battle, but it's is required to recharge after firing a shot, so continuing 
 firing cannot be acheieved. 
  
  The "Superweapons are by no-means "uber", but they make nice aiding assets providing additional 
 firepower when the situation becomes too hot.
  
  EaW introduces a "Hardpoints" system on larger spaceships and space stations. Basically, the larger 
 space units have various health bars on each seperate sections. For instance the Imperial Star 
 Destroyers have two laser Batteries, a Hangar, a Shield Generator etc. By destroying the laser 
 battery, the ship loses its ability to fire laser blasts; with the obliteration of the shield generator, 
 it can no longer regenerate its shield. It requires gamers to make good tactical decisions as to 
 which sections have the priorty to be destroyed first according to the circumstances. Although 
 in the end by defeating all hardpoints on a spaceship or space station, it is completely destroyed.
 
  
  It's no SW if the faces and voices of Darth Vadar, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, etc, are missing. 
 In EaW they appear as either land or/and heroes heroes unit, overal more powerful than most other 
 normal units as you can come to expect. Each hero is equipped with one or two special abilities. 
 Some has Invulnerability, allowing immortality for a very short duaration of time, while some has 
 the Sesimic Charge (guess who has this abiliy) , annihilating a squadron of smaller fighters in 
 style with a cool sonic-boom.
  
  Outside of space battle on the galatic screen, smugglers and bounty hunters can be hired and perform 
 black coverts. Smugglers is placed in enemy controlled planets to steal credits (money) to claim 
 it your own. Bounty hunters, on the contrary, assasinate smugglers, and other minor heroes such 
 as fleet commander. However, the smugglers and bounty hunters are infunctional in actual combat, 
 and their purposes of stealing and assasinating are never direly needed. 
  
  The Space battle is, on most occasions, is balanced with the advantage/weakness aspects of the 
 units. And the addition of superweapons, hardpoint system and heroes units increases its tactical 
 value somewhat, making it in the least content as strategy required as it is fun to play.
  
  In comparison to space combat, the land battle is pale and appalling. Firstly the scale of 
 the land battle is decreased considerably to a small skirmish, with only up to 10 unit companies 
 available for each side, hurting the fun factor and intensity of combat badly. Unlike space battles, 
 beacons called reinforcement points are needed to be in possession to increase unit capacity in 
 a land battle.
  
  Secondly, the paper-rock-scissor unit mechanism system is no longer in existence back on land as 
 it is up in space. Most land units' power balance is blown out of proportion all over the galaxy, 
 especially the Rebel forces. 
  
  A company of Rebel artillery on land can almost oblierate any hostile forces with ease and wide 
 outside of enemy's retailating range. The Rebel infiltrators can pick out infantry units so fast 
 that creating any Imperial troops (Stormtrooper, Scout Troopers) when these insane Rebel snipers 
 are around seem practically pointless. The Rebel T4-B Tanks can virtually take on any Imperial 
 land forces can throw at them with its high health points, infantry crushing weight, rocket launchers 
 for taking out turrets, and double laser cannones poweful enough to go against an entire Imperial 
 armored division. Other Rebel land units such as the Plex soldiers, speeders, are designed to make 
 the supposingly Imperial's most powerful land unit, the AT-ATs, weep and cry as it is brought down 
 to its four lumbersome steel feets without ever reaching its intended destination.
  
  Natives, or indigenous forces are sometimes present in planets. However, most of the time they 
 are simply blaster-equipped humanoid units that are either politically against the Rebels, Empire, 
 or both. Unique and cool-looking indigenous units such as the Rancors appear too few and only at 
 specific planets. And disappointingly, naval units are completely absent, and the sole air unit 
 in land battle is the Rebel speeder. 
  
  Virtually, the Rebels can "own" any land battle with ease. The land units' balance in EaW is rigged, 
 period. Absurdly, it seems the Rebels are actually more technologically advanced than the Empire.
 
  
  The add-on of Weather Effects such as rainning and sandstorm on planets attempts to increase the 
 strategic gameplay of land battles, but its effect on the performance of the land units is minimal 
 and unsignificant. 
  
  Turrets can be built on build pads on a planet. Turrets are seperated into Anti-infantry, anti-vehicle, 
 anti-aircraft, healing, etc. While the healing turrets certinaly have some strategic value, the 
 assault turrets do not. Most of the time they are under-powered, low HP and with a very short attack 
 range. The anti-vehicle turrets is practically useless when faced against AT-AT or a more heavily 
 armored unit. More powerful turrets, the turbolaser turrets, also have too low health points, slow 
 firing rate, and its defensive significance is questionable when swarmed with mere infantry. 
 
  
  Nonetheless, the absolutely worst part of structures system in land battles is that locations of 
 build pads and strategic building structures are placed according to a pre-planned scheme by the 
 designers. In other words, players can choose what structures to be built on a planet, such as 
 barracks, factories, turbolaser turrets, shield generator, etc, but they have utterly no say as 
 to where these buildings would be located on the planet. 
  
  Occasionally, a turbolaser turret you ordered to be constructed on the planet can be built on a 
 point on the map with no strategic significance whatsoever, isolated and useless in the cause of 
 defending the base against invading forces; or power generator can be located miles away from any 
 turrent cover or base, seemingly asking to be destroyed by the enemies and resulting your energy 
 shield and turbolaser turrets to be infunctional. 
  
  Sometimes it questions whether the designers have any logic or strategic sense at all.
  
  Nonetheless, 
 fortunately, EaW has quite a fanbase with an admirable size, and modifications (mods) are constantly 
 being written by fans attempting to enhance the game or diminish its shortcomings. 
  
  Being a Lucasarts game, the production value and quality in EaW can be seen conspicuously. Graphically 
 speaking, EaW does not push the benchmark for the RTS game genre, but it still packs a lightsaber 
 of a punch. Audio-wise, it is again exactly what you would come to expect from a SW game. Every 
 now and then you would constantly be hearing the distinguished, famous and splendid orchestra score 
 from renowned conductor and producer John Williams and the London Symphony Orchestra. 
  
  Voice acting in the game is done superbly, most of the time the dialogues spoken by Han Solo, Vadar 
 and others are so authentic and true to the movies that you would think Harrison Ford, David Prowse 
 and James Earl Jones (Vadar was voiced by two different voice actors seperately in the episodes 
 4, 5 , 6) came to the actual reccroding studio and did the job, which of course they didn't.
  
  Although suggested by the name as Empire at War, it would be welcoming to have units from the 
 Clone Wars or other SW time settings. Frankly, the game's time setting of simply Episode 4 ,5 and 
 6 is too short, and the variety of both space and land units, too few. 
  
  However, again, this shortcoming is attempted to be fixed by fans, writting modifications. 
  
 
  EaW is a decent try of converting the SW universe into the RTS genre, but the developers aim high, 
 wanting to put in too many elements into the game although most of which are poorly designed. Sure 
 the space battles are fun, but it was possibly the only thing that was done above-average and well 
 in the game. Strip down EaW's Star Wars cream coating and music, replace its SW units with ordinary 
 infantry units, spaceships, tanks, and EaW is no more than your everyday-average RTS with nothing 
 truly special or remarkable to stand out from the pack.
  
  EaW isn't a terribly deep and highly strategic RTS game, but again, it was never meant to be one. 
 EaW is intended for more casual gamers/SW fans wanting some RTS action, but would turn away hardcore 
 RTS fans seeking depth and decisive strategies in a SW RTS game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satans_wizard
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Excelente juego de estrategia! Acostumbrado a que todo lo que sea Star Wars no sea estrategico 
 esto me gust mucho, la conquista galactica est muy buena y la lucha en terreno esta buena, aunque 
 deberan haberle puesto un poco mas de cosas, un poco mas de control sobre todo y la posibilidad 
 de desarrollarse mas. 
  Pero en general me gusto mucho el juego, aun lo estoy jugando y de a poco le encuentro nuevas cosas 
 que me hacen divertir y seguir pensando lo mismo que desde el primer momento, que es excelente.
 
  Jueguenlo, no se van a arrepentir y si es multiplayer mejor!
  Saludos!!!!!
  
  Satan's Wizard desde Argentina para ustedes.. ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegeminisking
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  It really take my love for RTS's but everything Starwar in general to pull me back to this one 
 again and again... the different ways to go helps too, but still is the same darn levels over and 
 over. But if your in to becoming a inter-galactic god and wreak havoc on the universe then join 
 me, its well worth it.
  The character devlopment is on point and i love the ways of the force, but as in LOTR and there 
 now 2nd attempt, I believe this is a prelude to some 
  thing wonderful. I just hope is with all the greats, the listen to the feed back of there most 
 devoted fans, I mean ES IV did and well... anyone. Perfect comes to mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiejmonster
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Although I like the space gameplay, the battles on the planets suck. There is nothing spectacular 
 about 10 tanks attacking eachother with some worthless infantry running away. I would rather play 
 the origninal command and conquer when attacking the planets than the pathetic and boring 5 pop 
 cap stupidity. If they were going for realism, they sorely missed. I was expecting massive battles, 
 and all i got was a decent space engine with an unplayable land disaster. 
  The space battles were actually nice and the graphics were sweet, but besides from that, I'll just 
 get back to playing BFME II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empires At War  Just an other plain real time strategies.
  
  Released on February 15th of this year, Lucas arts finally released a strategy game for its forever 
 popular Star Wars series. Star Wars fans finally have a strategy game worthy of the license. 
 Well thats what some people would have you think. This game is nothing to get all excited about. 
 
  
  The game, although taking a big amount of HDD space, is actually not very resource hungry. The 
 minimum specs require a 1 GHz speed CPU and about 256 MB of RAM. Dont worry about any graphic 
 requirements cause this game only needs a 32 MB Video card. The only spec that I didnt like is 
 the hard drive space required to install this game, and that would be a 2.5 GB of hard drive space. 
 Over all, the game does not require any fancy hardware, just a lot of room.
  
  Now here is the part of my article that Star Wars fans might not like me for. Now before I go any 
 farther Id like to point out that I like Star Wars like the next guy and I own every movie. But 
 seriously guys, this game SUCKS. Let me explain.
  
  Have you ever played C&C? What about Star Trek Armada? If you have, then you will know what Im 
 saying. Besides the cut scene and the distribution of your forces between different planets, this 
 game is almost an exact cross between both games. OK, not exactly, its more like a game of chess, 
 and C&C Red Alert 2, and Star Trek Armada 2. There, I just explained to all the RTS players out 
 there what Star Wars: Empires At War is. 
  
  The good parts of this game are you get to be the empire or the rebels and kick each others butts. 
 You do get to control the death star or command the ever popular characters but besides that and 
 the cut scene, this game really does not have that much greater to offer. The learning curve for 
 this game is about 2 hours. But once you get the hang of the game, it gets pretty simple.
  
  This game, although like I said, its a mix between a game of chess, C&C and Armada. Its not 
 a bad concept but it really lacks in originality. I really think that Lucas art being the companies 
 that they are, could have done better and have been a bit more creative. The game graphics are 
 nothing to cry about ether. Even if this game seams to be making a big hit around several gaming 
 sites, Im still not impressed. If you had asked me about 6 months ago, I would have said hells 
 yes but now that I have played it  well I have said enough.
  
  If youre a heavy Star Wars fan, this game is perfect for you and you will be nothing but amazed. 
 You could even have the time of your life playing this game. How ever if youre a BIG RTS player 
 looking for something new, this game is not for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  before i speak about the game i have a confession to make, through my life time i could care less 
 about Star wars but i always wondered why such story with so many ugly creature be so pleasing. 
 well that all ended when i saw Revenge of the Sith, yes i totaly agree the movie was such a horrible 
 thing but i indeed got excited to learn more about the story, so i done nothing . 
  
  later i had a copy of Star Wars: republic commando which was a very well made FPS which i enjoyed 
 playing along the 7 hours of reptitive levels it had but that drift us from the game we are discussing 
 today.
  
  Empire at War is such a beautiful game, starting with the amazing main menu that sets you in the 
 Star Fighter Ship thing's Pit, with some pretty effect coming and going away. 
  
  to start your game life in the game your left with many options, you can start the campaign, play 
 a dominiation thing where you play in some solar system where you want to acquire all planets around, 
 i guess that the purpose of it, i havent had the chance to try it yet but i believe it will be 
 something pretty cool.
  
  and you got the Skirmish type of game, you start with a base and you start building galactic armies 
 to conquer whoever is competing against you or whatever. 
  
  Gameplay, as you must have read about the game, you play in both Space and On land in several planets, 
 the point here is to set your armies with the most effective units, infantery units can't fight 
 with spaceships some how.
  
  you get to choose whether to play the empire conquest or play as the rebellion to repel the emperors 
 tyrants. i am sure someday i will understand why Darth Vader is that powerful and so invinceble.
 
  
  the game is brilliantly made to never bore you, if you get bored of space battles you can always 
 choose to auto-solve battles but make sure you always have an advantage so you wont just lose your 
 entier fleet.
  
  the games AI, Smartness can always outrun you so you must always be check whats going on around 
 your massive empire, or you might suddenly find yourself in the middle of a lose-lose battle with 
 a army that consists of so many units that the computer can't correctly count.
  
  i believe i been talking for long so i will make the next few lines as short as possible, Voice 
 acting is Terrific, Battle Control is better than Battle for Middle Earth. i mean way better it 
 just so easy, no need to go millions of building to upgrade or train more units. 
  
  i recommend this game for anyone, whether you like strategy games or you just play them when you 
 can't get a better game at the moment or you just another Star Wars phreak. its worth every penny 
 it costs.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphc
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire At War is chock full of strategy, micromanagement, and lost of Star Wars type 
 explosions. This combination would be every strategy gamer's paradise, but the story mode is a 
 little lackluster along with the ground battles.
  
  Gameplay: AWESOME! Absolutely fantastic multi-tiered strategy involved. It takes alot of practice 
 and skill to get strategy like this right. The space battles are cool, and so are the ground battles, 
 but that isn't to say they are perfect. The logistics behind the ground battles is a little faulty. 
 You can build upgrades, but only in a battle, not outside, but they stay for the next battle. This 
 is a situation in both the space and land battles. It gets even more confusing when a secondary 
 objective in a battle is to destroy all of the allies to the enemy (Human, ewoks, whatever) and 
 they come back every time after you've destroyed them in the next battle. Frustrating, yes? I personally 
 think simulating battles, especially on ground, is the way to go to avoid the repetition and logistics 
 issues of the battles (unless you've got TONS of units, then a massive armada/army battle can be 
 quite amusing, or if something like the Death Star, Mon Mothuma, or Palpatine is at stake.) Stay 
 away from the story modes. They're dumb and not much fun, really.
  
  Graphics: Explosions. Lots of explosions. SO COOL. This game is AMAZING looking. Not a MASSIVE 
 amount of detail on the characters, but still, AWESOME!!!
  
  Sound: It's Star Wars, enough said.
  
  Value: You'll probably get the most value out of going 
 online and playing the campaign against others. The computer's a little predictable and stupid.
 
  
  Tilt/Overall: It's a great game, with the multi-tiered strategy and all, and it definitely feels 
 like a Star Wars game. I really enjoy it, but the individual battles, especially the logistics 
 in them, could use some refining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harmonious-g
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for the release of this game for a while after getting a little taste of the demo, the 
 concept is well placed, and the campaigns r fun, do they tend to get boring real quick. but the fact 
 that the story is the classic starwars makes it addictive
  
  The space battles r defenetly worth a while do the Ai doesnt come for u with big ships unless u 
 play hard galactic conquest. And the empire is not quite as strong as the rebellion. the resource 
 gathering is pretty easy wich makes the gameplay nice and fast, specially after u conquer a couple 
 of asteroids the money really starts pumping. I was also impressed by the idea of having a reinforment 
 windon instead of just spawning units out .
  The land battle, well theres not much to build. premade base with premade units, hmmmm.
  
  Population 
 limit 25 in space and 30 on land, i mean that a little poor!!!
  
  Its a game that must be played with mods, cause the original has a lot of unpleasent bugs. And with 
 the mods u have more units and some of the bugs r solved. Without forgetting a nice unitlimit add 
 on!!!
  
  The maps or allright but theres really not that many maps for space battle and theyre tiny, i came 
 to think also that the maps r still 2d even if the battles r in space, perhaps they could of taken 
 in consideretion the maps development of homeworld2, nice and 3d. ok its a different style but i 
 thought that having the galaxy in a 3d map would of given it that one touch.
  
  It is very fun to play specially galactic conquest, and its good on multiplayer campain, plus addicting 
 due to great story placement!!! but it needs an expansion please!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Aside from being innovative and the best starwars strategy game to date, there are few other short 
 answers you could use to discribe this game... aside from maybe 'too short' or 'misleading', or 
 my personal favorite 'disapointing'/
  
  So why did I still give it an 8.4?
  
  Because it's damn well addiciting, even without any mods! While I completed the campagins in less 
 than two weeks (and I'm not a hardcore gamer, I only play maybe 6 hours a week) the galactic mode 
 really is a lot of fun!
  
  Some things I still havn't figured out tho... like how do you access Mara Jade or Kyle Kartan? 
 (misleading)
  
  The graphics are pretty decent, and run on my outdated machine (s) , and the sounds are all starwars, 
 which definatly adds to the feel! 
  
  However... I find it hard for someone to classify this as an RTS. It's got some of the elements 
 of an RTS game, but dosn't feel like one throgh and through. Base construction is heavily disapointing 
 and more of a chore than strategy fun. Land battles are interesting and the better part of the 
 game as space missions can get very repetitive very quickly!
  
  My biggest gripe is the fact I had to find some cracks to get my RETAIL copy to work on my machine! 
 'Please insert the original cd' my computers say... when I open my CD drive I'm surprised to see 
 the original disk sitting there in all of its brand new glory! It took me almost two months to 
 finally get this effin game to work! I bought it on release day, and got it working once the game 
 was played and passed by most! Very frustrating that I would have to download a crack/copy version 
 of the game to play it! 
  
  CD/copy protection = preventing me from playing games. Even without things like Dameon installed! 
 Clean install, with just hardware drivers and SW: EAW installed... and I still got that damn error! 
 This is an ongoing problem with 90% of the retail games I have purchased in the last few months... 
 dibs out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walostrife
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Are you the tipe of person who loves the Star Wars films?
  Havent you always dreamed of taking part in an all-galaxy battle against the evil forces of the 
 universe?
  
  If you feel identified with the two sentences above, then theres a great chance that youll love 
 Star Wars: Empire at War.
  
  True, there is a campaign and squirmish mode, but where this game truly shines is its excellent 
 gallactic conquest mode which inmerses you in the job of being either the rebel or empire commander.
 
  With all the well known and loved units as AT-AT and X-wing, this game brings you memories of 
 some of the best movies ever made.
  
  If you love star wars, buy this game
  if you love rtss, buy this game
  if you hate rtss and star wars, think about it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok... I thought I'd let this game chill out a little before I start writing a review... but, I 
 don't it will so I'm going to wirte it anyway. I got this game since the launch... and sometimes 
 I wish I didn't because since I got it I haven't been able to get my *** off the chair... every 
 time coming back to make a even bigger invasion of Star Destroyers, or making a platoon of X-Wings 
 to fight off the Empire. This game is close to perfect of course there are some things that should 
 off be done... like a better land based battles C&C style where u can actualy build the base the 
 way you want it. Anyway, if you are a fan of the Star Wars movies i'm shure you will enjoy this 
 to the max. And even if you are not Star Wars fan it's worth the try. The graphics are great very 
 detailed for a strategy game which I like a lot, the soundtrack is great... hold, hold on... why 
 do I keep on blabing on how good this game really is... instead... take it play it... and keep 
 it while you are at it. !WARNING! - This game can consume you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantante80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has given me hours of fun but sad to say that doesn't have the staying power of a Rise 
 of Nations. 
  The main pluses for me in this game compared to other RTS's are first, that I'm a big fan of the 
 movies and really enjoyed recreating some of the more visible battles. One problem here is that 
 the unit limit provided by the game is a little small to get the epic feel that the movies portrayed. 
 Another great feature that ties in with the movies well is the option to view the action of the 
 battles through a movie-like camera sequence. A great way to improve this feature would be to be 
 able to record particularly difficult battles in which you're spending too much time micro-managing 
 hoping to not be wiped out and not watching your Mon Calamari Cruiser tear through the empire's 
 capital ships. I also enjoy the space reinforcment system. It's alot of fun to plant a corvette 
 class ship right in the middle of your opponents fighters and bomers. I also really enjoyed the 
 hero features and think these can be enhanced. Try having Obi-Wan fight vader in a land battle 
 and it is alot of fun. The unique nature of the characters mad for fun options during battles, 
 but make them cost money in the campaigns as well as the individual scenarios. Also allowing the 
 use of more heroes during the campaigns would help. I'm also a really big fan of John Williams' 
 soundtrack in all six movies and this game plays some very choice selections.
  The main problem is that there isn't quite enough variety in the unit choices to give the battles 
 a more varied feel. Each battle ends up feeling much the same with the one exception being some 
 land maps that change things up alot. Unlike Warcraft II, Rise of Nations, or Rome: Total War, 
 I don't think that I'll be reinstalling this one after a year or two.
  Overall a worthwhile game especially if you like the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgranger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  The best Star Wars game on PC yet! Where else are you going to get such control over the Star Wars 
 universe? I've been waiting for a game like this from LucasArts for years. I think this game is 
 addictive and interesting, sorry to disagree with you people who think it's boring. Turn up the 
 difficulty and download some mods. That should keep you busy for a little while. Granted there 
 could be a few improvements, but that's why you make sequels. And we all know that any LucasArts 
 sequel is amazing. The cinematic mode and hero game play definitely set a high bar for next-gen 
 gaming to reach. Hats off to LucasArts and Petroglyph. Nice job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Yes I see why you gave this game a low score... because it gets boring and it seems like your doing 
 the same thing over and over. What else were you expecting??? I know that this game is repetitive 
 but who cares!! It's still a fun game to play. Where else do you get the chance to command your 
 favorite Star Wars characters in head to head combat with each other? So stop crying and get out 
 of your high chair and give this game a chance. And if you still don't like, then fine, but you 
 don't have to write a trashy review about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  5 years, 5 years in which I've had to turn away from Star Wars due to the quality of the last three 
 movies. And now, along comes a game that resurrected the godlyness of the first 3 Star Wars movies, 
 not to mention that it's an RTS game, the first of the star wars RTS, and hopefully a sign of more 
 to come.
  
  The graphics: They're ok, I've seen much better in Star Wars games, and also a lot of RTS games. 
 but they surpass the graphics of about 60% of the games I've played.
  
  The gameplay: brilliant, and it never hurts to have Obi-wan Kenobi listening to your orders. However, 
 as far as RTS games go, it's hard to get any better, so this game's nothing new to RTS on the ground 
 battles, whereas the space battles are revolutionary in that there is no short range vehicle. In 
 most games, you get some kinda craft for ship battles, which are similar to space battles, that 
 have some kind of explosive on them. In age of empires it was the demolition ships of AOE2, in 
 battle for middle earth, the second rendition contained the Elven Storm Ships, which rammed and 
 destroyed whatever enemy they touched, however, EAW has nothing of the sort, which limits tactics, 
 but also continues the true Star Wars tradition: lasers, lasers, and more lasers.
  
  The storyline: Never before has the period between episodes 3 and 4 been told so well. There's 
 all new stuff here. From the original defense of Alderaan to the destruction of the tantive IV 
 to the raid over coruscant during the original attempt to destroy the death star to the testing 
 of the AT-AT to the invasion of Jabiim, you'll love this story through and through.
  
  In short, this is Star Wars on caffeine, because that's what you'll need at work the day after 
 playing this all night.
  
  -Zim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars, the multi-billion dollar franchise created by George Lucas, keeps on growing and growing, 
 even though it's cinematic adventure ended last year with Revenge of the Sith.
  Even though there are no other movies in sight, LucasArts continues to bring us games from the 
 mega-popular franchise. From first person shooters like Battlefront to quirky action adventures 
 like LEGO Star Wars, they keep on releasing surprisingly good and very popular games.
  
  Their latest offering comes in another form: real-time strategy. Empire at War, from developer 
 Petroglyph, gives you the unique chance to command armies of men and ships, all from the comfort 
 of your chair.
  After the other somewhat disappointing entries in the RTS category of games by LucasArts (Force 
 Commander or Galactic Battlegrounds anyone?) , this game is a refreshing and satisfying entry into 
 the genre.
  
  In Empire at War, you can take control of either the Rebellion or the Empire as you battle your 
 way through the immense Star Wars galaxy. Naturally, each side has their own strengths and weaknesses, 
 but also different styles of gameplay.
  The Empire are very wealthy and can gather credits up faster, so they can build huge armies in 
 no time. I would recommend using them upon your first play through, since they are a little bit 
 easier to handle.
  The Rebellion, on the other hand, are poor and will need to hire spies to steal technology from 
 the Empire. The good thing about the Rebels is that they can send tiny reconnaissance units on 
 a planet, even though it is defended by a space fleet or space station.
  I have found that the Rebellion is somewhat harder to play with, especially in Story Mode, since 
 their numbers are lower and they are somewhat weaker than the Empire.
  
  The main thing to remember in Empire at War is that the more planets you control (space and land) , 
 the more resources you will have available to you to build your army. Some planets offer special 
 bonuses, like paying less to build a certain type of infantry unit or spaceship, while others will 
 help you earn credits faster.
  The Galactic Map is composed of a different number of planets, depending on which type of game 
 you are playing. They can range from a dozen to a maximum of 47.
  To control a planet, you must engage in a space battle and a land battle. Sometimes, you won't 
 have to go through one or the other though, which makes it easier to take control of said planet.
 
  Once you control the space and land, you can build mining facilities, barracks, training facilites 
 (for minor hero characters like officers) and some defensive measures, like an Ion Cannon.
  
  The single player aspect consists of different modes of gameplay in Empire at War.
  The Story 
 Mode lets you select the Empire or the Rebellion to play through a campaign set between Episodes 
 III and IV. You will be tasked with different objectives to accomplish on either side. You also 
 have 3 different difficulty levels (Easy, Medium or Hard) to choose from. I've had a complete play 
 through with the Empire and the story is very good, although somewhat short. I've also played through 
 half of the Rebellion story which is a little bit harder but still very good.
  The Galactic Conquest Mode is a mode in which you take control of all the planets available, using, 
 once again, the Empire or Rebellion. It's pretty much the same gameplay as in Story Mode, without 
 the story.
  The Skirmish Mode is an all out fight, with no real objectives. You can fight on land or in space. 
 This mode is the one used in multiplayer matches.
  
  As in any other RTS, you will have Hero characters to help you out. The Empire has Darth Vader, 
 the Emperor, Boba Fett and Mara Jade, amongst others. The Rebellion has General Antilles, C-3PO 
 & R2-D2, Ackbar and others.
  Each of them possess different abilities: Vader can use the Force to crush infantry units and wipe 
 out a large group of Rebels at once; Threepio & Artoo can hack into computers and turn turrets 
 against the Empire, amongst other things.
  
  If you know a little about RTS games, you won't be lost with Empire at War, although I recommend 
 going through the tutorials to get a firm grasp of the gameplay, especially if you are a beginner 
 or novice at this type of game. The gameplay is like any other games of this type and is fairly 
 easy to grasp.
  The game can become a little redundant and repetitive after a while, but it is still great fun. 
 The stories are excellent and the voice acting is fairly good, even though none of the original 
 cast from the Star Wars movies makes an appearance here.
  The space battles are the highlight of this game, as they can become very exciting, with all those 
 big Star Destroyers or Mon Calamari cruisers and those little X-Wings or TIE Fighters swirling 
 around them.
  The land battles are also exciting, but not as much as their space counterparts. I have also found 
 that the artificial intelligence here is rather sketchy, as some units just refuse to perform certain 
 actions or stay there and go around in circles.
  
  I have discovered a very annoying glitch in the game: I was playing as the Empire and was on my 
 3rd mission, which sends Vader to Geonosis to take control of the planet... but Vader was nowhere 
 to be found! His masked face was absent from the top right corner (where Heros are displayed) and 
 he wasn't on any planet. I then went online to the LucasArts website to see if there was something 
 logged about this issue, and there was... but the solution is what bugged me. "We are aware of 
 this problem and are working on a patch, in the meantime, reload a saved game in which your Hero 
 was still alive and continue from there". Problem is I only had one saved game and Vader wasn't 
 in it! I had to restart from the beginning. This lowered my final appreciation of the game.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing. The characters look like their real life counterparts down 
 to a fault. The ships and craft all look very good. The only annoying thing is the Cinematic Camera, 
 which sometimes shows you a part of the battle where nothing is going on... but aside from that, 
 the game looks awesome.
  The sound is like everything you'd expect from a Star Wars game of this magnitude. Everything sounds 
 Star Wars, if that makes sense at all. The music can become a bit repetitive, but you never grow 
 tired of hearing John Williams' masterpieces. The music changes in the height of combat also, which 
 is a nice little touch.
  
  Although the game has it's share of little bugs and can get repetitive, it is still one of the 
 best Star Wars games ever. If you are an avid Star Wars fan and have always dreamed of blowing 
 up a planet with the Death Star, now's your chance to do it. Empire at War delivers a solid gameplay 
 experience and will appeal to casual fans as well as hardcore ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWRC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  So overall I liked the game and I still enjoy playing... okay now for the bad news although being 
 a dedicated fan I did notice that the UI is less than intelligent. The problem is that if the UI 
 wins a space battle but can't take the planet they just sit there. You can have tons of undefended 
 planets past the one they are sitting on but they won't go after it. Although that was kinda nice 
 when learning the game it is now a source of disappointment. All you have to do is build up your 
 border worlds and have mines on all the others and rake in tons of money. Also the UI in some of 
 the battles just makes me sad. I can land on a planet and use the radar pings to scout out bombing 
 run paths without even leaving the drop point. Which is sad because if the UI would just try they 
 could probably just run me over when I land. Anyway... I still enjoy the game but this is certainly 
 better suited to play against people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkJedi1979
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Great Graphics and great sound (sounds exactly like the movies) . The units are very cool. Its 
 sad that you cant build structures like barracks in the ground missions, or build units directly, 
 when you want. Its all about strategy. You must anticipate what youre gonna need!
  I think the greatest flaw in the game is that the maps are always the same. Then if you had played 
 on that map before and you are starting a new battle (same planet) , the map is the exactly the 
 same! You know were the enemies are, the build pads (for turrets building) , structures of enemies, 
 terrain. It affects greatly the gameplay.
  Still, its one of the best Star Wars game ever. A lot of strategy. The heroes make the difference. 
 It lacks just a little, almost there! And brings fresh air to the strategy genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty this game is awesome. while the ground troops graphics are a bit on the neglected 
 side. it more then makes up for it in mechanized units. ground battles and of course in space. 
 honestly space is the best place to play in this game. from commanding squadrons of fighters to 
 a fleet of capital ships. it leaves you with many open options throughout the fight. And it doesnt 
 have too many control problems. ultimately i dont like how units hyper into the warzone, i would 
 kinda like to watch them be build by the shipyard. but i can live with it. It is often convienent 
 to hyper in capital ships if you find yourself in a tight fix. ultimately i would say the lack 
 of turn based workings on the galactic interface causes many problems and much confusion. due to 
 the constant moving of units when you dont even know it. but i do like how credit management is 
 so simple makes life easier so theres not a whole lot of micro managing. and ships are easy to 
 build too. although constantly updating all planets to crank out the same type of ships soon turns 
 out to be financally straining on your economy in the game. i often found myself placing as many 
 mine facilities as i could afford on rich planets just to keep my income steady. which didnt work 
 too much as i still found myself waiting several game days just to build an Imperial Star Destroyer. 
 in the end though i would say this game is well worth its price, well worth the wait and it will 
 more then pay for itself in a good storyline and great online playing. which is if you want a truely 
 fun time of it. you have to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delro911
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  the game is sour, it isnt revolutionary at all, i dont get it why this game gets high reviews, 
 why? it is just totally hyped, everyone was blinded by the premonition that all of the new star 
 wars games are cool, its not true! the gameplay is repetitive i tell you! only the gfx and sfx 
 is good since it is star wars. civilizations 4 and even age of empires 3 is better, even age of 
 empires 3 (another repetitive "the one with the bigger guns wins" type of game) . it doesnt force 
 you to think, it wants you to create this giant awesome force that decimates everything, go play 
 battlefront 2 or rise of nations instead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucardsilvryn
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Ok a game like this i have been waiting to come out for a long time. And just like the star trek 
 games i was saidly disapointed. one the graphic requirements are too hi for game like this. Granted 
 that you have space battles and land battles but if you ever played Home World you would know the 
 graiphic an that game are just as good as Epries at war but confusing.
  
  Lucas arts should have put more thought into the game as well. missing units like the b-wing and 
 tie intercepters are just to name afew. The game is Ok don't get me wrong i just think that the 
 graphics need to be tone down not every one has a seprate graphics card, now adays most cards are 
 intrgraded into the mother board. 
  
  I have the game and it paind me to spend the 50 buck just to find out the game runs slow or decides 
 on its own when to work... the teck guy for lucas arts said and i quote "You just need a better 
 card though what you have is good you need better to run the game right." so now i need to spend 
 100 buck or more to get my Pc to run the game and maybe an new labtop to run it too.
  
  but don't take my work for it. its just me in a bad mood and i needed to flame this game.
  
 
  alucard prince of darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorgen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The graphics are good. The campaigns are fun and the multiplayer is excellent. 
 THIS IS THE BEST STAR WARS GAME EVER.
  I pity the fool who doesn't love this game. The game has many excellent environments. The game 
 is worth the money that I spent for it. The game is the best game in its genre. Truly captivating!! 
 A great addition to any fans collection whether a long time fan or a new fan. I repeat THIS IS 
 THE BEST STAR WARS GAME EVER. This game doesnt really have any flaws. The patches that have come 
 out have fixed all the things that needed work and that is a good job on the developers part. An 
 all around great buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foshjedi2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Hey Guys.
  
  Many of you will know me from EVERYWHERE in the EAW Community. I am dissapointed that so many people 
 seem to think that this is a bad game.
  
  I admit that there were bugs in the game. That there were loads of missing things. But Come on 
 Guys. Its a great game. It integrates strategy into many different routes. No longer is it just 
 about SPAM tactics of ISDs or Mon Cals that could be seen in previous RTS Star Wars games. There 
 are many tactics. Building Corvettes in MP to defeat enemy fighters while you upgrade to build 
 the Neb. B or Acclamator. 
  
  The Main Problem with this game is that we had delusions of Grandeur that this would be THE Star 
 Wars game With the Venator, Super Star Destroyer and all the Eye Candy Graphics that we see in 
 recent games. GUESS What? The Game has all this!! Not the units but the Basic Bones...
  
  There are hidden units and buildings that are being added back in. In the next few weeks we should 
 have the mod tools and then Larger Mods will come. Mods INCLUDING Diplomacy and extra features... For 
 all we know in some of the Scripts are detailed plans for the initial game setup. Maybe even in 
 the demo is the original Structure of the game.
  
  Patience is the key, Although I'd love to see the SSD surrounded by ISDs and TIE Interceptors that 
 will eventually come. For now the force is silent about this....
  
  Its Fun. Using Luke to destroy Tartans thus protecting the rest of the fighters...
  
  I sense 
 a Disturbance in the force... As if a Million Noobs all cried out and perished..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  What rubbish, the graphics are horrible, the ground based battles are the worst I've seen in an 
 RTS and the space battles, although interesting at first are extreamly repetitive. No tactics required.
 
  
  I've seen lots of games trading off a film name but this takes the p***, they could have released 
 this game 4 years ago and it still would of been a piece of junk! The game engine looks like something 
 some interns hacked together.
  
  I find it hard to express how disappointing this game is, if it wasn't for the star wars license 
 it probably wouldn't of even got a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Totals: 7.75/10
  music : WoW 10/10 very good music
  graphics : ok 7/10 good but nothing new or impressive
  game Play : nop 5/10 very average
  originality 
 : yep 9/10 nice in respect to the movie
  
  I think one should separate the star-wars component from the RTS component so the judgement could 
 be neutral, accurate and influence free.
  I wouldn't say that i was not satisfied, the game looks great, feels great, the music is impressive 
 (of course it is a star wars after all) , but unfortunately in many occasions while i was playing, 
 it let me hope... (for better)
  
  As a Star-Wars fan, i think this game involves most of the important aspects of the movie sequel, 
 the space graphics are very good, and the feature of planetary conquest and fleet management is 
 very funny, it is giving a little push to the play time and is very interesting against a human 
 player (s) . But the variety of units both of the empire and the rebellion are very limited and 
 the upgrades are ridiculous.
  
  Now, as an RTS game player, i found the limitations in the game very offensive. I prefer to have 
 the opportunity to build wherever i feel like and not keep all my assets in one place that the 
 enemy already knows, And for the landing points, maybe its a good idea in terms of determining 
 who is the winner or for planetary conquest mode but in a skirmish, it just removes most of the 
 surprise factor, As i said before, the tech and unit upgrades are senseless, the space battles 
 lack the 3d movement. and the ground is less detailed then all what one could find in most of the 
 good games on the market.
  
  Little Irony:
  The maps, well, comparing in what i had in mind before playing the game, they are TINY, and you 
 know guys, it is ironic sometimes, a few years ago everybody was trying to tweak their 64 or 128 
 MB main memory to run bigger maps on age of empires 1, but now that we all have 512MB worth of 
 DDR3 just in our Graphical Card, the developers are making those maps as tiny as ever.
  
  Buy It? : well i bought it because I'm a hard core star wars Fan. Period, it kept me busy for a 
 few days.
  
  Regrets : No Regrets.
  
  keep Playing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumberjack8302
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is all that I had hoped it would be and nothing more. It was great to have a modern gaming 
 era STAR WARS RTS, but it did not raise the bar for RTS's at all. The biggest beef I have with 
 the game is that the balancing is way out of whack. In space the Rebel's Mon Calamari Cruiser is 
 clearly Superior to the Imperial Star Destroyer, and that simply is not the case. Don't get me 
 wrong I love this game I've played through both story campaigns and had a blast with those. So, 
 I'd say that if you're a STAR WARS fan I'd recommend this game, and if not I'd say that you won't 
 be too impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7/10
  The layout, background, and galaxy graphics are all superb. By layout, I mean the control panel, 
 the buttons, and the holo-images of the people you talk to. By galaxy, and background, I refer 
 to the background textures of the land missions and the stars or debris in the space backgrounds. 
 As well, the space units are superbly textured, with cool looking appendages that make this a true 
 star wars battleground. However, the land units are lacking in colour, detail, and depth. In other 
 words, the land units don't stand out or even look very real, especially for the tinier units such 
 as the stormtrooper or plex troopers. If this game had come out 2 years ago, then the graphics 
 would be quite stunning, but as it is, with the other games that have appeared on the market, SWEAW 
 just doesn't cut it. The graphics just doesn't make you excited to play the game. A good indicator 
 for the graphics in SWEAW is that it is comparable to the graphics in Age of Empires 2 mixed with 
 some of the elements in Star Craft: Brood War.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  With the plethora of soundtracks at Lucasarts' hand, it isn't surprising that the background music 
 earns a perfect score. As well, since there aren't any competing games with the same sound effects 
 (lightsaber AOE anyone?) , SWEAW's sfx are unique and can't be criticized much. All the sounds are 
 almost identical to the ones heard in either the movies or some other form of Star Wars game such 
 as Battlefront 2 or Knights of the Old Republic 2. If you liked the Vader theme from Episode III 
 and IV, then prepare to hear a lot more of it; the game begins with the vader theme everytime.
 
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Maybe I'm just too used to more complex RTS or SWEAW is aimed at ages 5 and above, but I have to 
 really consider why there's only 15 space and around another 10 land units in total in the entire 
 game. 
  And the upgrades are simply bland. Upgrades such as "Level 2 land unit armor" just doesn't interest 
 me. Whereas, in other RTS such as Star Craft: Brood War, there's unique upgrades to every unit, 
 such as the spawn broodling for the queen which makes upgrading your units much more tactical. 
 Now in SWEAW, you don't even need to plan which unit you're going to use as your army since 1 or 
 2 upgrades completely upgrades your fleet already.
  Another pitfall that SWEAW took was to have almost no statistics for the units. So an X-Wing squadron 
 would cost 300 creds, but how does it compare with an A-Wing squadron? In the game, it says the 
 A-Wing squadron could evade attacks better, but by how much? All these questions are left unanswered 
 in the game and is left for you to experiment yourself. 
  Much of the game is too limited in ways to victory. In most cases, you have to fight against armies 
 which are auto-spawned. Since these armies never run out of reinforcements (but you sure will) , 
 the gameplay in SWEAW is basically rush, rush, and rush for all you're worth and hope you destroy 
 the spawning base before you run out of steam. Now I don't see much "strategy" in this, and most 
 battles are going to be like this format, especially in Galactic Conquest, which already involves 
 the most strategy. As well, because the AI autospawns and you don't, the battles are quite unfair, 
 especially when you're losing reinforcements in the late game.
  The one ray of sunlight in this game is the appearance of heroes. Just like in Battlefront 2, you 
 get Obi-Wan, Vader, Han-Solo, and the Emperor, but in addition, you get space heroes which were 
 never seen before. These include Red Squadron, Sundered Heart, and Admiral Ackbar, who commands 
 a huge Mon-Cal cruiser called the Home One. This makes for more interesting strategic planning, 
 as one hero unit could take out 5 - 10 normal units on average.
  One final straw is the population limit. In battles, you're limited to how many units you're allowed 
 by the number of control points you control. This all sounds logical and fun, until you take into 
 account these 2 stats: there's usually only 2-3 control points in a map, and each control point 
 only gives you an additional 3-5 units. Now how do you like fighting a "GALACTIC" battle with 5 
 units?
  
  Advice: 
  Don't buy this game unless:
  1) You're a hardcore Star Wars fan who likes to see little stick figures of jedi and stormtroopers 
 duke it out.
  2) You haven't played other RTS (Real Time Strategy) games and would like to give it a try.
  
 3) The cost of it is less than $20 CDN.
  
  Pros: Unique Star Wars units, Music, Space graphics.
  Cons: Not enough variety, little strategy, 
 poor detail on land units, unfair battles, too many functions to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  To me, this game is basically the very first Star Wars game I have ever played, so I don't know 
 really know how good other series are. However, I can confidently say that this wouldn't be the 
 best one out of them. Especially if you are not a big Star Wars fan or if you are just thinking 
 about trying this game because you generally like games like Starcraft. It is somewhat different 
 from other real time war simulation games, but I can't confidently say "You will like it".
  This game mainly has two different mode you can play. One is Strategic mode, and another one is 
 Tactical mode. Strategic mode lets you occupy planets as you go through space and land tactical 
 battles against your enemy, and generally the goal is to eliminate your opponent. This mode is 
 based on pretty interesting and unique playing style. Everytime you start a new game, it is like 
 starting your own Star Wars story, which was the developers' main intension of the game. However, 
 because of the repetitive tasks you might get bored fairly easily. Also, the game time runs continuously, 
 so you better know what you are doing, and make decision pretty fast, because every second you 
 waste thinking about the buildings you want to build and units you want to produce, your computer 
 will be getting ready to attack one of your weakest bases.
  Tactical mode lets you play on either space or land based map with the general "you build, gather 
 and destroy the other" style of game play. Except for the fact that there is reinforcement limits 
 for each team. I was personally disappointed with this mode, especially with space tactical battle 
 because it is in fact, not really tactical at all. You will just have to overwhelm your opponent 
 with your units, and by doing that, you will probably win the game 9 out of 10 times.
  Graphic and sound were generally above average, and they usually look pretty good. There is a movie 
 mode you can activate during the tactical battle, and most of the time it looks pretty good. Just 
 make sure you don't activate the mode during the battle and stare at the scene too long because 
 while you are watching it you don't have control over your units.
  I personally gave 8 out of 10 for the value just because gameplay is the most important factor 
 for a good game to me, and this one did not meet my expectation. Like I said, it's not that bad, 
 but you might get bored fairly quickly. It's kind of the game that you might want to play occasionally, 
 but not something you would want to stay up many nights to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  With games based on large franchises like star wars, im always worried about how it will turn out. 
 Will it actually be playable. Will it draw you in for a long while with fun gameplay and an alluring 
 presentation. luckily enough, Empires at war is one of the best star wars games made, and even 
 strategy fans will find something to like about it.
  
  Gameplay: This is sort of a mixed bag. on the one hand, you have the awesome, very compelling and 
 overall genius space battles, with which the cinematic view works very well and the game excels. 
 But on the other hand, you have a basic land battle system that works just well enough to satisfy 
 you on a basic level. it works, but it doesnt neccesarily work well. a pretty good 8 here
  
  Graphics: you cannot deny the fact that this game looks very good on a high-end pc. while not 
 all people will see the best of this game, it does very well regardless of your pc in my opinion, 
 and its just a great looking game in every respect. A straight nine on this one
  
  Sound: Although you could call the sound effects run-of-the-mill in Star Wars, its just not really 
 possible to change much of the sound, which still works good enough to justify the repeated use, 
 not to mention the fact that it stays true to the source material. the music is fine, not the best 
 but certainly not the worst, and i give this game an 8 for effort
  
  Value: This game, depending on your tastes and tolerances, will last a long time. but even with 
 a good score, its still one of those games you have to think long and hard about, because it is 
 technically a fan service, and its not advisable obviously to buy a game from a series you might 
 hate. another 8 here
  
  tilt: its good enough to be enjoyable but flawed enough to stay off my routine play list. its a 
 great game in some areas, but i like my games Almost flawless before i actually play them all the 
 time. another 8 here
  
  Overall, this game will hold your attention for a good while depending on how your tastes or tolerances 
 work. if you cant stand the idea of a game with half its gameplay being too basic too hold up against 
 the other half, then dont get this game. if not, its worth the purchase, but try the demo first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooLa_M
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Star wars gaming universe consists of many games, but in it there are not too many strategies, 
 mostly Action and driving (tie fighter, x-wing) .
  But in this game they have nut shelled the whole story. Fight system is excellent, with reinforcements, 
 bombing runs, and good unit balance (rock, paper, scissors) . Battles in space are just epic and 
 with cinematic camera you are part of the action. Graphics is very detailed, gets the max out of 
 my X1600 Pro. (1280x1024 everything on max) . It can get little repetitive in the campaign, but 
 hey what is skirmish for :D. I would recommend this game to every SW fan or any RTS player... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin523
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The reason that this game is so good is because it is the result of all of the developers mistakes 
 so it has to be good. The graphics are awesome because they show every little detail on all of 
 the maps. Another reason is that the learning curve isn't that long. I also have to say that the 
 value is pretty good since you get all of these cool features within one game. I also think that 
 the difficulty isn't too hard or too easy. The sound in the game is also awesome because you can 
 hear all of the lasers and stuff going off all around you. I think that it has awesome gameplay 
 because they jammed objects you didn't even see in the movies into the game and the battles are 
 very fun. That is why I think that Star Wars Empire at War is such a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donmaci21
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  For the first few hours - great, but later all the weaknesses come out and the game become flat 
 and boring. The number of the units is slim, the story is boring (I don't like Battle for Middle 
 Earth I neither, because I know what will happen - please, have courage to create new story lines 
 in the Star Wars university!) . The research is very weird for me - playing with the rebels I don't 
 see why are there tech levels, because I get all the units one-by-one, stealing them. It has much 
 more sense with the Imperial, because when I reach a new level of tech, I get the ships, tank, 
 etc. The space battle can't bring new to me - it's like a stronghold siege, you just fire rockets 
 from a long distances and defend your "siege weapons". And it's totally in 2D! Why do a spaceship 
 have to move in 2D? Oh yes, the ground units... I get a little angered when my finally created 
 tank, which is worth a fortune, blown up by a single trooper equipped with rocket launcher. I liked 
 only the AT-AT's - they are really a monsters, with a lots of firepower and armor. This game could 
 not hold me for weeks, as I expected before the release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralDogah
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I mean don't get me wrong this was a great game. But i just found that it wasn't all i thought 
 it was going to be. Would it not be better if you were able to build troops out of your barracks 
 instead of having to have them fly in from space. I mean thats cool and all if you need reinforcements 
 but not cool if you just wanna build some troops and throw them at each other. The space battles 
 however were amazing. That was one thing about the game that they did right. Also considering this 
 is one of the few aspects of gaming thats hasn't been touched upon they did an incredible job. 
 It was fun fast paced and stayed true to the films. But the game got boring, with one two sides 
 theres only so much you can play. I guess there isn`t really any other sides you could put, but 
 still. I guess what i`m trying to say is that star wars strategies whill never come close to the 
 great strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After a long drought of decent strategy games, this one is not a classic but does some things right. 
 Too many games these days rely heavily on the Command&Conquer or Age of Empires formula which in 
 my opinion is neither original or strategically challenging.
  
  Recently I purchased 3 recommended titles (Dawn of War, Battle for Middle Earth and Empire at War) . 
 By coincidence all three are based on famous licenses with a wealth of source material. This in 
 theory should leave the developers with more time to spend on gameplay whilst trying to stay faithfull 
 to it's respective license. 
  
  Before you contradict this point please hear me out. I always look first at what games claim to 
 be and in the case of these three that is namely excellent revolutionary epic strategy games. I 
 can honestly say that only Dawn of War succeeds in this. Battle for Middle Earth fails completely 
 as a strategy game but makes up for it with it's presentation, Empire at War (EAW) is simply a 
 remake of the much older title Star Wars: Rebellion/Supremacy and tries to take too much on board 
 but not excel in any department - mainly Space tactical combat, land tactical combat and galaxy 
 conquest. 
  
  The Gameplay 
  
  I have mixed reactions on this one.
  The older game Rebellion (Supremacy in Europe) , was pretty much the same kind of principle - conquer 
 the galaxy by domination of planets resources and fleets. This game baisically adds to the mechanics 
 and features in that game and improved the space tactical battles as well as adding a new land 
 battle section. I have to say that the latter two features are clearly an improvement.
  Space battles in Rebellion were good but lacked the control or graphics that has been presented 
 in Empire at War and games like Imperiam Galactica II fared only a little better in this department. 
 I confess this for me was the strongest element in this game and the most enjoyable. It's a shame 
 that more complex instructions to flight wings and capital ships were not present and the developers 
 opted instead for all ships to simply attack a specific target or carry out a special action (like 
 seek out enemies or concentrate all fire at the expense od shields etc) . This is a minor gripe 
 however as the space battles presented enough of a challenge even in their simplicity. 
  Land battles are ok in this game and are passable. The terrain consists of specific reinforcement 
 points and enemy structures. Basically defeat the enemy and you conquer the planet. Again a little 
 more depth on this stage of the gameplay would have been appreciated - perhaps more intricate objectives, 
 unit features/upgrades and planet specific interactions with the local species by way of units 
 or assistance would have improved this section greatly.
  As for Galaxy planetarial conquest and development - this game falls short. It does NOT improve 
 on Rebellion but rather simplifies it and removes the balance with the enemy AI. Basically even 
 on hard difficulty all I did was just use 2 strong fleets to systematically eliminate enemy forces 
 in each system before they can react with counter strikes and leave 1 ship in orbit without invading 
 the planet to prevent orbital/ship building. With this tactic I found NO challenge strategically. 
 The game was completely unbalanced. 
  
  The Campaign mode allows you control special characters and use their extraordinary abilities to 
 sway the tide of battle or complete a mission effectively (I love the mission where you control 
 Palpatine to decimate the Bothans with his force lightening for betraying the Empire) . However 
 the campaign missions both for Empire and Rebels left me wanting. It was all over far too quickly 
 and lacked any real depth - shame.
  
  Graphics
  
  The games graphics vary. At last imperial AT-AT's that walk and move in a truer fashion to those 
 in the films ..... though still too small in scale in my opinion! 
  Space battles look nice as do land vehicles and terrain on the highest settings. This can tax a 
 mid to low end PC, I used a Pentium 4 with 1gb Ram and 128mb Video card and the framerate still 
 stuttered with the detail all on maximum!! Oh well. 
  I thought the hologram communications throughout the campaigns was a nice addition and added to 
 the gameeplay.
  
  Sounds
  
  Everything was good in this department. Voice acting was pretty good even though the original cast 
 was not used. Sound effects were acceptable and naturally the musical score in the background was 
 excellent as usual.
  
  Overall - Pros: Space battles were challenging and one of the better ones out there, Sound was 
 good throughout, Graphics were good if on a higher end machine
  Cons: Too simple space and land combat sequences, galaxy conquest too easy, campaign mode not very 
 satisfying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  I have waited this game to arrive to the shop's for long. Too long to be precise.
  But when I got my hand to it I non-stop played it 22 hours straight passing the both campaigns 
 in easy right away. The graphics are nearly excellent minus only from small bugs what are probably 
 taken care of in the patches to come.
  The game play well I can't say anything on that cause it's just perfect. The moving of forces works 
 great in both space and in land and the invent of galaxy map is just awesome ! Sound too are just 
 great there is nothing to say but John Williams you make the best film music. Value is the only 
 minus in the game the campaigns were far too easy to pass and even with medium it didn't took mee 
 too long to pass. Well that is easily replaced with the extent of the multi-player possibilities. 
 But counting these things together there is no word of complain in EAW. So game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taverna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Best Star Wars game ever... just after Battlefront II! A well multi-layered game with "classic" 
 strategy galactic mode and "modern" real-time strategy battlegrounds (ooops!) ... well, yes, a fusion 
 of Star Wars Rebellion with Star Wars Battlegrounds in some ways. Multi-layering makes it a very 
 dynamic and versatile game, giving the chance to switch from a genre to another... and even if 
 this doesn't double the fun it cuts off a lot of boring gaming possibilities! The campaign mode 
 stories can't be intriguing such as movies (of course) but they're able to create a certain atmosphere 
 around Empire's growth and uncover some interesting links between the trilogies. If a part of you 
 has grown up with this kind of adventures and characters, in this alternative universe you'll realise 
 that here you can do a LOT of COOL things you've always dreamed of !... or maybe much better than 
 before! I think this game is a very good starting point for THE IDEAL STAR WARS GAME... maybe shaking 
 this one with Battlefront... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekidmac236
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a well put together Star Wars game. If your a fan of the Star Wars universe then you have 
 to pick this game up. The game is very easy to learn, and you don't have to have a high end computer 
 to run it. Unit control is very basic point and click, but still enjoyable. The way the Galactic 
 Map is set up makes it very easy to manage all the planet under your control. When set on high 
 the visuals are really nice, and the cinematic view is a nice touch. I can't think of any other 
 things to point out, even though I know there is a lot more great things about the game. Overall 
 the game is great and must have for any Star Wars fan, and anyone who likes RTS's but their computer 
 can't support some of the more demanding games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Krause
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the previews for EAW I knew that I would love the game. I was at first wary if 
 this excellent looking game could run on my machine, but it does. If you have a mid level pc, then 
 you will be able to get great graphics, and the game'll still run great. But, if you want to get 
 all of the graphical effects like soft shadows, you should have a higher level pc. I myself am 
 just a casual RTS player, and this game is perfect for people that fall into that category. You 
 have basic control over your units and it is basically just point and click destruction; there 
 are no options for grouping your units into special formations or anything, but that's fine with 
 me. I haven't experienced any glitches or bugs so far, so the game seems pretty stable. One great 
 feature of the game is the how the galactic map works alot like the one in Star Wars Battlefront 
 2, and the reinforcement points seem familar like that too. I'm probably leaving alot of things 
 out, but that's because I'm eager to get back to playing : ) . Overall, this game is worth the 
 money, and will bring you many hours of great space and land battles authentic to the Star Wars 
 license.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I admit this game was waaaaay better than I expected. I mean it has great story modes and great 
 online play. The graphics weren't perfect but pretty damn close close. This game was a huge success 
 in the minds of some people. But for some reason all the people that didn't enjoy this game, only 
 focused on the graphics. Sure, the soldiers in cinematic mode were kinda crappy lookin but it wasn't 
 all about that one feature in the game. More people need to focus on the gameplay and the story 
 line and anything else that helps out with the game. The only flaw in this game is just the gameplay. 
 I would recommend this game to any real-time strategy game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzcdzdsf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is FUN!
  
  Graphics: you will need a good graphics card to experience the full graphic beauty of this game, 
 it still looks good either way, very good 9/10
  
  Sound: The sound is very detailed, from the lasers and explosions, to the voices, although, darth 
 vader and the emperor sound strange...9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay OWNS. There are a wide variety of ships/units, and with the "Cinema" option, 
 you feel like your actually in a star wars battle, the best part is the difficulty, theres Easy, 
 Medium, and Hard, however, Easy is for preschoolers, and Hard will make you want to smash your 
 computer, play on medium if you want a fun game. 10/10
  
  Overall: A very great game, good addition to your star wars collection. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Being a big Star Wars fan I am surprised myself how few games I have actually bought over the decades! 
 There have been alot of bad Star Wars games but some great classics as well. Rogue Squadron for 
 N64 was the last game I bought and played and loved, all the others I've either never discovered 
 or cared about. Jedi Outcast ii was just too damn hard! 
  
  This game brings the Force back into balance with a solid and inspired real time strategy game: 
 "Empire at War"! This blows away the old disaster that was "Force Commander" and all the others 
 (Galactic Battlegrounds) with one fell swoop! Lucasarts finally succeeds in getting a great RTS 
 game going with all the SW bells and whistles you would expect.
  
  Graphics are outstanding, as long as you don't zoom in all the way on some lowly stormtrooper or 
 ewok as (like in Battlefront 1 and 2) the character details are somewhat not impressive. But play 
 as it should be done and get a birds eye view of your planetside or orbital battles and the results 
 are VERY satisfying! 
  
  My only mode I have really played to date was the skirmish mode cuz I will admit the campaign mode 
 and all that KICKED my butt! I never got such a trouncing before! So the AI is up to par just so 
 you know,
  
  Sound is excellent as all the stock Star Wars sound effects are here: Ion Cannon shots, Blaster 
 fire, Star Destroyer engines roaring, AT-AT's stomping and Death Star super lasers all have huge 
 booming audio and do not dissapoint! 
  
  Like the classic "Command & Conquer" (some of the same guys worked on EAW too!) you build up and 
 battle basically. Get your Imperial Fleet stocked up with Tartan Cruisers, Victory Class Star Destroyer's, 
 Tie Bombers, and of course the MIghty Imperial II class Star Destroyer's! Once you get enough of 
 those babies you will carry all before you! But at times you will need help, in the form of "heroes" 
 like Lord vader, Admiral (here Capt) Piett, Boba Fett, and even the dreaded Emperor himself! Better 
 have a good PC or all those little soldiers and fighters swarming around your screen will freeze 
 you up something fierce!
  
  All in all, an AWESOME game I cannot play it enough, get this today!
  
  "Star Destroyer, reporting 
 sir!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  As a Starwars fan i guess my review will be a bit biast but here goes anyway.
  First i found the graphics to this game are nice and it runs smoothly on my PC with no hitchs.
 
  Whats great about this game is the space battles they make up for what you don't see in the original 
 movies. Well Done Golfers Clap to the Developers :)
  The Story to the game in campain mode isn't too bad as you get to use various characters from the 
 movies like Vader, Tarkin, Admrial Ackbar, Han&Chewie to name but a few for a total of 8 heros 
 to use in battle all with their own unique abilitys. 
  One downfall is limited character choice after you have played games like Starwars Rebelion that 
 has a whole host of characters to use.
  Game Play is ok i have played better but it suits the games style and is tolerable.
  
  Every 
 game has bugs and problems and so far i have been lucky enough and haven't encounted any yet so 
 all is good.
  
  In my opinion if your a Starwars Fan this game is a must on your list of starwars crap to buy! 
 Its also a pretty nifty RTS so go on buy it ya Tight Asses its only $100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyuinsuen
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The graphic is fantastic, however the gameplay of EAW is not so exciting especially the lack of 
 flexibility and variety of building construction in ground battle. The building proportion is also 
 too large. Monetary system is not well set. I prefer the classic mining with worker or machine 
 system. Unit and heroes' ability are considered as not interesting, tightly limited and non upgradeable. 
 Weapon projectile is almost identical for all the units, lack of creativity and innovative, just 
 the plain blaster shot with different diameter and color. 
  
  As for the space battle, initially i instantly amazed and astonished by the outstanding 3D graphic 
 of the game, which is much more superior compared to Homeworld 2. The detail geometry and light 
 reflection of the spacebase and ship plus the dynamic presentation of the background galaxy, asteroids 
 and stars is among the most attractive attributes of the game. However, after playing for an hour, 
 it starts to get boring. For the rebel faction, the capital ship look hideous. On the other hand 
 as for the empire, the capital ship all looks alike. The ultimate unit should be made more complex 
 in geometry, more advance weapon system with different projectile rather than just the blaster. 
 E. g. missile, beam, ion cannon, sonic wave and other weapon type.
  
  Overall, I would definitely reluctant to spend longer time in playing this game due to the mentioned 
 flaw and low in replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is a long awaited strategy masterpiece in starwars universe!
  
  There was a game, called Rebellion from Lucasarts, it was in 1998 i think. That was the ancestor 
 of this game, and designers are surely inspired some aspects from it. The best thing about the 
 EAW is its clean, plain, non complicated structure. Everything is accessible, very plain view, 
 commands, controls, playablity is very easy. The game does not bore you. You dont have to destroy 
 each and every enemy structre to win ground battles, (turrets for instance) Maps are not large, 
 so land battles does not last till it bores you. Also if land battles prolonged (10 mins?) and 
 you are overwhelmingly powerfull vs enemy, suddenly map is revealed to see your remaining enemy. 
 Very very nice space combat, the best in series, very clean and easy view, easy controls provide 
 just plain fun unlike Homeworld or any other RTSes where you are lost in the space, trying to seperate 
 your units from the enemy bla bla bla.. (i have to admit space battles are much more fun from the 
 land battles) Increadibly enjoying to command space battles and watch them in movie mode.
  
  Very High Replayabilty. and Mod-ability. New Mods are available already.
  
  I dont know 
 but i dont think that any other game gives you both space and land combat choice? Musics and sound 
 effects are near perfect, providing superb motivation. The bad things are;
  AI is not smart, both opponent AI and Auto-resolve AI. Auto-Resolve AI is increadibly idiotic. (not 
 possible to receive such casualties but it happens)
  The game does not offer a wide variety of units to produce/use,
  planetary production choices 
 could have been expanded,
  Playing as empire is too easy, blow up all planets and its done
  Playing Rebels are not realistic as rebels increase their strength way to quick. Maybe there should 
 be created some events to slow them down. sclales could have been alered a bit. (for differentiating 
 huge capitals from much smaller ones)
  Emperor's ship Majestic (Executor) does not exist in game : (
  
  Overall: Game can be repetative 
 some time after especially ground battles. It can be extremely frustrating as creatures from their 
 dwellings and insanely assaulting civillians spawning from their houses. I just could get used 
 to this sapawning thing?? the game surely could have been better without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beau_jackson
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Star Wars fan and a huge strategy fan and when I heard they were releasing a strategy 
 based Star Wars game, it sounded too good to be true. Sadly it was. Don't get me wrong, there are 
 good sides to this game, the space battles are good and having hero characters is a nice touch 
 but after about two maps you begin to realise just how repetitive it all is. In either space, or 
 on land it is the same thing over and over, the only difference is, as your tech level improves 
 you can use different units. To be honest though, I think I only used about three different types. 
 After about 1/2 a dozen levels, I found my self pressing the auto-complete mission button just 
 so I could finish the game and move on! Using the Death Star is pretty cool, but once again, same 
 old same old each level... wait 30 seconds, pull the lever and BOOM, the planet is gone... no real 
 attempt to even take out the Death Star by the Rebels, that I saw anyway. I didn't even bother 
 playing as the Rebels... I couldn't handle playing the same game all over again, only with different 
 units. If you are a big strategy fan, avoid this game, go with AOE III or something like that, 
 if you aren't a hardcore strategy fan and like Star Wars... wait 12 months... err probably 6 months 
 actually, and buy it for $20.00 somewhere but I wouldn't pay much more than that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi_councilor
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  This game is highly customisable to your own taste's using modded XML files you can changed the 
 balance of power in the game or even add new units to the game that were originally left out. The 
 game is worth playing through - even though on the down side the maps are quite small. I am a bit 
 sad at the fact you can't use vehcles to carry your troopers in to a battle except for the ATAT.
 
  
  While the game might not interst everyone - the game is a vast improvment for Lucas Arts on trying 
 to get a decent RTS game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerplaya7585
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was disappointed with this. The single player sucked, period. First, I beat it in less 
 than four hours. Second, the storyline was terrible. That part of the game in my mind, was not 
 worth the $50 at all.
  
  Good thing that's not what I bought the game for. Now, the multiplayer is great. A great environment, 
 friendly players, and there aren't thousands and thousands of people waiting to get on the servers 
 like some other MMOG's which means smaller load times, one minute at absolutely the most you will 
 have to wait to start playing. There are 10+ worlds to choose from - every one of them giving it's 
 own advantages and disadvantages. You can choose from the familiar planets of Tattoine or Hoth 
 or play on the only briefly shown Shola where Obi-Wan and Skywalker duel in Episode III. All the 
 spacecraft (X-Wing, Y-Wing, TIE Fighter, and of course the Star Destoryer) , land vehicles and infantry 
 (AT-AT, Speeder Bikes, Stormtroopers, Rebel Soldiers) , and major heroes from the movies are there 
 (Obi-Wan, Darth Vader, Emperor Palpitine) , along with some not-so-mentioned crafts as well. The 
 soundtrack boasts some of the music written for the screenplays as well as some newly created content 
 made just for this game.
  
  Overall, Star Wars fans, I definitely recommend this to you, but, if you are just looking for a 
 great RTS game I'd look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDuff
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics are very nicely done the overall gameplay itself suffers from a lack of imagination. 
 Not to mention that it felt to me like LucasArts decided to limit the scale of the campaign mode 
 (only 40 worlds and very few special characters) . Those two elements alone made this game an even 
 higher disappointment than Rebellion was. The space combat is more advanced than it's predecessor 
 in that you can actually traget individual components on a ship (i. e. the shields) and having weather 
 or the environment actually impact what is going on was a neat feature. Overall a decent game but 
 again LucasArts has released MUCH better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punchman1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Im a fan of RTS games. Up till now Ive wasted dollar after dollar for previous RTS games from 
 Mr. Lucas and company. Granted theyve had great games in other genres, but when it came to RTS 
 games they never could capture the same grandeur. Until now. Empire at War was instantly captivating. 
 I really enjoyed the game play and story line (its always a guilty pleasure of mine to take over 
 the galaxy) . It also adds a level of complexity similar to Star Wars Battlefront II. That being 
 that you have space battles as well as land battles. In fact if youve played Battlefront II this 
 is a very similar game. All that said remember this is a strategy game, I like strategy games. 
 If you like to run-and-gun, this game is probably not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrhk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The greatest part of this game is the fact that its a Star Wars RTS and easily the best 
 one out there. Its great watching the space battles featuring your favorite Star Wars ships 
 and just watching them duke it out or seeing the varied environments of the different planets. 
 
  
  The graphics are sub par, blocky with some very low res textures. However if your not a graphics 
 whore they should work just fine. The effects are particularly nice especially the explosions. 
 The game doesnt take much to run. Running near max on my 6600GT. FPS does take a dip in 
 larger space confrontations though.
  
  The sounds are great, star wars music combined with some excellent sound effects. I just love how 
 everything stays true to Star Wars. Every time you click a unit you hear exactly what youll 
 expect. 
  
  Although the game play isnt anything new or exiting when it comes to land the space battles 
 are very well done. Just watching units go at it in dogfights and huge capital ships blowing up 
 is worth it even with some imbalances in the system. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is true to star wars universe in everwhere and is cool because you get to control the 
 fate of the starwars universe the graphis are geat and awesome gameplay and it si cool you can 
 use the starwars heros but should have put a mode where you could create your own starwars hero 
 and use that person in the game and the space battles are awesome with great controls and to be 
 able to easly to overpower the other enemys fleet also the ability to use the death star great. 
 and how your enemy's use hit and run tactics and hide in asteriod fields to do a surprise attack 
 on you but the land battles are a bit disointing because they don't relly use any stragety just 
 to go for a staight attack but it is still a great game even thought it has it flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  One of the features of this game is the ability to switch to a cinematic view of the battle to 
 watch as it plays out. Supposedly you have time to do this after you issue orders to your units, 
 then sit back and watch them fight. I have found the action is a little too fast paced to allow 
 time for a leisurely view of the battleground for very long. 
  
  Basically the game is a grandchild of Command and Conquer as are so many of these action/strategy 
 type of games. Build units, control strategic points, try to match your strong units against the 
 enemies weak units. I'm not a big fan of the genre, but I love Star Wars so I got the game and 
 have been fairly happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengefulreign
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at war is one of the best strategy games I ever played. Having played both sides, 
 I have to say I like the empire better. Nothing better than taking a massive fleet and attacking 
 the rebelscum leveling them to nothing but space dust, and then pulling the lever to watch the 
 death star work its magic. The graphics are amazing on a high end computer giving the full detail 
 of the game.
  
  This game is a must have for any Star Wars fans. Even if your not that big of a fan you should 
 at least play it because your missing out if you don't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramo_zemog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The Star wars empire at war is one of the best strategy games i ever played.
  
  Graphics
  This game is really very good loking it has a very high detailed maps, and whe your zoom in in 
 the maps the characters look's great .
  
  Sound 
  I find the sound is very good all the great sound of the movies are the same, the songs all in 
 general is very good.
  
  Gameplay 
  If you already play any strategy game you will find there is the same a lot of mouse clicking is 
 basicly the same.
  
  I dont like
  They left out a lot of important units and characters, for example Jabba, Lando Caldrisian.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendelgeyer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before?
  
  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before?
  
  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before?
  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before?
  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before?
  It plays multiplayer fine, but the single player is awful, sorry maybe next time, seems Like i've 
 that before? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwingfie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War:
  
  Best non-FPS/RPG based Game in seven years!
  
  Takes the Premise of SW: Rebellion and Force Commander and makes a true improvement to game play 
 and logistics, but like Rebellion and Force Commander lacks the Polish to make it a Legendary stand 
 alone game like either Tie Fighter or X-wing Alliance (multi-player only) . The best part of EAW 
 is the ease with which novice gamers can mod it to suit their individual tastes. The Games single-player 
 Campaigns feel lifeless, lacking the heart and soul that has made the Star Wars universe and Previous 
 games (Tie Fighter, Dark Forces, Jedi Knight and the KOTOR games) feel like an expansion to said 
 universe instead of some off the wall retelling of the known story. Besides a paltry plot, most 
 of the games detractors come from what might be very reasonable mechanics issues, weapon inaccuracy, 
 build times, Hero powers, Auto battle-calc and of course Unit Scaling. Even so the Graphics when 
 using proper population caps are wonderful, the look, feel and sound of space battles makes it 
 seem as though you are watching an expansion of Episodes Three and Six. The other side to the story 
 is that land battles become tedious quickly and dont give you the feel of either Episodes Two 
 or Four, the logistical limit imposed by landing zones makes for an interesting feature that adds 
 an element of Strategy and Foresight to early unit deployment that WILL have an effect on how well 
 you manage your ground battle, but are quickly offset by the necessity of Unit Hunting. The Garrison 
 quality, off-sets the ten unit ground population cap that each world shares, though reasonable 
 it makes it hard to have those epic ground battles that flesh out the Star Wars universe. The number, 
 type, accessibility and usefulness of most of the ground units is questionable; in addition there 
 is no easy way to produce ground units and the build time is horrible, (Question: Why does it Seem 
 to take just as long to build an AT-AT as it does a Star Destroyer!!?) after all the amount of 
 material and training required is only a tiny fraction of what it is for Star Ships. Thankfully, 
 the guys at Petroglyph gave us Heros, Vader is indispensable on the ground and effective in space 
 as well, Luke is a one-shot cripple in Space (his lucky shot ability can blow the shield generator 
 on any Star Ship in the game, which will turn a knock down drag out battle to a quick engagement. 
 The rest of the Heros minor, major and non-unique add flavor to what would be an otherwise emotionless 
 RTS.
  
  Thankfully most of the game detractors can be adjusted with Mods which makes this one of the better 
 RTS games ever. Still a Mission/Map pack would be a welcome addition from Petroglyph as would an 
 expansion set in a post Movie EU environment.
  Genre 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing like a Star Wars game to pump more life into a thriving industry, and Petroglyph 
 does an outstanding job with the license in their real-time strategy endeavor. Stalwart Star Wars 
 fans may remember the last few attempts at RTS games for Star Wars: notably the resounding failure 
 of Rebellion. While Galactic Battlegrounds did a pretty standard job with a gaming presentation, 
 Empire at War pushes the envelope a little bit further, creating an incredible experience that 
 is not to be missed.
  
  Empire at War takes place during the 20-year gap between Episode III and IV. However, while youll 
 encounter several characters that are quite prominent in the latter trilogy, this game is not so 
 much a presentation of Star Wars history as it is about shattering that history in whatever way 
 the player sees fit. There are some events that will stick out for a true Star Wars fan: such as 
 the mentioning of Han Solos short-lived Imperial career and the building of the Death Star beneath 
 Grand Moff Tarkins command, but as you play through your campaigns  be it Empire or Rebel Alliance 
  you can quickly turn the history as presented in the movies right on its ear. For instance, in 
 the Rebellion campaign, Mon Mothma will warn against taking over a lot of planets, since it will 
 cause the Empire to retaliate in force. While this may be true, with only a little tactical savvy, 
 you can turn the Rebels into a true force to be reckoned with and crush the Empire.
  
  This is only one example of how the game can be played, and its here that Empire truly shines. 
 While there are story missions that need to be accomplished to advance the campaign plot, during 
 the intervals between missions you can expand your own holdings however you see fit. Unlike other 
 RTS games, your army carries over between missions. This means that when you build a base on a 
 planet, it stays on that planet. If the Empire attacks you there and you build up new defenses 
 on the build pads scattered about the surface, those defenses will be in place if you have to fight 
 there again. It also means that if you decide to retreat from a battle, your surviving units can 
 be added into a new force that can strike back wherever you see fit. This allows you to decide 
 what battles are worth shedding a lot of blood for, and what should be considered a retreat from 
 Hoth.
  
  You can imagine that youll have a lot to keep track of as your own empire begins to grow. As you 
 start adding planets to your control, you have to maintain the surface defenses, space defenses, 
 as well as keep your borders secure from the invading army  be it Rebel or Imperial. Its nice 
 to know that Empire made this task a little easier by giving you very little resource management 
 to worry about. All you have to worry about is credits, and those are added into your account at 
 the end of every galactic day. You dont even have to worry about gathering the credits; all of 
 that is handled automatically, so all you have to concentrate on is moving your troops.
  
  If the campaigns arent enough to quench your Star Wars thirst, Empire also offers a number of 
 Galactic Conquest maps that allow you to take over the galaxy in any manner you see fit. These 
 maps can sprawl across the entire galaxy, or across a selection of planets. You can also do a simple 
 skirmish mode, which is a single battle fought in space or on a planet surface. In addition, you 
 can take Empire online, although I imagine that those games would be a little lengthy! 
  
  Graphically, the game is gorgeous, especially if youve got a high-end computer that will really 
 let this game go to town. Theres really only one flaw that Ive found with this game, and thats 
 a rather unique feature called the Cinema Cam. Toggling this feature sends you right into the mix 
 of the action so that you can watch your units battle it out in true Star Wars style. While this 
 looks cool enough, you have no control over the camera, so theres a high chance that while the 
 fightings going on, youre stuck watching troops move into position. However, this camera angle 
 is completely optional, so it doesnt really interfere with the gameplay that much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocheambeau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Like most children of the 80's, Star Wars Fanboyism is so deeply ingrained into my sub-conscious 
 that I'll instinctively buy almost ANYTHING with the name on it. Yeah, Eps. 1-3 were absolutely 
 horrible, and they came close to killing me on the whole franchise, but there will always be teensy 
 part of me that's a sucker for Lucas.
  
  Fortunately, Star Wars: Empire At War has absolutely nothing to do with those 3. Chronologically, 
 the game is set right after the close of the oh-so-melodramatic episode 3 and you play on through 
 to the end of A New Hope (usually known as just Star Wars or "the first one") . For those of you 
 overly familiar with the franchise (One of us! One of us! One of us!) , that should give you a pretty 
 good idea of what units you get and how the Campaign mode plays out. For everyone else, a quick 
 precis:
  
  In the blue corner, you've got a massive, galaxy spanning Empire with virtually unlimited resources 
 and incredibly advanced technology.
  
  In the red corner, you have a tiny rebellion made up of dissidents and a few outlying planets that 
 managed to avoid getting smashed by the Empire when the republic was dissolved.
  
  Empire at War follows this pretty closely. If you play as the republic, you're at a HUGE disadvantage 
 militarily (at least initially) . If you try to fight the Empire on its own terms, you WILL lose, 
 and you will lose very, very badly. Here's an example: As the Rebellion, you have to manufacture 
 each individual squadron of X-Wings and Y-Wings for your space battles. If they're lost in combat, 
 they're gone. As the Empire, if you build a Star Destroyer (or Acclimator, etc.) it will automatically 
 spawn TIE Fighters and TIE Bombers from its hanger. If they're destroyed, more will just keep spawning 
 from the hanger, even during combat.
  
  So the Rebellion is screwed all the time, right? No, because they cheat. As the Rebellion you can 
 take a small force (3 units*) and land them directly on the surface of a planet, completely bypassing 
 the Empire fleet surrounding it. If you destroy all of the Empire structures and forces holding 
 the planet (and if you fail once, that doesn't mean you can't keep sending raids until you succeed) , 
 you gain control and all the Star Destroyers in the galaxy can't do anything about it.
  
  So, with all that talk of combat this and combat that, how does the game actually play? On the 
 surface level, a lot like a real-time version of Master of Orion. You conquer planets and attempt 
 to control the galaxy. The more planets you hold, the more money you make and the more units you 
 can control at one time. You can also build structures on and in orbit around these planets that 
 add defensive capabilities, give bonuses of one sort or another and allow you to build different 
 units. Almost every planet you conquer will also give you an additional bonus, like reduced cost 
 on a specific unit, reduced build time, etc. Again, if you're VERY familiar with the Star Wars 
 mythos, you can actually predict some of these (e. g. Kuat is the home of the Imperial shipyards, 
 so it's going to be one of the planets you can build the massive Star Destroyer on) . 
  
  Empire at War expands on this concept by adding what they call "Tactical Combat". Every time 2 
 opposing armies meet, you're shifted from the galactic view to a isometric/3rd person view of the 
 specific combat arena. To anyone who played a lot of Starcraft/Warcraft, this will all look pretty 
 familiar. The big shift from those games is in the "Tactical" part. Each map has a limited number 
 of units you can have active at one time. Any extra units are held in reserve, and can be called 
 in as re-enforcements if one of the active units is destroyed. In space battles, this basically 
 means that if some of your units are destroyed and you have reserves, you can call them in and 
 keep fighting. On the planet's surface it's a much, much bigger deal. As an attacker, you'll usually 
 start the battle only able to bring in 2-3 units against the defender's max of 10. You have to 
 move quickly and capture more re-enforcement points (similar to Flags in Battlefield 1942, etc.) 
 in order to bring in a larger force. If the defender captures your last re-enforcement point and 
 kills all your infantry (only infantry can capture/hold re-enforcement points) , you're toast.
 
  
  While all of that seems pretty straightforward, don't get too comfortable. There's yet another 
 twist. Each unit you bring into battle has specific units that it is strong against, and specific 
 units it is weak against. And we REALLY mean strong and weak. If you take that AT-ST (the walker 
 things from Return of the Jedi) up against a Rebellion rocket infantry squad, better say goodbye 
 to it pretty quick. Want to pit your Star Destroyer against those teeny tiny Y-Wings? Fine, where 
 should we send your ashes? Basically, it breaks down to a complex game of paper-rock-scissors. 
 If you and your opponent have pretty equal forces, but he's got all 3 and you only have 2, better 
 start clicking retreat and hope he doesn't have any Interdictors**.
  
  Wait! There's more! What would Star Wars be without the main characters? Empire At War's got them 
 too. This is the one part of the game where the balance just goes out the window. Think about the 
 chronology for a sec, and it should be pretty obvious what I'm talking about.
  
  Got it yet?
  
  That's right. Almost all of the Jedi are DEAD, but the Empire's still got Darth 
 Vader and Emperor Palpatine. You can praise the values of R2-D2, C-3PO, Mon Motha, Han Solo, General 
 Ackbar, and Captain Antilles all you want, but they don't last long up against the Sith. The Empire's 
 heroes, especially the Emperor, kick the crap out of anything they come across. This is doubly 
 true in the campaign mode, where (for some reason) you don't get access to Obi-wan Kenobi at all, 
 and you're stuck with the extremely lackluster Mon Motha and Antilles for most of the game.
  
  You can tell that the dev team and everyone involved actually LIKES Star Wars and is (and this 
 is the amazing part) really, REALLY familiar with the details and nuances of the series. Everything 
 in the game feels very authentic (I'm a little disappointed in how they handled the Death Star, 
 but it's not a big enough issue to take the shine of the rest off the game) . The biggest problem 
 really arose after I finished the campaign mode. After 20 or so hours of playing both sides and 
 judging their strengths fairly objectively, there's really only one possible conclusion:
  
  The Empire should've stomped the Rebel Alliance into red rebel-y paste.
  
  Fortunately, the 
 Galactic Conquest mode is much more balanced. The Empire starts out with an edge in strength and 
 finances, but once the Rebellion gets momentum and gets their highest level units, they're very 
 hard to stop. Rebel artillery combined with Speeders are a monster combo on land, and Mon Calamari 
 cruisers are devastating in space. Why are you still reading this? You get to do all the cool stuff 
 you wish you could've done with those toys you had as a kid. Go buy the game already.
  
  Oh, and I guess I should mention that the graphics and audio in the game are great and completely 
 true to the original trilogy (that's 4-6, not 1-3 for those counting) . There's also this feature 
 called "Cinecam" (or something like) that lets you view all of the battles in a cinematic-ish way, 
 which was nifty, I guess. To be honest, I really only used it once or twice. I micromanage when 
 I play RTS games, and you can't control the units from that perspective, so I really didn't get 
 much use out of it, but it's there if you want it. 
  
  There is multiplayer for those who want it, but I can't say I was overly impressed. The skirmish 
 mode just ends up playing a LOT like Starcraft/Warcraft, but isn't as much fun, and the Galactic 
 Conquest multiplayer simply takes too long. 
  
  *The word "unit is misleading in Empire at War. A single "unit" of tanks in the game is actually 
 5 individual tanks. Conversely, A Star Destroyer actually counts for several units (I think 5? 
 I'm too lazy to check) .
  
  **Interdictor def. - A variant of the Imperial Star Destroyer that generates a gravity well and 
 prevents ships in its vicinity from entering Hyperspace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixc747er
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  
  
  I have to say that the previous RTS coming from Star Wars universe was such a boring and unrealistic 
 game to my opinion, it seems that they try to do a quick buck out of it. Still at this time I don't 
 understand why Lucas Arts said yes to 'Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds'. I'm still chock to see 
 that Gamespot, who usually gives good game rating, give 8.2 to this game (you can't have it all 
 I guess !! ;) )
  
  Now Lucas Arts & Petroglyph did their homework before coming out on the market, and Voil! This 
 great games who require you to manage not only the battles on one of the planet of the Star Wars 
 galaxy, but as well any confrontation in space of any of them. 
  The graphics are excellent, and they took care of all little details to make sure you feel not 
 only in control of the Rebellion or the Empire but as well giving you a sense of being in the universe 
 of Star Wars!
  
  You can choose your side and rewrite the history of Star Wars, or play the campaigns that cover 
 both side (the Rebellion and the Empire) .
  
  What is interesting in Empire at War, you don't need to manage any resources. The only way to build 
 your empire is with cash, and the only way to improve you income is to control as much planet as 
 you can and set up a mining facility on it. This will drastically increase your bottom line.
  
  You basically have to secure planets. Each planet as it special effect and will give you some 
 edge on your opponent, some planet will give you some extra cash or bonus on some of your unit. 
 Taking over a planet from the other faction will sometime revoke some bonus that the other player 
 had. For example, some planet gives bonus on the price of a unit (cost cheaper) , if you loose this 
 planet, well you wont have that rebate anymore.
  
  By controlling planet not only you will be able to set up different building on the ground but 
 you will be able to build a Space Station. Every building you build have an impact on you Empire, 
 some will you allow to build different type of land units and some will upgrad them.. I regards 
 of the Space Station it allows you to build fighters and bigger spaceships like Victory Cruisers 
 (for the Empire) .
  
  In both battlefield (space and ground) you need to manage you reinforcement, in space, you can't 
 come in all at once which allows the one being attack not to get over kill and can try to resist 
 at least the first attack. In a space battle, the one getting attack has a little advantage over 
 the attacker, the player controlling the planet is able to construct a Space station who actually 
 able to send out many fighters and other small aircraft, not only the Space station carries it 
 own armada, but you can do upgrades who your entire fleet will benefit during the battle (stronger 
 armor, faster fighter, better weapons) which can change the entire curse of the battle.
  
  On the other hand a ground attack allows you to 'drop' some unit on the planet that you try to 
 control. The main goal is to secure dropping zone, (these zones looks like a beacon similar as 
 the one found in Battlefront 1 & 2) , these dropping zone will be the only way for you to 'drop' 
 more unit on the battlefield and than be able to set up a massive attack on you opponent. But don't 
 forget your opponent will try everything possible to make you lose these droping zone. If you loose 
 all of them, youre pretty much done, you will have to secure a dropping zone with what you have 
 left, or try to win even with a your small battalion.
  
  Finally, you can customize the AI of the game if you want to take the time to get comfortable with 
 it. For sure this game will keep you in front of your screen for hours. Lucas Arts & Petroglyph 
 did a great job to put you right in the Star Wars universe. Try it, actually the demo is quite 
 representative of what is 'Star Wars Empire at War'.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviscerador
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  As I said above, this game is a little bit dissapoint for me.
  
  That is because i wait for a better, improved, rebellion game, but instead, i got a sugar free 
 Mix of RTS/Turn Strategic/Total war game.
  
  Ok, the game looks good, the graphics are very nice, also the music and sound... but here is when 
 it ends.
  
  If you want a Space battles RTS, then play Star trek armada 2 (and pick all the free mods for playing 
 star wars or Babylon 5)
  
  If you want a Land based RTS... then you have a broad series to choose
  
  If you want a total 
 war... then buy a total war...
  
  This hybrid is a good game, but just that, a good game, to hire but not to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: job877
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  I first had some good hopes for this game after reading the gamespot review.. but come on gamespot...8.7? 
 that's not even in the ballpark for this game. After reading the review here I went out and bought 
 the game, brought it home and installed it. When I started the campaign and had the first space 
 battle I thought "cool" because having the fleet of VSD's was fun... but then I quickly realized 
 there was no real strategy to the game. In the space battle you just start them move your ships 
 to point X and watch... the only real interaction required is to tell them to A: shoot at shield 
 generators and B: to call in the occasional reinforcement... other than that you aren't playing 
 at all... sitting there watching the red and green lasers and hearing the occational "our shield 
 generator has been destroyed!"
  The land battles are just a joke and not balanced at all nor are they even correct to the SW universe... when 
 it is possible for foot soldiers to take out an AT-AT there is something seriously wrong there. 
 Plus the whole auto-resolve just makes the actual strategy part of the game pointless since you 
 just need to click that one button and it skips the battle... which after the second or third battle 
 you WILL be clicking a lot because you just want to get it over with. 
  In short... play the demo... you get the "entire" game for free... in that buying the actual game 
 doesn't bring anything new to the table except 2 or 3 more units... but it is still the same  
 you will want to stab yourself just to make sure you are still alive... yeah... don't buy unless 
 you are a masochist or Dom and want to use for punishment for your Sub...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentosmaximus
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  I also got on the bandwagon for this game from the early screenshots and especially the flashy 
 trailers, and I had also longed for a good Star Wars RTS which included everyone's favourite space 
 battles. So I went ahead and bought the game and played through the campaigns and some skirmishes. 
 All I can say is that it's not the game I was expecting it to be, and in a bad way.
  
  One thing I can say is that the game has every single StarWars music track from the movies and 
 so it is absolutely awesome sound-wise. Seeing the main menu as a full blow space battle really 
 got me pumped to play. Basically the space battles look really awesome and it's something that 
 hasn't been done before in a Starwars game, and you will find that you just want to play the space 
 battles and not bother with the land battles. I say this because the land battles are quite bland 
 and have little strategy involved. You cannot build buildings through the land view like you would 
 in a standard RTS, and this severly limits your potential strategies, as you are pretty much stuck 
 with the units that you landed on the planet with. The land combat is also very slow compared to 
 the space combat and I often just Auto-Resolved the land battles as they were boring.
  
  The rock-scissors-paper method of combat is a little too strong, with the scissors having absolutely 
 no effect on the rock etc. This means counter-attacks are and have to be very predictable. The 
 galaxy view is quite interesting but again lacks the commanding feel of a game like Civilization, 
 and you will often find that you will take a planet, then lose it, then take it, with no real consequences. 
 
  
  Despite the unfinished and lacking feel of the combat and strategy in this game, it does have some 
 potential to be very fun with the ability to make complete mods for it. Maybe they will come in 
 an expansion, but I was a little disappointed that the game doesn't feature anything from the first 
 3 movies, and there wasn't a great deal of ship/unit variety in the older movies, which again limits 
 the potential of this great idea for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrawnudo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I cannot put into words what this does for the Star Wars universe. Finally, after years of waiting, 
 we get a game that is worthy of the Star Wars Name.
  
  The Gameplay on this game is truely amazing. You are thrust into the Star Wars universe, amist 
 a massive Galactic Civil War, a war between bitter rivals, the noble Alliance to Restore the Republic 
 (the Rebels for all you Star Wars illiterate peeps out there) and the powerful Empire. You suddenly 
 find your self in the control of one of the two factions, the fate of the Galaxy is in your hands.
 
  
  As the tag says, 'What would you do?', you must answer this question in the cheapest and most effective 
 way. Will you build a fleet and attack the planet, charging through the Space defences? Or will 
 you build a small attack force led by none other than Han Solo and Chewbacca, small enough to slip 
 by the Imperial Sapce Station, but small enough to be crushed by resistance?
  
  The game starts off fun and finishes a bit less fun than when it started. You move through the 
 Galaxy, crushing your foes, only to find out that Mon Mothma, the sworn enemy of the Galatic Empire, 
 has fled to the last remaining Rebel base on Geonosis. The game is really quite fun when you are 
 in the smashing phase of the game, but once you move into the mop-up phase, the game takes on more 
 of a 'Well, I gotta search the WHOLE GALAXY, just to kill a couple of speeders and some soldiers.' 
 But when you are in pitched combat with your foes, not knowing whether or not Byss will stay under 
 your control, or be taken over by your enemy. The game keeps you thinking, so if you are lax of 
 mind, don't buy this game, you won't win.
  
  Though the learning curve is quite long, about 40+ minutes, but you must know, you aren't learning 
 one faction, with minor variants between the two, but two COMPLETELY DIFFERENT factions. About 
 the only thing that is the same between the two is the mining facilities. So the learning curve 
 is about 20 to 40 minutes per faction, about the length of a short game.
  
  Now the difficulty for each person is different, but as for me it was perfect, just as it was perfect 
 for almost everyone else. (Most just can't remember is that the Empire and the Rebels are different 
 factions.) I started out on easy and stayed there for a while, but once on medium I quickly moved 
 up to hard, and let me tell you, you will have a interesting time winning at that level.
  
  The multiplayer is just amazing. Very few games (excluding FPSs & MMORPG) have this level of multiplayer. 
 (Namely StarCraft) I love it, I really just can't comment on how much fun it is, but it is great.
 
  
  Now for the graphics, I'm only going to say one sentence, that's it. Here it is:
  Wow, just wow, you play this on the highest graphics, and you are in the movies.
  
  The sound 
 is very good, but I was slightly disappionted by the lack of John Williams music, and when it was 
 playing, you could hardly hear it over the blaster fire and screaming (not saying that those things 
 are bad...)
  
  This game is worth every single dollar shelled out to get it. I would gladly have paid even $70 
 to own this game. I seriously love it that much.
  
  I love this game and I give this one a SUPERB!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohelldaddy45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for anyone's collection and great for any Star Wars fans, executing gameplay, 
 sound, and graphics to its highest. Shading, shadows, texture models, everything can be considered 
 top notch. Having the tyrannical joy of controling a fleet of Star Destroyers, can and probably 
 will have you laughing as you destroy a pathetic fleet of rebels.
  
  This game proves that the Star Wars Universe is still live and kicking but it seems to fail in 
 the A. I. department. I would usually play with a computer player and I would find his Mon Calamari 
 Cruiser in the corner of the map while i navigate my Star Destroyers to his space station. You 
 can even find that sometimes the ships and cruisers dont always want to respond to your commands. 
 In such cases, I would play with a friend and seem to have at least one of my ships off in his 
 own little world while my friend peppers my Star Destroyer with Ion Cannon shots.
  
  You might even find the land battles in the game quite a bore. They seem much slower and seem to 
 be much more challenging. I say this very loosely for the challenging usually consists of your 
 men chasing after a group of stormtroopers instead of taking on the 2-M Repulsor tank like they 
 are told. Land battles usually consist of you attacking or defending a base. If the base is destroyed 
 then you most likely lose, if you are the defender. I also found myself having to go search for 
 my own power generator because it was not smartly placed in a strategic postion. In other words 
 the A. I could simply send a bombing run to destroy it, and leaving my shields and turrets without 
 power. The buildings that you have, usually dish out men and vehicles every single 25 seconds. 
 Very useful if you are the defender.
  
  Even through the horrible A. I., this game has many good points. Both of the factions in the game 
 both have their strengths and weaknesses. Like certain planets in the game support either the rebels 
 or the empire. This adds to the strategic motif. After you have control of Sullust for instance, 
 you can have a boost for your Tartan Patrol Cruisers which makes them cheaper. This bonus works 
 only for the Empire. 
  
  When its all said and done, the game ends up being an amazing addition to the Star Wars Franchise. 
 It turns out to be one of the greatest Star Wars games to ever hit store shelves, probably because 
 it goes were very few of the series's games have ever gone. Even after you have seen everything 
 there is to be seen, it will have you coming back for more, just to quench your thirst for destroying 
 the rebels and their "petty resistance." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The pre-release shots of "Force Commander" (back issues of PC mags) showed a game looking just 
 like C&C Generals & promising the same gameplay. When the product was released it bore NO resemblance 
 to what promised to be a great RTS at all. We got junk. Then came SW Rebellion/ Supremecy (The 
 English didn't like the title "Rebellion" what with the IRA problem & all) . Once again, trash. 
 So with baited breath I read the interviews & drooled oved the pre-release screenshots of EAR (then 
 only a working title) . Crash! Out comes the lame offspring of "Rebellion" & "Force Commander". 
 The graphics are terrible, unit scaling is a bad joke, the Rebels are always strapped for credits 
 and the gameplay sucks. Land battles are tank rush tactics at their most basic as are space battles. 
 The strategic galaxy map is a game of luck and chance. Move a fleet to planet x and planet Y gets 
 attacked. Leave it at Planet Y & X gets crushed. And these sneak raids by the republic are just 
 plain irritating & distracting. The game is set between Ep. III & IV, but apart from a couple of 
 units III is left out. You need to Mod this game immediately so Stormtroopers aren't the size of 
 AT-ST's and x-wings don't measure up to Star Destroyers. Petroglyph, you like all the others have 
 let us down. $100 for a game that would have been acceptable 6 yrs ago? C'mon, the promise once 
 more lingers like a lost grail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordpickle
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Before you read this two notes:
  
  1. This is a long review but I have broken it into numbered lists and paragraphs. But try to read 
 the whole thing please.
  
  2. This is a review of the single player aspects only. This game maybe the greastest multiplayer 
 RTS even, I doubt it but what do I know, but I havent played it MP. I like the single player aspect 
 of games.
  
  EaW is a very good RTS which adds some nice changes to the usual RTS formula. That said there are 
 some issues with the game that are large enough that Petroglyph shouldn't be rewarded with the 
 full retail price. A game has to earn its worth and if it is worth 60$ then fine but if like EaW 
 it is less than a $60 game than no gamer should pay $60.
  
  First the things that bugged me:
  
  1. No persistent damage
  That's right despite the whole 
 persistent battle hoop-law you can have an ISD with 1HP left win the battle then 10 seconds later 
 in another battle that ISD is as good as the day it left space dock.
  
  2. Very dumb AI
  Even on hard there is a point on the galactic conflict screen where the computer gives up it seems. 
 All you need to do as the Imps is tech up to the Death Star then go from planet to planet destroying 
 any Rebel controlled planets and you have won. 
  
  This point is very important because the dumb AI means the fun of the game fades fast. You can 
 basically build a good mixed fleet with some ISD or Mon Cals depending on your faction with some 
 anti-fighter support and move from planet to plaent weeping through the galaxy with little effort. 
 Then build a massive land force and take all the planets and just rebuild your losses, since the 
 computer again seems to stop going after your planets aggressively after about 30 minutes. 
  
  Also the fleet composition that the computer chooses is bad. Usually it consists of alot of 
 corvets and only minimal abouts of VSD's and ISD's or Assault frigate MkII and Mon Cals depending 
 on the faction choosen. Meaning a fleet of mainly capital ships can easily shread most computer 
 fleets.
  
  3. Too Combat Oriented
  When playing the galactic conquest mode there are some small missions you can do. I think there 
 are like two along with using the heroes abilities to spy or steal credits. But this are superficial 
 and add little to the game. Mainly on the GC screen you build bases and construct fleets and land 
 forces. There is no dimplomacy what so ever nor is there much research. EaW falls into the usual 
 RTS trap of making it almost alll about the combat which in light of the AI problems is not that 
 challenging.
  
  4. Limited unit selection
  You get something like 35 units in total. Thats 35 between land and space for two factions leading 
 to an average of 9 units for each. Wow thats not too impressive
  
  Now what was done well:
  
  1. Production values
  Excellent presentation. The cut scenes would 
 have been pre-rendered since the faces look flat and graphics a bit bad up close but otherwise 
 a great looking game. Also the sounds are definately Star Wars. The lasers, the TIEs, the tanks 
 everything sounds the part. Also the cinematic camera gives a nice touch. It doesn't feel exactly 
 like the action shots from the movies but with all the action on screen its not suprising.
  
  2. Galactic Conquest
  This is a good step forward for RTS's and it looks like some new games 
 are following this idea. Basically in a normal RTS you start with a single base or rather one building. 
 The problem with this is some knob can build a large force of cheap and fast units quickly and 
 ambush you in the first 5 minutes. The dreaded rush tactic where by some one interested in only 
 winning can win in a short period of time. This is impossible with GC since you get multiple bases 
 from the start. Also you can talor it to you likes. Want a quick match? Then do an 8 planet GC 
 mode. Want an epic battle? Then set it to 43 planets. 
  
  So in summary EaW is a good game with some glaring errors but nothing that a good expansion or 
 mod, like Star Wars: Legacy of War, can't fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris177
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has to the best RTS iv played. Its got great graphics, great interface also easy to use, 
 a realy good storyline (better than the one's used in Ages Of Empires 3) .
  
  I have only played this game for two hours and i gotta say its realy good, one of the best things 
 it has is the online multiplayer system iv only played 10min on this mode and its got me hooked 
 (i think its way bettter than the one used on AOE games) . The interface is quite easy to most of 
 the buttons are self explanatory and it looks good. One of the bad things about this game is that 
 if you dont have at leaste 512mb ram on your pc or laptop its gona take a long time to load. (though 
 i have 1gig :p) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deputey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan and follower of the strategy genre, I have been hoping for some developments 
 to expand and add some originality to the games coming out. Warhammer, Age of Empires III, and 
 Battle for Middle Earth each brought some new experiences to the table with heros, units, bases, 
 and story integration. To my surprise a Star Wars game came out which I actually like! 
  
  Star Wars: Empire at War has a plethora of options which have not been seen before. Multiple Single 
 player modes, with a good story mode, standard skirmish, and the new Galactic Conquest mode which 
 combines the simplicity of skirmishs with the depth of a story mode.
  
  Heros are definitely useful within Empire at War, each offering typically 2 special abilities. 
 Hopefully they will play a more dynamic role in the sequel to this game however. With abilities 
 unlocked with experience, much like within Battle for Middle Earth.
  
  The biggest problem I found with this game was small inconveniences, such as troop management, 
 bugs during combat with mouse clicks, and targeting. I also found the game bogged down quite a 
 bit in places where it shouldnt, so the programming optimization should be re-approached for the 
 sequel.
  
  All in all if your looking for a good strategy game with some new features, good graphics and sound 
 quality. Then try out SW: EAW, you wont be disappointed, but at this point, it might be worth while 
 to hold out until the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j21392
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game. iam a star wars fan since i was young and i loved this game, but 
 the makers could have done better. The scale of the people and ships arent so good. The best thing 
 to do is sign up for gamespot member and download the downloads they give you and the game looks 
 way better. The theme and what you could do with the characters are so kool. For example if you 
 have built the emporer and Darth Vader you have somuch fun because Darth Vader uses the force to 
 crush vehicles, while the emperor uses lighting and the dark side to convert good to evil. Well 
 if you like star wars like me then this is the game for you. i hope you learned a lot about this 
 game and maybe you will get it and we could play multiplayer together. my online name is Commader213 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19560909
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is alright for what it is, though i was expecting better.
  
  The space battles are really good but it would be better if they were more like Homeworld and are 
 to fast at some points to keep up.
  Land battles are OK but thats about it. It requires no strategy to fight land battles and you just 
 find yourself charging in all guns blazing, invading a planet is just stupid because of the fact 
 that the computer is somehow able to spawn new units from no where at all for example: sent Boba 
 Fett to spy on the rebellion they had no defending fleet and only a unit of heavy tanks and two 
 units of infantry. So i invaded and they somehow managed to have a force on the planet capable 
 of invading several systems at once. So you end up building the Death Star and blowing the planets 
 up because you can't be bothered to fight them on the ground.
  
  The campaigns are just rubbish, they are just a series of skirmishes and have no story to them 
 what so ever.
  
  The Galactic Conquest. It is by far the best part of the game, they tried to copy Total War (and 
 there's no harm in that) but having it in real time just does not work for me, it should be turn 
 based or not at all. You do find yourself waiting most of the time for some credits which can be 
 dull but you can speed the game up to compensate for that. Heroes are just annoying, it would have 
 been better if they stayed dead after you killed them, fighting the Home One every ten minutes 
 is a bit tiresome.
  
  The game is good and worth playing but it could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elink97
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  
  I did enjoy this game, but it started to lose its flavor after a little while. 
  Gameplay is fun, the Hero units have awesome special abilities, and the Rebellion ( my personal 
 favorite) has some sweet frigates and starships.
  Although it is a Star Wars game and I should expect only the two factions. That is sort of underwhelming 
 after playing Dawn of War......
  The two sides are very well balanced, The whole campaign is a new and pretty well thought up idea 
 but it sometimes becomes annoying trying to fend off attacks at each planet all the time.
  The space battles are all the should be.... epic and nonstop. The land battles start to become 
 repetitive, but a battle at Hoth is a battle at Hoth, so I can't really complain. This is a good 
 game and it will keep you busy for a while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galeonis79
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  More correctly, I should say: It's good, but it's not as good as it could (should?) have been.
 
  
  To begin with I will say that Im a Star Wars fan. No, I dont have a Stormtrooper outfit in my 
 closet (sadly) , but Ive followed the franchise for just about as long as I can remember.
  
  And heck the last Star Wars RTS I got to enjoy was Rebellion back in 1998 (and yes I actually 
 liked it!) . So, Empire at War, was a pretty big deal for me when it came out. Who could deny the 
 appeal of controlling a 1600 meter (thats 1 mi for you Americans) Star Destroyer thats just bristling 
 with turbolasers, ion cannons, TIE fighters and other such similar necessities??? No one, thats 
 who! Yet when I actually got to do it again in this game well it really wasnt all that much fun.
 
  
  Instead of being slug-fests, space battles were free-for-alls. The pace of combat was so quick 
 that they werent really all that rewarding. All you seemed to be able to do was group all your 
 capital ships in one formation, and your anti-fighter ships in another, and then send them on their 
 merry way. Oh and a bomber group if you swing that way. 
  
  By halfway into the first campaign I was already auto-resolving a sizeable chunk of all battles; 
 which one shouldnt be doing in a franchise that resolves around space combat.
  
  But with that out of the way, I did enjoy the game thoroughly. Theres still a great deal involved 
 in the entire package from the ground combat (which I actually found a lot more enjoyable because 
 of its more unhurried pace) , to planetary resource management, to complete planetary destruction!
 
  
  The story-line missions were challenging enough to hold my interest but were never so difficult 
 that I wanted to throw my shoe at the monitor. While they sometimes didnt quite make sense (i. e. 
 why dont we just slag this planet instead of sending a regiment of cannon fodd er. Stormtroopers 
 down?) , they generally flowed from one into another with a reasonable difficulty curve.
  
  In terms of performance, to date I have not had an issue (Im running it with the v. 1.3 patch) 
 with gameplay, graphics, or sound. Regarding graphics, Ive got them all pumped up as high as they 
 can go and on my moderately pimped out machine there wasnt too many slow-downs. As mentioned by 
 others the graphics in space were excellent, while the ground graphics  especially visible in 
 the mission cut-scenes  were quite lacking. The sound was LucasArts perfect. Blasters rippled, 
 turbolasers screeched, TIEs whined all very good stuff.
  
  The way Petroglyph envisioned space combat wasnt exactly my cup of tea, but they still made a 
 mighty fine game. While fans will get the most out of it, the gameplay itself is interesting, and 
 varied, enough that any RTS fan would get some good hours out of it.
  
  At the end of the day you need to look at a few things when reviewing a game:
  * The Prod Factor 
  Do my friends absolutely need this game: Yes (only if theyre fans)
  * The F. E. A. R. Factor  Did it elicit an emotional reaction: No
  * The Lost Time Factor  Did 
 I realize I havent eaten in 20 hours: Yes (but only once)
  * The Holy $#!^ Factor  Did it impress the socks off of me: No
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: micromickMM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game for two years. It was worth the wait! Empire at War features a long battle 
 between the Rebels and Empire. Set after the Third and before the forth movie, you choose your 
 side helping the rebels strike at the empire with small forces or help the empire destroy the rebels 
 in one quick strike. From X-wings to the Death Star, its all there including some new units not 
 in the movies. This stratgy brings a new type of gameplay into the world featuring a Galaxy Map 
 which you move your forces from planet to planet, sort of like a war room. Not the best game I've 
 ever owned but worth playing, but don't buy this game unless your a fan of star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomber009
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is about what I expected, perhaps not as good as I'd liked. As far as RTS goes for Star 
 Wars games it's the best out there. Ground combat is lacking. It's slow and boring but a necessary 
 part of the game. Space combat is actually quite fun. Space combat allows you to try out some interesting 
 strategies and besides who doesn't love blowing stuff up with the Death Star and commanding a fleet 
 of Imperial Star Destroyers. I really wish the heroes would be stronger but not respawn, I mean 
 as much as I love killing Luke Skywalker it'd be better if I didn't have to kill him and Ackbar 
 every three fights. Viva la Empire! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yazoo100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. I am a huge Star Wars fan and this game was not a disappointment. The space 
 battles are what is worth the money. I wasn't as impressed with the land battles because the animations 
 and buildings somewhat suck. 
  
  During the Alliance story play campaign, I was disappointed with how the game ended. I just left 
 me wanting more. But, as I mentioned before, the space battles are well worth it. 
  
  I did have some bug issues with the game where it would just crash for some reason. That was extremely 
 annoying since it would disrupt any progress made and I would have to repeat a mission. I hope 
 they have fixed it with the latest patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jergernice
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  counterparts correctly. The scope of the movies, is to be found no where. I felt like i was playing 
 checkers as opposed to chess. I have not even wanted to play land skirmish battle. How bad is that. 
 Space is a bit too fast, makes it more of a click fest than any type of strategy. (I'm not Chris 
 Taylor) . Graphics are ok. Space graphics are better, however, the view does not allow for much 
 enjoyment. The movie option is worthless for me. Good for quicky skirmish, but im quickly getting 
 board. Was hoping for a the feel of homeworld, with grand scale, substance to the story. Every 
 load screen is cartoony, the map is cartoony, the land graphics are cartoony. Should have been 
 better.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcgjarhead
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how Lucasarts could have gotten it so wrong.
  
  Graphics- The graphics were horrible, the closest thing I can relate them to are the graphics for 
 the first Empire Earth game. The graphics seem dated and I have found Warhammer 40k: Dawn of Wars' 
 graphics to be far superior.
  
  Gameplay- EAW tries to come off as a Total War clone but lacks the thing we all want, fun. Although 
 setting up battles may be entertaining it doesnt last long as your launched into battles that have 
 you using the simple tactics of mass attacks. There is almost no strategy in the actual combat simulation, 
 you can't build combat troops during a battle, which limits you to using reinforcements every so 
 often.
  
  Value- Although we all want a SW RTS that is worth playing this is not it. You are limited to only 
 the Rebellion, and the Empire which offers few units and small amounts of variety. After playing 
 I find no reason to return.
  
  I think I understand why Empire At War has been getting such good scores. People have been longing 
 for a good SW Real Time Strategy game for years, and they are telling themselves this is it, but 
 they dont really believe it. I know I dont.
  
  I recommend Star Wars: Galactic Battle Grounds over this game any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyline5
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited to hear they were gonig to make a game similar to rebellion. I ve been addicted 
 to RTS games forever now. When empire at war came out i played it for a few horus and began to 
 realize how repetative everything is. There are just not enough unit types to give any sort of 
 variety. The space battles are so small that it's pointless to move the ships since any ship can 
 fire almost across the map. Land battles are just retarded, so small again, with reinfocments points. 
 While the graphics are nice the game jsut looses its fun incredibly fast since there isnt enough 
 too do. The deathstar is pointless since it cannot fire at ships, and the timeline ends before 
 a new hope so the units are minisucle. The other dumb thing is the unit cap, you can only have 
 25 population per space battle, and th worth thing is, you dont get too choose the ships in your 
 fleet too start. Once a ship gets blown up you can , call in another ship. Pointless, all it does 
 is keep frame rates high and drag the battle on. If one side is loosing and they try to jump some 
 ships it, they'll get destroyed because of the disafvantage. If a player surrnders during space 
 combat the starbase self dis in 10 seconds blowing up an nearby ships, which sucks because its 
 so hard t oget them out before that. The AI is dumb, pathfinding is terrible, Multiplayer sucks, 
 since its imposible to connect, there are alot of bugs and errors that LA wont fix, instead they 
 add new content. This game is so easy a child could play it, anyone like me who was expecting amazing 
 battles, and deep gameplay stay away you're just setting up to be dissapointed. The Galactic conquest 
 mode is neat but there are only set maps and you cannot decide much Game felt very rushed, hte 
 campaign was so smal it was a waste to even play it. So pissed at this game for lack of depth, 
 if you want a real empire managment game go pick up Rome: Total War. As for this, it will remain 
 paper weight until mods come out to fix the lack of units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game just isn't my favourite. It's just a new step to make big bucks out of the Star Wars 
 popularity. This game is nice but it really can't get the feeling out of you that you are really 
 in the battle, like AOE3 does. I don't recommend this game. I only played the demo version but 
 I didn't get a OMG feeling out of it. People who love Star Wars buy it, people who like strategy 
 games, buy something like AOE3 or LOTR BFME. This game just isn't what it suppose to be. ( I'm 
 Dutch so I may spelled a few words wrong) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foresti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I am a huge starwars fan and have played just about every starwars game that there is. This 
 game is definitely an improvement over the last few RTS type starwars games that have come out. 
 The units are great, the graphics and sound are awesome. The different worlds are cool, and I really 
 liked their innate allegance to one side or the other. The campaign leaves a bit to be desired. 
 My basic problem is that I want to do everything else than what I am told to do in the rebel campaign. 
 Mon Mothma tells me to leave kessle to the empire but I really want to take it over. The first 
 few missions have a nice flow but soon you will find your planets interspersed with empire planets 
 in a kind of haphazard way. Perhaps this was the designers intent to keep the game dynamic, but 
 it really ticked me off to have to take Kaut before I was able to build assault frigates. 
  
  Another thing that really upset me was the speed of the battles and how difficult it was to 
 control my units. It took alot of effort to successfully target a capital ships hangar or shield, 
 and pretty much every battle I would lose every one of my fighters. The combat just moved to fast 
 for me to keep control of a large fleet. I think this game would have benefited a lot from a pause 
 option like Homeworld. Where you could pause the game, give orders to various ships and the restart 
 the action. That would have made a huge difference for me. 
  
  Also the order and balance of the Imperial and alliance units both in space and on the ground. 
 I haven't been able to complete the Imperial campaign I must admit but playing as the rebels I 
 had a tough time in the beginning. The infantry units and starting tanks are like so much fodder 
 to the AI controlled Imperial scout walkers and TIE Maulers. Of course I have much less success 
 with them when I played as the empire. It just feels a little too much like command and concer 
 without unit prodction. I spend 20 minutes building up my force and shuttling them to the attack 
 point and then lose half of them in the first engagement. This was not fun for me, and I would 
 often restart a battle 2-3 times before getting a good first engadgement. Ok I have babled on long 
 enough so let me just sum up by saying. It looks beautiful, accomplishes what it sets out to do 
 as far as interesting environments, space and ground combat, but really failed to bring to life 
 the starwars galaxy for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  now dont get me rong this is a great game and i love it, but wud i spend 30 on it? no im takin 
 it bak and exchanging it for another game. this is the type of game that u want on ur pc wit a 
 crack so u can refer bak to a bit of RTS wen u fancy it, but this isnt the type of game i can sit 
 and play for hours on end because it juts repeats itself. the galatic conquest is the same.. i completed 
 one map within 1hour. once u control half the map nothin can stop u.. hardly rebellion.. so in a 
 way not like films. but in a way yes i can see the hype but mayb to hyped for that type of game.. 
 mite be good online but i cant say i have tried it.
  
  one more thing... the sound... the empuer (cant spell) sounds like the type of person u find on the 
 sex offenders list.. nuttin like the film.. same goes for vader 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  1st I started up this game it seemed to be difficult and very in depth , so more I played with 
 it (and I did win in both modes) I realized how endlessly boring and nearly pointless the entire 
 game is, as for 1 in the story mode you cant just send ship where ever you like , but even the 
 game punishes you with bug-like things you can only spawn 1 squad on planets you try to attack 
 (but it wont tell you this you might think is a bug, in fact it tells you that you need reinforcements 
 but the button is gray) , the loading waiting screens before the battle is something that is made 
 by a 5 year old  how even most of other graphic is nice, the land battles are so boring that in 
 the end I chose to auto-resolve most of them  and I concentrated on having a large fleet above 
 vulnerable planets so it wont come much to land battles, so my main problem this game does not 
 require much of strategy  if this is not your 1st real time strategy game it will be boring after 
 10 minutes of real game play, but then at least the space battles are nice both the graphic and 
 game play, depending how we see it $40 I was playing it for 20 hours  I won in both types of game 
 play and uninstalled the game the $2/hour most games I get a lot better result then that, and I 
 was not excited mist of the time I already know what I will do for the next few hours and approximately 
 how long will it take to win 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good job, no doubt. After a plethora of screwups this one is finally a worthwhile 
 Star Wars game. And its worth its fifty bucks compared to a lot of other crap-in-a-box games out 
 there.
  Common sense dictated their usage of the time control feature. This is the best overall feature 
 in my opinion. No one wants to sit around forever while building up. Fast-forwarding helps avoid 
 boredom, pausing of course helps you gauge how the battle is going and give new orders to your 
 troops without feverishly fencing with your mouse. And of course there is no big "Game Paused" 
 window as in other games.
  The space battles are nice. The ground battles are so-so (I'm not gonna trash them - several people 
 have and thats somewhat unwarranted) . The good things about the space battles include incorporation 
 of the targeting subsytem feature (from Homeworld 2, Hegemonia etc) , attention to detail and of 
 course the experience. Ground battles basically get tedious - thats their problem. But apart from 
 that they are fair. Problem is of course that people are used to building units while here one 
 can just upgrade units and pray for more. Of course this means one has to use strategy (as in the 
 designation RTS) . Upgrades of course can also be purchased at space stations in space battles. 
 One of the problems in space and land battles is that sometimes units tend to have a mind of their 
 own (ghost in the AI?) and do whatever they please. Gets annoying but only when you first start 
 playing this game. Hmm,.. maybe thats one of the primary reasons to allow one to pause the battles 
 so the units can be tracked down and constantly reprimanded over not focusing on the target they 
 were supposed to in the first place. Enough musing.
  A point to note is that the mods that have been made by gamers complement this game quite well 
 - so I am noting their effort here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer1177
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  It is not what I expected but it is good enough to get me entertained for this long. It is not 
 what RTS fans expect this game to be because of the reinforcement points and low populations. But 
 it is pretty fun on the Campaign or galactic conquest modes. The Campain/ Galactic conquest mode 
 requires some strategy to maintain each planet in good shape. My fav. aspect of the game is the 
 allies you can control or face and the different environment you battle in. Space battles are pretty 
 good and the cool part is you get to take apart frigates and space stations piece by piece. Land 
 battles meet expectation and the best part about it is you can use jedis which helps alot especially 
 Darth Vader. ANother good thing about this game is that you can repeat the past or change it forever 
 which means if you play the Empire campaign you can use the Death Star and blow the s*** out of 
 every planet belonging to the Rebels. The graphics depend on your graphic card, I'm using Nvidia 
 Geforce 6100. It presents decent graphics in the game. At least better than AOE 3, which the graphics 
 are a big disappointment. THe worst and most important aspect of the game and has mentioned by 
 alot of reviewers is the multiplayer. It is very hard to connect and if ones connection screws 
 up then the whole game is ruined. I spent 30mins trying to connect in a game and I only succeded 
 in one. And then one guy has DSL which screws the pace of the game up and we had to kick him out 
 and that guy is in our team which once again screws the game up for everybody. If you don't really 
 care about multiplayer then it is a great game released for StarWars right now (excluding BF2 for 
 PS2) . So it depends on what you expect from this game and what you like from an RTS game. This 
 game has new ideas on everything which brings a whole new experience to RTS fans. And if you like 
 to conquer planets and you are afraid there might be only less than 20 planets you can conquer 
 then don't worry it has more than 80 planets waiting for you. It does bring disappointment, but 
 what are you gonna do, you have bought this game for 70$, the only way not to waste it is bring 
 out the good things about the game and enjoy it and hide the bad. THanks for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  Lucas Arts has put out some great titles lately, such as Star Wars: Battlefront 1 and 2, Star Wars 
 Galaxies, and Mercenaries (not a game based on Star Wars but still a great title) . Star Wars: Empire 
 at War is by far the best of the titles put out lately. In my opinion this title is actually an 
 improvement and an update to the Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds 
 is nothing in comparison to Empire at War's graphics, sound, gameplay, and veriaty of things to 
 do. Star Wars: Empire at War is visually stunning, sounds awesome, and plays relatively smoothly.
 
  
  VISUALLY
  Visually the game is very detailed. Zooming into the action is a great feature which is one thing 
 that I think a lot of games that are similar to this neeed to be aware of. A feature similar to 
 zooming in is the cenima view, which takes into the action as if you were watching one of the Star 
 Wars movies. The graphics are superbly done and I just wish I had a HD monitor for them. I have 
 to hand it to the designers they did an excellent job on getting it to look so amazing. The only 
 thing I could complain about the visual part of the game is the scale of the characters vs. the 
 scale of the vehicles. There are mods out there to fix this but for some one who doesn't want to 
 mess with the games files it's kinda disappointing.
  
  SOUND
  What can I say about the sound? Well if you stick in a movie of Star Wars and play the game at 
 the same time I don't think you can tell the difference. Does that sound impressive!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Now for me, like many others, if you're going to make a game in real-time it better 
 have a good feel to it if you know what I mean. Games such as Command and Conquer: Red Alert and 
 Rome: Total War are some games that I think when it comes to impressive gameplay. Empire at War 
 in my opinion is running with the leaders. I'm not saying it's the best, I'm just saying it's a 
 competitor in the stragety genre.
  
  END THOUGHTS
  Overall I can't think of a better Star Wars game that can match this one blow for blow. It's a 
 great game to play and even has history for those intrested in the Star Wars Universe. I must say 
 it's a game you love to play for days on end. Go get it and enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kienothas
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Not as innovative as most people are claiming. Space battles are nice to look at but restrict the 
 player to only 2-dimensional movement. Hoping to take your fleet of Star Destroyers in for a sneak 
 attack from far above, Homeworld style? Well too bad. Instead you'll have to throw your forces 
 against the enemy just like any other warcraft style RTS battle. Just make sure everything is attacking 
 what it is "strong against" and that it stays away from what it is "weak against" and everything 
 will be fine. If making movement in space battles 2-dimensional isn't bad enough, space also apparently 
 has an invisible boundary that your ships may not cross. Want to swing a couple of Destroyers around 
 that asteroid field to flank the enemy position? Tough. It's too close to the edge of space so 
 you can't go there. The maps are so small that most space battle are limited to a single strategy; 
 amass your ships and attack. Land battles are even more boring, as the maps are very small and 
 usually offer only one attack strategy. The units look great but the terrain is very bland. After 
 a few land battles they become very repetitive.
  
  Conquering the galaxy would be fun if you did not have the boring battles in between, but then 
 this game would just be a remake of Rebellion. In fact, that's more or less what this game is; 
 Rebellion with up-to-date graphics and RTS battles instead of automatically calculated battles.
 
  
  I am a huge Star Wars fan but I just could not get into this one. If you are looking for a deep 
 strategy experience, you'll not find one here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Bluntman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  A really good Star Wars game. Reminiscent of the old Command & Conquer series, of which I was a 
 fan. I have only played through the Empire story arc thus far, but I have just begun my Rebel game. 
 I found playing as either Vader or Siddius quite enjoyable, I really liked Vaders' Force Crush 
 ability, in which he can crush and enemy vehicle. Nice assortment of playable units, AT-AT's own. 
 I only wish that the game extended through the last three movies as opposed to only going through 
 Episode 4. Definately worth buying, I have found it nothing but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  From the reviews i've read i was expecting a really good strategy game from this effort. I have 
 played Force commander and Galactic battleground and have ben disappointed with them both. 
  
  So how did this one fair?
  
  Well certainly it is much improved for the space battles and 
 the global campaign map it has certainly adds a great deal extra to what the other games had to 
 offer. On that basis alone it has superseeded the previous efforts of a Star Wars strategy game. 
 However if you compared to other strategy games then the story is somewhat different. Firstly units 
 offer little strategic advantages, it's nowmally a case as once you can build corvettes and frigates 
 then X-wings and B-wings become somewhat obselete. The whole battling also offers little in stratgey 
 as "paper, stone, scissor" there is no formation or behaviour control of these units, just move 
 and fire. Some units have special moves however which improves the gameplay a little. Also the 
 game is meant to have certain environmental effects, all of which seem to hinder and adds very 
 little to the stragey of the battle. There are nebulas that disrupt scanning, but you can't hide 
 in one for instance. Also interaction with the environment is none existent, unlike the great strategy 
 games like ground control 2, you cannot use trees for cover, higher ground for greater weapon range 
 or visibility, or garrison buildings.
  In addition building in the whole are there to be destroyed, the cannot be used except for the 
 odd few, and building on the ground is limited to 6 structures, like laser towers or heal stations. 
 
  
  With regard to the campaign it trys to emulate the style of total war, where you capture areas 
 and progress acroos the campaign map. This seems to work quite well, although I found the ease 
 of which to generate credits somewhat overshadowed the planets bonuses, which predominantly centred 
 around cheaper production. I imagine this would have been better if the strategy of the actual 
 battles allowed for greater losses, thus bumping up the cost of the campaign, however the simplicity 
 of the strategy required did not allow this.
  
  The game has some annoyances also. Firstly, the AI is pretty lame, you can order units to withdraw, 
 but no soon as they've reached the location you've moved them to, they are charging straight back 
 into battle. The units that are sent into battle are also not the ones you end up playing with 
 on the whole, i dont quite understand how this works, but it seems there is a cap on the maximum 
 units allowed, hence no large scale battles can really be engineered.
  
  The graphics for the land battles although much better than the previous 2 efforts are still very 
 poor for modern strategy enthusiasts. The is a significant lack of detail to the environment and 
 the maps themselves are distinctly channeled so that no other forms of assault can be executed 
 other than "charge the main gate" aproach.
  
  To conclude, it is certainly the best Star Wars strategy game to date but it still has a long way 
 to go before becoming a great stragey game. Because it is based on the Star Wars world it does 
 add considerable appeal yet it's failure to deliver as a strategy game does not put it among the 
 greatest games by any strecth of the imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpywell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Overall I have found this game too be much like the rest of the RTS games out there, very straight 
 forward too figure out and play if you are an avid RTS gamer. 
  
  The demo download has too leave you wondering though, it was a 10 minute easy too do level that 
 really didnt take you anywhere or show you any of the true pull that this game has.
  
  I cant really compare it too other starwars games, the only four that I play is Star Wars: Galaxies, 
 KOTOR, KOTORII and this one. Compared to other RTS games that I have played over the years this 
 one is definitely full of detail and fun, it keeps you busy and looking at your commanded units.
 
  
  I rated this game 9/10 for overall fun and detail. If your not a StarWars fan then the demo is 
 not really going to get you anything but disappointed. Best too get your hands on the full version 
 and give it hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well If i were to compare SWGB with SWEAW i would have to say SWGB is better. I actually expected 
 a senario editor, but there was none, it was really wasn't all that great. The graphics are way 
 way bad, not that interactive. Well i guess this was another money maker for LucasArts. But amongst 
 all the others what i really liked was the galactic conquest mode, it was very fun to play and 
 i liked most of it but i really hated that 1 rebel platoon, 1 PLEX platoon and "Han & Chewy" could 
 destroy and take over an entire planet plus they could sneak past space fleets. The heroes were 
 a little too powerful, not much units. I didn't thought that LucasArts would do so bad. 
  
  GAMEPLAY - 5/10 The galactic conquest mode was most out of the 5 because i liked it and you could 
 play it for hours and not "take over the galaxy".
  
  GRAPHICS - 3/10 Horrible graphics i think SWGB could do better.
  
  SOUND - 4/10 Classic SW 
 music and sounds. Nothing Great.
  
  VALUE - 3/10 Since all SW games cost the same upon release, i would have given a 6 but this game 
 wasn't all so great.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT - 1/10 Very upsetting ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Finally, finally a good star wars stragety game. The game has a new and fresh style that the other 
 star wars games didn't have.
  
  GAMEPLAY- There is nothing of another world here, but it is a good copy of another stragety games.
 
  
  GRAPHICS- Solid graphics with a good character modeling make this 
  game the best-looking star wars stragety game to date.
  
  SOUND- Great sound that interacts 
 perfectly with the action. Every beam and explotion sounds like movie-style thing.
  
  VALUE- This game is good for stragety games fans, but superb for star wars fans. You can use X-wings, Y-wings, 
 Star destroyers, storm troopers, and even heroes like Luke, Darh Vader, Han Solo, Chewbacca and 
 more.
  
  This is a great game for everyone, excellent game for stragety game fans and perfect for star wars 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  At first Empire at War is a little confusing in the way things work, but once you get the hang 
 of it, nothing is simpler. The game really lacks a lot of depth, but has enough to make it worthy 
 of playing. The battles on land and in space are really quite well done and offer up a nice Star 
 Wars feel and atmosphere that previous Star Wars RTS have lacked. The online multiplayer is also 
 quite fun, giving a decent experience and challenge.
  
  It is obvious expectations for this game were very high and it meets quite a few of those expectations 
 but lacks in some areas that really could be added in later expansions or in a sequel to the game. 
 The concept of the game is sound enough that adding to it will not be difficult to do in the future, 
 but one might have wanted more in this version.
  
  I may be being very vague on this, but it is difficult to say a lot about the game without giving 
 anything away, basically take this for what it is worth: if you like RTS and Star Wars, buy this 
 game when the price drops and you will be happy with the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Game like this only come once in a blue moon game where fans of a film of stuff like that can play 
 out the history they grew up with when they where little.
  
  Having said that EAW does have its flaws in places ie some of the rebel units seem to be very overpowerd 
 in places. The main game is done in a way that you get to pick if you just do the missions given 
 to you or weather you just take over the whole place with big fleets and big invasion forces.
 
  
  The music is some of the best star wars music i have heard in a long time (apart from ROTS film) .
 
  
  In the end this is not the best RTS game out there but it does come close in some places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paranoyia
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I expected more of this game after watching such a nice video-review on GameSpot, but was terribly 
 disappointed when I actually got to play this game. The first thing that struck me was a terrible 
 graphical presentation, which is just rediculous for the year 2006. Sound was somewhat better, 
 but still plain, especially the voice acting - casting was just abysmal, even I could do better 
 as Han Solo or Darth Vader. Ok, alright I thought - graphix isn't all that important, it's the 
 gameplay that makes the game. And what do you think? Was it better than all the rest? No way! Planetary 
 battles are very boring, because they simply lack all that juice we're used to in RTS. Space battles 
 are even worse than that. Ground missions are happening very slow, even with time acceleration 
 on, space missions are even slower. Game's terribly unbalanced as well. There's simply no place 
 for a regular foot soldier. They get run over by a Tie Mauler or get blown by Darth in no time. 
 I can only give some credit to it, because there are many strategical possibilities in those ground 
 and space battles. None on the war map on the other hand. You just send troops on the remote spots 
 of the map, to defent 2 or 3 joint planets. No fun. Research is also very limited. And building 
 something is just plain boring, you just click on the planet, click on what's to build, and that's 
 it. No interaction on where to put a building what so ever. Brrr, Jeff Wayne's War of the Worlds 
 was so much better.
  
  Conclusion: not worth your money, avoid it at all costs, unless you're a hardcore SW fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  When people describe SW: Empire at War as an RTS meets Galactic Civilizations, that's about as 
 accurate as it gets. They hyped this game as a Star Wars RTS, don't really know what more you can 
 say other than that's exactly what this is.
  
  The only other SW's RTS I know of is the Galactic Battleground series. It was alright, but it wasn't 
 all that logical. Watching stormtroopers chop wood and file into an imperial base like orcs was 
 pretty lame. I think some of the moves made by the developers of SW: EAW make a bit more sense 
 in that regard. 
  
  Sound effects are perfect. Voice overs aren't bad. Graphics are good considering. Some complain 
 about the scale of vehicles, buildings, and troops... it wasn't all that noticeable to me at any 
 rate. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, it's what you'd expect if you follow SW. Rebels are at somewhat of a disadvantage 
 compared to the Imperials. Defense seems to always have an advantage. Ground battles aren't as 
 fun as the space battles in my opinion. Ground battles typically consist of destroying all the 
 enemy buildings/units. Buildings like factories, barracks, and native dewlings will respawn more 
 and more enemy units until the building is destroyed, so the strategy tends to be charge and balance 
 out complimentary units. Big plus that Stormtroopers become Snowtroopers on arctic planets.
  
  Space battles were better though. That aspect was probably the most immersive. Those battles 
 relied more heavily on the strategy of placement of ships. 
  
  There isn't much more you can ask for besides replayability. It is true that one can obtain victory 
 in a variety of ways, depending upon settings, but ultimately once you've crush your opponent a 
 few times you'll get bored. There is an auto resolve option that helps you skip the tedium of playing 
 battles that won't be fun, in case you've decided on the boardgame RISK method of attaining planets.
 
  
  There isn't much room for improvement. It is what it is, but it isn't a KOTOR or JK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seekanddemolish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game really shows the climax of the intergalactic war, but yet is not perfect, because it 
 has a couple of minor faults, such as it's graphics are far from perfect, with uneven camera angles, 
 making it hard to view excitement. The gameplay is well, but for most of it, the control is up 
 to the game, which leavs you sitting there playing finger hockey. You will definitely find it easy 
 to go back and play this game, but not as frequently as many others. I love the climactic music, 
 and am a big fan of this game, and reccommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhelmet69
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  maybe some spoilers...
  
  overall the game is pretty good... a few small points however prevent me from really enjoying it. 
 the graphics are pretty for an RTS, with nice shadows and detailed walkers and speeders and the 
 such. sounds are cool with that fun star wars atmosphere, environments are entertaining too, adding 
 to the standard RTS plate with things like the weird sections in space (can't remember the names 
 of them right now) . also the turn based type space conquest thing is pretty cool too, as an addition 
 to the fun space and land battles. a lot of people complained that they turned space battle 2D, 
 but if they went 3D like homeworld then a lot of people wouldn've been left out. the 3D space interface 
 was just too hard to grasp for some people. 
  
  on the bad...
  
  okay what the heck is the point of reinforcement points? in a skirmish game, you have your reinforcement 
 cap of 9. cool. reinforcement cap, command limit, whatever it's all good in RTS such as this, WH40K 
 DOW, LOTR, etc. but in SW: EAW even if you own all but one of the reinforcement points, you still 
 only have the limit of 9, and so does the enemy while only owning one point!.... that's the dumbest 
 thing ever. this totally takes away any incentive to capture or worry about the reinforcement point. 
 just keep and eye on them and lay waste to the enemy's base. i couldn't find a setting to alter 
 this either.
  
  i like how on some maps, maybe even most in the skirmish, they have the abandon sensor array in 
 the middle of the map, which you can capture and then it removes the fog of war. that's awesome, 
 but when i have the emperor and a squad of stormtroopers guarding it and a 4 man rebel squad can 
 run up next to it and capture it in 5 seconds while being shot at and whatnot, that's bull. they 
 just capture it, die, and i recapture. if the enemy is in a certain radius of something, and you're 
 being shot at, you shouldn't be able to capture it. that's just dumb. same goes for reinforcement 
 points. i can have a squad of troopers standing there shooting at an enemy squad running through 
 the reinforcement point radius and i get the 'reinforcement point contested' message. they could 
 just run around in circles and take over the point. how lame.
  
  on a quicker note, considering the rebels are a bit rag-tag as far as training and equipment goes, 
 why can a squad of rebel troopers destroy 3 squads of stormtroopers? it takes awhile but it eventually 
 happens....... dumb
  
  those are the two biggest points, and for me they seriously detract from the gameplay. when you 
 have to keep checking these places to make sure the enemy doesn't 'run by' and capture everything 
 is a drag.
  
  those points aside. if you can push them out of your head, or simply don't notice them, then the 
 game is a riot. for myself i can't play for more than an hour without freaking out and quitting. 
 i would recommend the demo before purchase.
  
  also, i'm rating this as a hard game, because i can never find a right difficulty in RTS, easy 
 is too easy, medium is usually damn hard for me, and hard is impossible, but that's just me. if 
 you are naturally gifted at RTS then the difficulty will probably feel like any other RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge star wars fan, so any star wars game is always going to get a bias to the posative.. 
 this game breaks that trend. There were many good things about it and many bad things.
  First off the graphics and sound are great and in keeping with the star wars univers. Nothing unique 
 but still quite modern.
  The main idea of the game is quite good. I like the system map and how trade routes and planetary 
 income is managed.
  The space battles are a favourite of mine and the only real part of the game i didnt tire of.
 
  The big problem is the ground battles, once i had a jedi and a hero character on the map.. ne1 
 would become no competition. Which made the game a little lacking in substance.. 
  So in conclusion.. great idea, almost there but not enough to keep ur interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Generally, I don't play strategy games. However, when I got my new pc, I started looking at pc 
 games, and this one caught my attention. I've always loved Star Wars, and I've always loved playing 
 as the Rebels. I found this game to be easy to pick up and go, because the campiagn isn't really 
 necissary to unlock good stuff. The graphics are true eyecandy, but as I said, I tend to shoo away 
 from these types of games, solely for the reason that they become complicated. This game is no 
 exception to the rule; the tutorials are very confusing, and the actual campaign is incredibly 
 difficult, because it offers little help. Still, I encourage those of you who can put strategy 
 with Star Wars to do so; but be warned, the game is incredibly confusing if you don't know what 
 you're doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buglenuge
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  A lot actually. Rome TW. Homeworld 2. Ground Control.
  
  Empire at War borrows from all of these but doesn't really succeed at any.
  
  The game is divided 
 into the areas; the galaxy screen (Rome TW) , space battles (Homeworld 2) and ground battles (Ground 
 Control) .
  
  The persistent world idea for the galaxy screen is possibly the best thing about the game but it 
 doesn't quite work. Fleets that are on route for defensive battles never seem to arrive in the 
 less protected areas of your empire, and it's all to easy to amass armadas that can defeat any 
 invading forces to planets you deem important (ie the ones that generate a lot of cash) . The graphics 
 in this area are functional and nothing more, which is a shame because it would have been nice 
 to be able to see your fleet orbiting besides the huge space station with construction taking place 
 on the planet beneath. Rome TW did the overview screen before, prettier, and better.
  
  Space battles are fun but they leave a bitter taste in the mouth. Maps are too small and you only 
 fight in two dimensions. The unit caps are also too low, you can only expect to have 4 or 5 capital 
 ships at once plus a few supporting vessels, you can call for reinforcements but it's not like 
 the epic battles from the movies. Homeworld 2 was the inspiration here and again did it in a far 
 superior way than Empire at War. It's Star Wars for heavens sake, i want to be able to zoom in 
 on a Y-Wing and circle it in 360 degrees while it makes a bombing run against a Star Destroyer. 
 But the game won't let me... its 2D!
  
  Ground battles (Ground Control) are just poor. Again the maps are too small. And if you have a 
 hero unit far too easy to complete. Take control of construction point - build bacta tank - go 
 kill enemies - heal if injured - go kill enemies - repeat until done.
  
  Sound is typically Star Wars and very good. But if it wasn't there would be even more missing. 
 Graphics overall are fairly solid but the textures don't look great up close. Gameplay is far too 
 repetitive.
  
  In short i don't think the game offers enough detail to entertain the hard core Star Wars fans 
 because references and detail are too sparse. And hard core RTS fans should definitely look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hnizdo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically rebellion 2. The biggest major change is the inclusion of ground based battles. 
 The space element of the game is particularly spectacular though the ground battles are not so 
 good. It is possible to get the computer to auto resolve battles for you but this inevitably looses 
 you far more units than you would likely loose if you were to fight the battles. Sometimes this 
 is a really ridiculous difference as a battle where you wouldn't loose anything you end up loosing 
 2 star destroyers if the computer fights it. The game is a little repetitive and you are slightly 
 left feeling that you are in fact playing three different games none of which are perfect that 
 have been turned into one, ie the space combat, ground combat, and galactic conquest. Even with 
 these problems I would recommend it to anyone who is even a remote fan of starwars and strategy 
 games, though strategy purists who don't care so much about the star wars element may be left feeling 
 a little short changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keion
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Its probably one of the best strategy games outthere right now, the space battles for me was the 
 most fun. The land battles wernt as fun because in the empire mode all i needed was a hero and 
 build pads to make healing stations and i would win. 
  
  The Graphics i would say was very good, you can actually see the grass blowing in the wind.
  
 And as for the sound it was very good too, it sounded like the real actors.
  
  in conclusion i do recommend it to anyone, but ive had move fun playing games like homeworld 2 
 and ground control 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesamuri
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  i have played multiple rts games, and i seem to think that this is one of the best star wars games 
 that i have played. lets face it, kotor 2 was alright, but the first one was awesome. I have to 
 say that this is the best rts on the market. i highly reccomend this game to any true star wars 
 or rts fan. You find yourself addicted and also intrigued at all the different aspects of gameplay 
 and it never seems to end. you get unprecedented powers when you take on the role of the emperor, 
 and other characters as well. the plot is quite good and it seems just like the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhallo123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  As a very loyal fan of the Star Wars saga I think this game has got all the merits to be considered 
 a masterpiece.
  When I first played this game I was astonished by it's impressive graphics and it's high quality 
 sound, I was a little bit disappointed about it's gameplay, but I'd rather say that that is not 
 quite a problem, so I really recommend this game, I think it is worth buying.
  For even a rookie gamer it's learning curve won't pass the 30 minutes.
  
  I will conclude that 
 it is an excellent propose for all the gamers around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Nothing innovative, but all well done. On my ATI 9800 it plays and looks beautifully.
 
  
  Sound: I almost always turn the music off during most computer games. If it's not pertinent to 
 game play I don't need to hear it. From that perspective, the sounds are very good, but lack great 
 variation. On my Creative Audigy 2 Platinum eX there are no hiccups.
  
  Gameplay: Extremely simple interface. I would have liked to be able to set formations. This is 
 not a complex game. Even so the unit strengths, weakness and bonuses aren't readily apparent. The 
 mouse over pop ups are somewhat useful. An in game manual like Civ 3 - 4 encyclopedia would have 
 been nice. The economy is also simple but trying to keep track of smugglers is vague.
  
  Overall, this is a good execution of a simple RTS set in the enjoyable Star Wars universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  While this game blows past Star Wars strategy games out of the water, it could have been better. 
 The land battles are a chore and doesnt seem to be as manageable as the space battles. 
  
  The real time turn based system is IMO not suitable for a game like this, the system used by the 
 Total War series is much better. 
  
  Graphically, I'm not that bothered bout graphics as its the gameplay that counts more, its certainly 
 gd enough for its scope. Sound is excellent but hey, its Star Wars :)
  
  Overall, any enjoyable ride for Star Wars fans and strategy fans in general -
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  SW EAW has to be one of my favourite RTS & the best one I've played since Warhammer 40K. Let's see 
 why it's that good.
  
  The best part of this game is the huge space battles, they are just amazing to watch on a high end 
 machine. There's also a cinematic view which bring you closer to the action. The land battles aren't 
 that good because they don't offer anything new but are still fun.
  
  Graphically it's just what the game needed. Sound is near perfect with sounds right down from X-Wing 
 & TIE Fighters to the AT-ATs. The gameplay is pretty good for an RTS as well & the game is long 
 enough for people to enjoy it both offline & online.
  
  This one might just be the RTS of the year, or atleast close enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kriz_91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War is a really good game that puts the best of Star Wars in a well put together Real 
 Time Strategy Game. The size of ships and vehicles compared to smaller ships and infantry is quite 
 accurate and this adds a feel of reality to the game. All basic Star Wars stuff from the X-Wings 
 to the Shield Generators, this game has it all to create the ultimate Star Wars feel. The graphics 
 are very neat, assuming you got the muscle power of course. Heroes have really cool features, or 
 special abilities, that make the game much more fun. The reinforcement points on land battles take 
 strategy to a new level changing focus from controlling the most powerful base to controling simply 
 more reinforcement points, and this forces you to concentrate on your forces and thus your fight 
 strategy rather than your economy which makes this game really interesting. Overall this game has 
 lots of fun, innovative things, and lets of course not forget the Star Wars feel you get from it. 
 If you are a fan of Star Wars, even if you don't really like RTS, you should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: some_something
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by stating that I am just getting into the Real-Time-Strategy (RTS) game 
 genre, but don't count me out. Star Wars: Empire At War, like I stated in the review deck, has 
 the right idea. The game was well thought out and was approached carefully. The makers behind Star 
 Wars: Empire At War then experimented with some new ideas, making the game play a combination of 
 classic RTS games and Star Wars: Battlefront 2.
  
  However, this combination is easily arguable as a mistake or a blessing in disguise.
  
  Star 
 Wars: Empire At War is an entertaining game, but can get old rather quickly (depending on how long 
 you play it at any given time) . Be on your toes newbies to the RTS genre, Star Wars: Empire At 
 War can get pretty complicated. Though, if you've played other RTS games before this one, you shouldn't 
 have a problem. Star Wars: Empire At War features a handy tutorial mode that'll set you out on 
 missions while explaining how the game works. It covers everything from land battles to space battles.
 
  
  This is the very thing that seperates Star Wars: Empire At War from other RTS games. The space 
 battles featured in Star Wars: Empire At War are well thought out and play really well.
  
  We just wish we could say the same for land battles. This is where Star Wars: Empire At War screwed 
 up. No matter the game mode, land battles leave no creativity for the player to experiment with. 
 Bases can't be made the way you want them to be, structures can't be moved from place to place, 
 and you can't construct new bases elsewhere on the map. Instead, Star Wars: Empire At War leaves 
 you with Reinforcement Points, randomly placed pads that look a lot like Command Posts from Star 
 Wars: Battlefront, that you can use to deploy troops and vehicles. You must think before you act 
 though, because you're only allowed so many units at one time.
  
  The best part of the game must be the Galatic Conquest mode, where you fight your opponent for 
 control over the galaxy by obtaining planets one by one.
  
  This is long enough I figure, but there's much more to cover. To be fair overall though, Star Wars: 
 Empire At War is a classic in the making. We'll just have to give it time. If you love Star Wars, 
 like myself, then you'll enjoy this game. If you're a hardcore RTS fan with no life that needs 
 a RTS game to staisfy you every minute of every day, then look else where.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I love strategy games most of the time but this one was the worst i have ever played. This game 
 was hard to get into and very esay to get out of. The game looks pretty good but that is all it 
 has going for it. All the buildings look the same, the troops look very simular and on top of that 
 the game play isn't very fun. The space fights are not vevy fun and it would have been really cool 
 to see the space stations. The detail in the game looked ok, untill the BFME came out. the sound 
 not the best ether, it was just alot of lazers and boops. If you haven't understod yet I don't 
 like this game. It looks ok but the sound and gameplay isn't the greatest. they shouldn't of ever 
 cauld this a starwars game. Starwars was one of the best movies in the world and these game make 
 me cry inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  -This game is not a traditional RTS
  -This game can be run on max settings with an older computer
  -This game comes with a movie mode 
 which allows you to watch the battle from a unique perspective thats not only cool, but the first 
 of its kind!
  -Star Wars fans MUST own this game, its very rich in Star Wars Lore
  -You can play 2 diffrent campagins, either as Empire or Rebels
  -The game is one where you cant 
 just build 500 units and bulldoze your way down.. you must use tactics and squads special abilitys.
 
  -This game has exellent sound thats deserving of the Star Wars name
  -Massive selection of Heros makes each misson fun and intriguin
  -Over 70 Planets to play on... (similiar 
 map to Rebellion for you old timers)
  -Large selection of minor heros (bounty hunters. smugglers. field officersetc..)
  -Diffrent weather 
 pattrens affect diffrent types of soldiers
  -Reinforcments idea is spectacular
  
  In the end the truth of this game is that its tottally diffrent from anything you have ever played.
 
  
  DONT BUY if your looking for another tried and true RTS
  
  BUY if your looking for somthing new.... contains some familiar elements... with a lot of new ones, 
 exellent voice acting... exellent game... at first I ddint like.. now I love... If you love star wars... you 
 must get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallout_red
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  In years a lot of decent Star Wars based video-games have come and gone. Some of the newer SW games 
 have been really good. SW: KotOR I & II were not only great but two of the best RPGs of late. SW: BF 
 brought the Star Wars action to a new level adding Battle Field elements and all was almost done 
 perfectly. Now after RPG and Action, it's time for one great strategy for the galaxy and Empire 
 at War really hits the spot.
  
  -= Gameplay =- 8: SW: EaW has two layers of gameplay that player must focus on both of them, Space 
 and Land + galactic strategy side. While on land game is decent with some traditional strategy 
 elements plus a few twists, It is not just gathering resources and producing units. Units are limited 
 to your reinforcement points. Most of your uints like footmen are squad based and in numbers while 
 the greater ones like heros are single. In the space lies the real battle and joy. It is more tactical 
 and beautiful up there and greater AI and more options make space battles star of the show. The 
 cute cinematic camera looks fantastic in the space. Empire and rebels have truely different game 
 methods specially in space which adds to the whole amount of gameplay. Lord Vader as hero!!!??? 
 Sign me up.
  
  -= Graphics =- 9: On the ground, the terrain is almost flat and mostly similiar but nice effects 
 like explosions and crowded battles are good. Up in the sky and space the graphics are amazing, 
 Lots and lots of ships and astroids can be seen and great animations and lasers with thousands 
 of laser bolts!!! plus good lightening and shadowcasting make space battles look truly epic. One 
 of the best aspects of graphic here are the particle effects and the first time you see a big big 
 thing destroyed and shatterd into pieces, your sold. game overally runs great and has solid framerate 
 even in heavy space wars, though the land battles could have used more polish and explosions could 
 have used better effects ( specially in variety) .
  
  -= Sound and Music =- 8: With great soundtrack and SW's original score what can be bad? There is 
 good variety in music and sound effects are from decent to great. Voice over isn't bad but dialogues 
 can be repetitive and some situations could have used better "sound" effects. Hearing Darth Vader 
 breath is still as good as it used to be.
  
  -= Value =- 8: Well besides the great multiplayer with decent options and a handfull of maps, there 
 are other parts like story mode for singleplayer, standard skirmish and one great "galactic conquest" 
 which can be really big with lots of planets. story mode isn't too long but is entertaining on 
 both sides. Lots of ships and up-grades are available and downloadable mods are nice. Controling 
 Lord Vader in an epic battle is a real joy. Cinematic camera is incrediblely sweet and fun to watch.
 
  
  While SW: EaW is not the best strategy of the year, it is still a great experience specially for 
 fans. RPG fans have KotOR, Action types play Battlefront and the tactical and strategic wars of 
 empire are really sweet for both Strategy gamers and Star Wars fans. May the force be with you 
 in the war of the empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Innovative and fun but it lacks better graphics and it can get repetative fast. The reason I say 
 this is because its true. Star Wars Empire at War is innovative in that there is little to no resource 
 management in ground battles and the concept of defending and taking over planets is fun but the 
 fun wears thing after playing through the galactic campaign mode once. Once I did play it seemed 
 like I already saw there was all to see and I didn't feel like going any further than I did. i 
 researched all the units and the game is now dull. Its like Age of Empires 3 in that while innovative, 
 its not that great due to the gameplay. The land battles are fun but the space battles are better 
 but they just not interesting enough to look at. The game as a whole is lacking in better graphics 
 and for that I got bored with it. The gameplay is fun but land battles end up being a bit boring 
 due to the fact that you can't traditionallly create bases. Bases amount to a few turrets and thats 
 it. Thats all there is to the game. 
  
  I guess I need some form of base building to keep me occupied and I feel that there was so much 
 possibility for this game to be amazing if it was not so simplified. It would have been funner 
 for hardcore RTS game fans but it falls short of being great. Its still worth a purchase though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enderexor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  It had potental to be better than just a great game. But the small unit pop caps, over powered 
 Rebel units and, flawed pathfinding mar what could of been one of the best games in its class. 
 
  
  The game is well worth playing and there are enough Mods out or being made that will deal with 
 the problems left by short sighted Developers. Lucas Arts has messed with the Star Wars story and 
 equipment descriptions way to much in the game and many other games thay have made.
  
  Star Destroyers are suposed to be far more powerful than a Mon Calamarie Cruiser. Also one must 
 note that they have placed the Ion cannons where the octuple Turbo Laser cannons should be. Small 
 details like that decrease the games value to avid Star Wars fans. 
  
  Flaws a side it is a game woth the money and very entertaining. But it is not quit as good as it 
 could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shimo1989
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War has been one of the most anticipated games in 2005, but the quality of 
 the game does not quite live up to the hype it created. The graphics of the game are great, featuring 
 many special effects that cannot even be displayed on a slightly old video card. As well, the units 
 of the game are properly sized, especially in space, with detailed texture and lots of moving parts. 
 
  
  However, the game itself is not quite as great as the 3D graphics that make it one of the most 
 visually stunning games on the market today. The land battle is not as sophisticated and complex 
 as the C&C series from Westwood or the AOE series from Microsoft. There is a fair amount of innovation 
 that comes with the new land battles such as reinforcement points, but almost nothing in the game 
 have not been done before. As well, the graphics of the land battle is not as great as the space 
 battles. The infantry units always run in small jogging steps that look almost exactly like Empire 
 Earth II and looks extremely cheesy, and the vehicles, especially smaller vehicles such as the 
 speeder bikes, require a tremendous amount of micro-management that is almost impossible to see 
 the battles on a larger scale. The space battle, one of the most important aspects of the game, 
 is undoubtedly much better than the ground battles strategically or graphically, but the major 
 problem with the space battle is that it is too similar to the ground battles. All the space units 
 move on the same plane, creating a sort of a space terrain that is flat and is similar to the land 
 battles. Navigating your fleets through asteroid fields and nebula fields is just like the traditional 
 battles. It just can't beat the Homeworld series in this aspect, despite the huge sizes of the 
 fleets and much better graphics. The strategy element of the game ( i. e. the massive maps on which 
 you can build buildings and move fleets from planet to planet ) is not as fun and engaging as some 
 of the other games out there, especially the Total War series, or even Risk the board game.
  
  Star Wars: Empire at War is a somewhat fun game to play, even though it is not as satisfying 
 an experience as any of the older games of RTS such as the C&C series, the AOE series, or the Homeworld 
 series. If you are a big fan of Star Wars and is looking for eye candy , go ahead and buy the game. 
 If you are looking for new features and innovation, you will be disappointed, and will probably 
 be better off playing games from the older series mentioned above separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koltasXxX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  And that is about it , nothing more i can say... Naah just kidding :) .
  I loved the game form the moment i turned it on. A superb menu greeted me and let me play.
  Besides 
 the Skirmish and Campaign modes there is a never seen thing - galactic conquest.
  The idea that you don't have to build a base , then research every possible upgrade and the building 
 da bigest army. You control everything from a Galactic map. You see your and your enemies planets 
 like little circles. If you select a circle (planet) , you can see what kind of Units u have on 
 it. You only can build units from the galactic view , so if u have a surprise attack , there is 
 a big chance you will loose becouse you won't have an army set up there. 
  A cool thing that the land battles aren't the only battles you are going to do , there are also 
 space battles , with massive numbers of little manuvering fighters , and big very slow battle ships. 
 In land and in air you have to destroy every single unit , so that is one of the things that suck. 
 Sometimes you have to search out the whole map again for a severely injured lil troop. 
  Also from the galactic view you can build buildings , every planet has a number of biulding slots 
 , so you have to think 2 times before building 'em. After you've built a unit produceing building 
 u start makeing units. Every planet has a unit capacity to :) , so the best thing to do would be 
 to make sure that your space defence is unbeatable, becouse there is nolimit how many troops u 
 have in a planets orbit.
  After you constructed , that you think, a big and strong enaugh crew. Start planing your root for 
 the best planets , you can't just hop around from every planet, you must travel planet-planet-planet-desired 
 planet. Choos the planets with the best special abilities, becouse if you don't use AT-AT's , why 
 do you need a 25% discount for them? So ussualy it is the same drill galactic battle , land battle 
 , win, repeat, beat da galactic map.
  That is the bigest problem of the game that it starts getting boting very fast.
  You can choose 
 from to sides (hell yeah!) the rebellion or republic (my choise) . Republic has a bigger number of 
 troops , and rebellions have stronger units. Ofcourse you can't say that the gigantic AT-AT is 
 a weak unit ;] . Every unit has 3 units that is affective with and 3 units that are his weaknesses, 
 so think before makeing tons of Star destroyers if your enemy has a stra destroyer destroyer . 
 
  The amount of units you can see in the screen isn't big. Small troops come in groups of 3 to ~10 
 and counts as a one unit. In most of the lands battles you probably will have about 15 slots for 
 units, so you if you use only infranity you will have 150 units, bout what kind of player would 
 do that. I'm not judgeing the graphics , becouse i love it, but i'm saying that there oculd be 
 more units in the screen come on we want massive cinameatic battles. What are you saying big people 
 fomr LucasArts ? Press da Cinematic button? OK!
  I love that button you can see you troops attacking (or being attacked) from different camera variations 
 (too bad you can't control it) , and feel like you are in another SW movie , i loved , specialy 
 in space battles with lasers everywere and the camer is following a little ship taht is trying 
 to avoid them, or speeders hooking up AT-AT's legs with ropes... priceless. 
  Another strange button is a fast forward button at first i didn't think i will use it but in the 
 later battles it was my hero , becouse units are very very slow, i am not talking about speeders 
 or tie fighters, but you get the idea.
  Of course you will se the peeps from the movies. Too bad you will only see heros from episodes 
 4-6 and you won't hear the original voices, but it still is a plus. Those heroes really lighten 
 up the battle spirit and using theyr special ability (almostt all of the units has one , but hero 
 abilities ar better) will bring you to a victory faster.
  All in all it is a good , not a hard one, strategie about our loved star wars franchize. ALthough 
 it looses its charm fast , it still is a hell of fun game to play.
  Recomended for star wars fans , strategie newbies, and people who wan't to paly an easy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragejay2007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War has a cool concept to it. Its practicly doing what you want in the campaign and galactic 
 conquest. Very thought out. I thought some of the AI is pretty stupid though like when your attacking 
 and theres a bunker behind your attack force and the AI just run for the bunker and by the time 
 they get there. they are all dead. Also sometimes your own guys just wonder off by themselves. 
 No resource gathering I think this is the first RTS game ive seen with no resource gathering and 
 it turned out awsome. I like the major differences between the Empire and Reble's. Funny when other 
 sides just rag on each other. In this game you have to use strategy to win. Even if you have the 
 biggest army you still could loose and I found out that only 6 guy army can majorly kill or cripple 
 the other team stuff if you know how to use em right. I also like how in galactic conquest that 
 theres no turns if just goes as one turn. Its a race tothe first attack and hopefully you win. 
 Yay for running over stuff. I like tanking a few tanks and running over a bunch of guys. The marauders 
 just kill at that. The AI is especially good at that. Cool game I would suggest to getting it when 
 the price does go down. Thank for reviewing my Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandersleid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet 
 sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet, oh by the way its 
 SWEET!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inverted720
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This is good game but lacks the gusto to be a great game. While the graphics, sound, and epic star 
 battles are spectacular the 3 mini-game design is can be broken down to a RTS cookie cutter game. 
 Unit building becomes very repetitive and moving your ships around becomes exceedingly cumbersome 
 late in the game. Another flaw in this game is the blatant unit overbalancing which breaks combat 
 down to make sure you have several of every unit type. Also the unit que is frustratingly crippled 
 to five at a time, and it ensures that you will make stops to each planet every turn. In the end 
 I have to give this game a 7.8, but I probably won't touch this game again now that the campaigns 
 are done. Definitely one for the die hard fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot9183
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  is the only way to describe it. Best Star Wars game I've ever played. And trust me im a big Trekky. 
 This game is flawless in my eyes with the exception of graphics. I will assume the replay value 
 is high. Considering the fact that there are two campaigns both going there own way. Within these 
 Campaign Missions i find that the game never ceases the action. With that said i suggest anyone 
 into RTS and Strat games in genral to play this game! This is definetly one game that goes on my 
 top 20 list. Ive played this game for a while now and i suggest that anyone who plays after beating 
 one campaign mode plays the online mode which in fact is the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureliusmicron
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Star wars is a good game but not a great game, it hard to believe it got a better review than battle 
 fr middle earth 2 when simply it lacked in every aspect compared to it.
  
  Gameplay, Not enough rts, and doesn't stand up to rome total war, it more or less is a flashy waiting 
 game, why else would they put in a cinimatic view screen, cause u dont really do much.
  The animations lack and the battles are simply random. while the campaign flows very unsmoothly 
 with unneceessarry invlovement with the star wasrs character i mean there are billions of people 
 in the universe yet somehow we always end up using hans solo and the droids.
  The gameplay is also highly unrealistic even cmpared to the movies, it seems uronic that the movies 
 seemed like better video games. The game however stands strong but not enough to make it compelling 
 addictive or that interesting in anyway.
  
  Graphics
  
  Many of the shaders and effects look descent but the engine seems half completed, ther'll have 
 nice lighting shaders n the units but lack andy kind of darkened shader effects. The exlposions 
 are rediculoiusly short and stupid while the men move like theve got something up their backside.
 
  Background textures for the planets and space are also pathetically dull and cartoony.
  
  Sound
  
  Descent because many of the effects originate from the movies as well as the music 
 scores.
  
  Value
  
  also descent because of attempted style of long lasting play, if your compelled enough
  
  recomendation
 
  
  For real RTS or star wars fans, i would recommend this otherwise, quite simply cause theres better 
 out there i would much more reccomend bbfme2 which has better graphics, sound, storyline and equal 
 value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The Star Wars franchise has seen its share of great action games, role-playing games, and space-combat 
 simulators, but the strategy genre is something that, for some reason, has proved elusive for LucasArts 
 to truly capture. The efforts to date, including Rebellion, Force Commander, and Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 have ranged from poor to pretty good. Petroglyph's Empire at War is the game that's finally gotten 
 the formula down just right. In Empire at War, the action takes place both in outer space and on 
 the surface of planets, but the interconnection of the two is one of many important strategic aspects 
 that you'll consider as you make your way through the campaign and galactic conquest scenarios. 
 Logical differences in the optimal playing style between the Empire and Rebellion, as well as an 
 epic presentation befitting of the license, contribute to a fantastic overall package that any 
 strategy-game player can appreciate, whether you have a stormtrooper outfit in your closet or you 
 just have a passing familiarity with the films.
  
  Strategy-game fans won't be disappointed with Empire at War.
  
  The real-time action in Empire 
 at War takes place on two different layers -- a strategic layer, and a tactical aspect, which are 
 the battles you fight in space and on land. The strategic layer takes place on a 2D galactic map, 
 which shows all the planets in the galaxy. If you're playing the campaign, you'll worry about more 
 than 40 different planets, while some of the galactic-conquest scenarios have as few as eight or 
 10 planets arrayed. Most planets can support space stations and land buildings such as barracks, 
 mining facilities, factories, or even planetary defense systems like turbo-laser towers or massive 
 ion cannons that shoot up into space. You can get more detailed information on a planet by zooming 
 in on it, which gives you something of a Civ-lite view, listing all the units and structures there, 
 as well as the things you can build on that planet. The Rebel side see all Empire-controlled planets 
 on the galactic map, while the Empire must deploy probe droids to seek out the Rebels. The important 
 thing to remember is that the action takes place in real time, even on the galactic map. So if 
 you spend too much time considering what to build or where to send a fleet, you may invite the 
 computer to attack one of your systems.
  
  Some of the planets have unique bonuses, such as letting you build units more cheaply, or making 
 all of one type of unit more powerful. The biggest ships like Mon Calamari cruisers and Imperial 
 Star Destroyers can be built on only a few different planets, so as you'd expect, there are relative 
 values for the different planets in the galaxy. All planets you control, however, add to your daily 
 credit income, which allows you to purchase improvements for your planets and, of course, the soldiers 
 and war machines that make up your military-industrial complex. There are a lot of demands on how 
 you spend your credits -- if you go all troops and no improvements, you risk falling behind in the 
 technology race, or not having a stout defense in place if a raiding fleet arrives at one of your 
 planets. One of the main differences between the Empire and the Rebellion is that the Empire usually 
 generates a lot more money. Over the course of a campaign you can eventually build an economy so 
 powerful that you build up massive forces to overwhelm Rebel defenses. The Rebellion doesn't have 
 the luxury of limitless resources, so you'll find that they're more difficult to play and learn, 
 but you can still steal technology and money from the Empire to weaken them and advance your cause. 
 They also have the unique ability to make small raiding parties that can land on a planet and bypass 
 any space defenses the Empire may have in place.
  
  The galactic map gives you an overview of the entire galaxy, so you can plan your next attack.
 
  
  The tactical-combat layer comes into play when the two factions meet on a planet. If two space 
 fleets meet up, a space battle ensues. The game gives the defender some advantage in that any existing 
 space station in orbit over a planet, as well as planetary defenses like ion cannons or hypervelocity 
 cannons, can contribute to the battle, along with whatever fleet happens to be around. The higher-level 
 space stations are fearsome indeed, with multiple laser and torpedo batteries, as well as its own 
 small navy to harass attacking capital ships. The space-combat battles look great -- the sense of 
 scale between the huge Imperial capital ships and the smaller Rebel gunships and corvettes is plainly 
 obvious. Fighters like TIEs and X-Wings buzz around the larger ships like gnats on an elephant. 
 If you've got the graphics options turned up, the explosions look fabulous, with electrical fields 
 shimmering around a ship disabled by ion cannons, and downed capital ships breaking apart into 
 large pieces while falling slowly out of space. You'll also see distortion effects around exploding 
 hardpoints, which brings up another interesting aspect of space combat in Empire at War. The space 
 stations and capital ships all have hardpoints pertaining to different systems, such as shield 
 generators and weapon systems. You can target individual systems to cripple larger ships in specific 
 ways. Getting rid of the hangar on Imperial capital ships will thin out the fighter cover, while 
 targeting engines can slow down ships. In most cases, the order in which you want to take out hardpoints 
 is obvious, but ships that have special features, like the gravity well on the Interdictor cruiser, 
 add even more tactical considerations. If you don't remove that gravity-well generator, for example, 
 you can't retreat out of a system and save some of your fleet.
  
  Land battles in Empire at War probably aren't quite as fun to play or look at as the space battles, 
 but they offer their own unique nuances. The number of units you can control at once in land battles 
 is limited by the number of reinforcement points you control. The attacking side is usually under 
 a good amount of pressure to find and control more reinforcement points so they can call down more 
 help, which is important if the defending team has a large number of units or emplaced defenses 
 like shield generators. There are elevation and line-of-sight considerations, as well as weather 
 effects such as snow or heavy rain that hamper visibility and accuracy of weapons. Special hardpoints 
 on a map can also be controlled by either side for building small turrets or healing and repair 
 stations for troops. If you control a fleet in orbit over the planet you can call down periodic 
 bombing strikes that are powerful enough to take out major structures like factories or barracks. 
 What's odd is that the defending team can't produce additional units directly out of the structures 
 on the planet. Building units puts them into your reinforcement queue, but you still have to call 
 them down on specific, controlled reinforcement landing zones in order to bring them to bear.
 
  
  The primary reason that the land battles don't seem as fun as the space battles, though, is that 
 the maps are all kind of bland and feel very similar, whether you're fighting in an urban area, 
 a rainy swamp planet, or on snowy tundra. The enemy artificial intelligence is also not very devious 
 on land maps, aside from its use of long-range artillery units. It will generally send waves of 
 troops headlong at you, and there isn't much you need to fight them off. Contrast this with the 
 space AI, where the computer will hide squadrons of bombers in asteroid fields or nebulae and spring 
 them on the flanks of your destroyers, behind your front line of corvettes. You'll also see the 
 computer execute some hit-and-run action with smaller gunships trying to bait your fighters out 
 of the protection of the capital ships. There just isn't as much clever tactical play from the 
 computer in the land battles. At least from a strategic sense, the computer knows well enough to 
 strike at where you're weakest, but once you get a handle on where all the activity is, you can 
 still easily rein it in by positioning defenses and fleets on the front lines.
  
  Empire at War looks fabulous on land...
  
  Hero units are also worth noting in Empire at War, 
 as they're generally very powerful and can easily swing the tide of any battle they participate 
 in. Each side has quite an array at their disposal, all with their unique traits. Palpatine and 
 Mon Mothma, for example, can reduce production costs on any planet that they're stationed on. Boba 
 Fett can crush concentrations of fighters by dropping a seismic charge in space maps. C3PO and 
 R2D2 can hack into turrets and turn them against their owners in land battles. All the heroes are 
 very difficult to kill, but they're not completely invincible, so you do have to keep an eye on 
 them. Losing one can hamper your war effort; at least until the hero is automatically replaced 
 over time.
  
  After you get a handle on all the activity going on across the galaxy, Empire at War boils down 
 to amassing raid fleets and invasion parties and knocking over one planet after another while trying 
 to hold on to the ones you've gained control over. The larger and more sprawling your sphere of 
 influence becomes, the more difficult it is to keep tabs on everything, and you'll probably find 
 yourself swearing under your breath when your opponent raids a lightly defended planet that you 
 forgot about. Thankfully, the game includes an "auto-resolve battle" button that lets the computer 
 determine the outcome of battles for you, in order to save time. Still, the fun is in the details, 
 and playing a campaign of Empire at War will definitely keep your mind busy as planets change hands 
 back and forth.
  
  The game ships with a story mode campaign for the Rebellion and the Empire, as well as a handful 
 of "galactic conquest" scenarios. These play out quite similarly to the story campaigns, except 
 with varying numbers of planets available, as well as variation in the technology level. The objectives 
 don't change up that much, but you can tweak the amount of money each side starts with, as well 
 as the starting tech level. There's also skirmish mode, which allows you to play single tactical 
 battles against the computer on land or in space. Acquiring credits for units requires you to capture 
 and control structures or areas of the map that generate money. Most multiplayer battles will be 
 skirmishes, and you can play up to eight players online or over LAN. Thus far, the online performance 
 has been pretty good, and it's been easy to find matches through LucasArts' matchmaking system. 
 It's also possible to play a multiplayer head-to-head campaign match against a friend -- obviously 
 these can take a while, so you have the ability to save the match and reload it to continue later.
 
  
  The graphics and sound in Empire at War are uniformly breathtaking. We already mentioned the epic 
 nature of space battles and the sense of scale imparted by the different ships. The land battles 
 are also impressive, as you'll see huge AT-STs and AT-ATs lumbering around while dozens of infantry 
 scurry about underneath their feet. The weather effects look great, and there's a good variety 
 of different tilesets. There's even a neat cinematic camera that you can switch to in order to 
 give you a more movielike view of the battlefield. You lose control of the game in this mode, so 
 it's not something you're going to be using a lot, but when you do steal a peek, it can show some 
 great perspectives of the battlefield, even if the texturing up close doesn't look so hot. The 
 camera's not perfect -- a lot of times it'll show you a view of nothing in particular, but you can 
 cycle through different angles using the space bar. The only graphical caveat is that the game 
 can chug at times, even on a moderately-outfitted computer. On our 2.53GHz Pentium 4 rig with a 
 GeForce 6800 card, we'd experience some slowdown with all the settings turned up at 1600x1200, 
 but nothing that made the game unplayable. The sharp-looking explosions and shadow effects were 
 well worth it.
  
  ... or in space.
  
  The weapons all look and sound as you'd expect them to. By now, the noise of a laser gun firing 
 in Star Wars is ingrained into the psyche of just about everyone in the world as the way a laser 
 "should" sound, and Empire at War doesn't disappoint in the weapon-effects department. The voice 
 acting in the game is also quite impressive -- Petroglyph did a great job at bringing in soundalikes 
 to handle all the major roles in the game, like Darth Vader. The game's soundtrack is suitably 
 epic but not overbearing, lending great support to the overall ambience of Empire at War.
  
  As a strategy game, Empire at War delivers a true Star Wars experience. If you're into AT-ATs 
 stomping around battlefields, Darth Vader knocking over 20 soldiers with Force push, or space battles 
 thick with dozens of fighters swarming in between gargantuan capital ships, Empire at War will 
 deliver all that in a fun, compelling package. You can't really lose in any game in which you can 
 blow up a planet with the Death Star, can you? Combined with a presentation that is as epic as 
 the films that inspired the game and a slick, dual-layered strategy design, Empire at War is easily 
 recommendable to any strategy fan, especially those who are fond of George Lucas' space classic.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  So much has been said and expected about SW: Empire at War, and now, finally, it's here... the 
 first impression I got was that this game had a much greater chance of achieving what SW: Rebellion 
 tried to do years ago. It is, indeed, a much more successful and compelling try, but still a try.
 
  
  The game, for the most part, takes place on a screen depicting the systems of the galaxy, with 
 icons representing your fleets, troops, and special characters. Whenever one of your ships engages 
 an enemy fleet, the game will shift into a tactical screen where your forces will clash with the 
 opponent's; and similarly, each time you land in force on a planet defended by the enemy or the 
 enemy does likewise, the game will turn into a typical RTS with tanks, vehicles, and soldiers.
 
  
  The economic model of Empire at War is pretty standard - each system generates an amount of credits 
 which you get to spend on troops, ships, buildings and upgrades. It has several twists of its own, 
 though. Some system have a variable credit production rate, while some others provide specific 
 unit production benefits as well. Every system provides special and unique advantages which will 
 greatly affect your strategy - for example, controlling a planet that increases the damage dealt 
 by all your fighters will turn them, if massed, into a force to be reckoned with.
  
  When it comes to graphics, Empire at War rocks - and does so without significantly taxing your 
 computer. Space battles are breathtaking, with hundreds of fighters swarming around ships and around 
 themselves, vessels exploding into pieces, nebulae, asteroid and ion fields, and torpedoes, missiles, 
 lasers, ion blasts, and whatever form of weaponry known in the Star Wars universe cutting through 
 the void. Surface engagements look equally amazing; landscapes are superbly detailed, and some 
 units look so sharp that they enhance the sense of dread they provoke - namely, the Imperial AT-AT. 
 The galactic map and interface looks good; it is clean, sharp, and very intuitive. 
  
  There is not much to say about the sound and music on Empire at War, apart from the fact that it 
 is almost flawless, since Star Wars' sounds and scores are so ingrained on the collective psyche 
 that hearing something new would instantly be perceived as a discordance rather than as an innovation. 
 On this matter, Empire at War succeeds greatly; some sound effects, though, sound underpowered 
 and lacking - namely, laser cannons and blasters on most Rebel land vehicles and some Imperial 
 ones.
  
  Now, the bad news: the weak point of Empire at War is the gameplay itself. 
  - For the most part, the AI is horribly weak - this cannot be stressed enough. This is first noticed 
 on surface engagements: computer-controlled opponents fail to take advantage of build pads, special 
 structures that may be present, or landscapes, and limits itself to throw wave after wave of troops 
 and vehicles your way. It also fails miserably to pose any credible challenge on the galactic map: 
 even on the 'hard' difficulty setting, a seasoned RTS player will smash his way through anything 
 the AI throws at him. On the contrary, when given charge of a fleet against one of yours, it performs 
 very well; corvettes will go after your fighters until not one remains, and missile frigates will 
 make your life miserable if you do not take them down quickly.
  - Ground combat would have benefited greatly from less resilient troops, much greater damage outputs 
 and rebalanced units: some kick ass (Rebel Speeders and Infiltrators, Imperial AT-ATs) and some 
 suck utterly and completely (Imperial AT-STs) . Worse still, it gets repetitive and monotonous later 
 on, and you will actually thank the developers included a feature that auto-resolves battles. While 
 the idea of limiting cannon farming via build pads is a commendable one and the concept of requiring 
 you to control reinforcement points to field new units (even if you are a defender with factories 
 and barracks) is nice too, the limitation on the maximum number of units that can be fielded at 
 once makes it lack the visceral feeling of chaos space combat has.
  - Space combat has some nuisances as well. Again, some units are almost useless in combat, and 
 some others are ridiculously fragile: one would wish fighters lasted longer, since 4 Corellian 
 corvettes combined will represent an impassable barrier for any amount of TIEs.
  - The game could have included more units. The Imperial Super Star Destroyer is noticeably missing, 
 though since the game apparently takes part during Episode IV it would make sense.
  
  In the end, Empire at War leaves a bittersweet taste. With many pros and some annoying cons, it 
 is still a game worth buying and playing. Its main flaw is being too ambitious, but this could 
 be perceived as the perfect hook for buying an expansion which almost surely is in the works at 
 the moment of this review being written. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War takes storyline a few years before A New Hope - rising of Darth Vader 
 etc, etc. The game is some kind of innovative, because like in no other game from Star Wars universe, 
 you can command your forces in three various phases - Galactic View (like the world map in Total 
 War series) , Space Battle (command your ships and attack/defend your space station) and the Land 
 Battle (classic game phase) . You can play as Rebels and the Empire.
  The very very bad thing is that EaW is very slow paced game.
  I do not recommend this game. You 
 could like it if you were Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  I tried playing the demo and it played like crap! The full game ran perfectly on fully maxed-out 
 settings! Beautiful eye candy! Not too depe in detail for a strategy game, but it has a unique 
 and interesting gameplay. It's great to watch the movies then play the game. 
  By far the best StarWars game to date. Finally they got something right and made a starwars game 
 enjoyable and great looking.
  If your system isn't all too great, I reccomend waiting for a bit untill the game price drops. 
 That way you can maybe improve your system, and get the game for a bit cheaper and enjoy all that 
 it has to offer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I anticipated the release of this game much like any other Lucas/Star Wars fan. Though completely 
 different in genres, Battlefront 2, KOTOR, and KOTOR II are some of my all time favorites. I expected 
 something on par with the better LucasArts projects. I have to say that I was slightly disappointed.
 
  
  As someone that played the Command & Conquer series from its first release in the 90s, this game 
 came off as a little too similar. I could see the influences of the former C & C talent on the 
 Empire at War team. However, it didn't have the depth of some of the later Command and Conquer 
 releases. The graphics were up to snuff for a turn based strategy game, especially when operated 
 on a high end system, but there is still room for improvement. As always, the sound was just right, 
 if not the strongest component within the game. There are several major things that missed the 
 mark.
  
  The big weakness was the land based combat. For the Rebellion, there are only 2 infantry units -- 
 missile troopers (called 'plex soldiers') and standard blaster wielding winners. There are a few 
 mechanized hovercraft type combat units and that's it. The Empire has scout troopers on speeders 
 and standard stormtroopers. The AT-STs are fun to play with and the a single AT-AT hero unit can 
 be deployed in some of the campaigns. The maps are very linear and generally only 1 or 2 particular 
 approaches can be used. It felt like I was playing Warcraft 2 maps with sci fi characters.
  In short, the land missions and battles are very hollow. It's pretty straight forward and there's 
 not much room for using any kind of serious gaming skill or tactics.
  
  The space battles, on the other hand, can be entertaining. Controlling a swarm of smaller Rebel 
 units, sending them at a Star Destroyer's shield generator, and succeding in taking down a much 
 bigger foe can be satisfying. The animation here is pretty solid and getting immersed in a giant 
 space battle can be intense. Regrettably, I don't think you're going to get the standard 10-15 
 hours of enthralling game play out of this one. Conquering planets can get pretty repetitive, save 
 for the missions that are thrown in from time to time. The hero units, which enable you to control 
 many of the classic characters as individuals (Yoda, Han Solo, the Emperor, etc.) don't do enough 
 to enhance the overall experience. Using Darth Vader in his starfighter while in a space battle 
 can be a little helpful but his talents are more obvious in land combat. The rest of the Jedi can 
 only be used on land, but as already stated, the land battles are a bit lackluster to begin with. 
 Their inclusion doesn't do enough to knock things out of the "good" category and into the "excellent". 
 
  
  If you've gotten all of the games on your wishlist, or are a big fan of Command & Conquer, Warcraft, 
 etc. you might like this. As a fan of both Star Wars and this variety of game, I can say I wish 
 I had waited for the price to drop to $19.99. For fifty dollars a game, I expect more from a gaming 
 product than I did even 1   2 years ago. LucasArts fell a little short of the mark. It's not 
 an amazing game, but further expansion of the series, or more thoroughly executed sequels, may 
 yet create a classic down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgdrasco
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I have loved Star Wars since I was a little kid, and now I can get as much Star Wars crack I can 
 handle with Empire at War! While the Skirmishes can get quite boring and frustrating. Campaign 
 mode can be a real challenge, especially on the larger galactic ones, where your opponent can hit 
 you at many more spots than if you were playing a smaller, easier campaign. Space battles are my 
 favorite, mainly because the the AWESOME new camera mode, which lets you watch your units duke 
 it out with the enemy! I love being the Empire (die rebel scum!) and watching my Tie fighters take 
 out those pathetic squadrons of X-wings. The size difference between units is impressive! Tie fighters 
 are NOT the same size as Acclamators or Victory Cruisers! Storm Troopers are not as tall as an 
 AT-AT walker (which are also very cool) . This game is a mix between the Civ series, Total War series, 
 and Star Wars series! I love all three of those series, so this is like a wet dream while I'm awake! 
 I highly suggest this game to all gamers who's computer can handle it (my 1Ghz Pentium 3 with GeForce 
 3 handled it OK, kinda choppy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  1) Visuals: The game has an unfair advantage over most others because it's a Star Wars game and 
 the visuals have been laid out for Petroglyph for years and years now. Empire at War does present 
 to the user the Star Wars look and feel. You get to see all the ships and land vehicles as well 
 as some other structures. The character models when viewed up close leave a bit to be desired.
 
  
  2) Learning curve: I'm 51/49 on making this a positive. The game is very easy to pick up. Empire 
 at War is old school in the sense that it's about 6-8 years behind the times on RTS strategy and 
 depth of on-the-battlefield features. You basically figure out what forces you have on the field 
 and figure out what they match up against best and send them on their way. If as the Empire I engage 
 some Mon Calamari Cruisers I just send bombers at them and forget they exist. And you do that with 
 everything. The game is rather easy in this sense and a non-rts fan can easily pick it up which 
 I think is a positive.
  
  3) Map size: The galactic map is large enough to keep you happy and you get to find out about some 
 of the planets in the Star Wars universe you may not have known about. You also get to go to all 
 your old favorites.
  
  4) Cinematic view: During the battles you can select a button to watch the battle from different 
 cameras that will automatically alternate giving you different views of the battle. This is a neat 
 feature that if given better graphics would be incredible, instead, it's just good.
  
  5) Death Star: You get to use the Death Star if you play as the Empire. This alone is a good thing. 
 What's really good is that once you blow up Alderan which you must do you can then use it on any 
 other planet that you do not already control. So, you know that means Naboo is toast. Good by Jar 
 Jar you lousy piece of.... Ewoks went down next. Oh this did bring some odd satisfaction my way. 
 I suspect it will bring you the same!
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Multiplayer: The multiplayer experience in Empire at War is poor. Good modern RTS games have 
 progressed beyond the "hurry up and zerg" online game play but Empire at War is defiantly stuck 
 in the past. The lack of in-depth features and strategic options in this game make multiplayer 
 gaming a flat our unenjoyable experience. If you only need the Star Wars noises and explosions 
 to keep you happy then this game is perfect.
  
  2) Challenge: The games single player as well as multiplayer modes challenge is weak. Experienced 
 RTS fans will be able bored quickly with Empire at War. This game is more gimmicky than anything 
 else, trying to lure you in with the idea that it's Star Wars instead of it's Star Wars and it's 
 a great RTS. This is not a bad thing if you're a fan of Star Wars but for fans of RTS games this 
 is.
  
  3) Story: What story? The game plays out almost as if it knows you know the story of Star Wars. 
 Meaning it's not going to explain much to you and instead just give you some goals and direction 
 instead of in-depth story with good cinematic that drive home the reasons behind your goals and 
 directives. The lack of good story presentation was a big disappointment.
  
  4) Heroes: Empire at War's lack of tactical depth really limits the individualized strengths and 
 weaknesses of a hero. Yes you will find great use for a hero like the emperor but only because 
 one emperor can wipe out waves of soldiers without much effort from you. You don't have to think 
 much to use him or any other hero in this game.
  
  5) AI: The AI in this game is pretty bad. Not only will your units often just go about their own 
 business shortly after you give them orders but you will find them doing the most bizarre things 
 such as leaving a battle chasing ghosts or taking 90 seconds before they decide to do what you 
 ask. Yes other RTS's have had these AI issues but those RTSs are also 5+ years old.
  
  6) Strategy: To win in Empire at War you really just need to be able to do two things; one being 
 to use the units you have to counter what they are "strong" against and keep them away from what 
 they are "weak" against, yes it's really that simple, and two zerg. Numbers matter in this game 
 greatly.
  
  7) Cinematic view: Yes this is a "good" it is also a "bad" in that the cameras can often time lock 
 onto a ship that's not involved in any combat and for the next 20 seconds or so you're watching 
 nothing worth your time. Also, the jerky motions of the fighters are really annoying and far ore 
 exaggerated than what you see in the movies. The fact that you can sit in cinematic view while 
 the battle goes on also indicates how simple this game is. You can sit there and win a battle while 
 doing nothing but watching it from that view. Keep in mind while in this view you can't issue orders 
 so wow.
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Bugs: Oh the bugs. Empire at War will be needing a nice patch to fix it's single player game. 
 You will be quite upset when you spend 30 minutes in a boring space battle only to find out that 
 once you have eliminated the enemy in front of you that a couple of the ships are stuck outside 
 the maps outer limits and can not be engaged so you have to reload your game or retreat from the 
 battle.
  
  Overall: Empire at War is a success at being a gimmicky game which is what I believe lucasarts 
 was hoping for. To a serious RTS fan Empire at War will pose very little challenge and with the 
 lack of story and cinematic it won't keep you interested for very long. However, you will buy the 
 game and play the game for a period of time simply because it's an RTS, it's Star Wars, and it's 
 not hard to play. It is just what it is, a gimmick game, and that in no way is a bad thing. If 
 Empire at War is the beginning to what might become a big series of Star Wars RTS games then this 
 game is a good beginning. However the game does not merit the 8.7 that gamespot threw it's way.
 
  
  With a suggested retail price of $49.99 Empire at War is a definate pass until you see the price 
 drop about 60%. Bargin bin this bad boy in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  During the hype-fest that preluded the release of Star Wars: Empire at War, most previews contains 
 the words 'ambitious' and 'epic'. Big words. Empire at War does fulfill the 'epic' part with the 
 flawed yet entertaining single-player campaigns. Its ambition, however, is only face-deep.
  
  As is to be expected of a Star Wars strategy title, Empire at War lets players command huge 
 Rebellion or Imperial armies in a massive struggle for control of the galaxy. Instead of going 
 for cookie-cutter linear campaigns, developer Petroglyph opts for a Rise of Nations-style multi-tiered 
 galactic map, but with a twist. Everything plays out in real time. This means you will have less 
 time to ponder on the movement of your fleets and armies, otherwise the enemy may launch an attack 
 against one of your underdefended planets.
  
  While this lends a sense of urgency and chaos to the strategic proceedings, it doesn't work that 
 well, primarily due to the clunky interface. Imagine having to play any of the Civilization titles 
 in real time with minimal keyboard shortcuts. Scary, eh? This same interface would have been more 
 than adequate with a turn-based galactic map. But alas...
  
  So the galactic map is essentially a very simple version of Civilization played in real time. The 
 planets are cities, and you can build both orbital and terrestrial improvements, which leads us 
 to the remaining two tiers: space and ground. The nifty thing here is that a space battle can be 
 affected by what's on the ground, and vice versa. Yes, that means you get to see ion cannons blasting 
 Imperial Star Destroyers out of the sky and TIE bombers raining fiery death on the Rebel troops. 
 The improvements you build on each planet also come into play. Space stations can spit out endless 
 wings of fighters and bombers, or fire their arrays of laser weaponry on capital ships. Turbolaser 
 cannons and shield generators hand a considerable advantage to terrestrial defenders. You get the 
 idea.
  
  Another interesting feature in Empire at War is how unit and base construction are entirely done 
 in the galactic map. In tactical battles, both on the ground and in space, you can only call in 
 reinforcements, which consist of units outside of the population cap. All space battles have a 
 population cap of 20 units (larger ships count as more than one unit) , while ground battles have 
 reinforcement points you can capture, each one expanding your population cap. While there is no 
 base building in these tiers, there are 'build pads' you can use to construct turrets and healing 
 stations in fixed locations - Battle for Middle-earth style.
  
  The disappointing thing is that the tactical gameplay itself becomes shallow because of the freedom 
 afforded to players on the strategic level. Somehow, the AI is incapable of making surgical strikes 
 deep into your territory, only attacking border planets. As a result, you can leave your borders 
 well-fortified, then wait for the credits to pile up in your coffers before building gigantic fleets 
 for the next offensive. Rebel players may need to resort to smugglers (to steal credits from Imperial 
 planets) from time to time, but otherwise there's no difference in resource-gathering style between 
 the two sides. The Empire does have a huge advantage in terms of number of controlled planets though.
 
  
  What Empire at War lacks in tactical depth, it makes up with the vastly different play styles between 
 the Rebellion and the Empire. Petroglyph has successfully recreated the mindset of each side's 
 commander. The Rebels have to build fighter/bomber squadrons individually, so they are quite valuable, 
 even though they aren't expensive. The Empire throws TIE crafts at its enemies carelessly, preferring 
 to build gigantic capital ships with great firepower but little maneuverability. Various heroes 
 from the period (between Episodes III and IV) , ranging from the tech-stealing C3PO-and-R2D2 to 
 the Emperor himself, make appearances in the game. The units also represent the changing times 
 of the galaxy quite well, as the Rebels start with Z-95 Headhunters, the X-Wing's predecessor, 
 and the Imperial Navy with Acclamator-class ships, precursor to the world-famous Imperial Star 
 Destroyer.
  
  Even though Empire at War's strategic gameplay is deeply flawed, the perfect use of the Star Wars 
 license saves it from being a failure. It's great fun to command the military forces of these iconic 
 factions from a legendary franchise. If you are an RTS veteran, feel free to pass on this one. 
 However, if you are just a casual strategist, or a Star Wars fan, definitely pick this one up. 
 Otherwise, someone may find your lack of faith disturbing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkgfabo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I've waited for this a long time ago, but now, it's here and a great game!
  Oh, yes, the "firs" Star Wars RTS. Why the first? There were some RTS, but they were disastrous. 
 I spent long times playing Force commander, but just, because there weren't any SW-RTS. 
  This is I've waited. 
  So many planets, land and space battles, nice graphics, original Star 
 Wars music and the two best faction: rebellion + empire. 
  It's the Imperium galactica2, the Haegemony (yeah, yeah... Hungarian games: D ) and the Force commender 
 in one game :) .
  
  The multiplayer part of the game is good ,too, but I can't register myself, I don't know why (it 
 writes me: [missing] ) . I can play just on LAN (I have got original) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  After a very long anticipated wait, we finally get probably lucasarts best real time strategy game. 
 If you ever played SW: Rebellion and loved that game, forget you ever played it. This was my mistake, 
 i was judging SW: EAW from the SW: Rebellion perspective. Empire at war, is a simple strategy realtime 
 game where you get to conquer planets, build structures, mine facilities, build troops, ships, 
 vehicles in order to erradicate the rebellion or the empire. The gameplay is a mixture of somewhat 
 of the Galactic Conquest mode in the SW Battlefront series (but instead you get the coolest and 
 greatest space battles a Star wars game has ever seen! and you get to be in control of an entire 
 armada) and the land combat of the command and conquer series but with a few extras like 3d ambient 
 camera scrolling for eye candy, unit special abilities, Star wars heroes, etc. I'm sure that fans 
 of both of the C&C series and of the SW movies will find the game a superb addition to their collection. 
 It takes to get the hang of the game, i personally thought that the learning curve was goint to 
 be a little less steeper, this was a plus because i was discovering game features after features, 
 like for example each planet has a planetary bonus when controlled be that extra credit production, 
 unit production boost, movement point bonus for certain unit types, and many other bonus. Enemy 
 AI is very good IMHO. There are few small things i dislike about the game is one is that you don't 
 get to upkeep your units, instead there is a unit limit fixed according to the population level 
 of the planets you control. Another thing you is that apparently heroes never die, they just dissapear 
 for some time if you get to kill them. There are a few minor bugs which i'm sure will be fixed 
 with subsequent patches from lucasarts. Now don't get me wrong, this is a great Star wars game, 
 which is worth time playing i believe just for the beauty and the feel of the space battles which 
 can get real massive, using Star Destroyers, Corvettes, cruisers, star fighters, space stations, 
 and oh yes, the Death Star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyLeviticus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  This game is Star Wars and I did enjoy the game. It has it long lasting of hours of play. There 
 are a few flaws in the game that need to be fixed up though. The heors ain't bad to have as help. 
 Cheats would be nice to add to the game to make it even more fun. waiting for money can be frustrating. 
 playing as god can be fun as well-sending whoever is under your command to their deaths-even Darth 
 Vader. Play ing in the space battles in good. I don't mind seeing all the heros flying in their 
 ships and flying aroud. Soem of them were really handy in battle. So I guess I give this game a 
 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Usually I am a preorder sort of gamer. Star Wars: Empire at War I had my doubts about. The track 
 history of Star Wars real time strategies hasn't been great, bordering on not even worth playing. 
 So I waited for the reviews. 
  
  After reading several reviews of SW: EaW I decided to just go for it. I am quite pleased that I 
 did. It does have its flaws, for me starting with the big question, "What now?" If you attempt 
 to follow the storyline, I feel that sometimes I am left with that gnawing question as I wonder 
 what to do next. Populate local planetary systems for credits? Press on with storyline, but knowing 
 that there's a 90% chance I will fail due to lack of available assets? I place blame for this on 
 the manual and tutorials. They address the game at "level 1" but further progression is questionable.
 
  
  I can agree with nearly review I have read. The space battles are intense and are quite exciting. 
 This factor alone is worth picking this game up. The land battles are just as furious, but after 
 several back-to-back land wars, you begin to see the same battles again and again. You cannot build 
 a barracks on the planet you are fighting on, so you must rely on forces at hand "in orbit" to 
 complete these fights. If you built too many AT-STs and not enough bulk soldiers, you might run 
 into problems you weren't able to foresee.
  
  i scored this game 8.5. It's fun to play, especially if you click the cinematic button and watch 
 the battles unfold like a Hollywood movie. I have driven many units into a fight to simply see 
 what the cinematics look like. The game is also the "original" Star Wars and does not include units 
 from the recent movies (thank goodness) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Along time ago in a galaxy..... AAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH, almost had you there. No but stop laughing for 
 a second shut up and show some respect to some great words: Along time ago in a galaxy in a galxy 
 far far away............ Star wars! (alright i promise i'm done.... seriously)
  
  This is a great game for any star wars fan out there, and will bring in some people who didn't 
 really care about the movies or story, but you still have to like the kind of story it is or it 
 just wont appeal very much more than a tiny amount. The game takes place between the 3rd and 4th 
 movie but that doesn't mean you wont recognize the heros or space ships, its a spitting image of 
 the older 3 movies (#4,5,6) , although not everyone can make it to the party (why yoda why!!!!!!!!!!!) 
 but almost everyone is there darth vader, han and chewy, obi wan, captain antillies, emperor palpatine, 
 and some other major people whos names i cant remember. There can be a total of 43 planets (two 
 of which have no land for a possible land battle, one is an asteroid field, and the other is similar 
 to our jupiter and is a gas giant) depending on which scenario (galaxy size) you choose, but almost 
 every planet can have land and space battles. There is 2 parts of this game: real time strategic 
 map and actual real time battles. On the strategic map you build units and space or land structures 
 on you controled planets and you earn money every day from mines and systems (planets) you control. 
 you can also move space fleets or land units in shuttles around the galaxy, and the tricky part 
 is this all happens in real time, this is similar to rome total war but instead of you computer 
 making its unit building choices and attack moves only when you end you turn, in this game the 
 computer doesn't wait for you to spend hours deciding what to do (time doesn't stand still in this 
 game!) . you make your moves or stand around and do nothing your enemy will be building stuff, attacking 
 you and advancing in tecnology as each day goes by. So think fast and make you choice of what to 
 do and do it, otherwise the computer will frustrate you by attacking you when you were not ready 
 to do anything about it. Stay offensive (i'm not talking rushing you enemy to dealth but you should 
 be attacking or sucessfully defending a system each 3 to 10 days in time. You must secure the space 
 around a planet before going to take the ground, unless your playing the rebels, which then you 
 can attack with small raid fleets (small # of land units) which can bypass an enemy fleet above 
 a planet and attack on the land. 
  Many familar units are here: the at-st, the at-at, speeder bike troops, stromtroopers, rebels troops 
 snow speeders, imperial star destroyers, tie fighters, x wings, 
 
  
  There are also some cool new additions but even though there cool i'm not going into detail on 
 them. 
  
  Space battle are by far the coolest part of the game having two fleet colide above a planet feel 
 truly star wars. The hard pt system on each ship adds to the strategic part of the game like what 
 system on a ship do i attack first? the shields, laser batteries, proton torpedoes, or the engines, 
 they all have there own strategic purpose like lossing your engines on a ship means it moves very 
 slowly and cant hyperspace/ retreat away. 
  
  The land battles are cool too but in a defferent way, the aren't as epic in size but more like 
 tiny skirmishes. The biggest problem with the game is the frackin pop cap, and what i mean is on 
 any land battle you can only have a max of 10 pop (units have a value of one but that still feels 
 small, pluss you cant always have a full ten pop on certain planets because in order to call down 
 reinforcments you need to capture strategic pts, scatered across the map (they are vey few in # 
 ranging from only one per planet to about four) This seem like a stupid decision on the developers 
 part, why limit how muh fun you can have, i think they did it because the graphics are so good 
 that the lag would be too intense if more units were onscreen, but it almost seems unworth it to 
 be so limited. And the sad part is that the pop cap is also relevant to space battles (yeah go 
 ahead and cry) , the pop cap in a real time space battle in 20 for the empire and 25 for the rebels (because 
 rebels have there fighters built as individual units unlike the empire free spawning tie fighters 
 and bombers from its capital ships) . Now the space battle feel great and are still pretty epic 
 but i think they cut the pop cap a little too short, it should be like 30 or 40. Now on the strategic 
 map your total pop cap for all you units across the galaxy is in the hundreds depending on how 
 many systems you control/ space station you've built. its only in the real time battle does it 
 limit how many ships or units can participate at once, so yes you can have 50 star destoryer in 
 an invading fleet but only a few can be in battle at a time (pop cap) and when one gets destroyed 
 you can can in another one from you reinforcment pool. same in land battles. 
  
  Now lets talk super weapons: the death star, once you climb the tech tree and can afford to biuld 
 it, you can blow up enemy planets leaving behind a asteroid field where only space battle can take 
 place after its blown up, which suits my playing style becuae i like to fight in space more than 
 on lnad. But the death star is not invincible, if luke skywalker and red squadren participate in 
 a space battle (with the death star there as well) the death star cannot fire on the enemy planet 
 until red squardren is dead you it will jump to cutsceen and luke will blow up the death star. 
 Well thats it, the pop cap during battles is the only problem, other than that its a great galatic 
 war game. 
  
  Heres the reward, thanks for reading (it has many meanings, tell me what you think it means) : 
 
  
  "two men walk into a bar, the first orders a scotch and soda, the second remember somthing he'd 
 forgotten and it doubles him over with pain. He falls to the floor shaking, and then through the 
 floor and into the earth. He looks back up at the first man but he doesn't cry out to him............ 
 their not that close" weasely -angel
  
  Hampton2003007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelkramer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War. The game was fun at the beginning and it was also challenging ( I started 
 with the rebelion ) . The one and only problem with this game is that once you figure out how your 
 opponent ( the computer ) works its very easy. Its much better if you play at a higher lever. Other 
 then what was stated it was definetly a pretty good game. After you end up beating the game using 
 either side you should try it on the other. It makes it more fun. I suggest that you start with 
 the rebelion. Good Luck and Happy Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socceraccess
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the effort LucasArt made to make a strategy game based on Star Wards I 
 inmediately thought of a magazine article read in 2003, it was about Galactic Battlegrounds. I've 
 never played that game but I have always thought that Blizzard and Activision have no match for 
 strategy games. Playing Rome Total Ward and Warcraft III is just too fun to even think about a 
 title that can beat this title with new features in strategy games. 
  
  Well, to m y surprise Empire at War is the most complete strategy game I've ever played (even better 
 than Rome Total War) , however I think that the fun factor of this title still needs to improve. 
 Don't get me wrong, if you're a Star Wards fan you'll definitively love the gameplay, the units, 
 the story, the cinematics of the game, the graphics, effects, basically everything in this game 
 was done wright. But for starters (people like me, who like to build a few houses, get some gold 
 and inmediately start the battle) then this game may be too 'complicated'. For instance, in other 
 strategy games you understand how the game works from the beginning, the learning curve is plain 
 simple and in 1 hour you're enjoying the game and all you care is to pass the levels of the game 
 until you master the game.
  
  In Empire at War, there is a very long tutorial that explains you everything, how the items are 
 created, how to control your economy, how to send spies to other planets, how to ask for support... 
 so I'd say this game is for hardcore players, not casual players that just want to have fun for 
 a while. I followed the tutorial 1, 2 and 3, and went to a custom battle. The result was a total 
 lack of idea of what to do, how to attack, how to defend... yet, I still played the game and understood 
 it's a masterpiece from LucasArt.
  
  The learning curve and fun factor will be the only 'bad' things about this title. If you want to 
 enjoy this game, you really need to spend at least some 10-15 hours learning the game until you 
 understand how all the game works (I spent like 2 hours and didn't even finished the introductory 
 tutorial) . So for starters the game might not be that fun.
  
  Now for the good part, this strategy games has some pretty nice things that will make you want 
 to play and play it for a long period of time. Here are some unique features that I found on this 
 title:
  *The battles are the most amazing battles I've even played on a strategy game so far. You can watch 
 the action from the top of the map, zoom in, out, and you can watch the battle from a camera (simulating 
 a real Star Wars movie!)
  You would need to try this feature since it's too amazing to explain it how exciting this feature 
 makes you feel. You feel like you're George Lucas directing the whole Star Wards movie, since you 
 manage your units, go to war, and then you sit back and enjoy the action, like if you'd be in a 
 real movie
  
  You even have the 16:9 radio on the screen, can't beat that!
  
  The graphics in general are amazing, all the units, effects, ships, explotions... are incredibly 
 good. The fun factor (especially during the battles) is a big plus, allthough you need some good 
 time to understand how the game works. 
  
  As far as the sound goes this is one of the few games that I dislike playing with any sort of music 
 around. I cannot imagine playing this game with other music except the game's own music, sounds, 
 explotions, commentaries... It's like trying to watch a Rocky movie and instead of hearing to the 
 Rocky Orchestra you turn on the radio, doesn't makes any sense. The sound is incredibly entertaining.
 
  
  Regarding the gameplay I'd say that if you follow the tutorial there is no way you can find certain 
 feature of the game difficult. The tutorial explains you almost every aspect of the game, how to 
 play, invade other planets, fight on the land and on the space...
  
  I give this title a solid 9.3 out of 10
  I've uploaded 71 screenshots of the game, so you'll 
 have a good idea of how this game looks on a good 256 MB video card.
  
  http://screenshots. gamingaccess. com/category. php? cat=443 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cordata
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, and to start with it was rather fun. Unfortunately, 
 once you get past the training / tutorial missions, the game gets old real fast. Overall, I played 
 about the game for about 2 hours, and I got tired of constantly being constantly overrun by enemy 
 forces. I find it hard to believe that even on the easy setting anyone will find losing over and 
 over to be fun. 
  
  It's a shame Lucas killed this game so badly. I even looked at getting a trainer to allow me to 
 cheat at the game, and I can't see where it would help. If the enemy will always have 3-4 times 
 the number of ships or people, even with unlimited funds I'm still restricted by a maximum number 
 of forces I can have. 
  
  I'd say this is more of a rent or play it when it hits the bargain bin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallace_rok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Rarely have I seen an RTS game with such an adaptable AI component. It will hit you where you're 
 weak and avoid the planets where you have half a fleet of Star Destroyers waiting to crush all 
 comers. This game promises epic battles across multiple Star Wars worlds. It offers players the 
 freedom to dominate or liberate the galaxy as they see fit, or follow a story relatively parallel 
 to the events leading up to and encompassing Episode Four. And, in the first dozen or so hours 
 you spend with the game, youll likely recapture, if briefly, that Star Wars magic that once held 
 you (I presume) so enthralled. EAW had about an hour learning curve including some time spent reading 
 their very well put together manual. The in-game tutorial was also welcomed and quite helpful, 
 as was R2s pop-up information in the HUD. Had I played more AoE 3 or Rome Total War, I would have 
 probably been a bit better prepared for some of the elements in EAW that I personally was not very 
 accustomed to, like the flexibility and strategy behind the Galactic Map and shifting units around 
 to different planets. These tasks were hardly grueling, and actually contributed to the enjoyment 
 I had with this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok ok, so maybe i like star wars to, who doesnt? lol. But seriously, this game is perfect 4 
 a starwars fan (from now on SW) because it features the full original story and information about 
 all the planets and indigieonous (shut up, i dont make fun of ur spelling) forces. Maybe the starwars 
 nuts mite fall in luv, hardcore rts gamers may move on a little sooner than with some more complete 
 titles like Age of Empires III. Space battles are intuitive, but ground battles are a little rough 
 around the edges. In a space battle u can command huge fleets, but they are fun 2 watch but u dont 
 do much. All u need 2 do is send in all ur units into the middle of the map, wait 4 the other guys 
 2 get there, then watch until something blows up, then call in 4 reinforcements, who ever runs 
 outta dudes first loses. Pretty simple. Ground battles, are fun yes, but very restrained. U are 
 limited in ur ground forces to like 3-5 groups of units at a time until u can capture another outpost 
 thing. The concept is pretty ingenious (once again, the spelling) but it cood use some work. So 
 in the end, im getting tired and im just gunna finish this rite now, cuz im getting tired, but 
 EaW 2 wood kick some pretty serious ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  SW: EaW i think is a game that is easy to like or hate depending on your predeterminded bias. it 
 is the best strategy game from the star wars world that i have played, but as it say in the GS 
 rewiew, the land battles are a true horiffic downer. it simply isnt the fun it could have been 
 to play this game on the ground. you cant build your ground base as you would have liked and the 
 maps are a discrace to mankind taken into account that this is game handed out to gamers in 2006, 
 not 1998.
  it is in space that this game are worth the gaming time, that and the different campain options 
 that you can choose from. after having done that game modus for a wile the game may become a bit 
 too repeetive agains the computer so the best way to play the game in the long run is to play the 
 multiplayer games. were some of those modes are great others are not as great but in the long run 
 it is the multiplayer that will do this game the most good. 
  it is not a realy great game, but at least it is a good game. a good game that could have been 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Ultimately, there's no single aspect of the game that really demands your interest. To place it 
 in perspective I've also refreshed my memory of Rome: Total War and Dawn of War. The pace and visual 
 impact of Dawn of War make Empire At War's RTS sections simply disappear into the shadows, and 
 the tactical map of Rome Total War would have been a fine game even without the beautiful sieges 
 and epic battles that underpin it; Empire At War by contrast looks a little but like "My First 
 Wargame". But hey, at least it's not Force Commander. Nevertheless Not only is this a great game 
 but like most Star Wars videogames, the production values are beyond reproach. The game looks fantastic. 
 The camera offers an amazing panoramic view of outer space and can be zoomed in to highlight the 
 smallest of details. The trademark Star Wars laser sounds zip, zing and zap from speaker to speaker. 
 The music is lush and empiric as it drives you into battle. The voiceacting is the third addition 
 to the aural component of the game. The good acting quality helps to affirm that we are enveloped 
 in the Star Wars universe... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilija_True_Game
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  So I bought this game and it was actually quite enjoyable I meen the graphics the sound and the 
 hole gameplay was great! I meen you get to buy ships actually fight with a hole bunch of divided 
 squads, big ships, special Star Wars characters like Darth Vader and just plain fun and Graphics 
 plus I love how the sound goes good with the game. Space battle's are also pretty fun but Hard, 
 I love the space battle's because there Cinematic mode looks great espicialy when your attacking 
 that Space Station.
  
  I think this game is worth buying. Its fun but almost perfect. I've played this game a bit, first 
 I enjoyed it alot but then I got bored and play it a little day by day. It's not realy a game you 
 gotta play 24/7, but a fun game non the less.
  
  I'm a Star Wars Fans and hope you are to, enjoy! And I hope you have fun playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman200004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A GOOD STAR WARS GAME WITH GREAT GRAPHICS AND SOUND BUT AFTER FINISHING THE GAME IN LESS 
 THEN 2 DAY THERE IS LITTLE RETURN VALUE. HOPEFULLY THERE WILL BE SO GOOD MODS FOR IT. THE SPACE 
 WARS ARE GREAT AND ARE GREAT FUN TO PLAY BUT THE GROUND MISSION SUCK. ( (WHY) ) BECAUSE THE GRAPHICS 
 ARE NOT THAT GOOD ALL THE BUILDS ARE ALREADY PLACE FOR YOU EVEN THE DEFENCE GUN ARE PER PLACED. 
 THERE IS NO BASE BUILDING AT ALL WHICH IS BAD AS IT MAKES IT HARD TO DEFEND SUCH A BIG OPEN SPACE 
 WHEN THERE IS SO MUCH GOING ON. ALL YOU DO IS BUILD UNITS AND ATTACK AND THATS ABOUT IT. THE FILM 
 VIEW IS GOOD OF THE OVER ALL BATTLE BUT STILL THE GROUND BATTLE ARE RUBBISH. I CLASS MYSELF AS 
 A BIG STAR WARS FAN AND DID INJOY THE GAME BUT I THINK IT NEEDS ALOT OF WORK ON THE GROUND BATTLES 
 TO MAKE IT A CLASSIC GAME. STILL YOU HAVE THE SPACE BATTLES THAT SHOULD KEEP YOU GOING FOR A WEEK 
 OR SO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct133nu
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game lacks something, I don't know what, o wait I know its the "fun factor". It is not a game 
 I would play for the single or multiplayer. I played the demo and i beat it really quick, but if 
 i had to play it any longer i would have just stopped playing it. It wasn't fun at all. I don't 
 know why you would bother paying for a pos RTS when you can just play a FPS. Go buy Day of Defeat: 
 Source. This game isn't worth the 100 words that I put into this review. Return the game and like 
 I said go buy a fps or mmorpg. w00t Huxley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Rebelion" - Althought a lot older was it's forerunner and offered excatly the same as this one 
 does. And how long ago was that..... Improvemtns on rebelion + 5 Years (or how ever long ago it 
 was - but it's been a while) = NONE WHAT SO EVER - ZERO - BUT HEY IT'S 3D NOW. 
  
  Storyline - NON-EXSISTENT 
  
  Difficulty - IT'S A PIECE OF PISS - ON THE HARDEST SETTING I 
 FINISHED IT IN A DAY. 
  
  Unit Diversity - OH RIGHT SORRY, I THOUGHT ALL I NEEDED WAS A TIE TANK, AN AT-AT AND A FEW STORM 
 TROOPERS TO FINISH THE GAME IN NO TIME. VERY POOOOOOR! 
  
  Tech Research - UHHH 5 THINGS - AND I DONT EVEN HAVE TO DO THE RESEARCH IT DOES IT FOR ME - BRILLIANT 
 - WHAT?? 
  
  Battles - CLICK AND DO NOTHING - JUST AUTORESOLVE IT, IT'S FASTER AND MORE FUN - THE BATTLES ARE 
 ABOUT AS TACTICAL AS A DEAD CAT. 
  
  Resources - YES, BUT YOU DONT HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THAT - CAUSE IT'S POINTLESS - YOU WILL ALWAYS 
 HAVE PLENTY. 
  
  Well that is basically it - a totally wasted oppurtunity by the developers, this could have been 
 sweet as hell, with some real challenges posed to the player. I could babble on and try to tell 
 you how they could have improved it but what's the point the game is out and there is nothing that 
 can be done.
  Reader's Ratings for Star Wars: Empire at War (PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  WOW, what can I say other than its a real time strategy game with the Star Wars logo on it. All 
 Star Wars needs now is a Tycoon game. ( I would Buy it )
  
  There's been a lot of mixed reviews on this one, Some are not happy because they feel that there 
 a simply not enough Units in the game or supplies. Some say the Space battles rock and the Land 
 Battles suck. Well, I think for $49.99 for the CD or $59.99 for the DVD both are ridiculously priced 
 and I know its new, thats just way too much for this type of game.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm the BIGGEST Star Wars Geek I know. I own every game on PC and All the Consoles.
 
  
  The game is appealing and has its moments, but after a while you simply just get board. The Space 
 battles are very awesome if you are running on a up-to-date PC. I think the Land battles are cool 
 too, there really isn't a lot of detail in the game.
  
  I wish I hadn't paid $60 bucks for it, but I love My Star Wars.
  
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EYEInferno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I played the Demo and it wasn't very astonishing, but when i heard a friend of mine bought it and 
 he got addicted, i just went to the store and bought a copy, and damn this game is good.
  
  There are several ways to play this game, the normal way: Galactic Conflict and skirmish: Land 
 Battle, Space Battle.
  
  - Galactic Conflict -
  If you played Star Wars Rebellion before, you know what this game is all about. You start with 
 a number of planets, with some land troops, some spaceships/fighters, and some buildings on the 
 planets you own.
  The first thing you need to do is improve your economy, how?
  Build mines on your planets, then capture some planets, by capturing neutral planets, planets owned 
 by pirates or planets owned by the enemy.
  If you are the empire, you could send a probe or Boba Fett, to investigate a planet, and see what 
 space ships or land troops are on the planet, this way you will also know to which side the planet 
 is on, if its neutral, you just send a small land force to capture the planet with ease, if its 
 in pirate control, you should first destroy the orbiting space force, by sending a space force 
 to the planet, this way you start a Space Battle, more about Space Battles further in.
  When you have won the Space Battle (killed everything orbitting the planet) , you now have the possibility 
 to invade the planet with a ground force, you send some ground troops to the planet and a Land 
 Battle commences, when you've won the Land Battle, you retrieve the planet. You're daily money 
 increase increases, and you now have an additional planet to your collection. The main goal in 
 Galactic Conflict is eliminating the opposing player/CPU by capturing all his planets.
  
  - Space Battle -
  You could play a skirmish Space Battle or a Space Battle that was started in 
 a Galactic Conflict. In the Galactic Conflict version of Space Battle, if you are the defending 
 force, you start with a space station (if you have one orbiting your planet) and the space force 
 orbiting the planet, your space station gives you some fighters according to the level of your 
 space station.
  A Space Battle is just the same as any other RTS game, you move your units and kill the opposite.
 
  In a skirmish Space Battle there are 2 teams, the empire and the rebellion, both start with 3 
 squads of fighters (X-wings or Tie Fighters) and each team has 1 space station, during the Space 
 Battle you can, upgrade your station, upgrade your units with researches from your Space Station 
 and buy new units. When a unit completes construction it is dropped in the re-inforcement pool, 
 you can drop re-inforcements whenever you want, if:
  - Your population isn't at its maximum.
  - There is no Fog of War at the location of reinforce.
 
  The main goal in a Space Battle is to destroy the opposing Space Station.
  
  - Land Battle - 
  Just as in Space Battle, there are 2 kinds, Galactic and Skirmish. In both 
 versions there are re-inforcement points scattered across the maps, when you bought something ingame 
 (Skirmish) or have troops in your re-inforcement pool which you send to the planet (Galactic) , 
 you can deploy units in the reinforcement point, IF its yours.
  In the Skirmish version each side starts with a base with all the buildings and some troops, with 
 those troops you capture re-inforcement poits, and other capturables, with the base you construct 
 more units. There are (just as in Space Battle) Tech Upgrades, the Space Battle has 5, Land 3.
 
  For Example: In Tech 1 you can make Storm Troopers and AT-STs, but in Tech 3 you can make AT-ATs 
 and even heroes like Darth Vader and the Emperor.
  
  - Heroes -
  In the Galactic Conflict you get heroes when you upgrade your Tech Level, most heroes can be used 
 in both Land and Space, like Boba Fett, he uses his Slave I fighter in Space, and.. himself in 
 Land, or Darth Vader uses his Advanced Fighter in Space and himself with a lightsaber on Land.
 
  In Skirmish you make heroes in your command centre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_chastain
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  I'm going to have to agree with the main review, the game is good, but can get a little tedious. 
 Land battles are lacking, while the space battles is where its all at.
  
  Land battles require no tactics or finess, just amass a large amount of troops, and go kill stuff. 
 It makes sense to do this, because thats what the enemy is going to do to you, and FAST. Even on 
 easy setting, they bum rush you to no end.
  
  Space battles actually can require some thought, and the AI seems to know what its doing against 
 you... really well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coaler
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Man i love the space battles!!!!! The land battles are fun but only because of the imperials. The 
 maps are way to small and you can't create your own base. You can't get your ships overhead to 
 fire down and even if you have 100 bombers overhead you can't call them all in when you need them, 
 you have to call them in one at a time and it has to recharge!!!!!!!! Arg they put like no work 
 into the land battles! Galactic conquest is very fun however. All the different planets and asteroid 
 fields, and it is amazingly fun to blow up planets with the death star. You should be able to play 
 the clone wars too, THAT WOULD MAKE IT SO FRIGGIN AWESOME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabbs02
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It's the best strategy game I've ever played! It is truly everything they 
 said it would be! The only thing really bad about it is the price!!!!!!!!!!! It takes a while to 
 get use to though. It is the best pc game since Halo. Even though they are to completely different 
 games they are both awsome. AND NOW IM GETTING OFF SUBJECT! o well its just a great game ok? so 
 if u have a spair 50 dollar bill go buy  
 (dang my review isnt long enough!) o well blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i thought to myself: "Cool, an improved Rebellion!" Now here 
 we are and it's clear to me that this isn't the case.
  
  What made Rebellion so good was it's complexity, lots and lots of unit's, planets, "hero's" and 
 special forces. Both sides could do pretty much the same things, i think the only difference lies 
 in the Alliance not being able to assassinate (but they can abduct) and not being able to build 
 a Death star, that's the only REAL difference besides different stats for unit's, however, it was 
 the position your faction was in that determined what you SHOULD use: Rebels should use diplomacy 
 and sabotage, while avoiding space battles for the time being while the Empire already has enough 
 ships, the Alliance can more easily scout out outer rim worlds to find planets with many resources 
 and building space.
  
  However, in EAW there's only a small amount of units to build, although maybe a few more buildings, 
 "hero's" can do only 1 sort of mission depending on their class, the size of the maps is HORRIBLE, 
 i couldn't do more then 2 hours with the biggest galactic conquest map even at the highest difficulty 
 and the battles...... The battles are this: Bring as much unit's and walk/fly to the enemy while 
 blasting everything in your path, there's nothing more to it, both types of battles are way too 
 small, i mean, only 20 units in a space battle???? 
  
  These guys have obviously never watched Star Wars movies, or not the first trilogy at least, because 
 it's feeling just like episode 1: It looks good but there's really nothing good in it. If they 
 HAD watched any of the old movie space battles and were bent on making it look and feel like just 
 that it would never have turned out like this. This game feels like a bunch of mini-games with 
 no depth at all, Darth Mario Party, so to speak. Except that Mario Party is actually FUN.
  
  This is just another one of those games whooped together for the big public and thus it becomes 
 dumb, flat and boring if you play it anymore then an hour or so, if i want a huge, complex galaxy 
 to conquer i'll install Rebellion, if i want some quick shot action, i still have GTA2, Worms or 
 One Must Fall 2097 or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  I find this game rather hard to rate. 
  
  First there is the universe and the story line. All Star Wars fans are going to love it, but those 
 of you who for whom the name Antilles and Mon Mothma don't ring a bell, might find the story a 
 little shallow and rather short. The game is set in the time before and during the first Star Wars 
 movie (part IV) with unique heroes from that era, and most fans will find the intertwining of the 
 game story with the movie story a beautiful experience. Everybody else however might just think 
 it's a standard cliche space drama story.
  
  Then I come to the gameplay. It consists of three parts. The first part looks like a simplified 
 Master of Orion or even Rome Total War. But it does run in realtime with two speed settings. In 
 this part of the game you build your factories and your armies, your planetary defences, both in 
 space and on the ground, you research or steal technology and send you units into battle. I also 
 need to mention the possibility of auto-resolving battles at the cost of much greater loss of units, 
 which becomes useful later in the game when you control huge armies and don't feel like fighting 
 every single battle. The rebels start with a smaller army in a losing situation, but gain strength 
 all through the game. The Empire is vastly superior in size at game start, but has to fight just 
 to keep the planets it already owns. This entire part of the game is very enjoyable and gives you 
 a real feel for the sides involved in the conflict.
  
  When your armies arrive at a planet that has a fleet in orbit space battle starts. Each side has 
 roughly three sizes of ships, small ships like fighters and bombers, medium size ships like frigates 
 and gunships, and capital class ships like the Mon Calamari Cruisers and Star Destroyers. The units 
 are well balanced and most have at least one special ability. The strengths and weaknesses of units 
 are also well defined. Bomber units are good against capital class ships, gunships against fighters 
 and bombers and capital ships are good at destroying everything but especially frigates and gunships. 
 This part of the game has a good interface that you learn in no time and are very spectacular. 
 Also all units are useful here, unlike lost of others games, where you only need the biggest ships, 
 here you can do serious damage with a few bombers just like with a Star Destroyer. You can also 
 get reinforcements if you loose units and if you are defending, you can use the cannons on the 
 surface to do major damage.
  
  I am however disappointed with the last part of the game, planetary battle. It is different from 
 most games because you don't get to build anything here. You can get reinforcements from your units 
 in orbit at certain landmarks, but that is all you can do. It would be a good way to play the game 
 if your enemies had the same limitations. When you are attacking they have an unlimited number 
 of units until you destroy the building that produce them. And there are a lot of buildings. Defensive 
 battles are a little easier, but there is not a lot of them. While planetary battle is good, the 
 fact that you face endless waves of enemies when you have a very limited force yourself, makes 
 you loose interest in this part of the game and just use auto-resolve. I also get the feeling that 
 I am being cheated on some level.
  
  So this is what Empire at War is all about. Two thirds great, one third not so great. Perfect for 
 Star Wars fans, just good for everyone else. The graphics and the sound are very good and very 
 authentic, they contribute a lot to the overall gaming pleasure.
  
  Empire at War is a game worth playing, it has a solid story, good gameplay and looks, and while 
 it is not perfect, it is one of the best new strategy games. 
  
  I'm sure most of it's kinks are going to be fixed in the sequel :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 17n5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  i love sci-fi games and i love strategy games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET 
 CRAZY so i will have play it untile my eyes bleed. i love sci-fi games and i love strategy games 
 but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZYi love sci-fi games and i love strategy 
 games but thise is sci-fi strategy game so I GOING TO GET CRAZY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralCortez
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire At War is Lucasart's newest incursion in Real Time Strategy in the ever popular, 
 and awesome, Star Wars franchise. Can EaW match up to 2001's Galatic Battlegrounds? Lets see
  
  Graphics: I hate to say it, but the graphics for land battles is garbage. I am running the 
 game on medium, and it is NOTHING like Age of Empires 3 or Rome Total War. The graphics in space, 
 however, is very lovely.
  
  Controls: The controls are standard RTS fare, but sadly enough, there is no delete function for 
 useless units, nor can you retreat them
  
  Sound: The sound is awesome. No problems here.
  
  Value: The game has a free flowing Galatic 
 Conquest mode that is very awesome. Althought you only have two factions to play as, you still 
 have some decent variety in units.
  
  What I dont Like: The land battles are horrible. This game should have been space only or something, 
 because the land battles are a joke. The units are horribly slow, some are highly overpowered, 
 and in skirmish mode, you are easily and horribly rushed within 2 minutes.
  
  Overall: The space combat of this game is awesome, but the land combat is trash. Thats half of 
 the game right there.
  
  By GeneralCortez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KD8587
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War is fantastic and we now have a decent Star Wars RTS, none of that junk that battlegrounds 
 gave us. 
  
  This game will keep you glued the screen for a few weeks but after you've completed the campaigns 
 and played the GC mode a couple of times the whole game starts to feel repetitive. 
  
  There's only so much fun to be had when you have 80 maps but only two factions and what will quickly 
 feel like a limited arsenal of units.
  
  If petroglyph have any sense whatsoever they quickly deliver us an expansion containing the two 
 prequal factions and possibly more maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Even though Im pretty sure Ive killed Darth Vader at least a thousand times and Im almost positive 
 the Death Star cant be rebuilt like a set of LEGOs anymore, everything seems to reset itself nicely 
 year in and year out thanks to Star Wars games. LucasArts, in one more attempt at truly covering 
 the genre spread, presents Star Wars: Empire at War, the publishers latest attempt since Star 
 Wars: Rebellion (and developer Petroglyphs first) at making the ultimate galactic management 
 RTS with space and land battles. The end result consists of one of the most poorly written and 
 rushed single player campaigns of any LucasArts title and a space battle system that is both mind-blowing 
 and repetitive at the same time. If LucasArts hadnt embedded in every fanboys brain that this 
 stuff never gets old, SW: EAW would be no more than another RTS. 
  
  Yet somehow it escapes such a dire fate; it somehow makes the Kessel Run in less than 12 parsecs 
 (yes, the Star Wars references are only beginning) . It takes the manual from SW: Rebellion that 
 was the length of the 9/11 report and turns the galaxy into an actually manageable world. Planets 
 finally serve the purpose that RTS games are always hinting at in the first place: war! You build 
 ground troops and space fleets; you buy barracks and space stations; and as always, you mine for 
 resources until theres nowhere left to mine. With an entirely war driven galactic management system, 
 you might expect the single player campaigns story to be an experience all its own to cover up 
 the endless war. After all, it cant all just be war raging nonsense can it? Psstits called Star 
 Wars: Empire at War. Apparently it is.
  
  Both the Empire and Rebel Scum campaigns try to delve into the lesser-known characters from A 
 New Hope and what they were up to when the Death Star was making its claim to fame. This idea 
 worked well in novels, but when it comes to keeping a gamer awake for 15 hours, only throwing roughly 
 25 minutes of aged George Lucas-like storytelling into the campaigns is highly unattractive. Every 
 missions objective is to either destroy this or escort this (which translates into destroying 
 everything to make way for the escort) . Usually these objectives turn into a lot of sitting around 
 and waiting for a building or a space station to blow up. The story feels like it should have remained 
 unheard of. 
  
  Lucasarts and Petroglyph even downplayed the classic Death Star blow up level with an anticlimactic 
 battle that is like any other space battle in the game. The final 15-second cut-scenes for each 
 campaign prove the fact that neither Lucasarts nor Petroglyph had any intention of making the campaign 
 worth playing at all. But like C-3PO realized when he first walked into a gay droid bar, theres 
 always something out there worth playing around with. Surprisingly enough, the same goes for Star 
 Wars games.
  
  In a bright and bubbly revelation, every gamer who touches SW: EAW comes to realize that its 
 the battle system that makes the game mentionable. Its easy for a game with the title Star Wars 
 to be forgotten quickly these days; its all a matter of what key feature the latest title will 
 bring that decides if it will be well-known or not. Land battles are, for the most part, quite 
 bland due to repetitive and wide-open scenery fused with sub-par AI. Dont get me wrong, the scenery 
 is certainly beautiful, but its also spread about the entire map without any other variety. 
 
  
  Some of the vehicles have been enhanced quite a bit graphically since the Galactic Battlegrounds 
 days, but there are no significant gameplay improvements. Its great seeing the AT-AT stomp around 
 and even drop stormtroopers from its belly, but the monstrosity moves so slowly its almost impossible 
 to control (dont even think about turning it around) . Theres a nice feature that lets you have 
 bombing raids if you have a fleet stationed above the planet. Features like that can go a long 
 way to making both the galactic management and battle systems feel like one strategic game. Theres 
 unfortunately not quite enough of that to make the two feel balanced.
  
  Little mistakes can also go a long way as well; for example, when you are defending a planet you 
 cant build land forces from your barracks and factories once you enter battle. This not only disconnects 
 the games two layers (management and RTS) , but is also unrealistic and rarely seen in the RTS 
 genre anymore. Finding bad AI, on the other hand, seems to be quite common in movie-based RTS games. 
 Although playing online with real people fixes this usually, getting through the campaigns can 
 get frustrating when it comes to managing several ground troops that always need your direction. 
 Overall, the ground battles feel like a sloppy version of Galactic Battlegrounds and serve only 
 as more gameplay time to backup the games true shining glory: the space battles.
  
  No screenshot, no gameplay video and no prior experience prepared me enough for SW: Empire at 
 Wars magnificent space battles. They are tactical, strategic, graphically mesmerizing and as 
 cinematic as it gets. The games strategic balance for both sides is very well done; the Rebels 
 come equipped with fast ships like the x-wings or the corellian corvettes while the Empire comes 
 with the massive star destroyers that can barely turn, but deal loads of damage when they do strike. 
 If you look even closer, each ship has its own time limited special ability such as turning off 
 shields for maximum firepower or maximum speed. 
  
  But if you choose to look even closer, you may drool too much. Each large ship, such as the frigates 
 or star destroyers, has specific points on its hull that can be targeted (this also applies to 
 enormous space stations that hover above planets) . In other words, in order to take down a star 
 destroyer, youre going to want your x-wings to get in there and take out its engines or shield 
 generator before you bring in the frigates. After those go down, you might target the destroyers 
 hangar bay and stop those tie fighters from flowing out. There are usually a dozen different points 
 to target on a large ship and sometimes twice that number on the space stations. Surprisingly, 
 the AI knows to follow this strategy on its own a lot of the time, leaving more time for you to 
 sit back and enjoy.
  
  Each space map looks beautiful and comes filled with dozens of asteroid fields and nebulas that 
 can be used strategically for sneak attacks and tactical maneuvers. Off in the background, you 
 can always see the planet that you are fighting above spinning and, in a sense, showing off its 
 beautiful modeling. The game also includes a cinematic mode that lets you sit back and watch the 
 action with a cinematic camera at any time during a battle. Zooming in on a star destroyer or a 
 space station as it explodes into hundreds of actual pixilated pieces is quite possibly as good 
 as a Star Wars experience can get. Best of all, you wont need more than a 128 MB video card to 
 get the full effect with the space battles (much worse on ground battles due to more units and 
 a much wider area) .
  
  Theres really no reason to mention anything regarding the sound simply because you know it will 
 be perfect; they can steal every sound bite they want from the films and call it authentic. What 
 makes the game worthy of a sound paragraph, however, is the most repeated line in the game. I have 
 no idea what type of ship reports it over and over again, but it is the most disturbing sound of 
 death that Ive ever heard in a game. SirSir, IveAYEEEUUUGHH!!!!! Sir, sir Ive got a. AEEEUGHHHHH!!! 
 Thank you, LucasArts for this authentic moment.
  
  Roll all of the layers of gameplay together, throw it online and youve got endless hours to waste 
 on another RTS. Its pretty easy for it all to get old when playing online, whether youre playing 
 a simple skirmish or an all-out galactic management war trying to control every planet in the galaxy. 
 The more you realize that the galaxy is just a bunch of planets used to fuel your army and nothing 
 else, the more repetitive and meaningless it all becomes. The galaxy map can serve as a fun chess 
 game to accompany the many battles, but it could also use a lot more depth to keep you hooked. 
 Nevertheless, if waging war for hours on end in some highly repetitive scenarios is your kind of 
 corellian ale, then dont waste a second in picking up SW: EAW. 
  
  On the other hand, sitting back and truly analyzing the game can show that it has the same flaws 
 that any RTS does. Essentially all that SW: EAW offers is a space battle system that can probably 
 last two months at best. Hardcore Star Wars fans and hardcore RTS fans will certainly be overjoyed 
 by the spirited and strong gameplay mechanics that the team at Petroglyph, whose programmers have 
 worked on the best RTS titles ever made, have put together. But dont fall for the fanboy syndrome 
 here; just because the box says Fight at Endor and Hoth! doesnt mean the greatest RTS battles 
 lie ahead. It seems as though covering an entire galaxy is just too much work for a game that really 
 just wants to capture the essence of RTS space battles.
  
  If youre looking for a game with Civilization-like management and Command and Conquer worthy ground 
 battles in a Star Wars universe, then keep waiting. I guarantee you the Death Star is dying to 
 explode again and Leia cant wait to put her slave dress on a dozen more times before LucasArts 
 calls it quits. If youve waited a decade since SW: Rebellion for epic space battles, stop daydreaming 
 about what Yoda might look like naked and buy it. At some point, however, LucasArts had best balance 
 the scope of their games with the amount of time and money they put into them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepanda001
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I guess people give too much credit for this game in the begining, surely enough, this is a good 
 game, but not good as perdict. Space battle is fun and entertainment, since you have the movie 
 angle option (you only watch it if you sure are going to win the battle) otherwise, X-xings are 
 too weak and alliance feet are not balance with the Empire feet in the begining of the game. FORCE 
 is NOT BALANCED!!!! For land battle, its ok but unless you bring enough land units into one battle, 
 you can even kick out by the priate units. NAN, not so much fun as expect until you have the big 
 GUN, such as Empiral AT Walker.... Death STAR oh,,,,,, A good weapon for empire in the land assult, 
 but its more like cheatinnnnnng!! you can just blast that planet into pieces and forget the land 
 assult. so its like put cheating code = destroy all land units for the ALLIANCE. 
  
  Overall, i thnk LUCAS done a good job on this game, but not a great job because force are need 
 to be balanced!!!. so try allanice, they are more challenge to play than empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Empire at War since the Demo was first released, and I must say it's a very clean 
 and good looking game. 
  
  It's fun to power great Star Destroyers, and Calamari Ships, but for all the "coolness" factors 
 built in, somethings things are lacking.
  
  After 2 weeks of play, I'm bored. 
  
  The graphics aren't that top notch on the planets, if anything, the ground battles are the weakest 
 aspect of the game due to boring scenery, not the best character graphics. Though the game does 
 give you the option to auto play the battle, you may not be secure with allowing the game to decide 
 the fate of the past 2 hrs of play.
  
  One point of issue is that I found easy mode WAY to easy, and Medium level just frustrating. There 
 were so many games that I just sat trading planets back and forth with my enemy. Very frustrating, 
 and a slow build up of credits to get ahead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: happymandan
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Why have a great concept; such as Star Wars and ruin it every time? Once again another average 
 Star Wars game has been produced. It seems to me that all the time and effort has gone into space 
 battles, which are, if I'm honest, good fun to play. However what the game makes up for in space 
 battles it severely lacks in land battles. There is a ridiculously small unit cap, taking winning 
 by numbers out of the equation. The only redeeming feature about land battles for me is the auto-resolve 
 button, which means I can continue fighting the space battles I love. In my opinion when you buy 
 this game you are only paying for the space battles and the land attacks are the useless freebee 
 that you get with many popular things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crismonkazuma
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is true to star wars universe in everwhere and is cool because you get to control the 
 fate of the starwars universe the graphis are geat and awesome gameplay and it si cool you can 
 use the starwars heros but should have put a mode where you could create your own starwars hero 
 and use that person in the game and the space battles are awesome with great controls and to be 
 able to easly to overpower the other enemys fleet also the ability to use the death star great. 
 and how your enemy's use hit and run tactics and hide in asteriod fields to do a surprise attack 
 on you but the land battles are a bit disointing because they don't relly use any stragety just 
 to go for a staight attack but it is still a great game even thought it has it flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearedmonstr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Let's start out with the good things, the graphics. Unlike what a lot of people seem to say, I 
 think the graphics of this game are more than adequate. Sure, they may seem a little blocky, but 
 we are talking about a real-time strategy game here, not Battlefield 2 or Far Cry. Star Wars: Empire 
 at War has got great explosion and lightning effects, the lasers and stuff is good too.
  
  Now for the gameplay, it's a different story. The gameplay is at its best during space battles. 
 You can target specific hard points on ships and space stations like their shield generators, missile 
 launcher, laser cannons, engines, etc... Which makes for great tactical planning. Then there's 
 the land battles. Land battles are somewhat slow paced and the AI always seems to know which units 
 you've got garrisoned on your planets, and counters with units whom are strong against yours. This 
 is a bit of a perspective thing. Some people seem to dislike that and say it's annoying and then 
 there are others who say it's great that an AI is capable of at least putting up a fight against 
 you using tactics other than blindly attacking with a group of units, like in games such as Age 
 of Empires. The AI will most likely always use artillery, which can strike a devastating blow to 
 your army. It wipes out whole platoons of your units in one single strike. Now, I like seeing the 
 AI use some tactics, but I dislike the fact that the AI always knows exactly which units I have 
 and counters them with their weaknesses, which is why I gave this a somewhat lower score of a 7.
 
  
  Lastly the sound, which I'm not going to waste a lot of time at. The sound's great, nice effects 
 and I love it when the music seems to change when my units encounter the enemy. The music fits 
 the game perfectly.$
  
  On a last note, if you were wondering whether or not you should buy or rent the game, I'd say buy, 
 but rent it first anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Well well.... This just was'nt that what i was waiting.... You know i tought that this part would 
 be some cind of clone war. But now the command conguer team have maded an great strategy game at 
 star wars plenty hell that was'nt a bad idea! What? no one does'nt command me to play those same 
 missions than the other star wars games i can do what i want! I can select an campaining with story 
 or without it! I have to say that ground fighting is totaly not good looking but there's still 
 space! In the game you have to do the thingks... ok ok as originaly you have to capture some planets 
 and protect your allies and you'r self offcourse. So if you got lot of planets then you get more 
 money and command points lot of planets bigger ships! And that's not all every planet have they'r 
 own speciality (bonus for some special group making and all cinda that) There's one "stupid" thinkg 
 in the game: Only lukes group can destroy that son of an deathstar! And jedis of the game are great 
 and their looking good and woow they're powerful! The game's working pretty good in internet too 
 and the gameplay is wery good! As i already sayed fighting on planets sucks graphics are not just 
 the best possible one in the ground and that sad thinkg because nearvy in all strategy games ground 
 fighting works and its a big part of the game. : ( Sad thinks AND good thinks:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jax_pylon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Well its been a long wait but LucasArts has finally got the strategy formula right when it comes 
 to Star Wars. With previous letdowns such as Rebellion, Force Commander and Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 I was beginning to wonder if strategy and Star Wars would ever go together. With a blend of tactics 
 and strategy in a unique gameplay style, Empire at War isn't just a good Star Wars strategy game, 
 it brings something new to the RTS table.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. Whilst the game has a skirmish mode similar to most RTSs, its real 
 innovation is its Galactic Conquest mode. This mode scatters anywhere from 8 to 43 planets across 
 the galaxy (depending on the scenario chosen) and lets you chose what planets to attack and in 
 which order. It is reminiscent of the risk-style gameplay of the Conquer the World gametype in 
 Rise of Nations but makes it more exciting by having it run in real-time.
  
  This means that you build your buildings, units, research, etc; whilst moving your fleets and armies 
 around on a galaxy-scale map all whilst your opponent is doing the same. While you're plotting 
 an attack on an enemy stronghold, the opponent could be doing the same to you. This adds a real 
 tactical element to the game. Should you combine all your forces into one big fleet and squash 
 the enemy's planets one-by-one whilst leaving your own planets undefended? Or will you make fewer 
 smaller armies and make decisive strikes on the enemy. 
  
  The commerce is another aspect which is different to most RTSs. You don't actually gather resources. 
 Instead you gain "credits" for every galactic day (approx. 1 minute) depending on the planets and 
 structures under your control. This adds to the tactics as you must spend your resources wisely 
 whilst steadily cutting your oponent dry.
  
  Another very interesting aspect of the game is the infamous Death Star. If playing as the Empire; 
 once you've researched to the correct level and gathered the credits required, you get to build 
 the Death Star. That's right. You get the fly the, albeit slow, Death Star around and blow up planets. 
 The planet still remains on the galactic view, however it will change into an asteroid field and 
 the surface of the planet will no longer be controllable. Whilst this may not always be wise, its 
 still damn cool.
  
  The graphics are also an enormous improvement on previous Star Wars strategy attempts, bringing 
 it into the modern realm with a full 3D engine with nicely detailed models and textures. Although 
 the close-up animations of some of the units can look a bit awkward (such as Darth Vader swinging 
 his saber more like a feather) , its hard to expect more from a strategy game. The space battles 
 look damn fantastic and its often a joy to sit back and watch them using the inbuilt cinematic 
 camera which will change to show events of importance on the battlefield. Although the camera does 
 sometimes look into odd and annoying places, it is still a great novelty.
  
  Like most Star Wars games now-a-days, Empire at War doesn't disappoint with its sound. From the 
 distinctive sound of TIE fighters flying past to the whine of blaster fire to the obligatory Star 
 Wars soundtrack, Empire at War boasts an impressive audio arsenal. You almost begin to feel that 
 you are on the battlefield just from the sound effects alone.
  
  Even though I am a self-admittant Star Wars fanatic, I like to think that I am still rather unbiased. 
 I don't rate such games higher simply because of the theme. Star Wars Empire at War is a very impressive 
 game especially compared to its previous attempts by LucasArts. I know that I'll spend many an 
 hour moving armies around in the Galactic Conquest gameplay and I look forward to playing some 
 multiplayer games of the same type.
  
  Empire at War is certainly worth the long wait that diehard Star Wars fans have been forced into 
 for a good strategy game. The universe has managed enormous successes in most other genres (KotOR, 
 Battlefront 2, Jedi Outcast, The X-Wing and TIE Fighter series) so it is great to finally see the 
 success spread fully into RTS. I look forward to seeing more such games, possible even an Empire 
 at War 2 spanning the full trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gundamxzero
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I finally got a chance to play the much awaited newest addition to the star wars franchise empire 
 at war, I sat down to try it and what can I say I got hooked. 
  
  It adds so many completely new features and options to the RTS franchise you really hsave played 
 nothing like it. In earlier days I played a star wars game and all it really was was a terrible 
 rip off of age of empires, completely not the case here. It has two dimensions of play both space 
 and land space by far being my favorite the game plays with a main layout of the galaxies planets 
 once you conquer a planet both space and land you can build buildings to increase income of for 
 new troops as well as space-stations. I have not had the chance to play the multiplayer yet but 
 the single player has a very impressive story line that is about pre movie 4 with the construction 
 of the death star in game cutscenes are about in game graphics which can be very good depending 
 on hardware, this game will run on machines that are not exactly cutting edge so those economy 
 gamers will also be able to experience this game. Battles are fairly simple you capture points 
 on the land and depending on how many points you have captured you can deploy reinforcements, if 
 you have ships orbiting the planet you can periodically call in bombing runs which will destroy 
 just about everything in its path all units have a special function that can often range from very 
 useful to devastating. You can get heroes that also have force powers or other special features 
 all in all a very fresh very new RTS that fans of the genre and star wars alike will both enjoy.
 
  
  Light side: Space combat and land combat are both very tactical and fun. Galaxy domination also 
 a very fresh new feature that adds a good part to the gameplay.
  
  The darkside: Unit cap on battlefield can be a tad dissapointing larger scale battles would be better. 
 Would like to see units from the previous episodes (expansion anyone?)
  
  The happily ever after: Game is defintely a good buy worthy of the attention easy to play but has 
 a very good depth of strategy this one will hang around on the gameshelf for quite sometime so 
 dont expect to buy it cheaply :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: High-Res
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  I love Starwars, I Love Starwars games, I love this game, But I will aslo admit so that future 
 buyers are aware, That after 2 Hours, I was Bored, After another 4 (Played it for about a week) 
 I was done. Now when I sit in front of my PC and have nothing to do, I don't even start the game. 
 Just dull. I like it, It is absolutely beutiful, But it is well, Boring. So Yes I do like it, but 
 I can also admit it is well, after about 30 minutes... Boring.
  
  Also just a note - The online Multi player is absolutely up-playable at the time I write this review. 
 If you can get a decent connection (The lag is un acceptable) , You will find that the Multi player 
 options are very limited and the 1 Player Campaign Game Play "Style" is not availble in Multi player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  I was quite excited when Gamespot showed their first preview of this game. 
  Im not sure about you but we havent really had that many games worth mentioning come out recently 
 and this looked like it could have changed all of that. Also being quite a big starwars game i 
 got this as soon as i could. 
  
  Unfortunatly it didnt quite meet expectations. Not becuase it had any particularly large flaws. 
 It just doesnt twork as well in the product as im sure it did on paper. 
  
  To start off the single player campain seems a bit limiting considering the amount you can do in 
 other parts of the game. Suffice to say i started the campain, got bored and moved on quickly.
 
  
  I did a Galactic conquest which started badly, got better, became a lot of fun and then became monotonous. 
 The selection of maps i personally think is terribly small. There just arent enough customisable 
 options. Then again you can mod your own so that may add to that. The game itself is actually quite 
 a lot of fun. From creating bases and taking planets to building Corellian Corvettes and Star Destroyers. 
 Both the space battles and the ground battles played pretty well and although i didnt feel totally 
 immersed i certainly felt involved. The space battles looked nicer but in there isnt really that 
 much difference between the two. 
  
  The problem is the game just does not have replayability. The strategic map although fun at first 
 becomes boring as there really isnt enough to do and not really sanything to think about once you 
 have got the winning formula. The battles become samey and you feel like your just doing the same 
 routine. 
  
  The skirmishes i feel were kind of an after thought and although fun suffer from the same inherent 
 problems as the main game.
  
  All in all the game was good, but with a bit more thiought could have been great.
  
  To Summerise 
 
  +The graphics look nice
  +It does a good job of creating the Starwars universe
  +technically three games in one
  +Just good fun ...
  -... for a short while
  - Not a thinking 
 wo/mans game as their isnt much to do
  -There really should have been more to a game claiming originality
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gandria
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  Well the game is one of the best i saw in RTS category ... but i think that we should compare this 
 with the LOTR II, two of the greater games in rts category should be reviewed. The most actual 
 advances in SW could be easily bypassed by LOTRII and vice-versa. 
  The game has some of the best graphics engine i tested until this day. Don't forget about the greatest 
 graphics engine of all times in RTS, the Geopard Engine in CODENAME PANZERS. This engine in Star 
 Wars meet the objectives that this game purpose to himself. Big maps... backgrounds with high resolution 
 images (space missions) in this particular example STAR WARS could easily immitate the HOMEWORLD. 
 But unfortunatelly the SW, Empire at War is more simple than HOMEWORLD in it's gameplay, i thought 
 the ships would move in the vertical axis... but... not the case. Although the game is quite interesting 
 in this mode. The sound is what sequels of SW made a legend of, in the begining it was the most 
 well worked soundtrack in the film of the genre. Now is the one of the most well worked music and 
 an impulse to play SW, anygame of SW series. 
  In conclusion i consider this game very complete. But like i said we should wait for more in the 
 LOTRII and then we should consider the rate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adelaidebread
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game isn't awful. We've all played worse. That being said, this isn't a great 
 game by any stretch of the imagination, there simply isn't all that much to it, and its crippled 
 by a number of huge problems that are simply impossible to smile, ignore and pretend this is a 
 good product because it has a few star wars bells and whistles. 
  
  The maps are tiny and generic. No, really, TINY. The larger skirmish maps are bad, but the maps 
 in the galactic conquest mode (the only thing I was personally really looking forward to) , are 
 just awful. Land battles are literally over in moments. If you're looking for epic, go get Rome 
 Total War or something, you wont find it here, even on the galactic map, which is insanely compacted.
 
  
  Like the maps, the scale of the battles, both on land and in space, is nothing short of appalling. 
 I was literally dumbfounded when I tried a space skirmish battle, only to find that I couldn't 
 deploy one ISD because I was already using a handful of TIE squads and less frigates than I could 
 count on my hand if my hand was run over my a train.
  
  Other elements, such as neutral buildings and units, have been done before, and better. Many maps 
 in single player spawn local units for one side or the other till their houses are destroyed. Simple 
 as that. Peasants with guns, no diplomacy, depth or variety there.
  
  These are just the halfhearted features that stick out to me the most. The graphics are good, for 
 what its worth, but not excellent. The sound however does deserve whatever praise it gets, as the 
 music and sound effects are true to star wars as could ever be expected.
  
  Overall, disappointing, really disappointing. I have been somewhat harsh. Not because its a complete 
 train wreck, but because it could have been so much better. SHOULD have been so much better. Whats 
 worse is that the success of this game is a nail in the coffin of gamers everywhere. Its flying 
 off shelves, giving devs the idea that thinly veiled shallow experiences are all they need to keep 
 producing. This is probably true if they only cared about making money, the problem is that the 
 people who are looking for something better need to wait for years on end for the next big thing, 
 only to be disappointed over and over and over again. At least until the next Elder Scrolls comes 
 out.
  
  Looked forward to it for a long time, and will play it a little more because, unfortunately, the 
 uninspired dung that spews from devs these days is all gamers really have to pass the time. Then 
 its going in the "what a waste" pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkiraToryama
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Well to start with i bought this game and from all the hype i saw about it, i expected some pretty 
 good stuff. I started playing and i skipped the tutorials and went straight to a space skirmish 
 to get a feel. Well they are pretty freakin sweet. The graphics could be better, but the proportions 
 are great and the general look of the Rebel and Empire ships are great. The sounds and combat are 
 great as well, and when you switch to the cinematic view during intense fighting, it just looks 
 and sounds awesome once again.
  Then I got to the land combat... well far less than i expected. Too me the star wars land battles 
 were fairly large, and the battle of Hoth for example was almost epic in scale. This game doesn't 
 do a very good job of showing that and the graphics are once again not too great, especially in 
 the small foot soldier units and i have everything turned up all the way. The reinforcement system 
 is different, and i wouldn't mind it, if the population limits were MUCH larger. when on some planets 
 you can only have like 5 squads, the land battles for an entire planet is like a skirmish. Maybe 
 its because im used to play RTW and am used to large land battles, but still i expected more. The 
 same population limits apply to space as well, the battles are great in space, but they could be 
 ten times better if they just doubled the population limits and made the maps bigger.
  
  The limits in population also weren't the only problem. The real time galactic game play on the 
 full galactic map was pretty cool, but there is a limit of units and eventually you get into a 
 repetitive kind of play, and its basically just the same thing over and over again with just slightly 
 varied environments. The game needs more units for ground combat, and space combat could use a 
 little more variety as well.
  
  Over all its a fun game and the space combat is definitley the highlight of the game, but the game 
 needs a larger pop cap across the board and more variety of units. Not only that but something 
 needs to be done to mix the game play up a little bit. The graphics could use a little improvment 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lavahawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  It's got a great campaign and a good collection of galactic conquests. But after a while most people 
 want to get onto the internet and have some fun there. And most people like to have a firewall 
 up to prevent hackers. Guess what? You can't. You can't play starwars emipre at war online with 
 your firewall on and that is a huge letdown. It's not that hard to make a game that's multiplayer 
 runs with a fire wall. I've played lots of games with a firewall allowed and it's very nice. Overal, 
 a good game with a great single player and a shakey multiplayer. If you're a real multiplayer kind 
 of guy, play it at a friends house before you buy it. Otherwise, it's a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasovdaelve
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  this game has stunning graphics and sound, and you get addicted to it really easily. the difficulty 
 level can be changed. the ability to control vader and kenobi and have a real duel is a very fun 
 experience. recommended to strategy gamers from 8+. the galactic conquest mode is really fun since 
 you can create the Mon Calamari cruiser ships which own any other kind of vehicle. Ackbar's Home 
 One is the top dawg though. Home one and the Mon calamari ships can take any star destroyer class 
 down and can blow tie fighters and bombers to pieces in one shot. and the ablility to watch the 
 battles close up is pretty cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game?? It's awesome! I bought it 4 days ago and i can't stop playing!!
 
  
  The gameplay is very reliable and easy and you can control everything only with the mouse!!
  
 
  The sound is another strong part of the game with special sound effects and all the explosions 
 blowing at your ears! Especially if you have a 5.1 system!! The laser sounds from the spaceships 
 are the classic sound of every laser with something more!!
  
  The graphics section is the strongest part of the game!!! Star Wars Empire at War has something 
 more than excellent graphics!! The universe looks very real and the spaceships very realistic!! In 
 the middle of a battle you can relax and admire all the special effects and the awesome explosions 
 that taking place in front of your eyes!!
  
  Don't lose this game at all costs!!!! It's a must for every pc gamer!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILlerxxxxX
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth buying but renting it isn't a bad idea, but if I where you avoid this game 
 and i'll tell you why. firstly there are two main parts to this game, space battles and land based 
 battles, in space battle the game is perfect but land battles ruin this game, Firstly the speed 
 of land based battles is to slow, you will find yourself pressing the fast forward key but that 
 does not help much, Secondly there is a low pop cap which make the game very limited on both sides 
 then their are these unlimited bombing runs that the A. I uses at will, this put the attacker at 
 an unreasonable advantage and vise versa vs the defender. Then the worst of all is that rebel forces 
 have better units by far, like for example the artillery on the empire side is a lot less weaker 
 than the rebel side, like one game I sent a large army towards the rebels they where pummeled by 
 TWO ARTILLERIES, my army consisted of x5 stormtroopers x3 artillery x4 tanks and x5 AT-aT WHAT 
 THE #%%K just two artilleries! finally the dumbest thing in the game is the auto resolution tab 
 which basically kills your x5 of your fleets to only one of theirs.
  So if you really want this game, don't play as the empire, avoid land battles and definitely don't 
 auto-resolve battles you will lose 95% or percent of the time better yet just don't make the same 
 mistake I did in buying the game
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garybuse
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  You play these games to achieve that moment when you realize you are hovering over your computer, 
 utterly lost in the minutae of the moment. Moving troops here, building bases there, outwitting 
 your opponent at every move. This game never got close to that moment. 
  
  One of the big factors in achieving that is to be able to differentiate between the units and knowing 
 what unit does what. All this is about -- at least in the first 5 or so levels of the game which 
 I played -- is building up a bunch of dudes, throwing them in and seeing which can survive.
  
  I need to be fair here and say that the space battles were really the ones that made me uninstall 
 this crappola. They are total mayhem and you have no idea what is doing what. Not fun in the least. 
 
  
  Oh how I long for the days of Warcraft. Yeah, I said that "Warcraft." With it's large/low numbers 
 of characters. When you finally saved up enough to build the big dude with the swinging sword, 
 you send him in and tear it up. You feel real pride in seeing him whip up on fools -- and you feel 
 real sadness when h e goes down.
  
  This game has none of the highs and lows of the good ones. Leave this alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rorschac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Thats the reason why we like the starwars movies and thats also why this game is great. The gameplay 
 is perfect for the theme. Although old c&c style could still work, but thats whats employed here 
 execpt for a few face lifts. Its simple and it has to be simple, it only needs to depict what it 
 draws from the movies, thats not much. I cant say the system is TOO simple nor TOO complicated 
 on the other hand, because they could have taken it over the top then it wouldn't be starwars, 
 it would be another game using a starwars mod. Unnatural in other words. I like this game because 
 its starwars and represents it well nothing more. 
  
  Its great as a first in a series. Im hoping for more detail in the sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I played the demo as almost everyone did im sure and it wasn't so good. some nice concepts but 
 i said i'll pass. but i didn't pass and actually did play this game and well... here's what i finally 
 decided about it.
  
  Gameplay: 3 parts basically. 1st is the strategic part (base building and such) where you're building 
 ... buildings on your planets and training army and fleet. it seems simplified as opposed to other 
 RTS because you dont really do much and you have your army. plus, credits never seem to run out. 
 however... play a game with 30+ planets and this part can get tedious.
  2nd part, land battles. to be honest this has to be the weakest point of the game. its not terrible 
 as "omg i can't play this this is terrible" but more like "i'd rather not if i dont have to" and 
 thats exactly what i do. unless im doing a land battle thats part of a mission, i just auto resolve 
 (given that victory is gauranteed i. e. i have plenty of units otherwise i fight manually because 
 auto resolve pretends you're stupid and gets the max number of your units killed which is gay but 
 what are you gonna do?) and then retrain my army to its full strength.
  3rd part... space battles. i have NEVER skipped any of these. they're just so much fun and just 
 like watching the movies (can't say the same about land battles) . 
  the cinematic camera makes the space battles look even more like a movie than you can imagine.
 
  
  Graphics: not bad. land battles once again could've been done better. the animations there are 
 ok but lightsaber is just gay here... just gay. space battles... oh man sweet. as i mentioned its 
 just like watching the movies. you'll see an imperial death start coming from the top of your screen 
 and covers more as it moves forward, lasers shooting like crazy and explosions everywhere as the 
 fleets engage... its awesome.
  
  Sound: well not much to say here... its star wars and everyone already knew EXACTLY what it would 
 sound like. sound happens to be the only strong point of every star wars game.
  
  value: the single player campain is only about 10 hrs long (and thats counting both of the campains 
 together) so thats REALLY short for a RTS. there's galactic conqest too but thats pretty much the 
 same as that exept you get different heroes depending on which galactic conqest you play. there's 
 online but eh i only found it fun for so long.
  
  overall: deffinately worth trying and if you're a hardcore star wars fan then well... nothing to 
 say to you cuz you already probably have it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper91
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Its takes a wile to get the actions down pat the graphics are worst then quake 3s. The sound is 
 ok. The sides you can choose is dumb. But i like wat vehicles you can have thats one good thing 
 about it . i just dont like strategy games that much. ok people dont even play this game its a 
 waste of time. Its neat at first then its dumb. just get Starwars battle front 2 its 3 times better. 
 that all i have to say . please dont scroll down. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  hi hi hi hi hi hihi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minnie4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks!!! There are a few problems though such as slowdown and not being able too use 
 Luke Skywalker and General Grievous in a land battle, but besides that this game is the greatest 
 real time strategy ever! You can even use wookies, Mon Calamari, and by using Emperor Palpatines 
 special ability you can use Wampas, Hutts, Rancors, and pretty much anything! Even with it's problems 
 I think anyone who likes Star Wars or strategy should get this game for sure, but you must make 
 sure you download the patch or you won't be able to get past mission four in the rebel campaign. Finally 
 the graphics are hard too run on even a powerful computer but if you have the power this game is 
 worth every penny sold! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoonen123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Its just plays really well, the Rebels are the more challenging side but that is all in the way 
 of the saga, so no suprises here. Also the game is fairly good to play for non-RTS games, the turorial 
 is very well put together and let you learn most aspects of the game. The hero part is very interesting 
 you can play without them most of the part in the campaign if so you will add to the difficulty 
 dramaticly. Especially the Empire has got the well known and very strong heroes.
  
  For the fan its cool to see what the characters has been up to between movie 3 and 4, but dont 
 expect to much suprises!!
  
  The first RTS game that is more than solid, for me its up there with the other Star Wars games 
 Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic and Star Wars Rogue Leader: Rogue Squadron II!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Wan678
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. By far one of my best games on the PC. While many people complain about 
 it, it is a great game. Sound is well done, graphics are awesome and well you get my point. PERFECT 
 game! The campaigns are incredible, Galactic Conquest in great and Skirmish mode is also well done. 
 What really grabbed my attention is the Space Battles. There can be so many units at once and add 
 that with cinematic or movie mode it is much better. Hereos are great and prove a challenge. Each 
 of them have their own powers. Like Obi-Wan has the power to increase a units defense and is able 
 to heal himself and his allies, and Sidious using Force Lightning who can kill anyone caught in 
 its way and mind trick where any opponent will fight on your side. Overall This is a perfect game 
 from my point of veiw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I love the Star Wars stories, I grew up on them and have followed them all over the years. So whay 
 is it that apart from KOTR there has not been a decent Star Wars based game ever?
  
  I have been losing hope that a decent Star Wars game will ever come along until I got my hands 
 on this. It is fantastic. Everything you can think of is here. Although it may not be a purists 
 dream, the developers have crammed in an awful lot of the Star Wars universe and you can play in 
 most of it.
  
  One of the best features of the game is the ability to not only play on the planet surfaces but 
 embark on massive space battles. It adds another layer to the game and makes the whole thing that 
 little bit more interesting.
  
  Graphically it is not going to win any oscars I think but it looks pleasant anf not to harsh on 
 the eye. The sound is something else and there are tonnes of atmospheric noises, musical scores 
 and other ambient sounds going off all the time.
  
  So yes, i would advise getting this game if you are a fan of RTS and Star Wars, I think that you 
 may enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier-786
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  ok first thing first graphics-are very gd espeacially the space combats ,they are really great 
 when you blow up star destroyers or big capital ships, and on ground the envioroment is done quite 
 well with most of the hero and ground units quite pleasing to the eye. the sound is fantastic but 
 im not sure what a 10 out of 10 on sound is for but im tempted to give it 10 so i have. everything 
 from the huge ion cannons to the buzz of the x-wings flying around is perfect, then we have the 
 all important gameplay element, the idea of combining a rome total war like map in real time is 
 brilliant and you really do have quite a bit of controll in managinng your empire, and the space 
 combat is  i would buy the game 
 just for that. ground attacks can be great but they become repetitve over time as you will spend 
 hours hunting down 1 unti just so u can capture the planet but it is worth playing a few now and 
 then. great value for money the galactic conquest can take days espeacially on the igher difficulties, skirmishes 
 and the campaign are all equally enjoyable. the only prob i have had is the online play im not 
 quit sure if it is the game or the server but some times you cant even play a game cos u cant connect 
 very very annoying. oh and it will take you about 30 mins to get used to the game if ur a regular 
 rts player or mayb 60 mins if ur a novice. but overall it isfantastic, great range of units and great 
 space battles. if u even are remotley intrested in rts sci fi games buy this **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFJames2003
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  So what does SW: Empire at War have to offer you? Simply, high quality real time strategy game 
 that has some old school elements tied in with tactical twists. The game offers you control of 
 either the Rebel Alliance, or the Empire. They both play differently and have a varied selection 
 of units, with the imperials focusing mainly on brute force and the rebels on stealth. 
  
  The main chunk of the single player game is the galactic conquest mode which offers you situations 
 of varying difficulty and objectives on each side. There are 43 different planets, each with a 
 different space and land map. However the land maps can get repetitive and the land combat as a 
 whole is not as enthralling as the space.
  
  Overall i think this is a good RTS well worth having in your collection, and i may add the bonus 
 of commanding Imperial Star Destroyers is a very enjoyable one! Enjoy crushing rebel scum! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anstar97
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome you kill rebels those rebel scums ha ha haaa okay lets get to the reveiwwwww!!! 
 alright in this game you can chose to play as empire !!! or the rebels how boring. The multiplayer 
 i hear is good but i haveent played online yet this is a very good rts game for star wars and we 
 havebt had one for a whyle. graphics for this game are good they could have been better gameplay 
 is alright but i think petroglyph could have done better my part that i like playing as vader force 
 crush and push funn ahh to sum up this game is one of the best recent rts game out there i recomen 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyn1628
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This is the best Star Wars game to date with great graphics and even better sound. The land battles 
 needs improvement but the space battles are top notch. I hope they will release an expansion pack 
 for this game soon with more levels and campaigns.
  
  You can finish this fairly quickly and the custom battles are rather easy as well. 
  
  Good 
 game if you like RTS, if you are Star Wars fan, a must get.
  
  Compared to other RTS, this may not stnd up to the best and the cream of the crop, but very high 
 up there. With the campaign mode, planning to control all the planets require some good stratergy 
 and planning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradberry9
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Star Wars : Empire at War.
  
  What if it was called Xalzak : Empire at War?
  Would it have gotten a 8.7?... I think not.
  The only thing that makes this game worthwhile is 
 simply because it is a Star Wars game.
  
  In that way, it does the name well. It uses the characters, ships, weapons, enemies, and the general 
 star wars theme very well.
  However, it does alot of things wrong.
  
  The space and land battles are just not very compelling whatsoever. The only thing that saves the 
 gameplay is the planetary strategy. This aspect nearly makes the game as a whole. 
  
  The addictive pattern of conquering and defending planets is quite enjoyable, so enjoyable that 
 you may find yourself auto-resolving the battles just to get back to the planetary strategy.
  Is that what the developers wanted? Most likely not.
  If more time was spent on creating compelling 
 battle sequences/maps the game truly would have been great.
  
  As it stands, Star Wars : Empire at War is a well licensed game with a few great aspects to it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaNdAmAgEr
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  I felt this game was a really good strategy based game but it lacked all the essentials for a good 
 strategy game. The space battles were good but lacked enough action because the cinematic view 
 did not focus upon the battles that much and you could not pan the camera to look at a different 
 view besides vertical.
  
  The land battles let the game down big time because the units were poorly animated, there was little 
 diversity between the units and the range of units available and the land battles were just boring. 
 
  
  Overall the graphics and sound hold this game up but apart from the space gameplay which is still 
 not totally desirable, this game is far short of its expectations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enculman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Before, I always think the Star Wars games boring ( i don't really like the laser sword fight ) 
 . But it was before I play to the demo of Star Wars: Empire At War. You imagine, i only play the 
 demo and i think its the better games never create !!!!!!! The graphic are very good and they have 
 give us something nice, the cinematics option!!! You can see battle in space from different angle. 
 Plus, there is not oinly space battle, but also earth battle!
  Multiple of unit and ship add to the games a more addictive play. Its easy to lost the time and 
 play more than 2 hours on games! You can control two faction ; the rebel and the empire. So you 
 can choose what you want. Each faction have different units and different special power. I can 
 only say its vey good. One thing, something you have difficulty to destroy space ship bacause of 
 the angle of your camera. The only bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  I reckon LA had tight restrictions over the developers (most are ex C&C devs) because i couldn't 
 see this being the game they wanted to make.
  
  Take SWG for example, SOE wouldn't have gone that way and LA pulls off the shots, maybe thats what 
 happened here?
  
  Lets hope the 2nd game turns out much better (if theres gonna be a 2nd) because while this is a 
 good game, it's not the perfect RTS we need right now.
  
  This game is a must buy for fans of SW/RTS though :) If your just a hardcore RTS fan it might not 
 appeal to you.
  
  Teh realism mod is great and improves many things, but it also breaks alot of things. I hope the 
 dev's achive what that mod was trying to achieve in upcoming patches.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Great skermish modes that are focused on battle rather than resource gathering. The story singleplayer 
 game lacks quite alot of depth for me though. Multiplayer also has its fair share of game breaking 
 bugs.
  
  So atm play it for the skermish, it's where you'll have the most fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Great graphics, although the troops look too big compared to vehicles and some 
 of the ground combat doesn't look that great.
  
  Sound:
  
  Everyting you'd expect from the SW score.
  
  Value:
  
  For me atm this isn't a must buy, 
 not worth the retail price atm unless your a SW fan. Wait a few months for the price to drop.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaeli21
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that I am not a Star Was fan. Yes, I've watched most of the movies, I know what 
 Star Wars is; I know that Darth Vader is Luke's father and all that. I'm just not a huge fan of 
 Star Wars. 
  
  The game itself is beautiful. Graphics wise, it's not fabulous but its definitely pretty. They 
 also did a wonderful job of optimising the graphics for lower end computers like mine. In terms 
 of graphics, I would give this game an 8.5. 
  
  Let's go into where it matters most. Star wars Empire At War took a very big risk by implementing 
 a completely different system of tactical versus strategic gameplay. A good move by them, with 
 mixed results. The Tactics portion is cool fo the first part, but it is alsop highly undeveloped. 
 I'm not expecting Civlization style of customisation and depth, but something more meaty and substantial 
 woul dhave been nice. As for the strategic level, this is where the game pretty much falls apart. 
 Sure, it's cool to be able to play as Darth Vader, but in actuality, combat units are pretty boring. 
 After about 10 hours into the game, one can get really bored cos of the lack of variety of combat 
 strategies. This game doesn't have the level of depth of better RTS games like Warcraft III. 
 
  
  Sure, SWEAW is not a perfect game. It's a pretty interesting and well polished RTS. But it's not 
 great, unless you live, eat and drink Star Wars. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronblood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I am a huge Star Wars fan... own all the movies, saw episode IV when I was like 10 in the 
 theaters, grew up in the golden age of Star Wars Kenner toys; sadly don't know what happened to 
 most of em. 
  
  I'm also a long time RTS fan. So this is one game I actually pre-ordered (I think it's the first 
 ever.) Didn't care much for the Galactic Battlegrounds game so I had high hopes for this one. 
 
  
  Anyway, yes if you're a fan like me, you'll love this game. Just go out and buy it! No question. 
 Just buy it.
  
  Pro: Timeframe
  
  The timeframe is just before episode IV. Couldn't have picked a better place to begin!
  
  Pro: 
 Space and Ground Combat
  
  Cool and unique blend of space and ground unit combat. From what I've seen, no other RTS to date 
 has anything like it. 
  
  Space battles are just like the wildest frays you've seen in the movies. Fighters everywhere, capital 
 ships breaking apart, lasers filling space like tracers over Baghdad. It's all good... There are 
 also hero units to control in space. The Bobba Fett mission was easy but fun. I liked using the 
 sonic bombs on Slave-I.
  
  I think the ground battles are good too! I think a lot of people are so impressed with what's happening 
 in space they sorta look at the ground battles as, "Ah, been there, done that." But really, I like 
 the ground battle aspects. Using the hero units in battle is a blast, Darth Vader is a favorite. 
 I also liked a couple of the special missions with just Han and Chewy. 
  
  Pro: Sound Effects and Music
  
  Sound effects and music are wonderful. I thought the voice 
 acting was pretty good too.
  
  Pro: Cool Cinematic Camera
  
  The cinematic camera is really well done. They modeled a bit of a shake in the camera and it pans 
 and zooms around on action sequences as if a little reporter was standing there on an asteroid 
 and a camera man was shooting raw footage. I was really impressed with the look of it.
  
  Pro: Capital Ship Hard points
  
  Huge capital ships with multiple hard point targets. The capital 
 ships are all proper scale so tiny X-Wing and Tie Fighters buzz around dog fighting each other 
 while the capital ships lumber through space and pound each other. 
  
  Pro: Units Live Through Battles
  
  Losses and victories have ongoing consequences. I loved 
 that I could go into a space battle, fight for my life, maybe take out 1 of 3 capital ships, and 
 beat a hasty retreat with my tattered Rebel fleet. Whatever ships survive the battle live to fight 
 another day! ... and if I return quickly to a battle, the 1 capital ship is still dead! 
  
  Pro: No Resource Gathering
  
  No resource gathering!!! Thank you, thank you, and thank you! 
 What army would actually stop fighting because a renegade enemy unit took out the harvester??? 
 Thankfully none of that in this game. There's a planetary economic system instead that does effect 
 how you produce units and seems much more appropriate for funding armies. 
  
  Pro: Air/Ground Control Advantages
  
  Space and ground battles are influenced by air/ground 
 control. If a space battle is raging and I control the planet, I might have a big gun down there 
 to throw up a formidable attack against capital ships in orbit. Likewise, if I control the space 
 above a planet, I can call in bombing attacks if the right units are in orbit.
  
  Pro: Ground Troop Massacres in Space
  
  There are situations in which you can anticipate the 
 arrival of troops and send a "welcoming committee." You can actually catch fleets of ground units 
 arriving in nearly defenseless troop transports above a planet and totally annihilate the ground 
 attack before it ever gets the chance to put a soldier on the ground. There is something shamefully 
 enjoyable about wiping out an entire army floating defenseless in orbit. 
  
  Pro: Call for Backup
  
  If you arrive in a space and/or ground battle with a large fleet of 
 units, you can call on them to provide reinforcements during the battle. Nice way to get around 
 the unit limitation imposed, I assume, to keep the frame rate playable.
  
  Pro: Resupply Points
  
  On the ground, you fight for resupply points. This is cool. The more 
 supply points you control, the more troops you can call in. Some points are more valuable than 
 others. You'll notice a number appear with each supply point, which indicates how many units can 
 be supported. The resupply points are VERY reminiscent of the resupply points in the Star Wars 
 Battlegrounds series. I appreciated the continuity. 
  
  Pro: Rancor
  
  Hehehe... the Rancor eats people.
  
  Con: Restricted Camera Control
  
  Um... the units 
 appear to be nice 3D polygon models, yet I have very restricted control of the camera. I was disappointed 
 that I could NOT rotate or control the camera viewing angle in either land or space conflicts.
 
  
  Con: No Experience Bonuses
  
  Although units that survive battles continue the good fight, they don't seem to get any better 
 with combat victories or experience.
  
  Con: Unit Limits
  
  You are limited in the number of units you can call into a battle. The ground battles seem OK in 
 this respect. I don't necessarily feel like I need to have thousands of storm troopers on the ground 
 and I can fill the battlefield with a fair number of tanks, AT-ATs and so forth. But the space 
 battles do seem to hold me back a bit. Seems like if I have 7 corvettes or frigates in a battle 
 group, I'm limited to 2 capital ships. If I go with all capital ships, I've had as many as 6 Star 
 Destroyers on screen at once. Not bad, but I'd like to compliment that with at least as many corvettes.
 
  
  Con: No Tactical Foresight
  
  One REAL SHORTFALL in my opinion is that when you enter a space battle with a huge fleet, the PC 
 picks a standard load out of units for you. If I have a ton of corvettes and 10 capital ships in 
 my fleet, the PC will pick a starting lineup of 7 corvettes and 2 capital ships. 
  
  There are times when I want a certain mix of units (maybe 5 corvettes and 3 capital ships) and 
 I have no control over that. I can only lose ships in the fight and fill in with backup units to 
 meet my needs. Seems like it would have been SO EASY to just ask the player which ships to start 
 the battle with. I'm hopeful a future patch will add that ability. 
  
  Similarly, at the start of ground battles the PC just automatically puts (what it thinks is) your 
 strongest unit on the battlefield and then you call down additional units. It'd be nice if I had 
 the ability to choose who started a battle. Maybe I want a stealthy squad of soldiers to scan the 
 area first... instead; I get an AT-AT standing there... ALWAYS.
  
  Con: Cannot Send Units Back
  
  I have no ability to send units back into orbit. Likewise I 
 can't order individual ships to leave a battle, perhaps to make room for a capital ship now that 
 I've swatted all the fighters with my corvettes. Again, this might be less of an issue if I had 
 some control over which units started a battle in the first place.
  
  Con: God-Like Rebel Rocketeers
  
  There are some issues with certain paper/rock/scissor firepower 
 abilities. The Rebel rocket troopers seem almost God-like in their ability to dispatch armor. Who 
 needs snow speeders when I can send in these 3 crazed Al-Qaeda turned Rebel Alliance members? Ah 
 well... I hear there's a patch for that one. 
  
  How many times in the movies do you recall the AT-AT drivers worried over 3 guys walking toward 
 them with potato launchers? Yeah, it's that bad... an AT-AT turning tail and running from 3 ground 
 troopers.
  
  Mixed Feelings: Pseudo-3D Space
  
  Space battle is pseudo-3D, the ships seem to be flying around in 3D space, but you control them 
 on a 2D plane. Homeworld fans might scoff at it a bit. But if you really think about it, it's probably 
 very much the way you play Homeworld anyway. Only without the irritation of sometimes being off 
 on your navigation because you forgot to account for the z coordinate. I was debating whether this 
 was a pro or con. I'll leave it to you to decide. I think I like it, and I might even like Homeworld 
 better if it had such an option.
  
  Mixed Feelings: Low-Poly Models
  
  Close-up views of some of the units do show the polygon models are rather simplistic. I'll cut 
 em some slack though, usually I'm looking at X-wings and soldier units from a distance that makes 
 them look like tiny specs anyway. If you take that into consideration, they're really quite detailed.
 
  
  Mixed Feelings: Base Construction
  
  You don't spend much time building bases. You just select what structures to build on a planet 
 and the PC plops them down on what are probably pre-determined points on each planet's map. Sometimes 
 this can be disappointing. 
  
  Seems as though power generators are frequently positioned somewhere outside the force-field that's 
 protecting the base... hmmm, how convenient. Not sure why the galactic architects never figured 
 out that positioning the generator inside the force field is no doubt a good thing! 
  
  On the other hand, you don't spend a lot of time micro-managing base construction. Leaves more 
 time for the fun part, commanding troops. So I'm a bit up in the air on this one.
  
  Overall:
  
  Fun game. Star Wars fans, it's a must have. RTS fans, you'll appreciate the blending 
 of space and ground combat as well as not having to waste effort on resource gathering. Thankfully, 
 R2-D2 doesn't have to work a farm in this game! (what were they thinkin?) 
  
  I'm hopeful that future patches will add the ability to control which units begin battles. Seems 
 like such a glaring oversight... who did they get to play the beta? 
  
  Lack of good camera control (or no control?) on such a visually pleasing game is also a bit of 
 an annoyance. I guess we're forced to sacrifice some features in the preservation of frame rate.
 
  
  But even with its minor annoyances, it really is a well done game and deserves a place of honor 
 on your shelf of favorites. So go buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outyonugget
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best star wars games I have played in a long time. It grants you acess 
 to some of the most unique vehicles in the star wars series. It has a few problems though, installing 
 the game takes a long time because you have to install the internet play also. I played online 
 for just a couple of moments and I got killed! I have never gotten past the second mission in campaign 
 mode . The problem is that the game offers equal equality to the other faction. I played a land 
 conquest and the rebels couldn't invade my base and i couldn't invade theirs. This game is a great 
 one but requires alot of strategy and planning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasBrownie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Well like some people ive couldent wait for the game to come out. So i got the demo as soon as i 
 could. I was blown away ,everying was superb and after playing it i couldent wait for the full game 
 to come out.
  
  Ive had this game what......6 days or so and im not dissapointed as such , just thought it was 
 going to be alot better . The space battle are great i have to admit , it reminded me of that great 
 game Homeworld 2 .
  The planet battle are alright but they do bore me often , the a. i just chuck themselves at you 
 and the realism sucks (but there is a mod out for it now) such as , killing a AT-AT with 4 infantry 
 squads . Also i missed the building structures and resource gathering . Also with the command points 
 to capture and the small tiles where you build turrets etc , it felt like a failed attempt at the 
 popular game Z . The Empire always seems to overwhelm you with numbers at the start of a planet 
 battle.... but if you survive it you have a good chance at winning.
  
  The space battles are pretty and you can select hardpoints of a ship for example , to take out 
 the engines but really it dosent make a difference.
  
  Overall..... This game is decent enough to satisfy me . Its a good RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonGianti
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am a huge SW fan. Saw EP3 at midnight. Built the lego Blockade Runner. I'd have have 
 Millenium Falcon bedsheets if my wife would let me :)
  
  Second, I'm a huge Computer game (mostly strategy games) fan. My PC is a decent game PC (3200 - 
 1.5 gig - GF 6600GT 256mb) and I've played most Star Wars games to date on PC, Xbox and Gamecube.
 
  
  On the surface, it would appear that this game could be all I'd ever want.
  
  In reality, I think it will have a shelf life of a couple of months, then I'll move on. I don't 
 think its worth the $60 I paid, I wish I'd waited till it was $30. I played it for about 25-30 
 hours over the weekend, won the largest map twice playing as the Rebels on normal difficulty.
 
  
  Strategy wise, its the classic Rock-Paper-Scissors RTS-lite. No Heavy Thinking required. If he 
 has bombers, send in your fighters or corvettes. If he has tanks, send in missle troops. If he 
 has big capital ships, well you'd better have some too... You are forced to keep a moderatly balanced 
 force to avoid getting swamped by one type of Rock/Paper/Scissors. But there are not all THAT many 
 useful units that it takes long to figure out what to use. For that matter, they include a handy 
 chart so you don't even have to experiment. I beat the game with only half the units unlocked or 
 built. Some units are just not useful (Xwings die fast, just build blockade runners instead) .
 
  
  Star Wars wise, its the typical show of ships and units. Imperial Star Destroyers, Xwings, Mon 
 Cal Cruisers. The grapics are passable, but I'd say that they are a little dated. Voice acting 
 is bad (par for the course) , Music is awesome (par for the course - Long live John Williams!)
 
  
  Each planet is unique, which makes ground combat different. Some planets have unique structures 
 and personalitys which are interesting the first time, but don't add much to the replay value.
 
  
  There are some artificial rules in place that limit the number of units you have in any combat 
 and there is a slightly different spin on RTS ground combat, but not so different to make it better, 
 just different.
  
  The Hero Units add a little, but also add to the twitch fest of micromanagement. Its cool to see 
 Han and Chewie on the field and the different powers of these hero units are well balanced. They 
 make a HUGE difference to the outcome of the battle if used well, but not so much that it feels 
 wrong.
  
  Over all, its fun, but if you replaced the Star Wars theme with some made up SciFi theme it would 
 not hold up as a game on its own merits for very long at all. Normally when I get a new game, I'm 
 up till 2 am the first couple of nights. I got the game Friday, I was in bed and sleeping by 10pm 
 all 3 weekend nights. If it isn't sucking me in now, I doubt I'll be playing it at all in a few 
 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjGandoo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Well like many people who have been waiting for this game I snapped up the demo and was completely 
 blown away. I was sooo excited for the release date so I could get my hands on the entire experience.
 
  
  Well it's not been almost a week since I picked up the game and I must say something seems to have 
 been lost between the demo experiance and the actual game. Overall the game is fun, but to the 
 point where I can't get myself off the machine. Game play is unique in that there is no resource 
 building and none of the usual pesky base building which is a pleasant change. However, the battles 
 specially on the planet seem to be pretty simple when its you attacking. If the computer chances 
 to come up on one of your planets and attacks it's almost to the point where they over whelm you 
 with numbers (Empire) .
  
  Space battles are visually pleasing and the ability to target actual hard points on larger ships 
 is fun but you quickly realise that it's a waste of time and you rather target the entire vessel 
 to get real results.
  
  In a nutshell this game is a good (not great) RTS, from a SW perspective it is way better than 
 any RTS before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_matthew
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  yeah, this game's the bomb. i've not reached the end game for the empire, nor have i started the 
 rebellion missions yet, but so far i'm having a terrible time putting it down. as the official 
 review said, space battles are more satisfying than the ground battles, but there's still something 
 to be said for stomping on the rebel scum with an irresistible force of AT-ATs! not much beats 
 laying waste an entire planet though. i am looking forward to an illustrious career on multiplayer 
 mode. the graphics are impressive, and i've had seldom crashes, despite a fairly beefy pc. sound 
 is faithfully recreated from the movies. other user comments detailing various inconsistancies 
 with the expanded universe seem well placed, but in no way detract from the enjoyment of the game 
 for me. enjoy, kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalgamer22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  first of all its fun and sometimes challenging
  which is of course a good thing
  
  plus it has heroes that help you or your enemy
  
  the only thing bad about it , i think, is 
 that its too short at times
  it should have went all the way to Return of the Jedi (episode 6)
  
  now that would have been 
 fun
  seeing the hoth battle in one of the campaigns
  
  i can't write anymore
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redmark123
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  at first i thought this was a fresh rts with something new to offer with the space battles and 
 galactic map and an all around good honest SW game. I rapidly changed my view of the game when 
 i began to play the game properly instead of just experiment with it, this game has crude up close 
 unit graphics with very little detail, by todays standards i would say "5.7" for that, not much 
 can be said for the simple brainless ground battles the gameplay for that is poor and many older 
 rts games you could say are far better in that side of the game. The game does not complement the 
 star wars trilogy and the campaign is boring. One thing i can say for the game is that the space 
 battles offer something new to ordinary rts game but its no reason to buy the game, overall i would 
 give the gameplay "7.2" i quite the galactic map (as confusing as it is to start with) , good not 
 great plenty of better games availible. I would say if your an rts fan your going to be disappointed, 
 if your a star wars fan you would probably be better off playing KotOR or BF2 in my opinion overall 
 "6.5". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herkum
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game, however it does not have have really depth game play. You can learn the whole 
 game in one campaign and be done with it.
  
  The technology tree is very shallow and did not add anything to the gam beyond limiting the units 
 you were were going to eventually need.
  
  The ability to manage your fleets is burdensome and cannot be done while the game is paused. You 
 also cannot direct your units when the game is paused either. Any orders you give are discarded 
 and then you have to start the game again and reissue them. It feels like contrived and forced 
 rather than improving the game all.
  
  It has very cool graphics the game itself is pretty well balanced but it is not innovative in game 
 play or in units. I was disappointed because I did not feel like there was anything truly special 
 that would bring me back to keep playing it over and over again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmagx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it star wars games has just about everything you need from shooters to rpgs star wars 
 has been there and it about time for a rts to come out and when it did it was awesome. Star wars 
 empire at war features many options that other rts dont have to offer such as a massive difference 
 between two strong forces, Republic and Empire. I personally like the Empire. The fans of the series 
 or of rts should buy this game. Even if oyu hate star wars you should still buy this game. But 
 why would you read this if you werent one bit interested? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halodude117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  For a long time Ive been waiting for this game. Putting a big sign on my calendar, counting the 
 days till it comes out and now it is finally here and it's everything I hoped it would be.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. It's like a better "warcraft". Of course it you will like it even 
 more if you're a fan of the movies, but even if you're you not, you will love it. As is you already 
 know, you can use all creatures, solders, ships and almost everything in the star wars universe.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are absolutely breathtaking. So much detail, if didn't know any better, 
 I would say it was real. Some of the best graphics I've seen.
  
  All in all, I give this a very well earned 9.3.
  
  This is without a doubt the best star wars 
 game out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylornh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  My personal favorite has to be the space battles, they were done wonderfully, the ground battles 
 however were lacking in part to the fact that there is no 'build unit' rather 'building plots' 
 which are in fixed locations. The building plots also don't allow for building of toops or vehicles. 
 this makes land battles difficult. the whole 'galactic conquest' idea is great but i would have 
 rather had them spend more time on making bigger and better maps then more planets. I hope that 
 lucas arts comes out with an expansion where they eliminate the 'building plots' and put a larger 
 scale on the maps. Also i would like to see the republic ad the CIS brought into the game. all 
 together i'd say great game, but it could use some improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire At War (EAW from now on) is the second Star Wars RTS to come rolling out of the 
 Lucasarts production line. Whilst I loved the first one (Force Commander) , it did need updating 
 due to the fact that the graphics really were terrible and it took a scientist to try and figure 
 the storyline properly.
  
  EAW is set between Revenge of The Sith and A New Hope and it follows either the stories of the 
 Empire or Rebellion as they both battle each other to take control of the galaxy. Play as the Empire 
 and you have the job of secretly constructing the deadly Death Star. Play as the Rebellion and 
 you have the job of trying to stop them... simple isn't it?
  
  Gameplay: Now it's time to get down to business. Empire At War is very easy to play. The controls 
 are basically all point, click and drag with the odd keyboard combination for the more advanced 
 player. There are three basic playing modes that you will encounter throughout your time playing. 
 The Galaxy map, Space battle and Land battle. The Galaxy map requires you to manage your economy, 
 build your Empire and distrubute your troops and ships throughout the galaxy. You can choose to 
 play the game entirely on the Galaxy map due to the fact that there is an auto-resolve button when 
 it comes to battles. This, whilst it may save time, can be costly due to the fact that it makes 
 the computer play the battle in your place. Even if the odds seem to be in your favour be careful, 
 the computer is one terrible player. If you choose to play the battle you will either enter the 
 space or land battle (you must defeat the orbiting fleet before you can land) where again it is 
 just point, click and drag. One brilliant new feature though is BattleCam where the camera actually 
 follows the units in battle as if you were one of the tie-fighters or x-wings.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good for a RTS. My only complaints is that the BattleCam zooms 
 in too far to reveal some truly terrible textures.
  
  Sound: In true Lucasarts fashion none of the major characters in the game are played by their film 
 counterparts. Whilst some of the voice-overs can be convincing at times, you need to be really 
 drunk to even remotely believe that Darth Vader is being played by James Earl Jones.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  Whilst it is a pretty good game it can get repetitive at times. The storyline is 
 practically identical to the events of the original trilogy with a few irelevant missions inbetween 
 to fill the gap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryker_usa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  The most anticipated game of the year ends up falling on its face. This game could have done so 
 much more. It needs to litterly be put back into the design phase. Sure the graphics are great, 
 the sounds are great, and even the breath taking battles are supurb. Yes, I must admit... thats 
 the best thing for this game. The worst part of this game is that it plays to fast, there is no 
 diplomacy, and it feels like a mad dash for conquest. A new player could conquest this game less 
 than the time it would take to build the Death Star. Its safe to say even a Druken Jawa could play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corsoski
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Recent advances in RTS games have tried to keep the level of micromanagment needed to make efficient 
 use of units manageable. Arguably, neither new or old have succeeded very well (dancing scouts 
 in Homeworld, anyone?) . Some better than others, where units arrange themselves in at least sensible 
 formations, although you might have to twiddle them about abit to get efficient use of abilities 
 and range. Of course, a computer has no problem with any level of micromanagment, so the AI is 
 limited in someways (delays for commands, or stupidity in most cases) .
  
  My impression after a few days of intense playing is that SW EaW completely throws all this out 
 the window. To make efficient use of a squad, you need to micromanage every unit in that squad. 
 This is especially true of tanks like the TIE Marauder that can quickly obliterate any and all 
 footsoldiers if correctly micromanaged. And if your opponent uses these trampling units, you need 
 to counter-micro your soldiers to move them out of the way. The AI doesn't adapt very well to changing 
 situations, so the classical outbidding of tradeoffs (why a computer can still loose a game of 
 chess to a human) works. Out-microing a computer is just silly, so that's hardly an option.
  
  I could go on and on about details, but my overall impression is that the gameplay of EaW is 
 quite simple: the player that can micromanage the most will win. The gameplay IS micromanagment.
 
  
  Space battles aren't exempt. Want to defend your two Nebulon-B frigates with your Corvettes? Well, 
 you better pay attention to them and micromanage their movements (and they move like cars, not 
 spaceships) so that they don't run off in pursuit, simply fly off into an asteroid field or just 
 idle because they aren't attacked at the moment.
  
  The complete lack of coherent, stringent and useful unit-AI makes me wonder if the designers thought 
 StarCraft would really benefit from more complex levels and advanced terrain, even more special 
 abilities, a few new level types and a Star Wars-style extreme makeover, because to me that's what 
 I'm playing ....
  
  Graphics: nice, but not flabbergasting. Movement could be more dynamic, especially during drops 
 (why isn't Vader descending down the ramp from the shuttle?) . Units could react more to the terrain, 
 even if only visually.
  
  Sound: LucasArts usually provides excellent sound experiences and EaW is no exception. Even Vader's 
 at times ... unconvincing voice-acting passes as acceptable. All the blip-blops, screaming blaster 
 sounds, TIEs, the Imperial Probe and so on sounds just right. The music is a bit bland at times, 
 since it doesn't always cue on the right things. It's not like I haven't heard the tracks before, 
 so I would have liked a bit more creative use of the music.
  
  Gameplay: I like RTS games, so I'm willing to micro-manage to some extent - it is part of the game, 
 imo. But I've already played any number of games with that element of gameplay, especially the 
 traditional switching between buildqueues an resource gathering (Age of Empires was a bit of a 
 challenge with this) to combat and tactical micromanagment. EaW dispenses with the building part 
 during combat but doesn't really add anything new to the gameplay, it's just micromanagment. The 
 reinforcement way of adding units to a battle is also old news and done better in other games. 
 In the case of EaW it's just a separation of the Build and Fight modes of gameplay.
  
  Controls: Fairly standard. Selection of all units of a type is quick, you have your ctrl-# command 
 groups, some hotkeys and so forth, but none of this actually promotes the gameplay (ie micromanagment) 
 since the squads don't communicate with eachother, meaning you have to select them individually 
 using the mouse anyway. Abilites like Take Cover are simply stat-changing and an animation, not 
 behaviour. Behaviour would be one part of the squad laying down covering fire while the other ran 
 for some trees, then covering their asses heading for the trees. The camera is fixed, more or less, 
 and that's neither a pro nor con in my book.
  
  Value: If you're not a Star Wars fan, there isn't really any intrinsic value to this game. There 
 are other, better RTS games with original content. 
  
  Tilt: I like Star Wars and I enjoy RTS games. The Star Wars part of the content doesn't dissapoint 
 and the RTS part is a tried concept, lacking in that it doesn't add anything new to the gameplay; 
 rather even goes back a few years.
  
  Average Score: The lowdown: Average RTS game in a Star Wars setting.
  
  All IMO, of course. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  After going through all of the reviews posted here there became an apparent pattern. Some people 
 are basing thier review strictly on the DEMO. First of all, the DEMO gave people a concrete idea 
 on to what to expect from this title. So reviews based entirely by this DEMO method are inaccurate 
 and DO NOT wiegh the completed product. Secondly, if these same people played the DEMO, but still 
 went on to purchase the product then why flame? As I said, the DEMO clearly gave them what to EXPECT! 
 Do people always buy a vehicle without trying it out first? With that being said, the true substance 
 of a review should only be based once the game has been experienced in its entirety. Some reviewers 
 do that and give a good review even if they don't like the game. I will not insult you as the reader 
 nor your intelligence by giving this game a perfect 10 nor an abysmal 1!
  STAR WARS - Empire At War has its GOOD, BAD and UGLY! So I'll try to break it down to you in point 
 form rather then type an exhaustive or bias review. 
  THE GOOD:
  - STAR WARS Franchise with all the great sounds, music, vehicles, 
  characters and atmosphere 
 that STAR WARS has to offer 
  - Immersive
  - Great space battles
  - Land battles, although simplistic, that are just fun to play
  - Management of your fleets, 
 resources and star systems
  - Gives some challenge especially to people who are new to RTS games
  - Good graphics (Considering 
 you have at least a good graphics card)
  - Multiplayer capabilities
  THE BAD:
  - Multitasking that may get a little redundant and frustrating considering the 
  computer can 
 do it alot faster than you 
  - Can get somewhat repetative if your constantly getting attacked by the 
  computer opponent
 
  - AI needs more work
  - Maps in both space and land that are a little too small
  - More control over you units would be better ie: Age Of Kings style 
  - Seems like the rock, 
 paper, scissors scenerio at times regarding battles
  THE UGLY: 
  - 2 patches within the first few days of release should tell you something
  - Getting a game 
 going smoothly in multiplayer can be a nightmare 
  
  All-in-all STAR WARS: Empire at War is damned fun to play, but comes with some excess baggage that 
 should have been checked before its flight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSjJayu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I got this game the day it came out. I couldn't wait, and it was worth 
 it to me. Although they could have added some more vehicles, ships, etc. and also the maps could 
 be a bit bigger. But, overall, the game is well rounded. I was worried what it would be like after 
 playing Force Commander and Galatic Battlegrounds. Force Commander was WAY drawn out and Galactic 
 Battlegrounds was a joke. This game keeps it right where it needs to be and even adds to the story 
 of the prequels. In it's own way, it explains what happened to certain characters between Eps. 
 3 and 4. I think many will be skeptical, and I don't blame you, but if your a Star Wars fan or a 
 fan of RTS's or both, I highly recommend this game. May The Force Be With You! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammstein01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that I have wanted since it was first announced. I can say that I am pleased with 
 the final product, even more so because im a huge Star Wars fan. The graphics are spot on, I don't 
 see any fault with them and the space battles with star destroyers and large fleets just look amazing. 
 For the sound I can say the same, everything sounds authentic like in the movies. 
  
  The gameplay is good and there is plenty to be done on the galactic map without even entering the 
 battles yourself. There is also plenty of variety between the two factions, Rebel and Empire, ranging 
 from the death star till the great mon calamari rebel ships. It is also possible to get help from 
 people on the planets, like the Wookiees help the rebel alliance and you can control them which 
 can turn the tide of battle as they can capture build pads if you dont have additional infantry. 
 There are so many features to enjoy and explore, and there are plenty of planets to invade. Heroes 
 are also in the game, so you can look forward to playing the likes of Vader or Kenobi and they 
 play a big part in the battles, with a healing station and a hero it is possible to win the map. 
 This game has everything you could wish for in the star wars universe, even down to the Imperial 
 Guard.
  
  There are plenty of game modes to be played, a campaign mode based around the film events, Galactic 
 conquest, where you can take over the whole map at your own pace and Skirmish. The multiplayer 
 I haven't even tried yet, too busy destroying planets with my death star! The game also comes with 
 a detailed colour manual which is helpful. A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shumatsusamurai
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars fans have had many disappointments before, and I will not invoke painful memories by 
 going over them. Thus an awful lot of expectation was drilled into "Star Wars: Empire at War", 
 as if it would score a perfect 10. But of course it wasn't going to. Indeed some of the hype may 
 have led to it having a somewhat early release. But just because it did not live up to ridiculous 
 expectations does not mean that this is not a great game - it is.
  
  The game combines both space and ground battles with excellent graphics and music piped in directly 
 from the films. The cinematic mode allows you to step back from the game and watch your fleets 
 or armies duel it out for you - of course you will then lose control over your forces! Characters 
 from the films make an appearance as heroes with special abilities, such as Darth Vader, Han & 
 Chewie, Admiral Ackbar - you can even control the Emperor in ground combat.
  
  Your overall interaction is on the "galactic map" - a view of all the planets that can be conquered 
 in the game. One excellent thing about this game is that you don't have to manage your resources. 
 Planets give a certain amount of income every "galactic day" (a few minutes on the galactic map) . 
 Building a space station allows you to build space units - upgrading it allows for more advanced 
 ships to be built. On the surface of planets you build buildings like barracks & factories to produce 
 ground units and even space-defence weapons. It really couldn't be simpler.
  
  This is a must for all Star Wars fans. If you approach the game without wild expectations it is 
 a lot of fun.
  
  Oh, and did I mention the fact you can play online? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pofgondor
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  After playing Star Wars: Empire at War my opinion of Star Wars Games has gone from high, after 
 playing the Battlefront series, straight down to the lowest of the low. Empire at War has got to 
 be the most **** game i have ever played. I don't advise anyone to buy this piece of crap and it 
 is a total waste of time. The graphics are awful, the maps are awful, and thats just a few important 
 elements already ruined. there is no strategic game play whatsoever. The only thing i did like 
 was the cinematic view of gameplay but even that was poor due to crap graphics. I give this game 
 a ABYSMAL 1.0!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottchen
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply too repetitive, all the battles are the same. I loved this game for the first 
 half hour or so, at that point i have to give this game a 9.0; however, after that you realize 
 that there is no end in sight, all the battles are almost identical. When you play the same battles 
 50 times, it gets BORING! I've beaten the empire campaign, and i can safely say that this game 
 is a catastrophic POS with great graphics and sound effects. This game is definently not worth 
 the money, i have already returned mine by paying a 10% restocking fee. This game had the potential 
 to be good, but they screwed it up terribly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Risker05
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has played the game in both Empire and Rebellion mode under the same difficulty level 
 will tell you that there is a clear bias against the Rebellion. I played the game 3 times, the 
 first two times as the Rebellion, before getting frustrated and trying out the Empire. The first 
 thing that shocks you about the Empire is that you have Darth Vader to command immediately. First 
 mission, Bam - - the darth lord himself. 
  
  Anyways, if properly used, Darth Vader is literally a one man army. There is no WAY one should 
 lose a land battle as long as he has the Emperor's apprentice with him. On a planetary scale, capturing 
 planets seem to be simpler with the Empire as compared to the Rebellion, who seem to be under frequent 
 attack from the Empire and its large fleets.
  
  My Suggestion: Play as the Empire, you'll enjoy it more.
  
  Overall verdict : A good game to 
 play if time permits. Game of the Year? Almost, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYFranc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  After playing Star Wars: Rebellion, I admit that I hope George Lucas and his nerds don't make a 
 lousy strategy game like that again. You would think the same if you played Rebellion and just 
 tried to be diplomatic with Princess Leia ("long, boring headaches for all") .
  
  Here's the pros and cons of Star Wars: Empire at War.
  
  Pros:
  1) It's not Star Wars: Rebellion 
 (a big bonus) .
  2) Forget diplomacy, blow the bad and/or good guys away.
  3) The Death Star.... woo hoo! Bye bye rebels.
  4) You can fight land battles (once again, it's 
 not Star Wars: Rebellion) .
  5) You can control our favorite Star Wars characters (I'm a big sucker for Obi-Wan Kenobi) .
  
 
  Cons:
  1) Those pirates (lol) !
  2) The music (the music is fine, but let's add something new on occasion)
  3) Sometimes, after 
 a big battle that allowed you to take over a major enemy planet and you killed off a major villian 
 or hero. And they miraclously came back to life?! The force is strong indeed. At least, in Rebellion, 
 when you killed off a major character, they stayed dead.
  
  Overall: The force is strong and whip out the light saber, get that blaster and fight for peace 
 or dictatorship. Me, I've been a sucker for the Rebels. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueEWD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I have a computer that is decent, but old. This is relevant because I enjoyed this game despite 
 the fact I had the graphics down to the point they were rivaling those of pitfall 2600. That is 
 an exaggeration, of course, but the point is this game is fun to play. I have also played mostly 
 as the empire because they, if played right, give you a feeling of power that is hard to match. 
 The only down side is the lack of units. It is my opinion that there could have been more units 
 such as the super star destroyer or the tie interceptor. Never the less, I recommend this title 
 to any body that enjoys Star Wars, RTSs or the feeling of absolute power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynexx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Stock: SWEAW (star wars empires at war)
  Rating: Hold
  
  I recommend a hold on this one. The space battles are amazing! They look amazing and play very 
 well and are very fun but they tend to be the same every time. Ye who has more Star Destroyers 
 crushes ye who doesnt. But there are cinematic effects that look great and when you blow up a 
 capital ship it breaks apart slowly and falls towards the planets in the system you are in, which 
 is sweet.
  
  Land battles are just ok. I havent played as the empire yet but the rebellion is pretty weak. 
 I have wanted to build a bunch of AT-AT walkers and step on some troops (it happened to me) . 
  
  The land battles and space battles take an enormous amount of strategy to conduct them and 
 to be successful at them. If you dont have fighters escorting your capital ships they are doomed. 
 And if you just send in a bunch of fighters there are some fighter hunter ships that clean you 
 up nicely. The land battles are just the same way strategically as space battles. There are control 
 points on the map you must maintain in order call down reinforcements. Which calling them down 
 is sweet looking because it drops a transport from the sky down to the ground to unload troops 
 and vehicles.
  
  The reason why I call this game a hold, bear in mind I am an avid Command and Conquer player and 
 Civilization IV player and it may be because I am very into first person shooters right now, is 
 that the galactic campaign mode seems very slow to me and at the same time I can't seem to keep 
 up with the ai.
  
  The galactic campaign mode takes even more strategy and planning because you just cant buy units 
 and send them into battle you actually have to build them ahead of time assemble them together 
 and send them into hyperspace. If you are overwhelmed by the opposition you have two choices flee 
 or die. Also if you are trying to assault a planet you bring your transports with you (that hold 
 all your troops so if they get shot down it sucks) and you must protect them as well.
  
  Not to mention the that you have an entire galaxy to manage, and depending on the planets you control 
 depends on how expensive units are, how easy it is to hold the system, how much money you are brining 
 in, and where you can go in the galaxy.
  
  Once again my position is a hold, wait till its cheaper and then jump on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ITALIUKE14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ever since I was a kid I loved Star Wars. Everything about it. To this day I'm dazed at how large 
 the Star Wars universe has become. There are planets and characters I can't even pronounce, and 
 a massive storyline spanning before Episode 1 to way after Luke Skywalker puts his father to rest. 
 Now I know that there's a lot lacking in Episodes1-3, and I'm sure you will all agree that more 
 focus should've been on the Clone Wars. But let's overlook that, or atleast try. This game, Empire 
 at War, focuses yet another void that we all don't know jack about. This is a huge period of time 
 where Darth Vader and the Emperor develop their "iron fist ruling" reputation throughout an entire 
 galaxy. I found this game satisfying my desire to know more about it. Check it out. If you like 
 Star Wars, you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celev
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  The good - amazing models, movie-like sounds, really well done explosions in space.
  
  The bad - unrealistic buildtimes/costs for some things ( can build the smallest cruiser 3 or 4 
 times before one AT-AT will be completed ... total population cap spent? 6 on the frigates, 1 on 
 the AT-AT; credits spent? 2700-3600 on the frigates, 750 on the AT-AT ... if the thing is so damn 
 powerful, why is it so cheap? or is it the otherway around ... if the frigates are so weak, why 
 are they so expensive? ) ; no variation in the maps ... if you have a sea-saw battle over wayland 
 for example? ... you'll see wayland's ground and space maps over and over; some units feel completely 
 useless with no point to having built them ( why would an imperial player build one of their hover 
 tanks? they're slow, weak, low armor ... and the AT-AT is so much better; why build TIE Scouts? 
 ... its not like you'll ever have problems actually finding your enemy ) ; some units feel completely 
 overpowered ( the rebel artilery and the TIE tanks are just stupid, basically ) while others feel 
 like they forgot to put a gun on them ( the imperial hovertank, the rebel light tank ) .
  
  The ugly - feels like you're playing an arcade game pretending to be an RTS ... the galaxy is small, 
 the planet maps are absolutely tiny ( it's akin to taking over two city blocks and saying you've 
 taken over the world ) , the space maps are abysmal ... which is a shame because the ship to ship 
 combat is amazing ... they're too small, cluttered, and completely take any tactical thinking out 
 of the game; once you learn the paper-rock-scissors of the game, things get pretty easy; space 
 battles take on average of 5-8mins, land battles take on average 10-20mins ... once again, a damn 
 shame.
  
  The reason to buy - space battles can be an absolute blast ... running around with Home One or 
 the Death Star can be a blast.
  
  The reason to skip it - this isn't a game made for RTS junkies, and anyone thinking "oh, masters 
 of orion with a star wars mod! cool!" will be really really really bummed out. the tactical thought 
 it takes to play this game is minimal, the strategy you can employ is really limited, and the maps 
 seem like you're stepping on eggshells all the time ... the worst is when you have this amazing 
 fleet of star destroyers/cruisers jumping into a system ... and find you're surrounded by nebulas, 
 asteroids and the map is pitched ink black making it impossible to see, impossible for your ships 
 to use their scanners, and impossible for your ships to manuver around teh asteroids because they'll 
 just take constant damage ... i quite literally stopped deploying large capital ships to some maps 
 and just kept sending in missile cruisers to take out space stations while sitting at the jump-in 
 point ... its a real downer to beat a map without moving an inch from your startpoint.
  
  Things needed desperately to improve the game ( mods, patches, expansions ) - more units, end of 
 story. the game feels like it's a demo in this regard ( B-wings, TIE-Intercepters, TIE-Advanced 
 Fighters ... maybe even some of the older ships talked about in the novels ) ; more maps ( maybe 
 3-4 for each planet's space/land battle that the game randomly selects from ) ; more tactical opportunities 
 ( bigger space maps, on a scale of 10 times bigger than what's there; multiple space maps per planet 
 in some cases, ie - fight over the planet's moons, fight over kuat's shipyards but not the orbital 
 space; make it so it's possible to have a "disputed" planet with multiple fleets in orbit without 
 actually fighting, develop a standoff mentality; more fixed structures on land; more fixed defensive 
 platforms in space ) ; customizability of ships, let ships/units gain experience, develop the formation 
 of actual battlefleets that gain experience as a unit rather than simply having a group of individual 
 units that you move around together.
  
  all in all the game is a lot of fun ... i'll keep playing it, and will play it online as well ... 
 as a tactical game, it falls on its face. anyone who tries to defend this game as a "strategy empire 
 game" is painfully unaware of how silly they are and how limited their concept of "strategy" is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm250
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Ever since news of the games creation was released, I knew from right then that I would fall in 
 love with it. My instincts were not wrong. Star Wars: Empire at War is probably the best Star 
 Wars game ever created to date and rightly so. And saying that is really something because there 
 are already so many marvellous Star Wars games created in so many different types of Game Genres 
 such as Star Wars: Battlefront 2 in the FPS (First Person Shooter) Genre, and Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic 1 & 2 in the RPG (Role-Playing Game) Genre. 
  
  However Star Wars: Empire at War is unique in its own sense because it is the first time a Turn-Based 
 Like Strategy Game has been created for the Star Wars series (at least to my knowledge) . It is 
 a really huge improvement from that of the first Star Wars RTS Game created Star Wars: Galactic 
 Battlegrounds especially in terms of Gameplay and Sounds (And Graphics as well but over time graphics 
 generally improves so) . This game is a must have to all Star Wars series fans out there (especially 
 those who like RTS) . Let me explain why.
  
  Lets start with Gameplay. There are basically two main gaming modes like every other RTS Game: 
 The Campaign Mode and The Skirmish Mode. The Campaign Mode allows you to play as either the Rebellion 
 or the Empire, and both teams have totally different missions. his brings us to a kind of 2D 
 like galaxy with roughly 40 planets. However in The Campaign Mode, some of the planets are locked. 
 The Skirmish Mode allows you to choose if you want to play with an entire galaxy, part of it, or 
 just a land battle or a space battle. The part I like the most about this game is the added feature 
 of space battles. With the addition of a movie mode in the games, the space battles are just too 
 awesome to behold (especially if your graphic card is really good and if you have a good screen) . 
 Also, many of the planets are recognizable from the Star Wars franchise like Tatooine, Kashyyk, 
 Datooine, Coruscant, Naboo, etc.
  
  Next is the graphics. I cant describe the graphics much because it is really just too good. You 
 have to play it to really experience the might of the Star Wars Galaxy. The sounds include some 
 key phrases from the main characters in the Star Wars Movie, this along with the Star Wars characters 
 really give the game a sense of belonging to the whole Star Wars Storyline/Plot. 
  
  Heroes such as Han Solo and Chewbacca as well as C3PO and R2D2 are also included into the game 
 (as mentioned before) . They take part as the heroes of the Rebellion while and Darth Vader, Emperor 
 Palpatine and some other bad guys take part as the heroes (more like villains) of the Empire.
 
  
  With all the features and so much more, the games value is definitely very worth it. This is why 
 it is a must buy for all Star Wars fans and for that matter RTS fans as well. This is at the very 
 least my personal opinion, which definitely differs from some other game reviews. There are definitely 
 some bugs in the game, but then again, which game doesnt (especially a new one) . To conclude I 
 would like to congratulate the second comeback of Westwood Studios in the form of Petroglyph Games. 
 Westwood will live forever in the hearts and minds of RTS fans like me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Actually, I don't like much playing game in space environment and mostly RTS game but this one 
 made me changed my mind to play. Before this, I have played one of the Start Wars series which 
 is Star Wars. K. O. T. O. R. That one I like because of adventure genre and I like a lot of game with 
 this genre.
  
  As for the graphic, very nice texture and detail like other RTS game. No need much for the graphic 
 as long as you can see your troops doing something like shooting or using power.
  
  Gameplay just the same like other RTS game. Just click here and there, order your troops to attack, 
 making group and other stuffs. Nothing different I guess because I don't play much RTS game aside 
 from CNC series. I like to play as Empire first because it is easy campaign as you control the 
 powerful dark force Lord Vader with his powers, you can nearly do everything to defeat the enemies.
 
  
  This game has 2 battle, space and ground. In space, what you need is build as many battleships 
 as you can because you need it a lot to take control the planet. You need to battle in space before 
 you landing your ground unit. What I don't like very much is sometimes your enemy can attack your 
 planet and you must prepare your unit to defend. Just build a little unit to defend it. For the 
 ground battle, order your infantry and machines to attack the enemies and destroy all the building 
 to complete. One more thing is you cannot bring down all units because it has limited capacity. 
 All you need is to take over reinforcement point around the map and challenge it. After the challenge 
 then you can bring down your other units.
  
  My conclusion is I recommend to all RTS gamers and especially Star Wars fans out there, play this 
 game, it really fun and interesting. I think that's all for now and you can get used to it after 
 a while. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirenEX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  But i missed the clone wars! then it will be perfect!
  So it could come an add-on with droids and the clones and of course the heros!
  
  But for now 
 its a good game! graphic is not the best but its ok!
  Sound is really good!
  I like that you can fight in galactical battles and on the ground! thats like battlefront 2 but 
 as rtp!
  If you love SW you will like that game!
  Its a great strategie game!
  So buy it and play it! Give it a try! And dont do illegal things like copy it or download it via 
 internet!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAIDER4X-BOX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  yea its amazing.... From all RTS I played this is the best one because of the great music and the 
 gameplay in it 
  
  Combat takes place in space and directly on the planet itself. Huge Imperial Star Ships and small 
 TIE Fighters and X-wings battle it out in epic scenarios that look as good as any of the Star Wars 
 movies. Weapons such as the ion cannon can be fired from the planet directly into space and do 
 a lot of damage. The space stations hovering over the defending planet also take part in the battle, 
 shooting torpedoes and lasers or whatever weapons it's outfitted with. The space station can be 
 destroyed but how much damage it can take is determined by its armor. The ion cannon however, remains 
 protected on the planet. 
  
    .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  Immersive, addictive. I have it for only 2 days and my eyes are red from the lack of sleep ! Empires 
 at war is a great game and not only for SW fans. It reminds me the long forgotten Pax Imperia strategy 
 game, with the land battle as a bonus.
  First, the game isn't that easy. Commands are quite instinctive and the Campaign mode throws you 
 right in the battle immediately. Instant action and long time strategy on a delicat mix. Plus the 
 familiar Star Wars universe with famous heroes and good'ol Solo humour !
  The conquest mode will test your ability in both ressource management and tactical commandement. 
 You definitevely can't win if your too this or too that.
  Even if the concept is definitively not new, LucasArt managed to create a refreshing game that 
 will please to a lot of us. 
  The only thing you need to know about this game is : "Magic tricks and hokey religions ain't no 
 match for a blaster at your side, kid." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Empire at war was a great game. The gameplay was rich and full of life, the graphics were vibrant 
 and noticable. The sounds were just plain awesome, like if you were to click on a Mon Calamari 
 "Mon Calamari Cruiser Ready" or bombers for the empire "Bombers ready" in a voice that sounds awesome. 
 Sadly, this game was not really worth the hype, infact the game is actually not worth the price. 
 it shouldve been 40.00, not 50
  im not going to ever pay 50 dollars again for a game that is made up to look good, then trashed 
 by random exception errors and failures to load up multiplayer games because the makers of the 
 game were obviously too lazy to make some tweaks to make it easier for people to connect. If you 
 look at a game like Empire Earth, it wasnt good, but at least the multiplayer was simple, no NAT 
 crap or Firewall junk for the most part.
  
  Bottom line: buy, but i dont know if you'll like it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alber
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Since the games exist, many of them were in the Star Wars universe. FPS, RPG and Platforms games 
 on oldest console were about Star Wars but it had no Real Time Strategy (RTS) based on Star Wars. 
 Then, Lucas Arts announced Empire at War, the first RTS in the Star Wars universe. Few weeks ago, 
 the demo of the game has coming out and it was very, even if the demo does not let you explore 
 a big part of the universe. I think that all Star Wars series fans have to own this game and I 
 will show you why.
  
  The RTS lets you explore two different layers. First, you have to explore the universe in the strategy 
 layer of the game. You are in a 2D universe where you can visit some 40 planets with your fleets. 
 This aspect of the game is well done and it the first time I see a 2D universe as good as the one 
 in Empire at War. Then, when you are attacking an enemy, you switch to the tactical layer. You 
 can attack your enemy in the space and on the surface of a planet. When you win a fight in the 
 space, you take control of the orbit of the planet and enemy units on the planet cannot quit the 
 planet without fight against you. And when you want to have the entire control of a planet, you 
 have to attack units on the surface of it. Then, you can conquer many new planets by that way. 
 The gameplay is pretty good in both mode even if the menu in the bottom of the screen is a bit 
 to big. So, that part of the game is very well done.
  
  In Empire at War, the story takes place in the Star Wars Universe. You can have some heroes of 
 the franchise in you team like Han Solo, C3PO and my personal favorite: R2D2. The planets of the 
 franchise are also in the game. You can go on Kashyyr and have some Wookies in your troops. The 
 most important planets of the series are in Empire at War. Also, when youre in campaign mode, 
 you have to choose between the empire of the rebellion and mission wont be the same for both. 
 The campaign mode is well do and that one of the parts of the game I liked the most. So, if youre 
 an Star Wars fans, I think you have to play this game.
  
  The graphics and sounds are pretty good. It has no big graphic bugs, just few collision bugs. The 
 sounds are well but they can become a bit stressful when you play a lot of time. I think that the 
 cinematic should been better because the game in based of a movies series so they should have been 
 more realistic. So, both graphics and sound are well done even if it has some bugs but they doesnt 
 bother you a lot in your playing.
  
  Finally, I found the game pretty good. I like playing campaign mode. I didnt finish it but I play 
 every and when I will have finished it with the Rebellion, I will play the Empire one. The game 
 is the best Star Wars game I ever played and if youre a Star Wars fans, you must play it.
  
  alber
  06-02-23
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow just wow they pulled it off. 
  
  Graphics-There are great for an rts i guess since i dont usually play rts i just like star wars. 
 But they look good for all the people and machines on the screen the geagraph of the planet are 
 very detailed and it werid but the look may not look great compared to HL2 but this game has a 
 great engine.
  
  Gameplay-The is total different from any rts i played which is about 1 Star Wars Galatic Battleground. 
 But the space battle are cool how u can bring in ships like star destoryers and other ships. The 
 coolest thing about landbattles is that you can get support from space like tie bomber runs on 
 rebel barrecks.
  
  Value- While the story is short about 3 hours-4 there was just something missing from it that made 
 the story mode enterening. The online play is good as long as it is not space space battle dont 
 feel multi-player right i guess. 
  
  Great game perheps one of the best rts this year and this game will forever live in my collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Everytime I come to put this game down, I can't! I'll just do the next battle... ok 1 more won't 
 hurt....
  
  Great game in every way. The graphics are just right, and the sound is immersive and very true 
 to the star wars universe. The gameplay is easy to get the hang of, and makes you feel like your 
 actually overseeing the empire/rebellion.
  
  The mutiplayer is also a luagh, especially when you are playing with someone you know... the first 
 time I used the Death Star I couldn't help but shout "now witness the firepower of this fully armed 
 and operational battlestation!"
  
  Buy this game... it is well worth your cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdash
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest. I like Star Wars games, but this the second best out of all of 
 them. I would strongly recommend to buy it. I'm not going to reveal nay more info other than it's 
 great, but the land battles is the best part. Space battles are ok, it kind of takes a little long 
 for the battle to end. There's not a lot of flaws in the game I can comment about. The graphics 
 are one of the best I've seen for a computer game, It's very detailed. It also has cool jedi action. 
 And also there is character phrases so you can hear characters from the Star Wars saga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdemich
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Nothing new in the RTS genre, Gather resources, gather units, attack. Unfortunately, the developers 
 do not seem to have played any other RTS game. The hotkeys are abysmal. Regular hotkeys like attack-move 
 don't exist. You must use your mouse to click this command (death in most RTS games) . Each unit 
 has one or two special abilities, but each have different hotkeys. One will be CTRL-J while the 
 other CTRL-T. This alone makes this game worthless to all RTS gamers but the most hard-core starwars 
 fans, but there are plenty of balance issues that could be min/max'ed to death. (was this game 
 playtested?)
  
  The space battles can be pretty in "scene mode" but you have little control over it. PetroGlyph 
 chose 2D engine like StarTrek Armada --which is fine for big ships but fighters become gnats. I 
 had really hoped for an engine simillar to Homeworld which is true 3D and you could see all the 
 cool space battles from any 3D angle.
  
  How dissapointing. Lucasarts will let any dev make StarWars games nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halotron
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of both strategic and starwars games i give this game three thumbs up! the asortment 
 of ships is extensive and covers just about every part of the original star wars trilogy and some 
 that were never in any of the movies such as the AT-AA. 
  
  The game play gives you a sense of power like how the Empeor must feel when he looks down on the 
 troops as they go into battle or the stasifaction when a planet falls or is libirated. 
  
  The graphics are superb if you zoom in close enough you can see the rivets on the hull of the super 
 star destroyer. the sounds of the battles are VERY realistic almost like your at the battle of 
 Hoth. the game also lets players see vehicles out of there element such as the AT-AT at one time 
 only seen on the ice fields of hoth but now can bee seen stomping across the feilds of naboo. all 
 in all The greatist star wars game to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Right so far just about every star wars game has been great apart from obi-wan or most of the strategy 
 games. But now comes a fantasticly addictive star wars strategy game to play and if you like star 
 wars and thinking then you'll love this!
  
  Gameplay - this game requires alot of thinking and sadly the ground battles are incredibly hard 
 but the space battles are as fun as hell and its addictive
  
  Graphics - up to date but nothing new though the units look cool
  
  Sound - good ol star wars 
 soundtracks, blaster firing and other sounds that sound nice
  
  Lifetime - you'll be playing this game for a while
  
  Conclusion - get it if you like strategy 
 or star wars
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doesetsu
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Where do I start?
  
  I love the game! I really do, and that is saying a bunch since I have always been disappointed 
 with star wars games in the past.
  
  So with that said lets take it from the top!
  
  First off the gameplay.
  An expansive universe made up of various planets for a truly HUGE feel. 
 There is nothing I like more than marauding across the emptiness of space destroying all who oppose 
 me. The menu system is simple and perfect for all the options available to the player. Resource 
 gathering has really be simplified and although this part does not appeal to my more hardcore RTS 
 out look, It does not take away too much from the game play. There is a large space for improvement 
 of AI in the single player modes however. I found many of the battles very easy.
  
  The graphics I like but are a little lower on the detail than I expected. I don't have too much 
 to say about it I wasn't throughly impressed or disappointed with the graphics.
  
  The sounds are also tame and normal for the star wars games. (re-hashed and re-mastered)
  
 
  I find the value of the title more than average. You get alot of play time for your money! Which 
 is in no way a disappointment.
  
  All in all this is a good title. Worth the money and the time it takes to learn how to play for 
 the expansive playing field and various units.
  
  This game is a must for any fan boy but hardcore RTS fans may be a little dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazza102
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  LucasArts fails again.. Rebellion was the best RTS ever made and this game just makes mistakes 
 where Rebellion had success. The game is overhyped and just an excuse for LucasArts to make yet 
 another RTS gimic for everyone to waste their money on. The addition of Kyle Katarn was a cheap 
 ploy to lure Dark Forces fans, as was the addition of Mara Jade. The death star is the only good 
 part.. but because everything is scaled down it looks cruddy. The game fails to stay consistant 
 with every record of StarWars to date. Nearly ever ship has the wrong weapons outfitting. The sound 
 has been ripped from other games and its starting to get boring. Voice acting is bad purely because 
 it dosen't capture the feel. Graphics are too over the top for starwars.
  
  I've since returned the game and got a refund.. Stick with Rebellion SW Fans.
  Got to hand it 
 to LA though, they did a great job at tricking everyone with their advertising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  While not the greatest RTS ever made SW : EAW has more than enough going for it to be part of every 
 RTS collection especially if you are a SW fan.
  
  Before i started to play this I was genuinely worried that I would be disappointed again by a SW 
 rts title that would not even come close to living up to the hype. Luckily my worries were unfounded. 
 
  
  This game is truly epic in scale from the huge space battles between the empire and the rebellion 
 featuring a satisifyingly diverse ranges of craft from x-wings and tie -fighters right up to the 
 mighty Imperial Star Destroyers all of which seem very well scaled. In fact the space battles are 
 so good that they undermine the land battles somewhat.
  
  My first impression of the land battles was a little muted but as I have playeed a few of land 
 skirmish modes I have found that they are a lot more nuanced than I origonally thought. I would 
 strongly recommend that you dont walk away from this game with watching Obi-wan battle Darth Vader 
 or taking down an AT-AT with a snowspeeder. The only criticism I would level at the game is that 
 the A. I. isnt the sharpest on land maps.
  
  Graphically SW: EAW blew me away so much so that there were times that I wished someone could take 
 over for me so I could just sit back and watch the action unfold. 
  
  The sound is as we have come to expect from a SW game, perfect. I am fortunate to own a 5.1 surround 
 sound system and this is one of the few RTS games to use this facility to its full cinematic potential. 
 
  
  In Summary this is a must buy game for any RTS gamer or SW fan. Like all the great games it improves 
 with repeat playing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havoc627
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  star wars RTS. I've played them all. well most of them, rebellion, galactic battlegrounds, force 
 commander..... bad bad and worse.... until now. 
  
  One of my biggest criteria for a games score is how well it draws me into the game. The story isn't 
 going to do it here, since it's basically based on the movies. So i'm not clinging onto the edge 
 of my seat waiting for the next plot twist. The mechanics of the game in and of itslelf are nothing 
 sepctacular. The visuals and the sounds are very impressive. But the biggest factor in why i gave 
 this game a 9.1 is that when I play as the empire. I feel like i want to make like 100 ISDs and 
 just pummel anything in sight. The game encourages and allows me to feel exactly like i'm leading 
 the imperial war machine. Which is great. 
  
  The land battles are a bit non original at times, although the hero characters really redeems this 
 aspect of gameplay. vis a vis the idea of being immersed into the battle is completely lost in 
 normal land battles. All until you send in a hero unit or two.
  
  Having said that, I do find that this game has a lot of strategy built in, (as most RTSs do) . This 
 one is very differnet in my mind, becuase the strategy actually makes a huge differnce. Mainly 
 do to the fact that units will attack things that they are most effective against by default. This 
 is hugely important, for forcing strategy and planning, as opposed to zerging with a whole bunch 
 of the same units.
  
  The cinematic camera, is my last complaint. It seems like it was a brilliant idea not executed 
 well enough. while there are some great shots in this view, more often then not, we see from the 
 view of the unit on the fringe looking the other way. I think this should and can be improved.
 
  
  In addition to the cinematic camera there should be a unit cam. Similar to the one in the homeworld 
 series. ( i think that was it) . I should be able to select a ship, or a unit and be able to see 
 from their persepective. Imagine seeing vader's TIE shoot down a buncha xwings, or the falcon going 
 invincible in the middle of a huge dogfight.
  
  Overall, excellent game. If you want to try something a little new, try this. If you like star 
 wars at all, try this. If you want a rubber cutout RTS, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  i know im not the only one who has been disappointed by the star wars rts games so far and when 
 i herd that empire at war was coming out i was optimistic that it would be good since star wars 
 games are getting better and better (apart from star wars galaxies) this game really is historically 
 accurate in many ways although the voice over for ackbar is very poor XD 
  The ground battles arent as interesting as space but they can still present a challenge and unlike 
 galactic battlegrounds you cant just send in about 10 thats and win you have to think about which 
 units you will need to attack the rebellion especially.
  
  Over all this is far ahead of the other star wars rts ive seen and it will tie me over till kotor 
 3 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algolagnia
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a Star Wars fan, the closest I have ever come is enjoying the Genndy Tartakovsky 
 animated film Clone Wars and the game Battlefront II.
  
  As a science fiction and strategy fan I have read far better stories in my lifetime ... and played 
 much better games.
  
  This one is bland, I would more readily leap on the oppurtunity to play a riveting game of Candy 
 Land with my young niece than take on the chance to play the full version of this game.
  
  While some may consider the chance to play a strategy game without the bother of focused resource 
 gathering fun, I for one enjoy the aspect greatly in real time strategy games. It offers a different 
 way for victory than simply crushing your enemy physically.
  
  All in all, this game is enjoyable if you are extremely bored ... otherwise it will be the reason 
 of your boredom.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llothos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Well don't get me wrong i do enjoy this game so far it has been quite fun, using the death star 
 is kinda the easy way out of a good ground fight though. 
  I know this is a build as much troupes as you can to destroy the opponent and all but isn't the 
 rebels technically just starting out? So they should be a real handicap, producing 30x-wings and 
 20y-wings plus the various cruisers and what not to assault Corruscant twice in a row is not much 
 of a handicap!
  At first as the empire i noticed that funds weren't always as abundant but once you start completing 
 various missions next thing you know you have 30,000 credits, it just seemed like yesterday you 
 had nothing (only gaining 2,000-3000/day) i guess time flies when your conquering.
  
  One thing i found is that the sound seems to cut in and out where you should be hearing blaster 
 fire it is choppy it "skips" that could just be my sound card (SB LIVE) with eax turned on, or 
 if you move the camera just a little away from the battle it gets real quite (i know surround sound 
 effect and all but the battle wasn't in the distance) . Age of empire 3 did a good job of that you 
 could hear artillery in background but if they were on your camera the sound would be in foreground. 
 The sound effects are perfect star wars effects that is great even the voice overs for the various 
 characters a done pretty well you could almost swear it was actually them.
  Another flaw I found is in space battles trying to select a group 99% of the time it would work 
 but the odd time i would have to click somewhere totally different then go back and select the 
 ships I wanted.
  This game has a lot of replayablity (obviously) if you don't get bored first of it, if you have 
 some friends that get this just imagine the lan party you could have. But if you have friends that 
 don't care for strategy games maybe this one can turn them maybe not. Playing this by yourself 
 will get boring fast sure you can play online against some stranger but nothing like beating your 
 friend in the other room.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamer666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I must say, LucasArts has had an incredibly jaded history of strategy games, I know first hand. 
 However, their record has improved since Rebellion. 
  
  The gameplay is very good, the integration of land, space, and strategy is seamless. However, it 
 can get repetitive after a while. The space battles are epic, ever since I played the Warlords 
 mod for Homeworld 2, I have been waiting for LucasArts to do something along the same lines. The 
 land battles are a slightly different story however, they can get very boring, which will make 
 you start to auto resolve such battles. Auto resolve is a terrible feature, it tempts the laziest 
 of us to take the easy way out, at minimal cost of half of your army. The graphics are everything 
 I hoped for and more, the screenshots you see anywhere don't do the game justice at all. The sound 
 is incredible, it has all the music you'd expect and some extra. Also, the voice acting is well 
 done. 
  
  In all, you really should consider getting this game, even if you aren't a Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashfire1979
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot reviewer did a fine job reviewing this game. I simply would have rated it a bit higher. 
 I would like to add that every Star Wars game to date has had me craving this exact game. This 
 satisfies the conquest of the galaxy urge tenfold. The only thing I would really like to see is 
 the addition of more unit types. Hopefully we will at least see the Trade Federation and the Republic 
 in an expansion pack soon.
  
  If you are looking for a Star Wars Strategy game or even a simplified 4X game with a little more 
 action that normal look no futher than Star Wars: Empire at War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewskin
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Potentially a very good game, it has, similar to most new releases, several bugs, which I'm sure 
 will be addressed soon. After seeing 2 patches within the first week of release, it seems the developers 
 are listening to their customers.
  
  The biggest disappointment I have is with the programmed opponents, sadly, they're no challenge 
 at all. The AI does give a decent fight in the first few turns, but cannot seem to handle the build 
 orders well, and can be easily walked over.
  
  If this can't be fixed, as has been the case with far too many "strategy" titles, then I fear this 
 game will become another great idea, poorly executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grocsblech
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics, stunning sound and above average AI make this a great Star Wars RTS. You can 
 play as the Empire and the Rebellion - and playing as the Rebellion definitely has a harder edge 
 to it.
  
  Multiplayer is available for online / lan skirmishes so it is great fun.
  
  A great cinematic camera option is also available so you can view the battle from multiple angles 
 (which you can change using the spacebar) .
  
  The three difficulty levels should help you to find the right balance of play as well.
  
  This 
 game is addictive - maybe not as addictive as Civ 4 but definitely up there - the hero units are 
 well done, the constant monitoring of your battle force and your economy is nicely balanced. 
 
  
  Highly recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inskipp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the Dark Forces series, especially Jedi Outcast, any SW game always grabs my interest. 
 Battlefront 1&2 never really kept me interested long, Jedi Academy seemed to downgrade the saber 
 play in Jedi Outcast, and some of the other titles I won't even mention. Empire at War could quite 
 possibly turn out to be a classic.
  
  Graphically, it is even prettier than Battlefront, with all the settings cranked up you are reward 
 with rich, detailed gameplay. Zooming in on a Star Destroyer allows you examine the ship in a way 
 that was really never possible before, and when a ship like that get blown up, while repetitive, 
 it never gets old. The moons orbiting your planets give it a realistic feel, and lots of other 
 detail is included. Shield effects on a ship while it is being pummeled allow you to use just the 
 visuals to determine when a ship has lost its shield, instead of having to select it and read the 
 bar.
  
  The sounds and music give it the true "Star Wars" feel, and are incorporated well into the battletypes.
 
  
  For a value, multiplayer will keep you coming back, the game will be played at our lanparties I 
 am sure, for several years to come.
  
  The gameplay itself is where a game counts, and this title has it all. Its almost like you are 
 playing a combination of Civilization, Command & Conquer, and Homeworld, although unlike in Homeworld, 
 there is no "Z" axis in space battles that would allow you to attack a fleet from underneath. Personally, 
 I prefer the space battles to the ground, but not because there is anything wrong with, on the 
 contrary, the ground battles are fun to plan and execute.
  
  Overall, a great game, and sure to become a classic. I'm also glad to see a couple patches already, 
 which shows me that the developers are listening to the players, and fixing what needs to be fixed.
 
  
  ----Inskipp the Uncatchable
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Jax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game with lots of new features that separate it from many other games. Such as an entire 
 galaxy to play around in, in real time. Ship combat and ground combat in one game. Also for the 
 attacker on the ground and there are no buildings so it adds the edge that you don't really have 
 infinite forces to back you up when you attack. Ship combat is one of the real selling points of 
 this game and something starwars fans have been waiting for, for awhile. It is easy to control 
 the ships just like ground units. Its a Galaxy spanning adventure that will have you hooked from 
 the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehammster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of RTS games in my time. The first being the original C&C game. The newest 
 RTS to hit my desk is this new Star Wars: Empire at War. I found it to quite addictive... nat as 
 bad as my crack habit, but addictive all the same. The graphics are great, the tempo is very comfortable 
 and the hard level is just that- hard. I would recommend this game to any fan of the RTS genre, 
 for it will deliver many hours of eye and bladder strain as you refuse to leave your computer screen. 
 The other big reason I like this game is because I am a closet Star Wars nerd. I really have enjoyed 
 all of the little things that give this game it's smooth edges. Everything from the planet of Kashyyk 
 to the Mon Calamari battle ship, it's very true to the original series of films. 
  Now for my only gripe so far: what the hell is up with Darth Vaders' voice????? the voice is close, 
 but couldn't they pony up to get James Earl Jones to do it? C'mon people... like we wouldn't notice?
 
  -Hammster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankSoul
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  after a few bad rts attempt for the star wars franchise , Star wars empire at war finally deliver 
 a game that is good. the galactic conquest mode is something really good , the fact that time keeps 
 going and you may get a surprise attack from different point really bring a feel to this galactic 
 mode. skirmish is interesting with the base sharing action that requires a bit more team play.
 
  
  a few bad notes. 
  
  the land battle are unbalance and unfortunately almost useless.
  
  the unit cap is rather small 
 and often remove the sense of a huge battle going on. ( fortunately a mod can fix this and bring 
 about a truly epic feel to space battle)
  
  now for a future expansion i hope they take a quick look at homeworld2 mod Warlords and its awesome 
 space battle and unit diversity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camaro4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  While single player is not hateful, Multiplayer is what brings it together. While this is still 
 a new game, connecting to a game is rather more like a chore than click and join. The effort of 
 connecting to a game is worth the stress, since there will literally be thousands of troops or 
 ships moving or flying around, being controlled by just 8 people. The multiplayer is balanced exceptionally 
 well, no one team dominates, always a close fight. I would highly recommend this title, and once 
 the connecting issues for multiplayer are resolved, this game will get a 10 out of 10 from me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of an RTS fan, but I can't get enough of Empire at War.
  
  Gameplay:
  GAmeplay is pretty simple, apart from the strategic and tactical aspects. It requires a decent 
 reaction time, particularly when using units' special abilities. Other than that it's relatively 
 simple and quick to learn.
  
  Graphics: You need a really good processer and graphics card. I was using a 3G (the game requires 
 a 1G) and I had to set the detail very low and it still lagged. They're still pretty good despite 
 that.
  
  Sound:
  The typical Star Wars music and sound effects add a great feel to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I try very hard to be unbiased when I review games, but being a huge fan of the Star Wars universe 
 makes it very tough to be impartial.
  
  Up to now arguably the best Star Wars stategy game on the market would be the extremely old and 
 outdated Star Wars: Rebellion. This was a highly complex strategy game that was very hard to pick 
 up and play.
  
  Star Wars: EAW reminded me first of this ancient game as I played it. However it feels like they 
 have taken all the elements that made Rebellion great and evolved the game to its present state. 
 The only thing missing is the depth of heroes available from Rebellion, although that's hardly 
 much to complain about given the options in this game.
  
  The game is unique as it tries to deliver RTS on a whole new game engine, with two sides that have 
 extremely different play styles, and a very simplified resource gathering system. That makes for 
 a game that really focuses on the strategy aspect of playing this game, be it plotting your plans 
 or engaging in epic battles.
  
  The system, while not the simplist, takes a small amount of time to pick up, but once you get the 
 hang of it the system becomes much easier and you can focus more on your grand galactic strategy.
 
  
  Graphics for the game are pretty good, while maybe the game doesn't immerse you right into the 
 Star Wars world as much as the Battlefront series, it still has a great Star Wars feel to it.
 
  
  Sound for Star Wars games has to be easy at this point, because there is not much room for creative 
 development and most players want the authentic Star Wars sounds anyways. This game delivers them 
 as great as they have ever been.
  
  As of this review the author has not had a chance to play multi-player, but is excited of the possibilities 
 that multi-player could generate.
  
  If you like the Star Wars universe and strategy games then this game will easily become one of 
 your favorites in the Star Wars gaming world. If you are more of a Real Time Strategist looking 
 for that game with the perfect formula and engine, you will probably want to look somewhere else.
 
  
  Overall I have enjoyed this game very much and look forward to playing it more, especially once 
 I have friends that pick it up so that I can try some multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatherned
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  In attempting to cover every aspect of an RTS Star Wars universe, the game merely does just that... it 
 covers it. Like very tasty jam (jello?) spread thinly across a bagel, it just leaves enough substance 
 to lick your lips but fails to get you slavering and sucking your fingers. Its a very clean, polished 
 effort, the best so far, but yet still fails to get to the very deep, expansive waters of Georgy 
 Lucas' world. All the tech is in there, most of the main characters and all the beeps and laser 
 fizzes that has teased our ears for many years now. The feel of star wars is there, but its just 
 a grope..... not the full, crazy fling we have been craving since X-wing fixed our gaze eons ago. 
 Maybe no game ever will meet the benchmark of siz movies, an intense group of groupies and several 
 million handy, bendy rubber dolls....... but this was oh so very close.... so hail Petroglyph!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  They took rebellion and added a ground combat mode which is rather boring and over quickly. game 
 play is the same as rebellion just with a different UI. Space battles are pointless also fighters 
 fly through ship and stations or mass into one giant swarm spinning in a circle. Ripped off the 
 different type of nebula's from star trek armada. feels like a cheap budget game. was again a title 
 that doesn't deserve a good score but gets to much hype.
  Graphics are average, sound is the same as the rest of the games. Gets boring REAL fast another 
 game you will install and just leave siting on you desktop before you eventually delete it to save 
 space for something better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavien3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  empire @ war is 1 of the greatest games that i have ever EVER played i think that u will like it 
 but it's got very bad... pretty bad graphics and i think thats okay because when u fight ur normally 
 in a sky veiw os it is mostly o. k. then wats cool is u get to practacly customize ur own star wars 
 team... but u have to keep it within the star wars kind of people/clones and stuff so u cannot 
 change their outfits or anythin.' rent's a good movie. sorry bout that my sister wanted me to say 
 that. back to s. w. e. a. w i like it and u probably will too! but not as much as s. w. b.2 ~ciao~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Initially thought RTS aspect is watered down with no base building and unit production, but I soon 
 realised that: -
  
  1) By limiting deployment, player must make interesting tactical decisions. If I could only deploy 
 3 units initially, what should they be ? 
  
  2) Player must decide on priorities. After landing your initial 3 units, what should be my most 
 pressing first objective ... is it to take over another landing zone to allow more troop deployment? 
 (if so, what units will be best ?) Or it is to storm the energy installation first to cripple the 
 shields ? Once shields are down, could then call in Y-wings from orbit to bomb out enemy base and 
 terminate their endless production of units ? Then what unit should I send to clear the fog to 
 allow Y-wing bombing ??
  
  3) Not only does this arrangement make for more interesting gameplay than building up factories 
 and than a race to churn out units faster than the opposition, but it is actually more logical 
 also, since you already produce your military hardware from your other planets, why would you need 
 to do so again locally at your invasion site. Furthermore, true to the the films, you only see 
 reinforcements being brought in from transports rather than produced locally. In the Episode II 
 for instance, the republic did not set up factories when they landed to rescue the Jedi, did they? 
 They just poured in hardware and troops produced elsewhere ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogiwan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  I've loved Age of Empires for years. To me, it's the best RTS out there (even though Age of Mythology 
 wasn't my favorite...) When they made Galactic Battlegrounds I was pretty happy. I still play it 
 from time to time. Rebellion was painful and Force Commander lacked the ability to play a balanced 
 game. The problem with Star Wars is that you can't actually develop a 'balanced' strategy game 
 for it. FPS and squad based games can be handled pretty well because they are set in very specific 
 events. You can't even balance a MMO like Galaxies because the base content for Star Wars is about 
 an unbalanced war. Huge factions of evil but well supplied bad guys hunting down a dwindling rebellion 
 that shouldn't win. The problem is, that's not a fun game. Getting your ass kicked in most every 
 battle but the last one doesn't make people want to shell out $50. So, in my opinion, the reason 
 that Galactic Battlegrounds and Empire at War work is because they really do depart from the story 
 arc. You can't have a Star Wars experience without letting go of some of the Star Wars "reality". 
 
  
  Empire at War is an interesting mix of strategy and tactics. How you move through the galaxy determines 
 your ability to wage war under different circumstances. It's fun to have space and land battles. 
 The resource management aspect is nice because you basically don't have to worry about it. Take 
 a system and reap the benefits. Credits, special weapons, whatever it is they have to offer. There's 
 a 'fast forward' button that I use all the time. It just speeds up the game time, but to me, the 
 speed's important. I can play quicker, and the battles feel more like the Star Wars "speed" fetish 
 that's displayed in every movie. These ships and vehicles move fast in the films and books. They 
 should do the same in a game. So the FF button gets turned on often. If they made a persistant 
 speed system that you could set at the beginning, that would be a good thing. 
  
  What's lacking? Space combat is 2 dimensional. There's no 'Z' axis that could make things really 
 complicated for strategy. The maps for land battles are pretty smal, as well. That's an issue I 
 have with most of the new generations of RTS games (including my beloved AoE III) . 
  
  What's note worthy? I find it to be entertaining and with the exception of the load time when you 
 start up, the game can allow for quick play. I can sit down for 15 minutes (4 of which are the 
 loading) and actually do something like take a planet. 
  
  I'd like to see if this game gets a second version. I can imagine a lot of improvements that would 
 make the game much more solid. But at the end of the day, I do enjoy playing it. I like sitting 
 down for a bit and plot a way to dominate the galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dave_margera
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game is foooooooooooking great best game ive played for ages. the graphics are pretty good 
 :D especially in the space battles they are amazing. this is prob the best star wars game to ever 
 come out expt for KOTOR 1 and 2. i love the fact you can build a death star!!. Totally amazing 
 game if you havent got it then go buy it! it took me a while to get the hang of but its quite easy 
 when you play it for a while :D the campain mode never gets dull i could play it over and over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krauklis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War its a great game I have been waiting for a long time so when I got the 
 box of the game in my hands I was wryly fed up. At first I was quite disappointed. Why? Well first 
 of all because of the low unit cap why da hell cant I attack with all I have when I want to! Thats 
 simply stupid who would attack with 7 star cruisers when you haw 10 and how can it be possible 
 to capture a planet with 3 units thats totally bogus. And the value of simple soldiers is so low 
 that it isn't normal. But then after I had played the game for like 5 hours I understood that that 
 isn't so bad the space battles are simply grate all tho I still think that some extra units would 
 not hurt. If we talk about the looks of the game its a full 10 for the space battles and 7 for 
 the ground battles. So in the end the game is worth my time and my money. So go and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 669594
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  At last LucasArts renews her RTS games based on Star wars with one of the best games in 2006 until 
 now EMPIRE AT WAR. The games is amazing looking by it's graphics, sound, gameplay, lifespan and 
 tilt. It is trooly amazing, it's as good as Knights of the old republic 1. When running on a powerful 
 computer the game takes everything it can from the graphic card and everything else. This time 
 LucasArts surpassed itself by offering to Star wars fans the best RTS game until now. Rebellion, 
 Force Commande and Galactic battlegrounds were really disastrous. Long live Empire AT War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Pros: After seeing lots of screens and movies about the game it got me all excited, downloaded 
 the demo and it just made me a very big fan of the game. Now finally having the full version in 
 my PC, I can't stop playing! 
  
  When LucasArts tried the RTS genre before they just delivered a standard game who couldn't win 
 from the other RTS's out there. Now years later LucasArts tries it again with Empire at War. Hiring 
 Petroglyph (former Westwood) was one of the smartest ideas they ever had. This game really has 
 the Star Wars feeling! When playing Big space battles and also battle it out on the surface untill 
 the whole galaxy is yours is just spectaculair! The game plays between episode 3 & 4, that means 
 some favorite characters are dead or just don't exist yet; Like Luke Skywalker is still a pilot 
 in this game and hasn't even heard of a real jedi, but we get Darth Vader/The Emperor/R2D2 & C3PO/Han 
 Solo & Chewbekka/Old Obi-Wan (Uncle Ben) . Building units and buidlings are all done from the build 
 menu in a large space map enviroment. You also have to conquer the space around a planet untill 
 you can get to the surfice, that means a space battle and ground battle most of the times. If you 
 are a real RTS and/or Star Wars fan you can't miss this game! 
  
  Cons: In most battles you can only use ground units that you have transported with your fleet in 
 the Galaxy Map. You can then drop them as reinforcements but if you run out of those, you lose 
 the battle. build units in skirmisch etc are also transported to you reinforcements tab, and don't 
 come out of build building like most RTS games. You must then capture reinforcement point to drop 
 your units. You can see that the creators have stolen a lot of those ideas from Battlefront (Star 
 Wars-Battlefield) , cause there you also must have reinforcent point to spawn at. If you lose all 
 you loose the game. This can be very frustrating cause sometimes you loose all point while none 
 of your buildings are damaged... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  This star wars based RTS game is a very enjoyable game to play and to look at especially the space 
 battles. You can see the huge star destroyers exchanging fire with rebel fleet ships and the small 
 tie fighters, X-wings, Y-wings dogfighting around the huge ships. Its absolutely breathtaking. As 
 for land battles, it is only mediocre as it plays out just like any standard RTS game. Not much 
 of a difference. Overall it is a very good game worthy of the money and time spent in playing. 
 Go get it , its worth a try even for those not into star wars ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redrevolution5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War should be an amazing experience. Truth be told, I want it to be. Every fiber of my 
 being (especially the Star Wars fan in me) Is searching for reasons to hike this game's rating 
 up. I make up excuses, turn the other cheek to mistakes, and generally allow the game to cut every 
 possible corner. I'm really a lenient master in this situation.
  
  However, I just cannot, with one word stuck floating in my mind: Homeworld. Recently, needing a 
 space combat fix before the release of EaW, I went retro and played a few rounds of Homeworld 2. 
 I must preface my trip down memory lane with my one major complaint in EaW. The vastness of space 
 is, well, about as vast as a battleship puttering around a bathtub. The maps feel cramped and small, 
 and your bulky capital ships seem to lumber around these tiny "bathtubs" about as efficiently as 
 one might expect a battleship to fare in a bathtub. Now, I don't want to make this a re-review 
 of Homeworld 2, but more of an assimilation of all the wonderful things EaW is, with all that Homeworld 
 2 did correctly (not trying to be a fanboy, but that was just about everything) Imagine, a massive 
 Star Destroyer, in all of it's magnificent glory, dwarfed merely by the surrounding space. Tiny 
 fighter craft dart quickly around the capital ships, barely visible. Maps, vast and mostly empty 
 (just like real space!) save a few tiny asteroids and bits of space dust. Planets take up the entire 
 background. Instead, EaW has managed to make gigantic space itself seem packed into a tiny box 
 in which you are granted the ability to play commander.
  
  Beyond this, I believe that EaW has done most things correctly. Gameplay is fun and fast paced, 
 games progress smoothly, and it is an overall satisfying experience. Beyond that, there just seems 
 to be something missing. Something to truly bring this game into "masterpiece" territory. My recommendation 
 is to go pick up homeworld. After EaW, you'll find yourself needing to stretch your legs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaulian
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Especially for those of us who have played the old Star Wars Rebellion game 
 (why oh why did Gamespot give that one a 4?) . This is close to a vastly upgraded version of Rebellion, 
 if you could control the ground wars, and turned it into an RTS. The graphics are great, even when 
 you zoom all the way in. And the addition of a Battlecam just improves it that much more, I mean 
 who wouldn't love being able to watch your real-time battles cinematically? The difficulty level 
 is pretty hard, but the story mode is a fun way to introduce yourself to the experience. I really 
 like how the land battles have turned out. Not being able to immediately access all of your units 
 in any ground battle really makes it much harder, and you can't just overwhelm your opponent, you 
 have to really strategize. I also like how they tell you specifically the pros and cons of each 
 unit. The option of auto-resolving most battles is great to help break up the gameplay so you can 
 focus on either getting to where you want, conquering a planet quickly, or managing your empire. 
 I see this as kind of a Total War game with Star Wars, except it is more than that. I love this 
 game, and will enjoy spending many more hours playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_JC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I passed Empire campaign for 20 hours. Yes, it was very challenging. Especially, when rebels began 
 to attack planets one by one aprrox. when I had 20 planets. And suddenly, just when excellent system 
 of defence on each planet was created, fleet was big and powerful, the game finished. It was so 
 disappointing. Rebel campaign is similar. Missions are the same. Galaxy conquest is just skirmish. 
 Lucas Arts created amazing game with outstanding game play. Ground battles are so challenging. 
 But storyline is almost dead. No sudden events, nothing new. 
  So.. there must be an add-on with strong story!! Or, I think, this game will be forgotten very 
 fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgpotter
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer may be a blast as the games predictable AI makes for one of the most boring single-player 
 RTS experiences I've had in years. I've only played single-player so far.
  
  Land based battle is the biggest disappointment. Base building is cookie cutter and maps are unimaginative 
 from both an appearance and tactical perspective. 
  
  My two boys who *love* star wars (Battlefront 1/2, KOTOR) and RTS games (Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 Rise of Nations, American Conquest, StarCraft) declared this game a loser after only one night 
 pf playing!! Having been too bus last week to play and in utter and total disbelief after reading 
 all the hype, I've been playing it for a few days and have reached the same conclusion. Its a loser.
 
  
  Its amazing how little it takes to score an 8.5 these days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboy1990
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War. You all know it, you've all been waiting for it, now it's here. It's not without 
 problems, but it's exciting, fun, engaging, and definitely worth buying. For those who want an 
 RTS and are tired of booting up Starcraft for the millionth time, Empire at War will do more than 
 satisfy your urge for a fresh RTS; it'll raise the standard by which the modern RTS is judged by. 
 Singleplayer is the result of an incredible concept of a galaxy-wide conflict executed as well 
 as any game has ever done before. Multiplayer is the same great concept, except it is hindered 
 by the (dissapointingly) numerous bugs that plague the game mode. However, if you can find a match 
 that works, chances are you'll enjoy it. It's worth pointing out that Petroglyph is hard at work 
 on a patch. Overall, Empire at War is one of the most refreshing, intuitive, and just plain fun 
 RTS's i've had the chance to enjoy. Buy it, savor it, indulge in it. Sure, you'll be even more 
 of a nerd, but if that was a problem for you, you wouldn't be reading this right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaistoFossil22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, my $55 was well spent on a great game. This is the first Star Wars strategy 
 game to praise highly. But it did not seem to meet my expectations and seems to not have met others 
 either. First off I will talk about the pros of the game. First i would like to point out that 
 this game is eerily like Star Wars Rebellion which I found to be very fun. In this game though 
 it is alot more in depth and easy to pick up and play which i like alot! I first played the Empire 
 since they are the coolest in the sense of military and just running over everyone in their path. 
 Plus the Empire is very easy to work with if you just want to have fun with the game since their 
 credit (resources) come in fast and easy since they already own like 75% of the galaxy. The main 
 interface which shows you the planets is easy to work with. You can have 3 fleets on each planet 
 (I ussualy had only 2 fleets total in the whole galaxy) and about 10 military units on each planet 
 which is alot. Each planet has its set credit income and you can build factories on the planet 
 to make more credit. Planets vary in allowing how many buildings you can build. Also if your heroes, 
 like Lord Vader, are killed in a battle they will be revived in like 5-10 minutes in the main interface 
 so no worries about losing your heroes. You can speed up time or pause time on the main interface. 
 Building ships, military units, and buildings is a very simple task and doesnt take more than a 
 simple click and wait. The only thing that takes a long time to build is Imperial Star Destroyers 
 which is logical.
  Now the space battles. The space battles are amazing. They did a great job in this department to 
 make it feel like a real Star Wars space battle. When the battle begins your ships warp in and 
 begin the battle. Space Stations are huge as they should be and the little X-Wings and Tie Fighters 
 are like little ants running everywhere. Imperial Star Destroyers are massive and put that tingly 
 feeling of Star Wars on your screen. Space battles can get so exciting that it is hard to pick 
 out your guys since there are so many lasers and little fighters dog fighting. Its simply awesome. 
 Space battles are extremely enjoyable to play. The cinnematic camera makes it even better by removing 
 the info bars around the screen and showing the battle as a cut scene almost. Better yet they have 
 made the camera follow the battle as if it was a camera out of the movies. For example, at the 
 beginning of episode IV when it showed the mammoth Imperial Star Destroyer fly overhead, this is 
 one of the camera views for the cinematic view in the space battles. The Death Star make the space 
 battles even better. When you use the Death Star you can either watch it in like a cut scene when 
 it destroys the planet your orbiting or watch it destroy the planet as you fight the battle you 
 are in. It is amazing to see the planet explode. 
  The land battles are somewhat boring at times. The one good thing about the land battles are that 
 each planet has its own unique terrain and weather effects. Otherwise the land battles are like 
 one person said "more of a chore than fun." The whole idea of land battles is to take your army 
 and pretty much make one lap around the map to find all resistance and to take all the reinforement 
 points. The sound effects and feel of a Star Wars battle are present but do not deliver like the 
 space battles to do oh so good. This is when the auto resolve button comes in handy, BUT! It is 
 horribly sad how it calculates the battle outcome. You can have Lord Vader, 6 AT STs, 4 TIe Tanks, 
 and 6 Storm Troopers and they they can have like nothing compared to you and you will most likely 
 lose 2/3 of your army. So like the dude said, its a chore. This is the only thing that destroyed 
 Empire at War for me and seems like many people are with me on this. Dont get me wrong, Empire 
 at War is awesome and should be recognized as successful Star Wars game. Well worth $55. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19643133887398225095702609028815-EricSmith
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games you wish another developer got it's hands oh like say relic. Don't get 
 me wrong it's innovative in the way it combines both space and ground force. the build tab is easy 
 enough. But in a world that has so many RTS games and with Star War's being so popular you think 
 they would take advantage of the next gen graphic cards or try to make it look fuller. Game play 
 is also a little liner. First you build your fleets then you attack the enemy's fleet, then land 
 your forces. Some of it is innovative such as the rebels ability to land a strike force on an enemy 
 planet while a planet has an enemy fleet in orbit . Having played TIE-fighter and X-wing I know 
 what Lucas arts is capable of. I 'm a big Star Wars fan saying If this is the best they can do 
 fine it's a good game. But if not then If only they would have used the Homeworld 2 engine for 
 the space battle or the Nexis engien if only they would have used the ground control engine. It 
 only they would have used a different style of game play If only , if only ... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYConn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Watching a curling match at Torino is almost as enjoyable then those prequel movies but thats 
 an entirely different review. 
  
  It wasnt until midway through my second round of Galactic Conquest (with the Rebellion this time) 
 that it hit me. This game is beginning to be a lot of fun. There I was jumping from outer rim world 
 to outer rim world defeating pirate nesting grounds when I was attacked by an Imperial fleet against 
 one of my planets connected via trade route. Though I thought I was well prepared in defending 
 some of my neighboring worlds from the Empire, I was dead wrong. A pocket full of x-wings, y-wings, 
 2 corvettes, a lvl 2 space station and Captain Antilles against 15 ships, 7 of which specialized 
 in wiping out fighters. How the hell was I supposed to beat that? I thought. 
  
  But that was the beauty of this game. Still new to the game itself I built a long range scanner 
 on that world not knowing exactly what it did for me until that very conflict and there it was 
 showing me their every location on the map. Using the Rebels more versatile ships, I managed to 
 cripple theirs one at a time and when I destroyed one a fresh one came into reinforce only to meet 
 a similar fate. Low and behold, the battle was won and I turned the tide of the war and for that 
 very story to tell was the exact reason for buying this game. 
  
  Space combat is clearly the gem of it all and being solely a single-player gamer it was refreshing 
 to have a great feature such as galactic conquest. To be honest I wish it could be bigger or if 
 anything more diverse. I understand this is a conflict between two factions but theyre so many 
 cool factions like the Viraxo or Black Sun that we could see a little bit more indepth. It would 
 help make the game feel more, well, galactic. 
  
  I found this to be a bit of needless repetition. It was always the same pirates occupying planets 
 with the occasional dominant race accompanying their land forces. I know theres only a limited 
 number of space to fit inside but it would make things more interesting if you could duke it out 
 against Naboo fighters over Naboo space and Hutt ships over Nal Hutta etc. 
  
  My biggest gripe is with land battles. There isnt much I could say that hasnt been said already 
 about the problems with land conflicts. I would normally avoid land conflicts all together if auto-resolve 
 made some sense then this would be a moot point. Large armies always doesnt constitute victory 
 but a well designed and lead army should. Everytime however my forces are nearly completely wiped 
 out against far weaker defenses. But thats something that can be fixed rather easily.
  
  All in all though, the game really has grown on me. Great sound effects, the visuals arent that 
 bad (units can be a little poorly animated) and the Star Wars look and feel is there. I am finding 
 the replay value to be pretty good at this point. I think ultimately for the Star Wars fan, this 
 is your game. I would have liked to have seen them go deeper into espionage, smuggling, and diplomacy 
 like they did in Rebellion but Im sure with the success of this game, those items will be explored 
 for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFraud
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm really not that satisfied with this game. The graphics are nice, and it's all very authentic 
 and detailed as far as how it uses the StarWars license. But as a strategy game, it's pretty boring. 
 It's basically Emperor: Battle for Dune in the StarWars universe - the strategic map is somewhat 
 interesting, but the tactical battles are repetitve slugging matches (where winning is just a matter 
 of having more units and not strategy) that you'll eventually just want to auto-resolve. On the 
 first mission I was noticing that units had pathfinding issues, and even get inexplicably stuck 
 in some cases. I'm not sure why most 3d strategy games are such glitchy messes. About the only 
 one I've played that wasn't was WC3. I probably should have played the demo before buying it. At 
 the very least, it's not truely awful like the earlier SW strategy games... just disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAG344
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  at last they've got a star wars strategy game right. Bought it first day not stopped playing it 
 since, enjoyed playing the storyline from both sides empire and the rebellion. Enjoyed the empire 
 more cooler vehicles can cause more destruction. Only hoping they bring another one out but with 
 all the storyline in it from film to books. Space battles the best part of the game deatail and 
 gameplay stunning more so when using the death star, ground battles not long enough maps and missions 
 to small compared to battlegrounds a pity really but neither the less still fun. as i've already 
 said best game since galaxies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darbius
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a Star Wars game that doesn't suck.
  
  Since not too many people will actually read this review I'll keep it short.
  
  Strengths:
 
  - The single player modes or the 1-on-1 galactic conquest modes are where this game truly shines. 
 The multiplayer ground battles are too small scale for my tastes, but I think the space battles 
 are a blast in all game modes (multiplayer or single player) .
  - I love taking over planets, building space stations and different buildings to build my units. 
 Having to protect multiple fronts, and keep garrisons to protect your planets helps it feel much 
 more like a war on a grander scale.
  - The immersion factor in this game is immense. The music is spot on, and during the space battles, 
 you could swear you're in the middle of one of the space combats of the original movies.
  - The heroes are exceptionally well done if not maybe a little overpowered. There's nothing quite 
 like using Vader to pick up a tank and crush it using the force or wipe out groups of infantry 
 using a force wave. Another great hero is Obi-wan with force heal and force protect. Despite them 
 being very powerful on the battlefield, heroes can be effectively countered using either your own 
 heroes or bounty hunters hired from the Hutt palaces.
  - Addiction may be weakness, but I am certainly addicted. I've spent hours on end playing through 
 the campaign and galactic conquest modes.
  
  Weaknesses:
  - My main issue (and this comes in mostly on multiplayer) is scale. Although the galaxy map is 
 huge and has over 40 possible planets to control and fight over, the real-time battles themselves 
 end up feeling very small. This is slightly true with the space battles, but not nearly to the 
 same extent. The ground battles end up feeling to me more like skirmishes than actual battles. 
 The maps are small and the unit caps are obnoxiously low. In a skirmish battle I had 5 heroes on 
 the battlefield which left me with only 5 slots for extra units. Granted these 5 remaining slots 
 give you more than one unit for each (when deployed 1 AT-ST will actually give you 4 AT-ST's) , 
 but it still felt small. The unit caps aren't an issue as much on the single player side, but it 
 still ends up feeling a little stifled. This may become less of an issue if players are allowed 
 to create larger maps with higher unit caps.
  - If you're looking for an updated version of Galactic Battlegrounds, this is definitely not it. 
 Whereas multiplayer was the real strength of Battlegrounds (in my opinion) , that is not the case 
 here. All structures are either pre-built or are wrecked in pre-designated locations and need to 
 be repaired. This gives no flexibility about which structures are constructed or where they are 
 constructed. However, do note that it will give you all of the structures you need to progress 
 all the way through the tech trees.
  - There seems to be in imbalance of space heroes and ground heroes on each side. The rebellion 
 appears to have more strength with their space heroes while the Empire has more potent ground heroes. 
 While this difference is not as much of an issue in the single player modes (because you have to 
 fight on both fronts) , I think it could actually pose a balance issue as far as skirmishes and 
 multiplayer skirmish games because you have to pick either a space setting or a land setting. This 
 seems like it could gives one faction an advantage over the other depending on which setting you 
 choose.
  
  Conclusion: Overall, this is an awesome game, as long as you're buying it for the campaign mode, 
 1-player galactic conquest mode, or 2-player galactic conquest mode. The game really shines in 
 these modes and is hugely immersive (especially the space battles) with great effects and true-to-the-movies 
 sound. Although the multiplayer skirmishes are a departure from the previously mentioned modes, 
 they do feel as if they were "strapped on" to the game. The game single-player/two-player game 
 is extremely addictive, but if you're looking for multiplayer skirmishes spent collecting materials, 
 constructing buildings and pouring out units to overwhelm your enemy (a la Warcraft III, Age of 
 Empires, Command and Conquer, etc) , you will be sorely disappointed. That being said, this is a 
 great addition to any Star Wars fan's library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very nice Star Wars game but not as nice as a Strategy game, even if you are not 
 a hardcore strategist as many have suggested. This game was made for Star Wars fans, and as such 
 it lived to all my expectations. It is great to be able to control many of the stuff in Star Wars, 
 and playing Star Wars Universe God for some time is truly amazing. Taking aside technical stuff 
 as graphics, stability, etc and other things that has been ver well discussed here and other reviews, 
 this is one of the greatest Star Wars games for a Star Wars fan
  
  However, it is not really that great as a Strategy game. To begin with, the game is biased towards 
 the Empire, particularly if you play at the hard level. Ok, I take thats the way Star Wars is, 
 but hey, Luke Skywalker was able to destroy the most powerful weapon in the galaxy with a bunch 
 of mad guys flying inferior Star Fighters , with a little bit of luck and a bit of help from the 
 Force. Not in this game thou. If you play the rebels, as soon as you border a planet controlled 
 by the empire wait to be obliterated by dozens and dozens of waves of Star Destroyers accompanied 
 by other powerful imperial ships. It doesnt matter if your station is at the highest level or 
 if you have amassed a decent fleet with the money the few planets you control gives you, you will 
 be obliterated. Period. I didnt want this game to be a walk in the park, but another thing is 
 to make it impossible to play, particularly in the Galactic Conquest Mode. You can avoid the empire 
 until you control about 6-8 planets, time where the empire will control about 15 or more and will 
 send you into oblivion as soon as you reach its border. It is just plain silly!!!
  
  Then, ground battles are not avoidable as one of the game guides here suggest by building shield 
 generators and turbo lasers on your planets. Yes, that will deter the empire for some time, but 
 only until it amass a humongous ground force with 10+ AT-ATs and yes, you will be obliterated again. 
 Ground battles, change quickly from a strategy game to an action game, which I think is not good. 
 Strategy genre is that, strategy, time to think, re-group, find better ways to attack/defend and 
 not a mad mouse click frenzy in the middle of uncontrollable carnage. Some times the game is uncontrollable 
 particularly when you need such huge forces to at least make a run for your money against the almighty 
 Empire fleets and ground forces. At times, units behave silly, move clumsy over the terrain or 
 just stop fighting because they are too far from the front lines, 
  
  The space view is also too complex to manage when you have over 8-10 planets, which is very soon 
 in the game. Borders are not well defined, and you can find yourself being attacked by the Empire 
 on a planet that in theory doesnt share a border with them. It happens that it has a route, just 
 that you didnt see it (???) . As a rebel you will have very limited resources, so fortifying every 
 planet is not an option (not that it will stop all Empire attacks, but at least it will make it 
 harder for them) . So what, fortify apparent border planets. Wrong! The empire can hit you when 
 you least expected to be hit. Also, too may planets, with too many resources, too many options 
 and not diverse options, just the same options multiplied by 40, so it makes it a bit boring in 
 the long run. The mechanics are very easy to understand, but too much repetitive resource management 
 makes it unbearable when you reach some point in the game
  
  In summary, a very nice effort with plenty of Star Wars show off, heroes, villains, ships, troops, 
 etc, a true jewel for Star War fans. But I have to sadly admit that as a strategy game it is soft 
 on many areas, too complex at some points to the extreme of making it nonsense, and it becomes 
 too repetitive at a certain level. Because of that, this is one of the few Star Wars games I have 
 ranked below 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthkiLer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I like the game it just like playing command and conquer. If you like playing those kind of games 
 then this is a game you must buy if you don't have the money it is worth to wait for it if it goes 
 on sell. I like the way you fight in space and land and also choose if you want to fight or just 
 let the comp do it automatically. i like to choose to fight all of my battles becuase it fun and 
 that how i do it. to the make the game more fun to play put the difficultly on hard it would you 
 give a challenge to fight enemy. The only thing i did not like was that the campaign was short 
 and there was not lots of units to build. i just hope that the expansion pack would be a little 
 better then this one at least more army to choose from just like command and conquer generals zero 
 hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosquito123456
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  To All the Star Wars Fans out there (Including Myself) I will be addressing some of the great features 
 and the great mistakes that made this the greatest single player game and a sadly poor mutiplayer 
 game.
  
  First of all the sound the effects are beautiful the sound is just like out of a movie. Music fits 
 every emotion and feel of a Great Star Wars Game... The Music is mainly taken from the movies with 
 a few different pieces of music for scenes such as battles. The sounds of the AT-AT or Ships swooping 
 around is just as good as watching the movie. No Problem here.
  
  The Graphics do looking amazing for a Star Wars Game. The planets look real enough to be in our 
 solar system. Space Battle look... Beautiful and stunning. Troops or Humans looked disappointing 
 after seeing detailed units like from great games such as DOW (Dawn of War) . The rest of the units 
 such as AT-ST's and ships where a pleasure to look at. I let it off here.
  
  SinglePlayer was great 42 planets to 8 planets all for capture and rule with no limit in time. 
 I was a little disappointed with the heroes. If I hero died in combat he/she would regenerate late 
 in the game... and you don't pay a fine for losing them. If they had added a fine to the game for 
 losing the heroes this could have made the fights more interesting and could make the last few 
 moments in a fight enjoyable. But Still the Capturing of planets is interesting and works very 
 well. Of Capturing both the space and land. With taking one half of the planet (Space for example) 
 to shoot down at the planet which is used in land battles.
  
  Now Comes a hard duty of any Star Wars Fan to talk about it's major and must painful failure in 
 the game. You can pick any of the styles of gameplay such as land battle, space battle or galaxy 
 conquest. But then comes the problem with what should have been the greatest and strongest point 
 of the game. Galaxy Conquest on mutiplayer. Remember how I spoke of singleplayer with the chance 
 to conquer 42 planets? Well this dissappears with the force in mutiplayer and Vader has given 20 
 planets Max to conquer.
  With this painful stab of a lightsaber comes another major damage. Playing mutiplayer with my brother 
 we discovered a disturbance in the force... that yes there are npc's but you can't control the 
 fight against them. It will just do the the battle out for you. Displaying how many units have 
 been lost and if that isn't bad enough.. half the time you will come out worse than the npc's. It 
 would have been better to give us the option to turn them off bad sadly you have to battle with 
 npc's on. Sure if you could have controlled the fight you would have to pause the game on the other 
 players' side but is it not worth it than always losing to a bunch of npc's which we didn't want 
 to fight? 
  
  So With that said all is great but with mutiplayer being chopped by a lightsaber is this a game 
 you want to battle aganist your friends. Hopefully the up coming LOTR will use the ring to make 
 these terrible points in this game to make it disappear in LOTR game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Single player mode is what makes the game worth anything here
  
  I've been playing this for a while now in single player mode... mostly the galactic conquest mode 
 which to begin with was a real blast
  Being able to fight on both land and in space seemed and is a great concept and certainly works 
 well here
  
  Gameplay wise its not a huge leap from anything you've probably seen before... Its really similar 
 to Dawn Of War's mechanics, so if you've ok played that game and like myself enjoyed it, you'll 
 get along fine no problem
  If you havent played DOW, think strategic locations and thats basically what you do on a map... 
 control strategic locations in order to gather the ability to call upon more reinforcements, if 
 you have them
  
  Both the graphics and sound do a pretty good job
  The space battles by far look better... ground troops arent as pleasing and sometimes just dont 
 look particularly good (especially troops)
  The sound is atmospheric for the most part and i found nothing to any concern there
  
  It all 
 sounds really promising... and it is... assuming you plan on playing single player more than multiplayer
 
  The big excitement i got from this when it was in production was hearing that it was going to 
 allow 2 players to battle it out for control of the galaxy... not just in a skirmish one battle 
 to the death that is basically all other RTS' 
  Tried this out over a network LAN game and to my horror found that the thing i had hoped for most 
 out of this game was not all that good
  
  I know its something that will probably be added later but the truth is as of the current out of 
 the box version of the game does have the mode yes... but its a lil falsely advertised
  In single player you can fight it out for 40 or so planets... great! just about the whole star 
 wars galaxy is there
  We go into multiplayer and the max is twenty something... welcome to conquering the galaxy, well 
 half the galaxy multiplayer mode
  
  My other issue with the multiplayer galactic conquest mode is how it plays out... immediately i 
 sent a squad of fighters and bombers to go to a neutral unexplored planet and was not sent into 
 a fight... nope... i was given an interface popup which basically says "you lost x amount of ships 
 and have retreated"... What is that?! So much for RTS... Players should be given the option to 
 fight it out with these neutral forces just like in single player, not be told what happened in 
 a battle that you had no conrtol over other than what was sent to start the battle
  But the problem with that would mean that the game would essentially pause for your opponent till 
 you finished your fight... what would be the obvious simple answer to this? Give us a turn off 
 the daft neutral mobs... theres no need for them! Like I really wanna go play multiplayer so i 
 can fight the computer AI instead... sad sad move
  To be fair, i havent gotten around to playing the skirmish mode in multiplayer... But thats because 
 of its main multiplayer attraction is no main attraction
  
  I really really would have loved to have rated this higher... Star Wars fans will undoubtably do 
 so as it is Star Wars... and i can understand that, but when you're looking at it from a neutral 
 stand point, Its really quite disappointing... i really hope these issues are at least considered 
 for upcoming patches/updates
  
  Hopefully Battle For Middle-Earth 2 wont travel closer to the dark side in its multiplayer mode 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those you could play for a quite a long time. For me, the record is three months. 
 Well, i feel that this one could go even further, but then who knows. 
  The most important thing is this game is playable !!! It keeps you playing no matter what. Only, 
 one thing was bugging me. The battles on ground are quite easy or quite hard. No, medium. Like, 
 you can use a template for a battle, no special strategy required, but it repays when you go on 
 fighting in air or galaxy. 
  Graphics are great, gameplay is great, well all is great. Nice job. I like it. Haven't tried multiplayer 
 yet, but it can't be bad. Single is great. (I use great a lot) .
  
  OK... That's it... Go buy this one ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyger_claw
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  My review is only partial since it's only from the Demo I Played, the commercials I've seen and 
 the screenshots and gameplay videos. So sorry if I'm not full fair
  
  First off, I have to start off my explaining my Tag line comment. That of: 
  "This reminds me 
 of Star Trek Armada & Emperor: Battle For Dune, with the interface from Star Wars Rebellion."
 
  
  Basically, because that's exactly what this game boils down to.
  
  1. The space combat give me reminescants of Star Trek Armada, where you have several vehicles and 
 move them around a map with various obstacles you must go around or avoid. Same in Armada. If you 
 don't know what I am talking about, download the demo of Armada and see for yourself. Now, yes 
 I will admit, the graphics are prettier since you can zoom in to the combat and the cinematic feature 
 is sweet. But basically, this is Armada, except instead of it being called Star Trek, remove the 
 Trek and insert the Wars.
  
  2. The ground combat reminded me alot about Emperor: Battle for Dune. It probably doesn't help that 
 I've just recently played it and in the demo you play on Tatooine during the 3 planet campaign. 
 (fimiliar to surface of Dune) . Again, the controls and troops remind me here of that of Emperor. 
 The only difference between both games and Empire at War is that you don't build bases and defend 
 them for more troops, instead you are assigned stations on a planet and gain troops from them and 
 then recruit your troops between battles at your commanding planets.
  
  3. I tried to play Rebellion long ago, picked it up second hand at Electronics Boutique. The fact 
 that I had to read a manual thicker than 1984 did not encourage me. Neither did the interface and 
 resource management system. Needless to say, I have very little experience to that game. However, 
 I can point out that the planetary control and resource management is basically rehashed into this 
 version of the RTS Star Wars games.
  
  So after reading this, you'd think I'd never play the game again.
  
  You are wrong. I am strongly 
 considering purchasing this game for my personal pleasure.
  
  So why haven't I? basically because I'm still playing Emperor (on and off) and can't quite justify 
 buying it yet.
  
  Basically, I am recommending it, because it was fun. It was fun to see all the troops on the ground 
 and attack in large armies (although the size limit kinda bummed me - wish it was a grander sized 
 army) and it was especially fun to see the flight combats in space and switch it into cinematic 
 view. Just don't pick up this title and assume that this is an original concept game. Nothing innovative, 
 just borrowing some successful game formulas (and making one work after it failed in the 90s) and 
 putting together one good title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffrod2003
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I liked the Game but I thought it was a bit short. I mean, I played the game until I got to the 
 smuggler's betrayal. Then the game took off with the death star attacking planets every couple 
 of minutes. And then the game was finished as soon as I destroyed it. I mean there was no empire 
 in strikes back or return of the Jedi. I did not even run into Darth Vader. However, there was 
 plenty of usage of Han Solo and Chewbacca, and of course Boba Fett once. Come to think of it I 
 didnt run it to Obi-wan.
  All the same I did enjoy playing it. I probably will replay it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispyski
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree with everyone when they say this is the best Star Wars game to come out in some 
 time. I was never a big fan of KOTOR or Battlefront, and nothing has to be said for any of the 
 other ones in the past few years. (Republic commando? -that was awful) . The only gripe I have so 
 far is the limit put on how many ships you are allowed in space at one time. I understand they 
 want to prevent lagging, but I am convinced there is NO WAY for imps to attack a rebel lvl 5 space 
 station with an ion cannon on the planet without wiping out a persons whole fleet. (I have spent 
 countless hours, and nothing short of Sacrificing 15-20 Victory Star Destroyers was able to do 
 it) . If you could possibly have alot of bombers, or somehow be able to sabotage it like you could 
 in Rebellion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaohed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the things that bothers me about most Star Wars games and RTS games is the total lack of 
 imagination. Typically Star Wars games are an attempt to rehash the original story with some other 
 crappy character that lacks no depth at all. And RTS games are generally lacking in storyline if 
 any, offering the exact same experience over and over. This installment, however, has managed to 
 break the shackles of unimaginative despair. Giving you a three-level strategic experience that 
 both plays on and adds to the mythos of the Star Wars universe. 
  Set in between Episode 3 and 4 and during 4,5, and 6 the story adds to the depth of Star Wars with 
 imagination and consistency. The devs managed to make me feel like I was either in one of the movies 
 or watching a whole new one. The graphics are unbeleivable, some of the best I've seen in the RTS 
 genre making this a totally immersive environment to play in. Adding to this is the dynamic score 
 of the game that changes depending on what is happening in each battle. 
  The game consists of a galacitic overview, in which you move fleets and armys to different planets 
 and locations allowing you to construct space stations and bases on each planet. Credits to build 
 these fleets and armies are given based on which and how many planets you hold. To conquer or free 
 a planet you must control the space around it and the ground offering two battle grounds for each 
 planet. Each planet has individual maps for each for the space and the ground offering a multitude 
 of environments to battle. 
  This is truly a great game for the Star Wars genre. One of only two in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingSincePONG
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The visual effects are truly spectacular, but the gameplay was bland and unsatisfying. Looking 
 beyond the admittedly awesome graphics, the game has little substance below its flashy vernier. 
 A simplistic economy featuring only a single resource, No unit upgrades other than the bonus's 
 offered by controlling particular systems. Almost childish combat. Very limited selection of units, 
 and a depressingly linear technology tree. Its one redeaming feature is that you cannot just build 
 a single uber-unit. 
  
  The inclusion of the Deathstar is a nice feature, in that it saves you the headache of pointless 
 guaranteed to win but take half an hour land battles. Once you have your economy cranked up enough 
 to build it, you have pretty much won anyway.
  
  In general, it has no new fetures not previouslyseen in other members of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarman55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is a fantastic game. The elements of space battle and land battles coincide 
 perfectly to attain a balanced game play that is sure to leave any RTS fan wanting another battle. 
 From the perspective of being true to Star Wars, it is as accurate as can be. The voice acting 
 is incredible for all characters. The way each faction is laid out feels like it should, with the 
 dominant empire being able to get credits from anywhere and research their technology and the rebels 
 having to steal their credits or technology since any attempt for a permanent structure for these 
 things would be destroyed by the tyrannical Emperor. 
  For the graphics that this game puts out, its amazing the not-so-high-end computer you can have 
 and still get full enjoyment. Granted a good computer can make it look that much better. Other 
 than Age of Empires 3, some of the best RTS graphics I have seen. Sound is amazing as well. From 
 the space fleets to the mechanicals walkers on the surface, the sound is a perfect balance of great 
 effects and great music. One does not over power the other. 
  Game play wise I was a little disappointed at how repetitive it is. You build a big fleet, send 
 it in, and you can pretty much watch. The AI is okay but not stellar. Also in large space battles 
 it is hard to keep track of every ship so that your fleet doesnt get flanked. The ground battles 
 are pretty good. The control point idea is not hitting home with me. If you have a HUGE army, you 
 should be able to land all of them, its a whole planet, there is room to accommodate. Even with 
 that the land battles are enjoyable. The strategy involved with where to attack, get control points, 
 take out a shield, or stay and defend. Sometimes one large army is not the best way, you will want 
 to split them up so u can attack different things or attack one area while defending another one. 
 The hero units on land battles are a huge plus. Darth Vader rocks when he takes out a whole platoon 
 of infantry with Force Push and then takes out the vehicle with Force Crush. 
  All in all, Empire at War is a great game. I would recommend it to anyone who is a RTS fan or a 
 Star Wars fan. If your both, then its a definite buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_beautiful_lie
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I haven't tried the multiplayer so this is just about single.
  
  There's so much mroe depth they could have put into this game. It's basically a gimped total war 
 game. I'm not talking about diplomacy, obviously in star wars there are two factions, not more. 
 But the ground combat gets extremely repetitive as each planet has one area to fight on. Space 
 combat would be immensely fun but they limit how many units you can have in a battle and the rest 
 wait patiently to get called up as reinforcements as units are destroyed.
  
  Heroes are immensely broken. On the medium setting I was able to planet hop using Emperor Palpatine 
 and Veers ATAT. This worked 2/3 of the time, which seems kinda absurd to conquer a planet with 
 two guys. The times it didn't work turned into a bogged down mess of human wave attacks because 
 the computer was so fortified it would massacre anything that got within firing range.
  
  The game very much favors the defender. Space stations can wipe out fleets once they are higher 
 tech level, Ion cannons on planets can more or less stop a fleet dead in the water, and defending 
 a planet is pretty easy with a few guys if you have any infantry (yes, something I'm happy about 
 is that the small guy really matters more than the juggernaut in this game a lot) . 
  
  My last and final comment is on the death star. The only way the alliance can stop it is with the 
 red squadron hero, so going from planet to planet nuking the alliance works. But, if the alliance 
 kills it the empire loses, even if they control every other planet in the galaxy.
  
  It has a lot of missed potential and a lot of almost there's, but that doesn't exactly cut it. 
 Still a fun game, just boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMathayus15
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Empire at war is a fantastic game for starters, the controls are absolutely great and easy, graphics 
 are wonderful (MUCH better than in the demo!!)
  the sound is stunning and the gameplay is fabulous.
  This is definitely a game worth buying if 
 you love RTS or even if you're a newbie in the genre.
  Almost everything is good about this game except perhaps that after you played this game for a 
 long time land battles will get somewhat repetitive.
  But that doesn't really matter since you can always choose new tactics for missions you found difficult.
 
  It is even a great and sometimes challenging game for hardcore RTS gamers.
  By the way, the space battles are finger licking good!!
  
  So of course, my score for this 
 masterpiece is 10/10!
  Lucas-arts is back in the game at last! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical of this game; especially after the steaming piles of poo that were Galactic 
 Battlegrounds and Rebellion. But after playing the demo, and now the full game, I am very happy 
 to be proved wrong. 
  Gameplay is very easy to learn, but hard to master. Figuring out the best strategies will take 
 a while, but that just means lots (and lots) of replay value.
  Probably the best thing about the game is that you can actually change the outcome from the movie 
 version of things.
  Everything that happens is persistent, and permanently affects what happens later on. In previous 
 SW games you could never really change the outcome; i. e. have the Empire win. But now you can. 
 Long overdue!
  Another great thing about the game is there is no resource gathering (no sending out droids to 
 chop wood . Only thing you need is credits, which you get by capturing (and holding on to) planets.
 
  Which leaves you free to do what you should be doing; cranking out units, and blowing the bejeezus 
 out of the enemy.
  And in multiplayer, you can save your progress, and come back to the game whenever you feel like 
 it. Awesome! Graphics are very good also. Some people have complained about them, but I think they 
 are just fine. And on my mid-range computer (P4 2.8ghz & Nvidia 7800 GS) , the game plays great 
 at max resolution and details, with no slow-downs. All in all, a great game, and if you like Star 
 Wars even just a little, get this game! As for me, I'm off to crush the whining, snivelling goody-two-shoes 
 Rebels beneath Vader's jackboots... :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlos14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is to test your skils as a leader and your brain. you need to think before doing a decision. 
 the best thing is you can choose your side, the dark side. you should buy this game. it will took 
 you alot of time to finished but it is worthy. this game is in my wished list. is better than midnight 
 club3 dub edition. i hope i get this game this weekend. it is worth it because is very fun and 
 exciting. this game is my favorite one the learning is hard but cool. this game is way better then 
 mortal kombatthe deception. this game is awesome . this is to help other people realise this game 
 is the best of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UMfan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is a fantastic new way to experience real time strategy games. 
  Not only does is captivate you with the stunning sound and visuals of the Star Wars atmosphere, 
 it introduces new elements to the rts genre with 
  things like no physical resource gathering and reinforcements. 
  
  ~gameplay~
  
  gameplay 
 elements are essential to rts games. EAW does a good job of focusing on non-stop combat that keeps 
 the player constantly on their toes.
  In both the story mode and galatic conquest, you the player can control your entire side by arranging 
 your forces as you see fit on the 43 different planets. Get your forces into place and let the 
 fighting begin, but be sure your defenses are setup just in case you get attacked right back.
 
  
  both space and land battles are fast paced and fun, and you can jump right into battle and not 
 spend the first 10 minutes setting up factories or barracks.
  
  ~graphics~
  
  graphics were very well done. there is a cinematic camera buttons which can be used to view the 
 battle from more of a movie view/views. this camera view can be fun for a bit but it has its quirks. 
 but from the regular top view everything looks clean, even on a mid range quality. things like 
 blaster bolts and explosions look great on both land battles and in space when you destroy a large 
 ship or space station. 
  
  ~sound~
  one of the best sounding games period. you cant go wrong with star wars sound effects. not only 
 are the sounds of ships and blasters well done, but the voices of older characters like ben kenobi 
 and han solo sound completly authentic. the music was chosen correctly as well, not only in battle, 
 but in the galactic screen when you are sitting quietly waiting for your imperial star destroyer 
 to build a quiet evil tune will play and it really gives you a star wars atmosphere that is unmistakable. 
 the music isnt only from the classic trilogy either, there are ones from the first three episodes 
 included, but they arent the stand out ones and they mix well with the oldies.
  
  ~value~ 
  
  if you are a rts fan and are looking for something new, EAW offers many new ways 
 to experience this genre with fast paced gameplay and galactic sized organization.
  
  and if you are a fan of star wars, just go pick it up now. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MistahE
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay isn't the most innovative and can feel repetitive. But the game is well made and easy 
 to play. The issues that might make this game feel "good" instead of "great" are quickly overlooked 
 because of the awe and mystery that its Star Wars theme brings. For many people, myself included, 
 just using the Star Wars universe makes anything more appealing. This game is no different. I felt 
 like a little kid at Christmas when I built my first Imperial Star Destroyer and then took three 
 of them off to destroy the rebel fleet. And when the Death Star joined up with my star destroyers 
 and started blasting Degabah and Hoth to rubble it was very satisfying.
  
  If you don't care about Star Wars then try out the demo first. It's a good game that tries to tackle 
 a lot (galactic level management with space and land battles) which any developer would struggle 
 to implement the way everyone would like. If you do like Star Wars at all then go buy the game 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoLariS_92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Starwars: Empire at War is definately one of the best looking, most immersive, and innovative titles 
 to come out since the E3 2005. It has lived up to everthing it was said to be and more. Although 
 you can run into some issues with A. I. like some sketchy pathfinding and tactical errors, EaW makes 
 up for it in shear scale and innovation. No more are you stuck in the days of waiting forever to 
 aquire tons of cash, then dying while you wait even more for the biuld time to be up. You can build 
 up money almost effortlessly by capturing planets and stealing money with smugglers. And then when 
 you decide to purchase your units, you barely have to wait at all.... that is, unless your purchasing 
 something like a Star Destroyer or At-At ; that can take a while. 
  
  The multiplayer in EaW is far from ordinary and boring. In fact, this is one of the most fun multiplayer 
 experinces since such games as counter-strike or Halo 2 (even though they are in a different genre) . 
 One of the many innovations in multiplayer is the new style in skirmish combat. Remember the old 
 days where you had to constantly send your units to help another guy who couldn't defend his own 
 base it he were attacked by a chicken who had 5 cases of coke? Well, not anymore do you have to 
 constantly help the n00bs, or rely on the pros to win for you. Everyone on a team shares a base.... just..... one. 
 Although this sounds like a bad idea, it actually creates a whole new level of strategy. You have 
 to work together to defend your base, manage your forces, and other RTS type things. Each player 
 has his/her own credit supply and they can purchase units individually. But if you have almost 
 no credits, and your ally has tons, and he buys an upgrade, you don't need to buy it as well, because 
 if one player buys an upgrade his whole team recives the bonuses. see the strategy now? Another 
 multiplayer mode is galactic conquest where you strive to conquer different planets in a Risk like 
 style of game that can last for a week, or maybe even more.
  
  All in all, the game looks great (if you can afford to upgrade just a little bit) , and sounds fantastic. 
 The controls are fluid and the gameplay is innovative. My only problem so far is some of stupid 
 things that A. I. can do, but looking at everything else this title does right, that doesent really 
 matter.
  If you like StarWars, even just a little, you will fall in love with this game.
  
  - Polaris
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcompman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a hugely innovating game that had me instantly captured. It is by far 
 the best Star Wars game out for the PC.
  
  Space battles are the cream of the crop in the game. With lasers, missles, and torpedos constantly 
 flashing through the air, its hard not to be impressed. Land battles, although not as good as space 
 battles, are still very very good. Listening to the clanking of AT-AT's as the march towards the 
 enemy base is thrilling to say the least. 
  
  The multiplayer option is another good aspect of the game. Going online and duking it out in land, 
 space or even galactic conquest with your friends (or in some cases, enemies) is quite addicting. 
 
  
  This game is highly addicting that will capture all Star Wars fans and keep them hooked for ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Star Wars has a long history of RTS failures. Rebellion was a decent attempt that was marred by 
 a clunky interface, and dry combat. There was Force Commander which featured flawed graphics, gameplay, 
 and an abysmal soundtrack. Then there was Galactic Battlegrounds, and Clone Campaigns which were 
 too much like Age of Empires for my liking. This time some RTS veterans straight out of the late 
 Westwood Studios deliver a solid, and fun dive into the strategy element of the Star Wars universe.
 
  
  Empire at War offers three single player game modes and two multiplayer game modes. The first single 
 player game mode is the story based campaign where you play as a nameless and faceless officer 
 in the service of either the Rebel Alliance or the Galactic Empire some time before Episode IV. 
 In both campaigns you receive orders from your superiors either directly or indirectly concerning 
 a story mission. The story missions can be done at any time, however; you're better off conquering 
 all of the Rebel or Imperial planets open to you before you perform a story related task. The story 
 campaigns are okay, but feel second next to the more free form game mode.
  
  Galactic Conquest is the most satisfying part of Empire at War. In Galactic Conquest you can select 
 from a variety of Campaign Maps that feature different settings: starting tech level, starting 
 amount of credits, and the number of planets on the campaign map as well as objectives. Most of 
 these settings can be altered in advanced options except for the planets that are present, and 
 your campaign objectives. Galactic Conquest works in a way similar to the campaign (and 1998's 
 Star Wars: Rebellion) in which you are given some starting planets, and you need to defend them 
 with troops, vehicles, and fleets as well as conquer neutral worlds, Pirate owned worlds, and of 
 course the planets owned by your opposing faction. If you have random events on you will also occasionally 
 receive minor tasks, bonuses (or scolding as in the case of the Empire) from either Mon Mothma 
 or Grand Moff Tarkin. Galactic Conquest also allows you to go head to head with another player 
 in multiplayer.
  
  Skirmish is the final game mode which lets you fight against the opposing side on a number of maps. 
 Skirmish is a rather unique experience in EaW compared to most RTS games. In EaW skirmishes the 
 game is always team based in which all Rebel Commanders are teamed together, and all Imperial Commanders 
 are teamed together and share the same base. While this makes the game fit in better with the story; 
 it can seem restricting, and there's still the problem of every Imperial Commander being able to 
 summon their own version of every Imperial hero, and the same for the Rebels. Also, since there 
 is no galactic map in Skirmish you produce units at either your land base or Space Station and 
 summon them at a reinforcement point as is the case for land battles, or hyperspace them in; in 
 space battles. Skirmish is the second game mode in multiplayer as well.
  
  The graphics in EaW are a mixed bag. On one hand you've got the beautiful and detailed space battles, 
 and on the other hand you've got blocky Stormtroopers on top of undetailed terrain textures. The 
 graphics in the land battles are not by any means terrible, but they pale in comparison with the 
 space battle graphics. One nice feature is that you can view both battles "movie style" using the 
 "Battlecam" which focuses on random units\groups, and sometimes buildings that are performing the 
 most interesting actions at the time. In space battles this is a blast; it's really nice to see 
 empty space, and then see the front tip of your Star Destroyer emerge followed by the rest of it 
 while is fires lasers at enemy ships that are being pursued by TIE Fighters and Bombers, or to 
 watch Darth Vader cut his way through squads of Rebel troopers, and crush vehicles and buildings 
 with the Force.
  
  The audio is superb, the voice acting is for the most part excellent, and the sound effects come 
 right out of Star Wars whether it be the laser blasts or the loud rumbling of a Star Destroyer's 
 engines. The music is also excellent which combines the John Williams score from both the Original 
 Trilogy and Prequel Trilogy with some new music by C&C Legend Frank Klepecki exclusively for Empire 
 at War. There are some poor voice acting moments (The Stormtrooper that pops up in the GC mode 
 to speak to you sounds nothing like a Stormtrooper, for example) the audio is a strong part of 
 EaW.
  
  After several honest attempts Petroglyph managed to deliver what Coolhand (Rebellion) , and Lucasarts 
 (Force Commander and Galactic Battlegrounds) failed to achieve; an excellent RTS set in one of 
 the most loved sci-fi universes of all time. If you're a Star Wars fan you owe it to yourself to 
 try Empire at War. If you're not a Star Wars fan it may not be worth it; most of EaW's best moments 
 are those moments that only a fan of the Star Wars saga can appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemamba4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. They have changed the focus away from gathering resources and building, to 
 focusing more on battles. Though this seems limiting, it actually is a nice change because that 
 is where the fun is anyways, is in the battles, not in those stupid messages "not enough resources, 
 etc"
  
  But there is something to being able to build freely, but they have taken care of that in that 
 you can "capture" different locations to deploy your units and to gather MORE credits. I feel like 
 this is a different winning formula for a RTS.
  
  I just wish Starcraft 2 would be released sometime this decade!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarcraftLegend
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Star Wars empire at war is a great game to play espically if you are bored playing your old RTS 
 games. This game is good on graphics espically if you have a good graphics card. Though land skirmishes 
 and battles lack overall gameplay. On the other hand Space battles rock on this game such destroying 
 planets with the death star and blowing up hardpoints from the imperial cruiser or Mon Calarami 
 ships. This game needs more of a encouragement in Muiltiplayer, more players are needed and more 
 people need to buy the game. If you are looking for a fun and exciting game to play for months 
 Empire at War is your game. This game has good potential to be a nominee for best Rts game of the 
 year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanares
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  The sights, the sounds, everything about this game takes me back. I'm just missing a large Mountain 
 Dew and some excessively cheesey and greasy pizza to make the experience complete. Star Wars: Empire 
 at War brings back the magic and adventurous attitude that made the original trilogy so great. 
 But it is also a double throwback: the game play brings back memories of long loved real time strategy 
 game like Command & Conquer and Dune: The Battle for Arakis.
  
  Am I being a nostalgic fool? Maybe. No one however can argue the cult and entertainment value of 
 either the old school RTS games of yesterday or the original Star Wars Trilogy and it's delightful 
 to see a solid, well rounded game to back it up. Empire at War has your standard fare of progression 
 and micro management of resources and upgrading for better and badder units. However, everything 
 is almost TOTALLY focused on units. No building fortresses, raising (or leveling) walls, nope. 
 That's where things start to really shine, and the pace of this RTS goes into hyperspace.
  
  Empire at War takes a new approach. Everything you need basewise is already there for you. 
 Its up to you how you allocate your forces and obtain funds in order to improve what you have. 
 You also need to watch yourself; like Warcraft 3 and its expansion you can only have a certain 
 size of an army no matter how far you progress.
  
  Battle is handled by grabbing up nearby 'nodes' such as mines and abandonded satellites to set 
 up defenses and aquire credits. These nodes can change hands often and while not totally necessary 
 for the construction of a new unit, they do ensure victory. Everything is done by a tech level, 
 too, meaning that a good amount of income must be spent non-material upgrades before seeing super 
 weapons like Star Destroyers or AT-ATs are seen.
  
  Another point seen only on planetary battles are landing points. these clearings are essentially 
 spots where new troops and equimentment are dropped down by carrier shuttle. It would have been 
 nice to be able to ambush/destroy these shuttles in transit, but instead the points on the ground 
 themselves are controlled by maintaining your forces near it. The less enemy harassing your troops 
 by said point the faster it becomes yours. This may also have you spending valuable ground units 
 on protecting an empty peice of ground, which can be problematic since ground forces are a great 
 deal more restricted in size than space ones.
  
  Sapce battles are a bit more intense. Your units can deployed just about anywhere meaning backup 
 is only a click away. the only restriction would be you can't deploy right by the enemy's space 
 station.
  
  What Star Wars game would be complete without familiar faces? Darth Vader (easily the most sickly 
 powerful ground unit ever in a RTS game) Han Solo and Chewie, R2 D2 & C3-PIO make apparences along 
 with lesser know names from the Star Wars universe such as Kyle Katern and Mara Jade. Each and 
 every hero unit has a special ability that makes them shine. Vader can pick up and crush a tank 
 like a beer can with the power of the force (not to mention when he attacks a building he shakes 
 it to death with a freaking EARTHQUAKE) . Chewbakka can hijack an enemy vehicle, Han has his smartmouth 
 and his Melinnium Falcon. Was that a Boba Fett sighting? Yep. Slave 1 really IS the most feared 
 fighter in the galaxy.
  
  Aside from the thourghly enjoyable nostalgia and very fast paced gameplay the sights and sounds 
 of this game are all Star Wars. Familiar blaster shots, explosions and of course that one-of-a-kind 
 sountrack blare out while easily recogizable units clash for supremecy. The graphics are adequete 
 in planetary battles, in space however is where things really shine. Ships break apart and explode, 
 every single tiny (and I mean microscopic) fighter zooms in and out majestically in almost coreographed 
 fashion while dogfighting. Even the debris floating in orbit around the varios planets looks impressive. 
 Take Genosis for instance: its a graveyard of cruisers and star destoyers with lightning kinda 
 dancing between them; the attention to detain is superb in that this graveyard isn't just the imperial 
 Trilogy ships but some Clone Wars ships are floating there too. Deffinetly must be seen. This was 
 rendered well even on my primitive GeForce 440 MX with minimal load or frame loss.
  
  Gameplay is flawless on single player modes, but a slight imbalance can be seen in multiplayer. 
 There some massive advantages the rebellion has on the ground and space with normal units that 
 allow for easy credits early on. Conversly Empire hero units are the most powerful in game hands 
 down. I mean Vader creates and EARTHQUAKE for Pete's sake. Still, while everything has its vice 
 and counter its a certainty you will see people grabbing for particular units and producing them 
 in mass quantities.
  
  Still, Star Wars: Empire at War at end does succeed in everythign it attempts. It is a great peice 
 of Nostalgia, a great RTS and especially if you're a fan of either RTS games or Star Wars, a great 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptkane
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  The high quality of space battles in this game more then make up for short comings in land battles. 
 High quality graphics, visual angles, zoom. Massive battles that can last as long as reinforcements 
 are continue to drop out of hyper space. Whats not to love? Repetitiveness can be an issue here 
 in-terms of game-play, so if you have ADD, maybe this one isn't for you.
  
  Heroes add an interesting aspect to the game, they are so powerful that not using them is a serious 
 disadvantage. Space AI is also quite good, hiding units and ambushing you capital ships with bombers 
 and such. Overall the best Star Wars strategy game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  (Updated at bottom)
  I've been playing this game all weekend with almost no stop. I haven't even begun to experience 
 everything this game has to offer. 
  
  Pros: Everything! Fantastic graphics, authentic sound (especially charectors voices) , upgraded 
 from standard RTS controls, better economy system, and incredible game play. The galactic map is 
 the best idea a RTS game has ever had. Managing planets and thier resources is very fun. This game 
 also nails scale. AT-AT's look big like they are supposed to, unlike other SW RTS games. The AI 
 is very good. When the AI knows it's loosing... it starts to hide and use shadow tactics, shooting 
 from a distance and attacking fast then running away. Very good AI. I like the renforcement system, 
 but the unit limits can sometimes be a drag. The tech system would be cool, if I could figure it 
 out. All and all, alot of pros.
  
  Cons: Unit limit can be a huge drag... but not too big of one since you can build space stations 
 and take over new planets to over come that obsticle. And no base building.... I like base building 
 and being able to create units during battle.
  
  Final Word: Awesome! This game is fantastic and not only holds up well to the standard RTS genre, 
 but almost reinvents it. My only complaint is no base building.... but thats not even enough to 
 subtract points from my score of this game. This is quickly becoming my favorite RTS. And the free 
 Death Star with preorder is SHIBBY! Buy this game.... now....... I said now........ I mean it.............. 
 GO!
  
  **UPDATE** Many other reviews I've read have complained alot. Most of the complaints are stupid 
 and un-founded. Think before you write a review people.
  R= Other Reviewer M= My Answer
  
  1. R: That the game does not follow "Space Opera" physics...... M: How do you know? Are you 
 an astronaut? Have you ever flown a x-wing before? No, then how can you say their turns are impossible. 
 You probably haven't ever taken a physics class.
  
  2. R: Land battles are unhappy/too long and I'm a big wuss : ( I hate having to hunt down ever single 
 little unit. M: You don't have to hunt down every single enemy unit.... just destroy their buildings 
 and a good chunk of their units ("good chunk" seems to be around 85% to 90%, maybe less) . You'd 
 know that if you listened to the guy who pops up on the holocron EVERY SINGLE LAND BATTLE who says 
 "Destroy the enemy structures and we'll force the enemy to retreat". And if your defending.... 
 they come to you. The land battles are VERY short when compaired to most RTS games, they are just 
 more strategy intense.
  
  3. R: Lack of hot key for pause. Whats the reason for restricting moving/transferring/assigning 
 units while paused? M: First of all, all games pause with ESC. I don't think they're is a game 
 I've EVER played that required a pause button other then ESC. And if it did, WHY WOULD I USE IT? 
 Second of all, can real generals in the real world pause the battle? Can a real general stop time, 
 give his troops orders, then start time again? No, then why should you be able to in the game. 
 Can't pause online, get over it.
  
  4. R: The game system focus on space and ground combat, perhaps a bit too much. M: You've apparently 
 never played RTS games before because.... thats ALL normal RTS GAMES ARE ABOUT!
  
  5. R: Graphics could be better. M: They could? The graphics are the best they can be, while still 
 being PLAYABLE. Some RTS game's graphics make offline games LAG. With a good PC, no offline game 
 should EVER LAG. Graphics are the best they can be without taking away from gameplay.
  
  6. R: Game is too short, I've finished all of the missions already. M: Well it's a good thing this 
 game isn't focused on the stupid campaign, it focuses on Galactic Conquest (I had one match last 
 3 days) and online. It's a prooven fact, only kids play the campaign. The veterian gamers went 
 straight for Galactic Conquest and online when the game finished installing. Campaign? People play 
 those anymore?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakupacal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Space battles are quite fun if a bit cramped and the Battlecam feature is fairly nifty even if 
 it does tend to wander in focus and occasionally reveal that the individual fighters are making 
 ridiculous turns that defy even the loose rules of Space Opera physics.
  
  Land battles are initially fun but get dreary and unhappy very quickly. They go on for far too 
 long in contrast to the space battles and the necessity of hunting down every single lone unit 
 before victory can be claimed is often quite tedious. Why no surrender option or a 90% win option 
 when force strengths are compared?
  
  The galactic strategy stuff is fairly simple but generally fun although the lack of a hot-key for 
 the pause button blows. (I kept hitting the space bar and inadvertantly jumping to BattleCam mode.. 
 doh) . And what in the world is the reason for the restriction on moving/transferring/assigning 
 units while paused? It makes no sense to me.
  
  I'm not a fan of resource-gathering RTS games so I was relieved to find that aspect of the game 
 being chucked in favor of a simpler system that allowed for more strategy and less micro-management. 
 So, kudos in that dept.
  
  All in all, not quite what I was hoping for. It sure has its moments but still a bit "off". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirikitaun
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading a few reviews ( a few loving the game just for being a Star Wars game, others hating 
 it by the same reason, and many others having a strange mix of fellings by being star wars and 
 not as complete as other RTS) I'm going to try making a review as neutral as I can. 
  First, the game concept and previous experience. After the little succes achieved by Rebellion, 
 the disaponting and simplistic Force Commander, and the Galactic Battleground fiasco (i. e, copy 
 & paste star wars characters, sounds and music to the Age of Kings engine) this game tried to start 
 a new tradition in the star wars franchise. Forgetting about the tedious suply gathering but wthout 
 falling into messy and chaotic combat seen in Force Commander, Lucasarts along with Petroglyph, 
 a company that can be proud of having many of the fathers of the RTS genere, offers us this Empire 
 at War. Flexible, addictive and with the hability of immerssing us in the galactic conflict fo 
 the sci-fi saga. The game system focus on space and ground combat ( perhaps a bit too much) and 
 leaves the gestion part to a quite explicit and comprehensive galactic map, with lots of worlds 
 that surely the star wars fans will know by the book. The economy system is quite simple: you have 
 planet, you gain credits, you connect trade routes you earn more credits, you steal credits... 
 A simple but not easy at all system, as if an Imp or reb fleet gets to one of your most powerful 
 planets and it spreads from there you can lose control of that portion of the galaxy in quite short 
 time. So we have to deal with the possibility of strikking any border systems. Againts waht many 
 of you have said previously, this game allows you to plan strategy, and I can tell you, the IA 
 hardly attacks twice the same system in a Galactic Conquest., I reloaded that game a few times 
 and every time it striked a different sistem ( 5 in total) .
  Next, the battle, what all Star Wars fans love, are pretty well recreated. They may be not as good 
 as other games ( yeah, its true, graphics are not as good as it seemed, still, there are no graphics 
 cards in market to put this game on maximum detaill and even if you can its not at 100%. Battle 
 for Middle Earth I now can be played at 100% of its graphics but when it was released no computers 
 could run it smoothesly and with detail at 100%) . But that weakness its a strenght too, as old 
 computers owners can play it without having to upgrade its PC ( alhtough youll suffer from missing 
 tectures and in some cases, crashes, but at least there are patches and youll not have to boost 
 your computer like when you have too because other games) . Nevertheless they could be better, but 
 also they do their job well. The space battles are remarkable despite some aspects viewed in some 
 reviews. Not allways wins the biggest force, so there is indeed a tactical component for those 
 battles. About the ground battles, yes, its true rinforcement point issue its quite strange, but 
 it also has its virtues. What utility is in that system if the map allows you to disembarc all 
 your strenght on the planet at the beggining? What do you preffer? Land your stronger troops and 
 go straight for the enemy? Or shall you land a small commando with some heroes to take out shield 
 generator and a few defenses before sending in your main attack force? You must learn to use terrain. 
 You have mountains? Send scouts and use artillery to attack from the other side of the mountain. 
 Or do you preffer to siege the enemy and wait for them to run out of their troops but their garrison 
 units? The IA here is a bit "dumber" thant the space or galactic one, but still its better than 
 many other games that just send waves and waves of units. In one particular battle, I found that 
 the enemy had reserved their best units to pretect the base, while the lesser ones gave me a hell 
 of a time damaging enouogh my stronger units to be easier to take them out when they reched the 
 base. Good thing I destroyed the shield gen and got a Star destroyer in orbit, otherwise...
  
  Concluding. Keeping in mind the previous attemps of Lucasarts in the RTS, the idea of the game 
 and its purpose ( to put you in coommand of a faction in the middle of a civil war) I think the 
 game achieved its goals. You want more perfect space battles? Play Homeworld saga: better graphics 
 but opressive IA, needs a patch to finish the game by the way. You want politic and true & real 
 economic systems with other kind of land battle? Play any of the Total War series. More realistic, 
 but you can win the game without fightng, a thing that is necessary, if it is not Tycoon, Sim City 
 or Civilization saga ( games that I consider excepctional and all in all CLASSICS) . You want a 
 game that allows you to command space fleets, conquer planets and administrate them as you preffer 
 and command fast action land battle with touches of tactic and planification, all in a comprehensive 
 and intuitive game system? Play THIS game. You'll find it more entertainning if you're a Star Wars 
 fan, if not sot, at least give it a try, as it is one of the less boring games you'll get to play 
 this year, and also one of the best ( need to remind that this game was awarded with the Best RTS 
 game of the E3 last year?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrsr5599
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  I had my doubts when I picked it up. It is not much different than any other good RTS, but that 
 is not a bad thing. I started with a couple of skirmish battles to get the feel of the game. They 
 were enjoyable, but seemed to never end. I just started a campaign and so far it is a nice change. 
 I still can't wait for LOTR battle of middle earth II to see which is better. If you like Star 
 Wars and RTS games, you will like this game. The heroes in the game, ie: Darth Vader, Han Solo 
 and OB1 are fun to see. If you play the heroes correctly you can do some much needed damage with 
 a little effort. I'm hoping that the Campaign part of the game is not so short that you feel you 
 wasted your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmtan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  This is the game which would open the RTS genre into real time space and give players the real 
 feel of wat Vader would feel. In the end, i would say that it's one of the best RTS since Red Alert 
 2 and the best Star Wars game since Rebel Assault 2. The graphics are also well made which is smooth 
 on most systems without putting down too muc of it's full glory. However, the explosions would 
 hav been better, ie a little purplish and not all yellow n orange. The soundtrack is also terrific, 
 remixes which made the music suit the environment. The voice acting for this however a rather disappointin 
 aspect of the game as they are not very convincing. Of the makers were to acquire the ori actors, 
 no doubt the game would be a better masterpiece. Rather annoyin in this since. But overall, i am 
 very happy with this game and i am sure it will go a long way in both the RTS world as well as 
 the Star Wars Galaxy. WELL DONE, BRAVO!!! Die Rebel Scums!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eragonXIV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo for this game I was quite impressed by its look and feel, and I couldn't 
 wait to pick up the game. Well after a few hours of playing the full game I found that I had completed 
 the entire set of missions for the Rebels. I expected to have to conquer the entire galaxy like 
 in SW Rebellion, but this game just ended right where you think its really gonna get good. It was 
 great to see a Star Wars game where you got to control all aspects of combat, but there is no depth 
 to the story, or units/technology available. The Galactic Conquest mode is pitiful at best, no 
 story to it, and single skirmishes get boring quick. Sorry guys, time to start putting thought 
 into the story and overall play of the game, rather than throwing some fancy crap together and 
 expecting it to be a classic. Rebellion was a classic, many years after it came out, I still play 
 it now and then because of its massive scope, which Empire at War sadly missed out on. 
  
  If you're a hardcore Star Wars fan, buy it. If you're not, play at a buddy's house and save your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelotl
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Sadly, a big disappointment given the amount of hype pre-release.
  Graphic-wise, hard to justify the directX 9.0c requirements - space battles are cutesy with oversized 
 laser shots compared with ship size. Scale also seems an issue with fighter ships looking like 
 mosquito clouds, up against the bumble-bee cruisers. In short, not a patch on Homeworld style clashes.
 
  
  Land battles are - believe it or not - worse with over-simplified RTS being used. No real sense 
 of balance, with questionable special abilities available to use. Try zooming in on the units and 
 be prepared to be tragically underwhelmed at the detail! Think of Dawn of War as a comparison here 
 and you will understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heath_385
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that games these days can be made of of many aspects that make them worthwhile 
 to play. For example, a truly compelling story, action and excitement or maybe you just enjoy a 
 graphics feast. EoW is a game that meets some of what we would come to expect a game to be these 
 days.
  
  I enjoyed playing EoW for about an hour maybe two then it became repetitive, bland and just "another" 
 game. Which is disappointing given what it could of been. The basic concept of the game is very 
 solid, and such aspects like the space combat is fun to play for a while. The point of the game 
 is to allow the player to feel as if they are part of that big bad Star Wars universe. A grand 
 scale of war, but it just doesn't quite get there. The ground battles are on a very small scale 
 and become very repetitive quickly and most players will be quick to use the auto-resolve feature. 
 The space battles are fun but lack the quality of feeling as large as they probably should, it 
 feels more like you are having a skirmish rather than a large scale battle involving dozens of 
 ships. 
  
  I'll keep this very short, EoW is a game for those of you who are Star Wars fans looking for another 
 port to enjoy the story, or those who enjoy a basic RTS that isn't too complex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcissuscon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Very good, very fun , very addicting, all a game should be and this game is that exact definition. 
 This game has good excellent graphics and gameplay, space battles are awsome and so are the land 
 battles my bor loves it 2. The game has a lot of tactics by choosing wat to attack wat to defend 
 and what to build, theres alot of counters 2. this game is going to be the best RTS this year i 
 just know it, for right now this is my favorite thing to play ive played alot of hours already 
 and got it only 4 days ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlcmstn_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best RTS's I've ever played. It has very unique gameplay and strategy 
 to it. I love how they didnt just put a couple of planets that are just in the movies into it (*cough* 
 Star wars battlefront) but they incorporated new planets into it such as Ilum and Dantooine. 
 
  
  The space battles is where its at. I mean mon calamarian starships goin' against Star Destroyers 
 what else could you ask for? Its just plain beautiful if you ask me. Terrain is pretty but it seems 
 a little bare. I dont know maybe a couple animals here and there, a couple more trees? 
  
  This game has a lovely story line (which i havnt beat yet) and of course puts you in the middle 
 of the war between the evil empire and the rebels. What I like about this game is that you can 
 play either as the rebels or the empire. 
  
  So yes go out and buy this game it is well worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jade2222
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I get kinda angry when I see every review sites out there casually lumping Star Wars Rebellion 
 with the likes of crap such as Force Commander and Galatic Battleground. Force Commander was undeniably 
 bad and Galatic Battleground was basically a redressing of Age of Empires 2. But Star Wars Rebellion 
 was truly a classic game that captured the scale of the universe. I remember that Gamespot gave 
 that game a low score and I was really suprised. I can't remember if the Gamespot reviewer who 
 reviewed Empire at War was the same person who reviewed Rebellion; but if he is not then I wondered 
 if he had actually played Rebellion at all before claiming that it is bad. Empire at War was an 
 adequate game, but it never evoked (or even tried to) evoke in me the same feeling of triumph that 
 I get after conquering the galaxy in Rebellion. Here's why:
  
  The Star Wars Universe is HUGE. Empire at War's biggest campaign setting maxed out at a mere 40 
 systems. Rebellion depicts several dozen SECTORS, each with many more star systems. Even after 
 you drove the enemies out of the main sectors, you still have to pursue them into the Unknown Regions, 
 giving the player a real feeling of strengths.
  
  The ships design in EoW is good, but too limited. Where are the TIE interceptors? TIE Defenders? 
 Dreadnoughts? Super Star Destroyer? Rebellion depicts all of this and more. Same with the ground 
 units. It's true that the planetary battle in Rebellion is auto-calculated, but I rarely play the 
 plantetary battle in EoW anyway. It just gets too repetitive as you wait for more units to spawn 
 and rush the enemy.
  
  Graphically it's obvious that Rebellion can't match EoW, but in term of scale Rebellion outstripped 
 EoW in almost everyway. In EoW you're limited to a small number of ships per battle, but in Rebellion 
 you can actually SEE your fleet of 20 Star Destroyers pummel the crap out of the opposing fleet. 
 But in term of gameplay, as I've already mentioned, Rebellion is just more ambitious and ultimately 
 more rewarding. I guess the primary complains is that the player might get bogg down with micromanagement. 
 But when setting the game speed to slow I've never encounter this problem.
  
  I've spent more time in this review talking about Rebellion than I do EoW, and I apologized. However 
 my point is that while EoW is certainly a decent game in it's own right, it doesn't have the scope 
 to keep the players going in the long term (months or even years) . I first played Rebellion eight 
 years ago and I still go back to it occasionally now. The release buzz of EoW has led to an unfair 
 classification of Star Wars Rebellion as a bad game (apparently this makes a good hook because 
 many reviews I've read started off with "EoW is the first great Star Wars game, unlike past efforts 
 such as Rebellion") . I would like the reviewers to go back and actually replay Rebellion for themselves. 
 That game is truly a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostlyMagician
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and hell of a worth of the wait. I waited a long time for this game to hit 
 shelfs and it did with anything the way it should be. Its what we have been told and 1 vs 1 campaign 
 with pirates. I have yet to play Campaign but I have been to busy exploring the skirmish world 
 and multiplayer world. 
  
  Skirmish: This is perfect for those quick games with many people or maybe try and span it out over 
 time. If you play singleplayer or multiplayer with AI or players the Imperials share a base and 
 Rebels share their base. Also the upgrades you research effect your Imperial or Rebel team depending 
 on which team your on. This isn't battlegrounds where you are plopped in some random place and 
 build up and upgrade while your teammate is way behind. What effects one person effects the other 
 in this EAW game. Dont let the population cap limit you since you can still exploit an epic battle. 
 Just get more players or AI and it shall make the battlefield huge. 
  
  Multiplayer Campaign: Didn't try this much but the scenerios they give you is enough to keep you 
 busy for a long time. Even though there are pirates you can still take them over as long as you 
 can build strong ships. Don't worry the pirates are stationary and dont attack you but they do 
 eat up your ships like it was a cracker. The pirates act like a buffer since fighting the other 
 player would just be dull so you have 2 enemies to look out for. 
  
  For the multiplayer hosting of Gamespy was a bad choice but at least we can host games and I can 
 only host a 2 vs 2 if I am lucky. Well seeing as how 1.2 fixed most of problems of getting disconnected 
 randomly it still could do with fixing. Well even as we speak this game is still being tweaked 
 to the max to fix the crummy gamespy to make it playable which gamespy won't admit their servers 
 suck. Have fun with EAW guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibacala
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever played. 
  It was unique in many ways like having the galactic conquest mode and the whole reinforcement thing 
 happening. In the game the best part was the space battle the reason is is that the made me feel 
 like i was in the movies. The land battles are also fun because you call down your reinforcments 
 which is totaly different then other RTS's. The only problem with the land battles is that they 
 are sorta boring cause they don't give alot to the eye. This is cause the laser fire isn't as intresting 
 and some units are to weak then what the could do in the movies like the AT-AT which took for ever 
 to kill a turret. The land battles were also bad because if you were being attacked you couldn't 
 build units from your facilities. Next i liked how they didn't make the graphics so over the top 
 that you had to go pay for a new video card so this game would run on older computers that are 
 like 4 years old. Even though the graphics weren't over the top when you got into a space battle 
 the audio, units, and the stratagey aspect all made you forget that. Now the audio in this game 
 was the best i had ever heard cause it was so strong and it made me felt like I was in the battle. 
 This game is the best star wars game i have ever played and one of my favorites out of all games. 
 So if you like star wars and RTS's you will love Star Wars Empire at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pak_man7
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  As an avid RTS player, from games like Starcraft to Civilizations IV, Petroglyphs Empire at War 
 is a good edition to any RTS fans collection. Petroglyph does a great job catching the atmosphere 
 that is Star Wars, which is very evident in the space battles. Like most others who have played 
 this game, I also enjoy the space battles a lot more than the land battles. Yet the game is not 
 without it's flaws. 
  
  Each unit in the game has a counter unit; and while this keeps the players from spamming the same 
 units over and over, it makes the gameplay very repetitive. Every battle you'll end up using the 
 same units and the same tactics to win. For example, when my fleet jumps in, my main tactic as 
 the rebels is to take out the anti-fighter units (The Tartans and Broadside Cruisers) , and then 
 take the space stations hanger out with my maruader corvette to stop the enemy from continually 
 jumping in Tartans; all while keeping my fighters hidden and protected from the enemies anti-fighter 
 units. After taking out all the anti-fighter units I'll finally send in the A-wings with my Y-wings 
 and wipe out whatever that remains. Sounds pretty fun doesn't it? Yet imagine using this same tactic 
 battle after battle and it begins to get a bit boring. 
  
  Why not change up my tactics and send in my bombers and fighters in right away? It's because the 
 counter units in this game are very effective. Maybe too effective. For example, one Broadside 
 cruiser can take your 6 squadrons of A-wings and 6 squadrons of Y-wings and wipe most of them out 
 in a single bombardment. Yes *one* broadside cruiser can do this. So in order to preserve as much 
 of your fleet as you can, you'll end up resorting to the same tactics over and over again. 
  
  Another gripe is the AI. The AI can be just plain stupid sometimes. While I've noticed each 
 enemy AI will take on the units they best counter in the thick of a battle, that's about the gist 
 of the intelligence the AI seems to have. Tactics don't seem to improve all that greatly from the 
 easy to hard difficulty settings. Only thing it does seem to do better is mob you better with more 
 units. For example there was a space battle (on hard) where I was attacked by an Imperial fleet 
 over Kuat. When I saw before the battle how many units they attacked me with I nearly sh*t my pants. 
 While I don't remember the exact details there were roughly 8 Victory-class Star Destroyers, 17 
 broadside cruisers, 7 Acclamator cruisers, 38 tie scouts, 8 tartans, and maybe a few other units. 
 What did I have for a defense? 2 Nebulon B-Frigates, 1 Corellian Corvette, 6 X-wing squadrons, 
 4 Y-wing squadrons and a level 4 space station (Which will continually spam 1 Nebulon B Frigate, 
 2 Corvettes, 5 X-wing squadrons, 4-Ywing squadrons until the hanger is destroyed) . Keep in mind 
 these reinforcements don't continually jump in so you can build up a force, they will only jump 
 in with their predecessor is destroyed. I quickly lost my fleet that I had stationed before the 
 battle, but managed to fight off the intial attack. Then what happens? The enemy sits back on the 
 back corner of the map hiding while my spammed units are able to go out and take them out slowly. 
 In the end I won the battle due to the stupid AI. While my example may have been more of a bug 
 than AI issues, you will notice in every battle, the enemy will hang back a few units that may 
 have tipped the scale of battle in their favor.
  
  Land battles are the less exciting parts of the game, but you're forced to play them in order to 
 capture a planet. Again here the AI is easily defeated on hard. Even with a population cap of 4 
 (meaning you can have a max of 4 units on the ground) I can attack a planet successfully without 
 needing to bring in any more units. Artillery in this game is the key. Protect your artillery and 
 you'll dominate the battlefield. Again I feel this was the easiest most effective way to defeat 
 the enemy, so I again resroted to this same tactic over and over.
  
  I know one can change up tactics and decide to take a few risks here and there, but in the end 
 you'll be forced to fall back on your most effective tactic if you want to win the game. And in 
 the end it gets a bit repetitve and a bit boring. I am an avid Star Wars fan and believe this game 
 does a great job capturing what is Star Wars. From the space battles over Yavin IV, to a land battle 
 at Hoth, the game delivers what most Star Wars fans are looking for. While an avid RTS fan may 
 find Empire at War entertaining for a while, they will quickly realize other games deliver better 
 when it comes to tactics and AI. But in the end? If you like RTS games and are a Star Wars fans 
 you'll enjoy this game, despite it's repetitive nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but it has some irritating glitches and some aspects of the game are weak. The 
 graphics are good but you don't need a high end computer to get them looking their best. The space 
 battles are extremly well organized and not the hap-hazard mess i expected. The ground battles 
 lack extravagance overall and are no where near as fun as the space battles partly due to unrealistic 
 damage penalties. The only thing I would change about the galactic map would be to make it turn 
 based so immediately after sending a great deal of forces to a problem area a small enemy force 
 cant sneak up and take your capital on you. The music is regular star wars music and will probably 
 remind you of bfme when you win a battle. The battle sounds are great but the dialogue often skips 
 and repeats in my game and I'm running on a good rig. The campaign is fun no matter what side you 
 play on and the game offers a Galactic Conquest option which takes you into a selection of many 
 different battles similar to the Historical Battles tab on RTW and EE2. Skirmishes are especially 
 exciting nor is the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lashrouxed
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Finnally we get a good star wars strategy game. 
  Let's do it simple : this game is addicting. The tutorial is well made the game enjoyable, the 
 graphics are good the sound is wonderful (like any star wars game) the canpaign is very well made 
 on both sides. Thing is the game miss something on balance. For whaetever reason i can destroy 
 almost any army with a good supplie of soldier and rocket soldiers (really) . My big bad point is 
 on the galactic map, this isn't turned based. So you have ot build your buildings, units, upgrade, 
 move your units really really fast any this sucks. With a turn based system this would have been 
 better. Mabye it's me but i always lack behind while the computer is making huge fleets and conquering 
 a whole lot of planets... In the end you get a sub par strategy guide but really innovative and 
 addictive which is a good bonus. 
  So i'd say buy it, or check out the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redvial
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The space portion of the game has plenty of vehicles and units to work with and there are always 
 continuous upgrades. With the unbalance of land and space it does not have as much replay value 
 as it could have. Overall, the game is great. Textures on ships and objects are expertly done for 
 a massive strategy game. The graphics and thrill of game play are greatly increased by a new cinematic 
 feature. If you have the battle under control, go ahead switch to cine-mode and sit back and enjoy. 
 Explosions are not the usual cheesy puff balls that most strategy games have. The developers focused 
 on the explosions quite a bit because it seems as though each different type of ship has a unique 
 explosion, or maybe that's just me. I feel that Empire At War took away some essential game play 
 items from Galactic Battlegrounds, such as water units and a variety of flying units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTSFanatic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to go into the long and boring details, but the GameSpot review hit the nail on the 
 head. The game is fun, fresh and highly addictive. Tons of gameplay to keep you interested for 
 months.
  
  Also, the multiplayer is a blast. had a 4vs4 game and it was amazing. Who would have thought shared 
 bases would be so awesome!
  
  The only real issue I have is with the GameSpy online servers. They make you jump through hoops 
 just to get into a game. This is no fault of Lucas or Petroglyph, just shoddy firewall code on 
 GameSpy's end.
  
  Conculsion, get this game. By far the best SW RTS ever and is a great change of pace from traditional 
 RTS games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This being the first PC game I bought this year, I was very excited to get my hands on this one. 
 EAW has been much hyped and most of the time games never really are as good as the hype. The game 
 just might be. There is a lot to the game, and seem, so far to be fairly deep. 
  The graphics in the demo was awesome, and the real game graphics did not disappoint, the space 
 battles look awesome, and very detail, especially if you turn the graphics up as high as you can. 
 The little details of the ships falling apart and the explosion are just incredible. Watching the 
 small squads of fighters flying around is just the coolest thing.
  
  Im a true strategy lover, the how is always cooler then the doing, and this is very important 
 in EAW. In the battles you have to really know a little about what each craft or soldier can do 
 in battle, to better positioning it for battle. For example, when Im on the attack in a space 
 battle, I like to take my squads of Y-Wings and sending them to the flak, so that my X-Wings can 
 take on the Tie Fighters. Then I take my Y-Wings around and have they attack from the sides, hoping 
 to have a clear shot at my target. The Y-Wings can be destroyed very fast, so be careful with them, 
 and bring a lot of them.
  I havent said much about the other half of the game, the ground battles. Thats because there 
 isnt that much excitement to talk about. The ground battles are pretty, and the sounds and explosion 
 are there, but I just couldnt get into it. There just isnt that much to it. Bring down a huge 
 force, take out the power generators, and then destroy. There is some strategy to it, but all around, 
 its just not as fun, very important, but not much fun.
  
  Though it takes a bit of time getting into the game, and its not a easy game, especially if you 
 play on the Rebel side, because the Empire will attack, attack and attack you again. After awhile 
 you will get the hang of it. Read the tiny manual that comes with it, but better yet, get the Gamespot 
 Game Guide, and you should be good to go. Im so excited to see a good space strategy game again. 
 Good job Lucas Arts/ Petroglyph!
  There were also 2 patches that came out in the first 2 days, so make sure you get the patches.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewcb
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, Star War has such sense of scale, yet it gets rewarded with a mundane strategy game that 
 lack sense of scale.
  
  Honestly, the only problem with Star Wars Rebellion was its poor graphics. Yet, for all the graphics 
 problems, what the game certainly didn't lack, was sense of scale. You could buid huge fleets of 
 warships, Star Destoryers, Executor class warships and all, and you can have two fleets slug it 
 out.
  
  But what Empire at War certainly lacks is that. First you hamstrung the size of fleets, and next 
 you make the game turn into another Star Trek RTS game. Honestly, we don't need weird abilities. 
 A good o' traditional game mimicking the Battle of Coruscant in ROTS, and Battle of Endor in ROTJ 
 is what Star Wars needs.
  
  Alas, Lucasarts is commited to putting out nondescript games. Just simplistic ones. Sure the game 
 is fun, but by no means sophisticated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxM
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  In the past I found that there are some games that have two big and distinct camps of players - 
 those who absolutely love it, and those who does not at all. Typically those games get an average 
 score, around 8-8.7. Usually that game contained some new interesting element in it, but not all 
 of the players liked that. But I quite liked most of those games, because of their novelty. A good 
 example of such game is Kohan.
  
  At first glance SW was supposed to be this game, I saw again two camps of players, and I thought, 
 wow (!) finally a controversial game with something new. I was wrong.
  
  I did not realize who constitute these two camps. What I later understood (after I bought this 
 game) is that the Star War fans give this game high score, and those who are RTS fans, but not 
 a Star War fun, they give low marks. There is no novel and controversial element in the game at 
 all!
  
  As an RTS game, or let me even say as a GAME it lacks ... gameplay. Even the space battles, which 
 most players say that they are good, are just eye catchy, with very little strategic element in 
 it. You are just playing the game of the best fleet, and rock-scissors-paper game on large scale. 
 Same with land battles.
  
  The campaign and galactic conquest modes are somewhat similar to Total War games campaign, but 
 done much worse. You cant play tratigically there, because you cant create defense at chock 
 points because there are no chock points! The land and space battles are somewhat entertaining 
 only first couple of times, after which you realize that there is little substance in them.
  
  My conclusion: buy this game only if you are a SW fan and moderate RTS player (i. e. you are 
 familiar what is RTS, but not specifically looking for stellar RTS gameplay here) . If you are a 
 hard-core RTS player, the chance is that you will not like this game even if you like Star Wars. 
 You can easily deside for yourself by playing the demo. And if you do not specifically like SW, 
 than STAY AWAY from this game, do not repeat my mistake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elias_Vaughn
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  When I got this game on release day, I got home and played for about an hour. I chose to do the 
 largest Galactic Conquest map, with a medium difficulty and play as the Rebellion. I kept the default 
 settings (ie, the tech level, starting credit amount, etc.) . I have not played the tutorials, or 
 both Imperial and Rebel campaigns. I have not engaged in a multiplayer game. This is a review of 
 my experience when I played the largest Single Player Galactic Conquest Map.
  
  Upon starting the game, I must admit I was a little overwhelmed. There were about 45 planets with 
 a pretty even split between the Empire and Rebellion. At first, it was difficult trying to figure 
 out what planet can build what units and just managing all the planets I had control of. Since 
 I was playing as the Rebels I had to steal technology. There were about 5 or so technologies I 
 had to steal before I managed to get the larger units. Needless to say, the first hour was a lesson 
 in learning how to steal and how to keep an eye out for the Empire.
  
  I lost 5 planets during my first hour of play, but that was the end of it. Once I started getting 
 ships built in greater numbers, I was able to defend my worlds from attack but even then, the AI 
 didn't come at me like I was expecting. For the most part, the AI left me alone, which forced me 
 to go on the offensive sooner than I expected. But I noticed the AI was obsessed with some planets. 
 For instance, I sent a fleet Manaan, I took out the space forces there and let my fleet sit there. 
 The AI would constantly try to take it back, but eventually it stopped. This same thing happened 
 with a couple other planets too. I was expecting the AI to do that sort of thing from the beginning 
 but it didn't. As I started to take worlds, I noticed that the space battles were relatively easy. 
 Even though I was playing on Medium, I was expecting the AI to put up more of a fight. Regardless, 
 the space battles are awesome. Perhaps when I try the Hard difficulty setting the AI will be tougher. 
 The land battles, however, were a different story.
  
  The land battles are dull, but not terribly poor. Certain planets, like Byss for instance, were 
 very hard to take control of. The AI aggressively defended the worlds that had big boosts for certain 
 units. Byss gave a boost to AT-AT reactors, making them faster and stronger. It took me at least 
 30 minutes, if not longer, to successfully take control of Byss because it gave a big boost to 
 the AT-AT. I will also say that some land battles are very easy to win. The AI will aggressively 
 defend certain planets while letting others slip more easily. The major drawback for land battles 
 is that you can't bring in more than 3 unit groups right away (on most planets) . The idea of reinforcement 
 points is nice, but is very annoying since you can get overwhelmed quickly. The added weather effects 
 were OK. Nothing too spectacular. Perhaps it was a glitch in my game, but I found the land battles 
 to be more of a challenge.
  
  The Battle of Coruscant: Coruscant was not the last planet I took. In fact, it was one of the first 
 10 planets I managed to snatch away. I mention this because I was expecting Coruscant to have some 
 of the strongest defenses to go up against. I was stunned when I took the space battle, but even 
 more stunned when I attacked the surface and won as well. The Emperor couldn't even do damage to 
 me as I managed to kill him just moments after he attacked once and started to flee. I was expecting 
 the Galactic Capitol to be the toughest battle of all, but it wasn't.
  
  As for graphics, they're OK. They could be a lot better though.
  
  The sounds were excellent. 
 Definitely feels like Star Wars.
  
  It took me about 20 hours, maybe a little longer, to win on the largest Galactic Conquest map of 
 45 planets. But most of that time was spent building ground forces and my fleets. I had the AI 
 blocked off from attacking deep within my territory by essentially blockading key routes. The AI 
 would have to attack there first in order to get any farther. Of course, since the AI wasn't really 
 attacking me I'm wondering if that even helped me or not.
  
  What really shocked me was how the AI was getting such a low amount of credit income. This really 
 concerns me. As I took planets, I built mines and other structures, and on some planets I built 
 as many mines as I could. By the end of the game, I was getting a daily income of 11,500 credits 
 with a grand total of over 1.2 million credits before I took out the last Imperial planet. I didn't 
 have a shortage of money, but it's obvious that the AI did.
  
  The end cinematic sequence was a nice touch. The only part of that I thought was stupid was showing 
 Luke, Han and Chewie getting their medals from A New Hope. I know the game goes through that movie, 
 but I don't think that needs to be in there. The first part was the best, that last bit was just 
 dumb. I'll probably get ripped for saying that, but it's true.
  
  Star Wars: Empire at War could have been a great game. But it falls short of its potential. From 
 everything I read and heard about this game before its release, it sounded and looked like it could 
 have been the best Star Wars game to date. But it failed. I don't know what it is, but there is 
 something missing. Perhaps as I play more I will change my mind as I try different things with 
 the game settings. The hype was too great for this game. It is definitely better than the demo, 
 as I expected, but there needs to be more to it. If there's an expansion, I would like to see the 
 rest of the trilogy be included, as well as include the prequel era. This is a good game if you're 
 a Star Wars nut, otherwise you're better off looking elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargod53
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about the release fo this game, however when it did launch i was really dissapointed 
 by the land battles. Sure, the space battles are fun, but not as good as Homeworld, and the land 
 battles, surely the core of the game, are boring and un-strategic (compared with RTW or Dawn of 
 War) . 
  
  TIE maulers are too good at killing infantry, any game where 30 soldiers can be killed in a second 
 by an un-balanced, too fast tank is stupid, because it takes the fun out of it, what is the point 
 of using infantry when the enemy can just build a squad or 2 of these and ruin your entire army 
 in one fell swoop? 
  
  In my opinion those reviewers that gave this a high score, but said that the land battles were 
 boring and the space battles make up for it are missing the point. This is a game where the land 
 battles form a HUGE portion of the ganme, and to make them so annoying and dull is a serious error. 
 Sorry Lucas, but this is not your finest hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedragonsociey
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a must buy and is way better than battle for middle earth 2/ so what are you waiting 
 for. go out there and buy it. The space is incredible. the ground is fantastic. the graphics make 
 me smile. The death star makes me laugh. Seeing the mon calimari people makes me burst out in laughter. 
 This game is truly worth buying. I bought the game at best buy andi now knopw that it is one of 
 the best deals i have ever gotten on a game. Make the right choice. vote yes on eaw. My name is 
 ben savitt and i opprove this message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyger712
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is a game I was really looking forward to shelling 50 bucks out for, and after playing for 
 the last three days, I find I was robbed. There are only two things this game has going for it, 
 the Star Wars name, and an the elimination of resource gathering to build fleets, structures, etc, 
 but more on that later. There are so many disappointments in this game I don't know where to start, 
 so I'll just pick a point and move on. This is the only RTS I've ever played where you don't have 
 an option for both sides to start with one settler, city, location, planet whatever some cash and 
 start from there. I see a button for "Custom Maps" but no tool to create them. As for those beautiful 
 cinematiclike screen shots you see of space battles, forget them, the cinematics I saw were the 
 worst special effects I've seen since those old movies from the 50's and 60's.
  It is so rigidly structured it's ridiculous. Three times I played the galactic conquest game and 
 three times the rebellion attacked the same planet first. Speaking of attacks, when did the empire 
 become so weak? Unless you outnumber the rebellion 5 to 1 don't plan any space attacks anytime 
 soon. Speaking of planning, did anyone consider showing on the map POSSIBLE axis' of attack? Looking 
 at the map without a green hypertrade route marked, I don't know how an opposing force could get 
 to a planet, let alone how large of a force I need to defend it. 
  Since we're on the subject of rigidity and force size. What is this reinforcement business all 
 about. If I build 15 Imperial Star Destroyers to attack a space station, would any imperial commander 
 really only attack with 6 at a time?! Can a planet really only hold a maximum of 10 combat units 
 and only 7 buildings? Is five combat units really the largest force the empire or rebellion can 
 organize and attack a planet with at one time? Sure maybe delay reinforcements, but limit the number 
 I can have on a PLANET at one time. What's the point of having 30 stormtrooper units ready for 
 an invasion if they're just going to get ate up piecemeal anyway. Why if I build two mining facilities 
 to increase my income is it taking two spots, the effect should be cumulative, without being punitive?
 
  This game had such incredible potential, and just as much potential as it had it is all that much 
 of a disappointment. I've been a fan of the Star Wars movies and games for years, and some have 
 been great (SW: KOTOR) Though that too had issue not to be discussed here. I feel robbed and LucasArts 
 won't be getting another 50 bucks out of me again. From here on out their games get waited on till 
 their in the 10 -20 buck range. Save your money, and wait for it to hit dirt cheap, or get four 
 friends to chip in 10 bucks each and share it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genie2476
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  The game is great, its exactly what i expected from a Star wars strategy game, the sounds are just 
 like in the movie, voices are also great,
  and its also very fun to play!
  The multiplayer is also very good, and even if you cant play online
  i personally always love 
 to play againt the bots (AI) in galactic conqeust
  The campaign story also good, you get to see the famous jedi's or sith lord's in battle, and then 
 there is the space fighting, superb, you can target a section of the enemy ship yourself, and then 
 your ships rush to attack it as fast as possible, this game is worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesGru
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Empire at War has everything. The graphics, sound, and overall presentation are each near perfect. 
 Gameplay is fast-paced and fun, with very little repetition, and fans of the setting will be amazed 
 with the attention to details. The plot is very interesting, showing the events between the two 
 trilogies of movies and allowing for the outcomes to be altered, much like a "what if the other 
 side won" type of tale. RTS fans will love the depth of the strategy available for customizing 
 and capitalizing upon, while Star Wars fans who aren't usually RTS players will appreciate the 
 detail and the plotlines of the campaigns. Even the multiplayer shows elements of perfection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootUUp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well it's here, the biggest an dbest star wars RTS ever is here... But is it worth the hype? YES!
 
  
  Here are the good stuff...
  
  the sound is good, and can immerse you in the star wars universe
  
  there are a VAST variety 
 of planets, especially taris for all you KOTOR fans out there!
  
  The graphics are good, but maybe a little ridiculous for the Graphics engine you need
  
  The 
 conquest mode is fun, and they even make you work for the X-Wing fighter!
  
  Good replay-ability!
  
  Downs... : (
  
  Value: good
  
  Buy this game if you like star 
 wars!
  
  Buy it even if you hate star wars lol (not really)
  
  Computer AI are notorious for outskilling you!
  
  Ground battles are hard (not for me)
  
 
  Bugs may slow or STOP gameplay, causing an immense amount of frustrasion, or maybe just causing 
 you to smash the computer to the wall screaming at the top of your lungs and running away to live 
 ferally with a pack of rapind groundhogs....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Empire at War is a great game that makes good use of a legendary license. And it makes that Command 
 & Conquer classic strategy spring into mind - a feeling that hasn't come to me in a long time (no, 
 Generals didn't help much either...) .
  
  This new game is really worth getting into if you know your Star Wars. All of the units seen in 
 the classic trilogy are there, plus some new ones made just for this game, like the tank classes 
 for the Rebel Alliance and the speeder/glider units for the Imperials.
  
  Each side has their own weakness and strengh: the Empire can produce mass quantities of armies 
 and unleash them much faster, but it tends to rely a lot on research facilities; the Rebels, on 
 the other hand, don't need to research new technologies - they can send lil' ol' R2D2 and C3PO 
 to steal all the schematics from the Empire, so to contrast this, they can't rely on big land machines 
 like the AT-ATs that the Imperials use. I can safely say that the game is well balanced, whichever 
 side you choose, you'll get a different experience. You'll also get Heores from each side, ranging 
 from obvious ones, like Han Solo and Darth Vader, to not-well-known-to-the-outside such as Kyle 
 Katarn (from Dark Forces I and II, and from Jedi Outcast and Academy) , Mara Jade (from the Heir 
 of the Empire trilogy and other stories - she becomes Luke's wife) and others. The strange thing 
 is the presence of these characters at the point of the story the game claims to follow (between 
 episodes III and IV) : Kyle, for an example is infiltrated in the Empire at this time and Mara Jade 
 is still the Emperor's Hand... but who am I to judge right? They are cool characters and it is 
 nice to see characters other than the obvious ones from the movies. From this, I really hope Dash 
 Rendar from Shadows of the Empire comes along too later on.
  
  Talking about factions to be chosen brings me to the other point worth mentioning: the quantity 
 of factions: while Warcraft III (for an example) has four sides to choose from, Empire at War only 
 has two, which of course is explained by the fact that the original trilogy is used as the backstory, 
 but the producers could have taken the ideas from Battlefront and make the factions from the new 
 trilogy in. Perhaps they are holding out the cards for an expansion pack - a strategy that is happening 
 all too often nowadays.
  
  The graphics for the game are really detailed. You'll see little tidbits everywhere, like in the 
 space battles, where you'll see the chunks of a destroyed station go on to become even smaller 
 pieces and turn to space dust. It's this kind of detail us, the players, can expect from this.
 
  
  The sound department of this game is solid as well. Voices all play classic lines from the movies, 
 such as the infamous 'Kessel Run' by Han Solo and 'the power cuffling' by Luke. Of course these 
 voices are made by voice actors and not the real actors, but they come pretty close. I'm pretty 
 sure Harrison Ford's voice double is the same from the Indiana Jones LucasArts games.
  
  So, if you are a fan, go buy the game, hurry up you lazy bum... :)
  
  If you are not, it is 
 worth giving a try, the game will remind you of Ground Control and Command & Conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilik
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  It's no secret that Star Wars fans have been waiting for a RTS worthy of the Star Wars licence 
 for quite some time now, however all the previous attempts had kind of fallen short. Empire at 
 War was certainly shaping up to be the RTS game that all Star Wars fans had secretly dreamed of. 
 A galactic map with planets to conquer, fight in space and on planets, heroes like Han Solo and 
 Darth Vader that YOU get to control on the battlefield, an experienced crew of talented people 
 that had worked on prestigious RTS games... The idea sure looks good on paper but how does it translate 
 to an actual game? 
  
  The player starts the game by choosing which side theyll control in the legendary conflict: The 
 Rebels or the evil galactic Empire. Both sides are very different and have their own units, technologies, 
 heroes and styles of gameplay. The Empire relies on large numbers of units and powerful weapons 
 whereas the Rebels, fewer in numbers, and not having access to the in-ordinate amount of resources 
 available to the Empire have to steal technologies or raid planets. 
  
  The game features three main modes of play, the galactic map, the space battles and the ground 
 battles. The galactic map lets you build ground and space units, as well as buildings. Once your 
 fleet ready, you send your army off to war, selecting the planet you wish to conquer. The first 
 part of the battle is in space, above the selected planet. You have to destroy all resistance in 
 order for you ground units to land.
  
  Space battles are fun, probably the most fun youll have in the game. The developers really managed 
 to capture the frantic feel of the films. Its even a bit too frantic and it's not always easy 
 to know what to do and who to attack. The gameplay is very reminiscent of Homeworld and it's a 
 pleasure to order X-Wings to attack Tie Fighters. Once the space battle is over, you get to land 
 on the planet and select which units to use and that's definitely the most disappointing part 
 of this game. 
  
  Empire at War seems to be lacking the strategic element that is critical to any good RTS. The ground 
 combats are a bit shallow, you select your units and off they go, killing everything in their path. 
 The AI is pretty weak, sending off waves after waves of units, not putting up much of a fight. 
 You really dont have the feeling that thinking and planning is necessary to win, you just 
 need to pile up units and annihilate everything that moves by pointing and clicking. One could 
 argue that you have to choose the correct unit to attack another unit (units using RPGs are weak 
 against units using blasters etc.) but its not nearly enough. After a while the game tends to 
 feel repetitive, which is something I had never felt with other great RTS games like C&C, Warcraft, 
 Dawn of War or Act of War. 
  
  On the technical side, everything is OK. This is not the best-looking game out there but itll 
 do the trick. The sound and music are well its Star Wars, so theyre great.
  
  In other words, here's how I see things:
  You're a Star Wars fan and you haven't played a lot 
 of RTS games in the past, this game is for you.
  Youre a Star Wars fan and youve been playing RTS games for ages, you'll probably be disappointed.
 
  Youre NOT a Star Wars fan and you haven't played a lot of RTS games, give it a try.
  Youre NOT a Star Wars fan and youve been playing RTS games for ages, this game is not for you.
 
  
  I hope I've been helpful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_aziz123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  What i especially like about the game is the space battles and the sound effects of these grand 
 battles. Another great thing about the game is that u get to chose the side of the Rebels or the 
 Empire. By chosing which planet u want to invade makes this game more specific. the different units 
 in this game are interesting but the land battles werent as expected to be. The explosions and detail 
 are fabulous which are few of these games special effects.
  
  For star wars fans this is a must-buy game and those who are after stategy games should also buy 
 it for the fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nleon1977
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: EAW is the strategy game Star Wars fans have been waiting for. The option of choosing 
 either side and the online play make this game a "must own". This game has a wide assortment of 
 troops and vehicles. It also includes many different types of battles and environments from land 
 to air.
  If you're a Star Wars fan, it's time to get to the store and buy this game.
  Just because the movies are done, it doesn't mean we can't enjoy Star Wars. Oh, and as a bonus, 
 it's system requirements aren't too demanding either.
  PC gamers will love Star Wars: Empire at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  EAW, has been hyped for the past... oh, well about a year. Now,
  Finally a star wars RTS that didnt suck, bottom line...
  
  Space Battles are really fun.
 
  Graphics
  Variaty of Ships
  Conquest layout is fun
  
  Down sides,
  
  The computer sometimes favors the AI
  Ground battles are a bit akward
  Death Start cant fight 
 other ships or shoot normal laster ( but if it could, it would unbalance the game something fearse!, 
 so thats understandable ) .
  Mutiplayer is bugged bad
  
  I had alot of fun, and still do with this game. Not perfect, but lots of fun.
  RTS fan? = Buy
 
  Star wars fan = Buy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  If I had to sum this game up in a sentence, it would be that Lucasarts desprarately needs to hire 
 Lawrence Holland back again. For those who don't know, he was the designer of the X-Wing/Tie Fighter/X-Wing 
 Alliance series. Even though those games are very much old-school at this point, they represent 
 in my opinion the very best of the Star Wars games to date. The reason I make this comparison is 
 that the things that made that series of games so good is where Empire at War seems to fall short. 
 
  
  While I would fully agree that Empires is without question the best attempt at strategic Star Wars 
 thus far, I found it overall lacking in both inspiration and depth. 
  
  More specifically, I think Empires is yet another demonstration as to why hero-driven RTS games 
 don't work. Think Warcraft III and Battle for Middle Earth for the other prime examples. The basic 
 strategy with these games is to set up a small army in a skirmish line to protect your base, then 
 send the hero out to do the dirty work. Darth Vader in this game is particularly nasty in this 
 aspect.
  
  Graphically, the game ranges from mediocre to fantastic. I found the planets and backgrounds to 
 be especially nice. However, zooming in on the models represents state of the art rendering from 
 about 10 years ago! Also, if one looks closely, they would notice that destroyed vehicles will 
 actually hover above the battlefield, or that shadows will show up in some very strange places. 
 I've seen other games get knocked hard in the reviews for doing similar things. 
  
  Sound quality is good, but completely lacking in originality. Yes, I know it's a Star Wars game, 
 and yes, I would fully expect to hear the theme music. To illustrate my point though, going back 
 to the X-Wing series of games the designers were able to introduce original (and very good) theme 
 music that fit in perfectly with the rest of the Star Wars atmosphere. 
  
  The part that really bothers me about the game is that the authors felt the need to ressurect every 
 single tired movie cliche' for the characters dialog. In fact it's beyond cliche... it's trite. 
 Why can't the troops simply respond with a simple "Yes Sir!" when issuing an order?
  
  The ground battles are fought in an area that seem to represent little more than a city block... 
 strange considering that the game revolves around the concept of PLANETARY conquest! While I do 
 realize the space and complexity involved in expanding the game out to detail entire planets, the 
 battle maps in this game are postage-stamp sized even in comparison to other RTS games!
  
  The space battles fare little better unfortunately. First off, they are 2D as opposed to 3D such 
 as Homeworld. Then there is the apparent lack of depth here as well... for example, there is vary 
 little in dealing with planetray defences, nothing in the way of deep-space outposts or choke points, 
 etc. 
  
  Problems aside, the game does flow very well. For all that it tries to accomplish, i. e. empire 
 management, ground battles, space battles, etc, the package meshes together seemlessly. Load times 
 are acceptable, and the game itself keeps one busy without being overwhelming. 
  
  The one area where Empire really shines is in replayability. Not only are there story driven campaign 
 for each side, but then there is an open "conquer the galaxy" game as well, AND the multiplayer 
 option! Any of these options should allow for many hours of playtime by themselves, and to play 
 out all the options should put it on the level of "epic". For this, the game gets a 10 for value!
 
  
  In summary, the game is worth considering for anyone who really enjoys the Star Wars universe, 
 or hero driven RTS games in general. However, if detail, innovation, or in-depth strategy are important, 
 it would be better to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is a RTS set in the Star Wars universe. The point of the game is to take 
 control of the universe. Sound easy right? That's where you're wrong. It is actually pretty tough 
 at the at the higher difficulty.
  
  Now, is Empire at War worth getting? Hell yeah it is. If you like RTS or even if you're a hardcore 
 Star Wars fan... it's just great. You've got your space combat and your land combat with infantry, 
 tanks, etc. Space combat is probably the best. There's a better flow to it and it is much more 
 harder than land combat. Saying EAW is the best RTS ever is taking a big step but I believe it 
 really is. It's simply a great game that any RTS would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Empire at War is the best strategi game i'v evar playd. It so cool the fighting is fo 
 real and the sound is amazing. I dont think ther a noder strategi game that is betar then this one. If 
 you play this game it esear to be a imperial way bicose thai meke mony mor faster the rebals dont 
 meke mony fast so it not cool + it cool to be a imperial bicose you have the dead star and you 
 distroiplanet wit it it so cool waching a planet geting blow up by yor hands :) ) ) ) . Wat i like the 
 moust abawt star wars empire at war is that you can theke control of the holl galagxi and wen yu 
 ar in a fight you can pres somthing on yor screen and it shows yu haw thei fight jest like a short 
 movie. The cool thing is that you can fight wit dark vedar end luke schiwacher but dark vedar is 
 stronger dhen luke schiwacher. The multiplaier is so fuun if you play wit a frent my brouder is 
 angri bicose i olwais bet him at evri game exept ninja gaide : ( (. But I can tell you mor abawt this 
 game but yu can buy the game and play it. I enjoi playng star wars empire at war i hope you to :) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 
 BE GOOD :) ) ) ) ) ) AND STAI IN SCOOL !!! :) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurilord123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I thought i gonna crap like the last star wars RTS game but isnt, I think is good but it is lack 
 of building design, we locate our building, they fixed it. The heroes is good , but is not good 
 as Warcraft 3. And the units is not vary, they should create another units, and where is Luk e 
 skywalker ???? The battle in the galactic is cool. Anyway there is only two fractions in this game, 
 rabel and empire. may be it will more exciting if they have the driod, or naboo trooper. but it 
 is true that they did not give anything new in this game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Man ive just bought the game and it was totaly awesome i just love it i mostly like the graphics 
 and the gameplay but still at certain time its quite hard especially when your sending your men 
 to space then it gets hard
  
  I love the part when they send in their troops to the planet but my favorite races are the Rebels 
 they are my favorites in the game i dont like the Galactic Empire the troops looks awesome but 
 they act like mono i mean how do their commanders train them i know they use a water gun well whatever 
 it is i still love the Rebels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaboose111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  well this game is how to say it ummmmmmmmmm perfect, awesome, amazing, beatiful. yes its all of 
 these plus more. id say my favorite part is being able to just rewrite star wars history or win 
 the rebellion but much different its awesome. game can be a little difficult especially for those 
 who dont like not being able to make troops as u fight. skirmish mode i havent tried so for all 
 i kno u can build troops during battle but u cant during galactic and campaign modes. game easy 
 to learn cool and awesome space combat with spacecraft hardpoints. very fun, addictive and of course 
 its never the same never very beatiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royfus_1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Empire at War has to be one of the best games I've ever played.
  
  The Gameplay is very good in all attributes from land, space and the galactic map, it's all tactics 
 and strategy. Don't forget the cinematic button! It shows you the battle like if you were in the 
 movies!
  
  The Graphics are variable, so you can make it how ever you want! Of coarse, the graphics at full 
 tilt look amazing, but the lowest graphics if looked at a distance look okay as well.
  
  The Sound is very good, what you'd expect from a Star Wars movie!
  
  The game is definitely 
 worth it's Value. Why would so many people track this game?
  
  All in all, I think this game is absolutely amazing! Do not rent it first! You will be very happy 
 if you buy it straight from the shop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  The game offers a mix of 
  - RTS like Grond Control II but offers little variety, 
  - Space Battles like Nexus but doesn't provide the satisfying complexity
  - 4x aspects like Galactic 
 Civilizations without the aspect of exploring and little planet management.
  
  All in all, it's just not it. Star Wars Empire at War provides a superficial experience which stops 
 just where it's getting interesting, the battles are rather repetitive, strategy and tactics seem 
 of little importance. In ground combat the AI is terrible, sending one unit after the other towards 
 your fortified positions, in one game I managed to eliminate the enemy without actually sending 
 in my main force just using the local population. In space combat don't expect epic combats, you 
 can bring in just so many forces, the others wait somewhere in deep space and can be called in 
 when one of your ships goes down.
  
  The graphics are great, as expected, sound was very nice too, and it is kind of cool to send Darth 
 Vader in the field as a killing machine - he force-kills 10-15 infantry enemies easily.
  
  All in all... I bought the game this afternoon and after finishing this review it goes straight 
 to ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrakeWindwalker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good mix bewteen the normal RTS and the tactical RTS. While when you first 
 look at the game it looks very simple and easy, which i can be if you play a bit more and take 
 a better look you can see the Tactical roots show them selfs.
  
  Some of the more tactical things you can do is run over troops, protect your longer ranger troops 
 by stand in the line of fire, or use missiles in space it kill everything.
  
  The best 2 problems with this game is the small ground battlefields and the bad graphics, hopifuly 
 the modules will be able to fix that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenkins4ever22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  At first, when I heard about a new Star Wars RPG coming out, I experienced a flash of excitement 
 just before I remembered Galactic Battlegrounds, after which I lost all hope in this game.... I 
 even played the demo, and found it to be mediocre at best. However, after buying the game, it has 
 blown me away. While some could say the battles get repetitive, it all depends on how you want 
 to play. You can micromanage every little aspect of combat, let the computer resolve the fight 
 for you, or find a happy medium.
  
  And plus, what other games let you see 5 Star Destroyers destroy everything in their path.... and 
 make it look sooooo beautiful? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  The concept of Empire at War is stellar- a loose combination of rebellion and an RTS. It stood 
 out to be the greatest hybrid of any in its class, however that is where the praise ends.
  
  The game is crippled by technical issues that has lucasarts techsupport forums alive with buzz. 
 Things from multiplayer instability so bad it is unplayable to low polygon graphics that many find 
 unacceptable for next generation game. 
  
  However one issue rises above all others "security module cannot be activated" when you see this 
 error it means you are staring at your computer with big doe eyes cause the game will not work 
 and won't even launch. The problem stems from the copyprotection lucasarts has decided to use and 
 it's the second such game with this very serious problem (the first being SW: Battlefront 2) . Users 
 who have this problem cannot even try the game cause it will not launch and lucasarts only response 
 to this issue is that they are not at fault and to contact securom who are slow to respond and 
 when they do they give you a fix it's custom tailored to that specific PC so if you upgrade for 
 have to format and reinstall its likely you'll again be stuck with a non-operation game for which 
 you will require another custom fix... and when you upgrade next time and the next and the next.. there 
 is a nasty cycle here that leads one to believe that eventually you'll be stuck with a drink coaster 
 when lucasarts and securom move on to different projects and kill the support on this one. I still 
 have doom2 and I play it occassionally so what about this game are we now locked into playing a 
 product for only a few months or years then throw it away? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRazor96
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun. A really good RTS game. Get out and buy it, After Battle Front 2 i 
 didn't think they could make another good Star Wars games. Not many good PC games are out right 
 now, except World of Warcraft, and it was a nice breakup of the normal stuff. Everyone who likes 
 star wars or just an RTS would really like this game. Star Wars still has some gas in it's tank. 
 Keep up the good work. If you've been looking for a game that will keep you busy for a while and 
 not get bored this is definately the game for you. 2 Thumbs Way Way Up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  well, finally a star wars strategy game worthy of having the name star wars... this one blows all 
 the force commander out of your butt...
  
  the gameplay handles great, greater and easier than other confusing strategy games, if you play 
 the tutorial levels (including some player vs easy AI skirmishes) you should be able to learn how 
 to get in the game real quick.
  personally i think the games space combat is the better than the land battles, despite the AT-AT 
 and lightsabers, watching mon calamari ships and star destroyers fight is still more satisfying.
 
  
  the graphics are awesome, with the unique cinematic view, it feels like your watching an old star 
 wars movies.
  
  the sound is my favourite, with great sounding effects of tie fighters and AT-AT walkers and them 
 old music stuff, its all pretty awesome...
  
  value? i dont tink ill get bored of this till empire at war 2 comes out, that is if it does :P... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AidenPryde3025
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  I have seen many an RTS come and go the way of the dinosaur. This game is unfortunately one of 
 them. 
  
  The good: 
  
  The game definately gives the player the feeling that they are living in the Star Wars universe. 
 The mix of a great soundtrack, sound effects, and decent graphics all add up to a feeling that 
 you are there in the battle.
  
  The game also is distinctive in that Petroglyph tried something new when it came to land battles. 
 In order to bring units down onto a planet the player has to control landing zones. The more landing 
 zones you have the more units you can bring into the battle. 
  
  The bad: 
  
  Repetative. And I don't mean its gets repetative after a couple of days, I mean it gets repetative 
 after a couple hours. The game in my opinion limits the tactics that are open to the player in 
 that each unit in the game is designed to counter another unit. This makes for a rather stale battle 
 when you know exactly what types of units your enemy will probably have (especially in single player 
 mode) .
  
  Another problem with the game I think is that the maps, both space and ground, are not large enough. 
 Indeed the ground maps are often so confining that they limit the avenues of approach to the enemy.
 
  
  A third problem is that Petroglyph did not deign to give the ground units the details that they 
 gave the space units. While this is understandable considering most of the glory of Star Wars is 
 the space battles it still breaks the emersion of the player.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall the game has rather repetative gameplay mixed with some decent game mechanics, excellent 
 sound, and decent graphics, and great special effects. It is unfortunate the the game is so simple 
 and is not designed attract veteran RTS players. This is, unfortunately, not the game that can 
 be called "a good Star Wars RTS." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire At War offers so much, and delivers little. It was hailed as a new take on RTS 
 with its grandoise space battles, and galactic control. Sounds good? To a degree it is good... 
 if it actually hadn't been done already.
  
  LucasArts has really only taken parts of various games over the years (of course including their 
 own) and thrown it all together to fleece yet again more money out of the fans of the franchise. 
 Don't get me wrong, I love StarWars, and have enjoyed some of their games in the past... but this 
 isn't one of them.
  
  To put it quite simply their are three games they have borrowed from... two quite heavily.
  
 
  Age Of Empires combat system is borrowed for RTS including its camera angles, and strength/weakness 
 system. StarTrek Armada II is borrowed for its space combat slash  
 style combat with single button click activation for special "weapons" and abilities. Lastly its 
 galactic conquest is based upon one of their own games. Unfornately the game I'm trying to recall 
 eludes me, but its just a throwback mainly to the system they use in their Battlefront series, 
 but with a timer based round (day) , than a turn based.
  
  Their galactic conquest system has also turned out to be VERY disappointing. They spend all their 
 time makimng sure that in RTS everything is scale just right with troopers standing next to AT-STs 
 standing next to AT-ATs... and then in space you have a galaxy pockmarked in extreme close proximity, 
 over-enlarged representations of planets that are lightyears apart. Also their conquest system 
 has gone beyond the realm of intuitive into dumbed-down simpleness. Want to raid? Drag them to 
 the Raid circle. Want to Steal? Drag to the steal circle. Want to assassinate? Drag to the assassinate 
 circle. Meh.
  
  Star Wars: Empire at War in its three seperate realms (galactic/space/land) reaks of incompetence... 
 where the designers believed dumbing everything down is better. As a whole however Star Wars: Empire 
 At War makes for a barely passable game, especially when matched up with many titles recently released, 
 and a few just around the corner.
  
  Rent this game, don't buy it. I'm a fan of the StarWars universe, but this game leaves much to 
 be desired. Great graphics, but extremely shallow gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shepstar1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire At War is truely amazing. The graphics are pure class and the audio is impressive.
 
  It takes a long time to learn what is going on in this game but you will be soon blowing up planets 
 like Tatooine with your Death Star. This game is very different to other RTS games as you dont 
 go around gathering resources from trees, rocks etc. Insted you aqccuire resources in the terms 
 of money from other planets you have invaded. 
  Managing whole legions of Stormtrooper and controlling lots of AT-ATs through the snowy realms 
 of Hoth make you think your actually re-enacting the battle from Episode V: "Empire Strikes Back."
 
  
  This game is definatly one of the best released by Lucasarts. Just dont expect to learn it in a 
 short 10 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Well i was rather sceptical after the demo, but i must say a really good RTS that is sure to please 
 RTS veterans and Star Wars fans alike.. most games i buy are mostly for multiplayer, and i must 
 say this one is going to be a sure winner with Lans and good online play.. well done EA you've 
 made a fun game that will definately appeal to alot of people.
  
  All in all if you're looking for a fun RTS game then look no further, this game will provide many 
 hours of entertainment by yourself and with friends.
  
  Good Graphics, amazing sounds, top notch gameplay.. and with mods coming out you can expect it 
 to get better :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doom
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I actually emailed the guys who at Petroglyph (spelling) before they started on the this game asking 
 them not to mess this up. My prayers were answered. I found this game to be everything I wanted 
 it to be and more. The ground battles were much better graphically than the demo so that was a 
 plus. I wish the camera was a bit more free to control but hey, shayt in one hand and wish in the 
 other and see which one weighs more. Great game and thank god they patched the server disconnect 
 problem ALREADY! I think maybe Yoda should have been included into the game as well even though 
 he wasn't a big factor in the original triology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bramanga
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are spectacular, the game-play ambitious, and even the voice-talents are convincing. 
 There is even the recognizable hum of the servos failing on the AT-ST that some may remember from 
 Return of the Jedi. The details are what make this game spectacular. This is one of those games 
 that you will pull off the shelf in ten years, blow the dust off, re-install, and run in an old 
 Windows compatibility mode. Think (Star Wars Rebellion meets Force Commander multiplied by a cool 
 factor of 10) . This is one of the most entertaining games that I have played to date, and is probably 
 my new favorite RTS (my former favorite being Red Alert 2) ... Thank you Westwood - err  Petroglyph, 
 and may the force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StMalice
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  In the past I've often quesitoned games that release patches the day the game comes out. Seems 
 to have almost become the norm. Sad really when you think you can't buy a decent product. You wouldn't 
 buy a car only to find out the airbags may not work. 
  
  So here's my issue with this game. 
  I'm currently running a 4800+ 64x2 on Windows XP sp2. It's 
 got 1gb of OCZ ram. Video wise I'm running a BFG 7800GT-OC and have a Creative Labs 24bit Live! 
 running the audio. 
  
  All drivers, DirectX, blah blah blah, are as current as it gets. 
  
  Now maybe if this game was severely demanding on my system I could understand the lockups. 
 However, here's a list of what runs absolutely flawlessly on this machine: Call of Duty I, II, F. E. A. R., 
 Serious Sam II, QuakeIV, Battlefield 2, Civ-IV, Age of Empires III. Not some much as a blurp from 
 those games, just this one. 
  
  Might be a bad copy? Perhaps. However, in downloading the demo from all sorts of places 7 times, 
 including Gamespot, it installed fine, ran for about 5 minutes and locked up. Most of the time 
 it just locked up right after booting. 
  
  So I don't get it, maybe you shouldn't either. Doesn't mean I'm done not trying a few ideas, but 
 I'm running out of them nontheless. 
  
  For what it's worth, the little this game has run, it's been a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bijilkif
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was one i was anticipating the most this year and it lived up to the hype it was given 
 beyond a level thought could be possible. The only thing that i didnt like about it was how predictable 
 the AI could become. I do hope that patches and MODs will fix that problem sooner or later. Over 
 all this was a non traditional RTS game and i think it has started a whole new class of RTS. This 
 game will sure enough quench any gamers thirst for a good RTS game. So i think my ratings stand 
 at opinion against other critics but i think they are pretty close to what this game truly is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdrumso5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Empire at War is easily the greatest Star Wars game..... period! The game met quite a lot of flack 
 from the demo that was released in January, but even the mods could not show what the true game 
 was like. This game is MORE than expected.
  
  The main thing about this game that has hit me is that almost everything is new: the variety or 
 units and maps, the very effective weather aspect, the space battles, and the galactic map.
  
  The variety of this game is just tremendous. Have you ever played Battle for Middle Earth 1? 
 Noticed you could recruit up to some 5 different units? This will please you if that annoyed you. 
 Both sides have very different units and a nice sum of them. They range from heavy units like the 
 ATAT and light units like the Rebel infiltrator. But of course this is not set to only the land. 
 In space, the variety just gets larger. The smallest ships, not to be underestimated, to the largest 
 ships, are quite numerous. Then there is also the mercenaries that are recruitable on the surface 
 of a planet, recruitable by whoever controls them at that moment. 
  
  Then there is the weather that actually fights back. From snow storms, ash, frozen tundras, every 
 planet has its own unique climate that will make it hard for you to find one planet out of 80 that 
 will be your favorite. 
  
  The Galactic map may not be new, as this technique has been seen in the Total War series, but it 
 is certainly unique and in my opinion, the best part. The management is good for those who like 
 to control and lot, and for those who want to simply fight. Money is, of course, key to victory. 
 You will have to manage different planets, with different incomes, and defend the ones that mean 
 more to you. Planets also have special things unique to their planet. These can range from units 
 to bounty hunters to buildings. You will not be able to run out of options.
  
  If you played the demo and liked it, get the game. If you played the demo and were not stunned, 
 get the game. If you played the demo and loved it, by the collectors edition. Either way, this 
 game will not let you down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceasarwing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I think this game has alot of plusses... however land battles are definitely not one of them. I 
 would've been happy if they would've simply taken out the land battles all together and spent all 
 their time tweaking the space battles and adding a ton more ships and options for that. Most of 
 us simply love this game because it is Star Wars, but more could've been done. And what is the 
 deal with destroying planets with the Death Star?? I was expecting there to be a sweet cinematic 
 or something when you get to destroy a planet... but all that happens is you click destroy planet, 
 and it turns into asteroids?? wtf? Lame. Overall a great game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: army214
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks and if you are a fan of rts or star wars, this is a game you definitely should 
 get. It displays all the wonderful events and characters of the star wars universe. It combines 
 space and land battles, which make it very interesting to play. I especially enjoyed the space 
 battles. Targeting specific hardpoints on a ship or space station is a great idea. The explosions 
 of ships looks amazing, especially when you are in cinematic mode. I am so glad i got this game, 
 its great. This is the first good star wars rts game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FusionC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Well its been a rather long time since Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds came out. Never been removed 
 from my computer, until now. Welcome to the RTS Revolution, and it kicks off right here. The RTS 
 formula has more or less over the years not changed. Build a base, kill the enemy, in some cases 
 have a great story repeat. Not anymore.
  
  Welcome to a game where numerous planets litter the galaxy and you have to take control of them, 
 one by one by one. Build space fleets, have insane battles above the planet before you swoop in 
 to mop up the mess down below. Space battles are very interesting in this game, those of us who 
 played starcraft way back in the day remember the "space" missions. This is that, for the new generation, 
 it was the logical step in the more than right direction.
  
  Building a base does happen in this game, do not get me wrong there is base building. But it happens 
 from space. No more grunts running around building up the base. Now it happens from safety of planetary 
 orbit. And when you making that crushing run from space to the planet, good old handy Tie Bombers 
 to come in and "lay the place to waste like".
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty solid, its not Halo 2 in RTS format, but a RTS game isnt all 
 about looks. In my opinion RTS game rely less on graphics than any other game genre. But this game 
 still looks very nice.
  
  All in all this game is by far one of the best RTS of all time, right up there with Star Craft: 
 Brood Wars, and Warcraft III: Frozen Throne. It has the total package, and if you are either a 
 Star Wars fan OR a RTS fan dont walk, but RUN out to the closet game retailer and BUY THIS GAME
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptinkrap
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Look at the history- Force commander, Galactic Battlegrounds, Rebellion- they were not what we 
 wanted. We wanted to feel powerful, to be in control of the Star Wars universe that we love so 
 much. These titles delivered as much as they could with 2 crappy, out of date engines and an AoE 
 clone. They could not satisfy our insatiable lust for Lucas' films to be successfully transferred 
 to the small screen. Empire at war still does not achieve this goal, but, nevertheless, is a thoroughly 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  At first glance, the galactic map seems overly simplified (to a gamer, at least) , but, however, 
 after playing it for a while, it becomes a feature of the game that works, and is elegantly simplistic 
 in its running. It is not a particularly meaty feature, merely a method of setting up decent and 
 enjoyable space/ land battles. It also presents and interesting series of tactical oppurtunities. 
 As a die-hard Total War fan, I am obviously not stunned by it, and it does nothing that other games 
 haven't achieved- it merely refines their ideas and applies them to the Star Wars universe, which 
 is still fun.
  
  The space battles. Oh god, how beautiful they are. The way random stuff falls off Star Destroyers, 
 the tiny, insect like fighters swarming around huge capital ships, and THE DEATH STAR!!!! I mean, 
 sure, its not scaled very well, but you can control THE DEATH STAR!!!! Blowing up planets is much, 
 much more fun than invading and colonising them to get a few wads of cash. Anyway, back to the 
 subject- the visuals in the space battles are absolutely stunning. Even on fairly low settings 
 (i can only reach 1024x768 due to my pathetic monitor) the explosions and firefights look awesome. 
 The fact that the battles are not fought on a 3D plane is not a major problem, as that level of 
 depth would probably ruin the entire formula of EaW. If, however you are a die hard SW fan and 
 want a hugely detailed space RTS for it then get your arse down to the nearest retailer, buy Homeworld 
 2 and get the truly brilliant SW: Warlords mod from the following link: http://warlords. swrebellion. com 
 . It has more SW ships than anyone ever knew existed. Modding at its finest, people.
  
  FInally, saving the worst till last- the land battles. Even up close, they are graphically decent, 
 but the badly scaled maps, poor AI and a (slightly) too small population cap make them almost unnecessary. 
 This is a shame, because this was the part of the game that was promised (and expected to be) to 
 be the best part of the game, and obviously the greatest amount of effort of all the different 
 modes has been put into it. In this area, there is more polish than meat- it could have been so 
 much better. It also suffers from many balance issues- artillery is way too powerful, as are the 
 bombing runs you can call down from space, and you will, on the odd occasion, lose your entire 
 force to a mysterious sseries of explosions. The idea of having the buildings built on the galactic 
 mode represented in these engagements works to the game's advantage, but if you are playing the 
 galactic conquest mode, you'll soon want to skip the battles. On the whole, the design and atmosphere 
 of the ground maps don't add much tactical depth (you end up trawling round them, taking reinforcement 
 points and calling in a huge force, followed by subsequently overrunning the enemy position, try, 
 copy, and repeat) . Some of the maps, however (Coruscant being one of the best examples) are brilliantly 
 made, and there is alot of potential for mapping (and indeed modding, as we have seen already) 
 in the community.
  
  The multiplayer and skirmish modes arent radically different from those in the galactic conquest 
 mode, but are still fun (albeit quick) . The single player campaign has a reasonably well-plotted 
 story, filling in some of the gaps in the films, with some very well done cutscenes. There is an 
 interesting multitude of galactic conquest scenarious, and, coupled with the rest, this amounts 
 to a thoroughly engrossing experience.
  
  This is a gaming formula that works- but is not amazing. It could have been more in-depth, with 
 less polish and more substance. The 3 modes compliment each other, providing what will be many 
 hours of worthwile, engaging gameplay for SW fans and others alike (quite frankly, in my opinion, 
 there should be a systematic slaughter of all non-Star Wars fans anyway) . This game shows potential, 
 but did not fill the hole left in Star Wars RTS games by the likes of Force Commander. A lot of 
 patches and expansion packs will soon sort this out though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  the graphics are good with alot of detail and the space battles are amazing with lost to acomplish. 
 its the best starwars strategy game with alot of time and effort put into it. i like how the space 
 battles the ships dont just stay in one spot they always move around and when after an enemy instead 
 of just stayin on the the spot and shooting them they chase them around and never stay on the spot. 
 and on ground battles how u can but the men into different positions and retreat from that battle 
 are truely amazing. if i was you i would go out and by it. it is just like ur age of empires starcraft 
 warrcraft ect but with alot more detail and more hi tech 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is one of the best real time strategy to hit the RTS community in several 
 years and is the arguably the best Star Wars game to be released since TIE Fighter. This real time 
 strategy takes things to a new level, without the repetitive and tedious tasks that have hampered 
 and held back the RTS community. By taking the criticism of past and present RTS games Petroglyph, 
 a studio that is predominantly made up of the original Command & Conquer games, they were able 
 to build on the their back ground and create an original RTS that could define what the future 
 for future real time strategy games.
  
  Star Wars: Empire at War takes place between Episode III and IV in the Star Wars storyline. By 
 selecting this part in the storyline Petroglyph was able to create a back story for the sequence 
 leading up to the conclusion of Episode IV. In the campaign mode you will have the opportunity 
 to take on the role of either the dastardly Rebels or the malicious Empire. Within the campaign 
 you will have the opportunity to play different missions that lead up to the end of Episode IV 
 and may even be able to change the way that A New Hope ended.
  
  There are several other modes in which the RTS fan can spread their wealth of time. The Galactic 
 Conquest mode is where players will spend a large amount of time in this mode. This mode will allow 
 you to customize the number of planets, from 8-40, which will greatly vary the amount of time that 
 the conquest will require. This mode will require the conquering of each planet one at a time and 
 with each planet comes the bonus that will greatly affect the ability to build items, or have greater 
 power in certain areas. The bonuses that come with each planet will actually help to dictate the 
 strategy and order in which you will conquer the galaxies. The other main mode is the skirmish 
 and multiplayer modes that will allow you to take on the computer or another player in a single 
 land or space battle. In each you will get a steady income of credits and will be able to increase 
 that little by little by gaining resource gathering points. The rest is pretty standard and each 
 battle will progress as so. This is where the true fun in the game will be had and will also dictate 
 how long this game will last with each individual player.
  
  Even though the Empire has the obvious force, technology, and Death Star on their side the Rebels 
 still have a chance to defeat the evil Empire. As previously mentioned the Empire has the force 
 and technology on their side when it comes to battling the Rebels. The use of Star Destroyers, 
 and the rest of the capital star ships that are associated with the Empire, can easily crush all 
 but the Mon Calamari star cruiser with great ease. With the Empire having the overwhelming advantage 
 of the capital star ships, the Rebels can only counteract them with their own fleet of Mon Calamari 
 star cruisers and Y-wings. The Y-wings can help to take down the Empires capital starships only 
 in great number and with additional support. 
  
  The other advantage that the Empire has on their side is the Death Star. This great power will 
 take a large amount of time and resources to build, but it can decimate any planet and it comes 
 at a great cost of needed defense. The Rebels does have its defense with Red Squadron and the odds 
 are stacked against the Empire when trying to use the Death Star due to the conditions needed to 
 actually fire the super weapon. Even though the Empire may have an overwhelming advantage when 
 it comes to the weaponry and force, but the Rebels are not without their advantages also. The Rebels 
 come with the ability to see all of the movement of the Empire at all times and can land a small 
 force on a planet bypassing the Empires blockade. In order to keep up with the Empire when it 
 comes to technology the Rebels also steal technology from the Empire in order to get upgrade the 
 forces in their arsenal. Although it may not seem plausible the Rebels and the Empire are actually 
 pretty evenly matched and players will find surprisingly that when it comes to the campaign the 
 Rebels will be able to keep up with the Empire at all times.
  
  The deployment of forces is controlled by a unique system in which deployment areas need to be 
 controlled and any available forces can be called in, but you must choose wisely because there 
 is a limit of the number of units you can have, which is based on the control of the deployment 
 areas, which in order to have control over you must have at least one unit in the area in order 
 to control the area, which can be really annoying when you really need every unit that you can 
 get. Each side will also have the ability to call in reinforcements in the form of Hero units. 
 Each hero will have special abilities that can change the tide of battle practically by themselves, 
 and are extremely valuable fighting asset due to their power and health aspects. The hero units 
 in the game may also be stronger than the really need to be and they are extremely hard to counter 
 act.
  
  Even though Petroglyph may have created a long, involved, and innovative game, they have also created 
 the uncanny ability for the game to get repetitive. The campaign may give the capability to have 
 long and involved fights with the computer, but the individual battles will get old after you have 
 done your fourth of fifth battle. After that point you will almost want to just have each of the 
 battles simulated just to get it over with. Despite the fact that the game will get long and 
 the battles will get old the game certainly is very original.
  
  The graphics in the game are very beautiful if you have the settings set to the highest setting 
 possible. The space battles are very good looking, especially with all of the explosions and all 
 of the models. In fact, the models in the space battles seem to be better done and they are very 
 detailed especially when you get up close. Sadly, the ground battles are much different. The textures 
 and models seem to be a little bit less that standard graphics. The models when you get up close 
 seem to be very blocky and not as smooth as the space battles and in particular the nice curves 
 with the Mon Calamari star cruisers. The land graphics almost seem to have been taken straight 
 out of Command and Conquer Generals, and quite possibly a little less than that. It is something 
 that does not detract that much from the gaming experience, but the fact that the models can easily 
 be compared to that of a game that was release more than two years ago is a testament of what they 
 could have spent more time on.
  
  There happens to be a notable and very welcomed addition to the capability of the graphics, with 
 the cinematic viewpoint. At any point during a battle you can choose the cinematic mode, where 
 you will follow and view the battle from the third person perspective of a single craft or unit 
 in the battle. These are especially cool when you have a large fleet going after one another in 
 an all out battle. In order to experience this very cool visual, you will be sacrificed by having 
 to give up your control over the vehicles, but it can easily be regained if things are not going 
 the way that you want them to be going. The cinematic view is really only suggested to be used 
 when the battle is clearly in your favor and you are crushing the enemy or you could end up sitting 
 back and watch the tide of the battle change as you get your butt kicked and be helpless until 
 you regain control of the chaos.
  
  Sound in the game is handled incredibly well. Each of the weapons that are fired seems to have 
 their unique sound and is very distinctive. It is quite cool to be in a space battle and look down 
 at all the fire that is being sprayed across the battlefield and feel like you could almost make 
 out each of the individual shots. The sounds that come along with a massive space station or capital 
 ship are incredible and it really helps to add to the stunning visuals that come with the explosion. 
 The best way to play the sound in the game is with surround sound so you can get the full effect 
 of the space battles. The voices of the characters are imitations and they do serve their purpose 
 to the point that you really dont notice that the voice you are hearing is not what you are expecting 
 to hear.
  
  The value of the game is down right beautiful if you are a RTS fan or if you are a fan of Star 
 Wars at all, because it will allow you to control the two sides in order to create your own storyline 
 for the game. The amount of time that you can spend on a single conquest can easily be over several 
 hours, which will make for a long experience if you do not get tired of all of the battles that 
 you will have to do. All-in-all Star Wars: Empire at War is an extremely wonderful experience and 
 is a welcome addition to the Star Wars universe and will be remembered as the next big step in 
 the Star Wars gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  The game is brilliantly thought out, much of the mechanics and infact the AI is much to how it 
 was with the command and conquer series. Although this due partly to the fact the team that made 
 this game largly came from Westwood who create the games such as Red alert, and you can really 
 tell.
  
  The skirmish mode of the game are classic c&c, the easy AI doesn't attack where the Hard level 
 you have to test your skills. Beating the Story campaign on hard level as the Empire took me just 
 one night to complete. Partly I believe this is because I still like to play c&c, and many of the 
 skills that I use for that game you can use here.
  
  The Tech-tree is good for the Imperials however the Rebels seem to get it a little more rough so 
 there is going to be a balance issue from many of the players. The only problem with the main theme 
 that this game surrounds it self the "Death star". The trailers mention that getting the Death 
 star and indeed it does. The point that you got almost all the planets under your control with 
 like only 5 or 6 planets left, this is when you get the Death star.
  
  It seems hardly worth it. Cause I just might as use my forces to take control of the space n planets 
 and just leave the Death star a museum piece. So I feel they should of made it possible for you 
 to get the death star a little earlier so it can be some use.
  
  Over all the game, looks and feels great with classic sounds and music from the films that any 
 die hard star wars fan is going to love.
  
  I believe this game deserves editors choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakhor
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  
  Compared to games like Star Craft - Total Anhilliation - Age Of Empire etc etc - Empire at War 
 is just plain booring. It looks GREAT - it sounds GREAT but its just boring...
  
  Simple as that.
  
  Space battles are decent but get dull quite fast - land battles are horrible. 
 The feel is just all wrong. All games coming out these days are so into making the best graphics 
 etc etc and there is very little gameplay value. 
  
  If the space battles felt a tad bit more like those in Homeworld and the land battles more like 
 Red Alert or Total Anhilliation + ad a few tweaks to the story line. Then this game would have 
 been worth all the hype - as it stands now however its just not worth the money.
  
  /DaK/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerg681
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I have found the game to be very difficult, where It was dang near impossible for me to track everything 
 that was going in and out of the Galactic Map. The "easy" difficulty level is still incredibly 
 difficult. Also, there are a few missing units that are key within the Star Wars universe, but 
 i am totally sure that the modding community will be able to take care of that. The sound and music 
 are totally awesome (Klepacki rocks!) , and the game mechanics are new and refreshing. Always having 
 been a huge fan of star wars space battles, I find the space battles totally awesome, especially 
 with the ability to convert an Imperial Star Destroyer into a floating box. This game is awesome, 
 and is well worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the game hoping it would be really good. But to say its 90% up there. The game doesn't 
 allow you to build as i would expect from command and conquer since i hear the guys who made this 
 are from westwood or well was from it not sure about it but looks like they kind of work. 
  
  The game has both space and ground which is sweet deal allowing you to fight through their 
 space defences before you land which is better then flying pass them and all of a sudden finding 
 out you lost 2 bases behind your front lines. The ground could be been better such as adding a 
 base for both sides and constructing defences and offensive buildings to take over the planet having 
 a more war feeling to it. 
  
  The story feels good but short with good storylines and scripts for the npcs and heros but could 
 of been longer. The ai in the game is hard and sometimes dumb he will send all he got at you or 
 he will send a mass force then retreat after he wins the planet but doesn't take it over just leaves 
 it either neutral or under your control. Sometimes he does take over but its random.
  
  But both forces have neat heros and weapons such as the empire having the death star you have being 
 able to pull the lever to let the laser fire which is fun even after you done it 20 times its fun 
 to watch you blow hoth or yavin 4 about 1000 times. 
  
  Overall a great game for a RTS game based on the starwars world i think they could off added the 
 clone wars to this game making it alittle more fun and exciding but there will be mods sooner or 
 later. So over all buy it if you see it because its a pretty good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikewrencher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  For years now, RTS fans have countered back and forth what kind of game the perfect RTS would be. 
 No one ever seems to agree. But I think they come close with Empire at War.
  
  First off, this is not the average RTS. There is some crazy stuff in this game. Basically, you 
 start off on the galactic map, which is a bunch on planets with all your fleets and armies on it. 
 You gains money each day depending on how many planets you control. You use the money to buy fleets, 
 armies, and whatnot. Then you assault a planet with a large force. Most battles have two elements. 
 First, you fight in space with your fleets, then on the ground with your armies. The defender will 
 always have the advantage, as is true in most modern combat, since their garrison force can resupply 
 with new units. The attacker must win with overwhelming numbers and excellent strategy.
  
  The game is extremly fast. My approach to most RTS games is to slowly build up an inpenetrable 
 base, then take my time creating an unstoppable force in relative safety. This doesn't happen here. 
 When ground forces land on a planet, only a small number actually land. The number of units you 
 can have on the ground is determined by how many reinforcement points you control. Therefore, attackers 
 will want to capture more points to land the bulk of their forces on planet, while at the same 
 time protecting the ones they have. Most people are a little pissed by this, but it simulates modern 
 combat better. The enemy comes at you very quickly, and has no qualms about pummeling you with 
 long range artillery fire. In cases where you have a fleet orbiting with bombers, you can call 
 the bombers down to do massive damage. Handy for taking out those pesky AT-ATs, but sucks if you 
 are on the receiving end.
  
  The game looks pretty nice, especially space. The sound is fantastic, as we've all come to expect 
 of the Skywalker Sound recorded and inspired effects. The game shipped very stable; I have had 
 no crashes or bugs to speak of yet.
  
  The differences of this game as opposed to most RTS games make it a very difficult game, but if 
 you like what they've done, the Empire at War will be a game you play for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryangb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Empire at war is a great game no doubt and is really fun. I like the space battles especailly, 
 they are a really good sight to see. But even though its a great game with great features, every 
 game has its problems and every game deserves some criticism so here is mine.
  
  First of all I think that the game did a bad job with the heros, vader is not very good in space, 
 boba fet is way better. And i dont like how having the heros by your troops doesnt give them any 
 power ups like on bfme (leadership) . also they should have made more main heros like yoda and luke 
 skywalker, and the sith lord and mace windew and even darth mal, and also why are r2 d2 and c3po 
 in the game, they could have put cooler heros in their places and other people on the jedi council 
 in the game. Some people are saying that since yoda is in exile he is not on the game. The fact 
 that he is exiled realy should not matter because Obi Wan dies and he is still in the game so therefore 
 any hero should be in the game. Even if you say that Obi Wan died but he was around enough to see 
 this point of time, so he should be in the game because technically he was alive for a while. The 
 point of the game is that they want it to be cool and successful, well then they should have put 
 in more cool heros, dead or not. It seems like they threw in heros that are nothing special, luke 
 is in the game but in red squadron i really didnt find the heros in space very effective except 
 for boba, because he has a really good special.
  
  i also dislike the maps, on each map there is one main point on the map everyone wants, and when 
 u get it u win because then u get loads more cash. i think they shoulod have put more meteor mines 
 in different more spread out places, or put them by your base so and some out in space so that 
 there isnt a primary spot to fight at and everyone has a good source of income because once you 
 get the meteor mines that are clustered in the middle, the game is almost over and there really 
 isnt much resistance you can put up. i think they need to create better maps or give the players 
 the ability to make maps.
  
  Even with all this wrong with the game it is still a great game, still has bugs but will get worked 
 out. I like the way you tech and i also like the way you manage recources and how micromanaging 
 isnt a prolem, that is a plus. It is very cool the way space battles are fought and how you can 
 really customize your battles with where you want to attack first. it is an excellent game and 
 a great buy and even with the problems there are really cool ships, vehicles and units, the battles 
 are great the graphics are fine and the gameplay is overall fun.
  I believe that single player galactic conquest and comapign are difficult and will be long lasting 
 and fun.
  
  the game is deffinitly worht playing and will be even better once multiplayer bugs are worked out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanelissow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of RTS's, and this one after so many greats finds away to improve upon the seemingly 
 stagnant RTS interface/strategy. The first few hours are undoubtedly frustrating at points but 
 hey people, live and learn. I've literally had to tear myself away from the game just to ensure 
 I don't have a seizure or my eyes don't explode. I'm 20 hrs in on the first day of release; I havn't 
 fallen for a game like this since say maybe Mario 3. VALUE = a perfect ten! For your dollar it 
 doesn't get any better than this. And sin of sins, I'm not even much of a star wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuke1984
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has balance issues. First off in almost any conquest mission, the enemy will have almost 
 infinite resources to constantly throw at you. You can build every possible combination of ships 
 to assault them but they will eventually wear you down to a loss. Single player is easier, but 
 extremely boring after 25 minutes. The same repetitive tasks of destroy this destroy that.... I 
 play almost nothing but RTS games, and this has to be one, if not, the worst game I have played. 
 Lucas Arts dropped the ball again. Bottom line.... do not buy if you are looking for a command 
 and conquer type game. Buy if you have a high tolerance for frustration and stupidity for buying 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: night_wolf1984
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Yes it is one of the best star war game ever. I hope its not the last star wars game like this! 
 you will see soon it's great and If you like ether the empire or the rebel's it has something for 
 everyone. you can also build or destroy the death star one of the best game's in it's game universe 
 you can use everything from a x-wing to a star destroyer with three gameplay types you can play 
 for hours and with online you and your friends can see who is the best in your own fleet and many 
 thanks to the game designer for letting us use the death star! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The second wack made by Lucasarts at the RTS genre since the 2001 favorite Galactic Battlegrounds, 
 Empire at War arrives just in time to re-vive the RTS world after a long dry spell. 
  
  Single Player: Empire at War boasts many great moments and many great frustrations, first of all 
 the graphics are beautiful, the units look and behave how you'd expect, speeder bikes racing around 
 the battlefeild at lightening speeds, while Star Destroyers and AT-ATs expectedly move sluggishly 
 around the battlefeild. However, these wonderful 3D visuals have one down side, they're limited 
 3D, no camera rotation. I mean it's nothing to not buy the game over, but it's a huge annoyance 
 since almost every other RTS now a days has that basic feature. Sounds wise all I can it's Star 
 Wars, enough said. Gameplay wise is actually one of the games short comings, only 2 sides and not 
 many units, not to mention the obsurdly small unit caps that make it almost boring in some cases, 
 the space combat espescially suffers from this with a max of only 5 Star Destroyers on the feild 
 at a time, and the unit restriction on land is almost just as harsh, along with an incredibly bazar 
 new system Lucas Arts devised that almost completely removes resource gathering to a fixed income 
 rate, good if you always find yourself cornered and unable to capture resorces, bad if you want 
 to expand to get more money, not to mention you almost always need to run the game in a faster 
 spped so you'll even get a decent amount of money.
  
  Multiplayer: Empire at War's multiplayer is as fun as it is different. You and your friends/allies 
 all share a single base, you must all protect it or you lose, while trying to destroy your enemies. 
 But it also makes it easier to attack your enemy as well. Another fusteration in EAW, is the fact 
 that you can't mix sides, no Empire & Rebel VS. Empire & Rebel, it's a good thing kind of, but 
 more a disadvange than an advantage. The multiplayers main pull is the Galactic Conquest, which 
 is pretty self explanatory it's like Risk meets the Star Wars Universe, only you can play with 
 multiple others online to battle for total control of the galaxy.
  
  Empire at War is a very solid RTS it features awesome visuals music and multiplayer. But for almost 
 every good feature there's something hindering or limiting that feature. Not that it will ruin 
 the game but it diffently restrains it form it's potential. Star Wars Empire at War is a must buy 
 for any Star Wars fan, and a game that the average RTS player should seriously check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdh25
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  So how does it live up to the hype? Personally i would tell you because of the greatest space battles 
 ever! these battles can be so epic at times you can get literally exhausted from playing them. 
 Hero units are truly heros and can change the course of the battle. Unfortunately, the amount of 
 heros that were thought to be in this game aernt there (Wheres JANGO) !
  
  Star wars has always had great sound and music and this game is no exception. The classic battle 
 music is there and suits the mood of battle. all units have multiple responses and the voice acting 
 is right on (its definately harrison ford and chewie)
  
  The land battles can feel a little weak at first due to light armor against light armor but they 
 quickly pick up when you get some medium or heavy armor in there. 
  
  Now for people who care about graphics they are decent but not insane. Hero units usually have 
 limited animations when it comes to fighting but so far strategy games have not introduced insane 
 animations for hero units so its just a minor complaint. But this complaint gets solved with the 
 amazing amount of lasers that fly in the air. Its quite a nice laser light show. 
  
  For those looking for the true coop campaign its not there! you and a friend instead of conquering 
 together have to go at it. but for those who live on competiton its definately a blast. But if 
 you gotta do some tag team then you can play space land or land control battles. and dont worry 
 about finding your buddy or buddies because eaw comes with Xfire. This program is perfect for hooking 
 up with your buddies.
  
  WIth good graphics, awesome sound, good gameplay, and the best space battles yet, this star wars 
 ends the streak of bad star wars strategy games. And hopefully, the expansions to come can be just 
 as great as this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well Lucas arts did a good job, the graphics are great, the game ideas are also amazing. But I'm 
 was really disapointed about the type of game it was, I mean it's a strategy game but .....
  
  You only have to cotrol your fighte scuadrons use well your heroes know what you must built 
 to counter incoming atacks.
  
  I THOUGHT EAW would be a game where you can built your structureson the plantes like galactic battlegrounds 
 and the put them into trasport ships built your fighter scuadrons to escort them an have a option 
 to launch your ships into space then travel from one plante to other and land on the other plante 
 a built there a second base I also thought that the mapo would by loke a a real planet I mean if 
 you walk to the left you wil walk al around the planet until you come out a the right side of the 
 map I don't know I you know what I mean.
  
  Well I'ts all I wanted to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Here are my views on the various categories for ranking this game. 
  
  Difficulty: I rated this as just right. It isnt overly complex and it doesnt have all of the 
 micro-managing that so many RTS games or laden with. 
  
  Learning Curve: 30-60 minutes. I dont like this category; personally it takes me a lot longer 
 to understand the strengths, weaknesses and caveats of units. So my rating is based on jumping 
 into the game and playing right away.
  
  Time Spent Playing to Date: 10-20 hours. I picked my copy up yesterday and Ive definitely invested 
 some playing time since getting it and have a good feel for what I like and dont like.
  
  Classification: Just plain fun. No doubt about it the game has made me laugh a lot even when I 
 make a mistake!
  
  Gameplay (8) : I like the game play and I believe it is a strong selling point to the game. It is 
 fun to play and it isnt hard. I wish it had a few more vehicles and didnt seem to play so fast. 
 The interface makes the game easy to play and I love the hologram projections of characters talking 
 to you in the game. 
  
  Graphics (8) : This depends what part of the game you are looking at. I have an Nvidia GeForce 6800 
 GT video card and run the game maxed on graphics at 1280x960. The graphics are good enough for 
 me but I can see where some people feel a bit ripped off at the zoom-in graphics. The characters 
 are flat and emotionless. Then again Im putting them in harms-way so they may look that way naturally! 
 The space graphics are excellent and with the new BattleCam feature you can enjoy your battles 
 as if they were a movie that was a nice touch.
  
  Sound (10) : The sound, in my opinion is excellent and needs no improvement. I enjoy the Star Wars 
 soundtracks and they play beautifully in the background as I play.
  
  Value (9) : Im a lifelong Star Wars fan so the game to me has a lot of value. It is the best RTS 
 for Star Wars to date and has some features not found in other RTS games. Ill get a lot of game 
 time from this game.
  
  Review Tilt (9) : As stated previous Ive enjoyed Star Wars since I went to the theatre in 1977 
 to see the Episode IV. This is just another pleasant experience in the Star Wars universe for me!
 
  
  I think if you are a Star Wars fan youll love the game. If you are not you will probably like 
 it at first but become a bit bored with it later on as it is more about understands the story that 
 makes it enjoyable then bleeding edge graphics. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Empire at War is a great game. One of the best in the series. It brings the Star Wars 
 galaxy to life. It contains many new features that change gameplay and that makes it different 
 than your normal RTS. Space combat is a great new feature in the game and changes the style of 
 gameplay. Ground combat is solid and brings many new ideas, like bombing runs, super weapons, etc. 
 The best feature about this game is the cinematic view it offers you, which makes you feel like 
 your watching a movie and that you are in the action. However there are some problems. There could 
 have been more unit choices and space combat is slightly clumsy. The graphics, also could have 
 been a little better. But all in all, this is one of the better Star Wars games to have come out 
 and you should definitely go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: levi72
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I have never seen space and ground combat mastered so well although the ground is the thing that 
 brought it down a bit. There arent enough building in combat or enough forces to make it like the 
 battle of Hoth in the move where many AT-ATs and hundreds of rebel grunts battled it out. The space 
 combat is suberb except the heros are a tad bit to tough but other than that it is amazing you 
 can just sit back and enter cinamatic view, not perfect but never done before and many games will 
 probably use the great idea, and watch your TIE bombers hurl balls of pure energy at an unsuspecting 
 flag ship while its preparing to fire at your flag ship as well. The hero system isnt the best 
 or the worst but it pretty high up there also the diffrent abilitys for every single unit is just 
 simply but flabberghasting I have never seen specail abilitys on so many units that makes up for 
 the loss of unit types and amount though all in all the game is an A+ in my starwar history and 
 my RTS history, I am a huge RTS player Civ 4, Dawn of war, age of wonders 2, empire earth I and 
 II, Warcraft I II and III, and spellforce, many others, and of course my newest edition to my book 
 case of games I love Starwars: Empire at War.
  
  Thanks,
  Vincent
  P. S sorry for all the mispelled words.....: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svirepia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The name of the game !!! Very best strategy!!!
  trademark of Lucas :)
  To ME that is GOLDEN that means I had a great time and played a great game. And that was just Skirmish. 
 I am abstaining from Multiplayer, as I'd like to hone my Jedi Skills before I start beating people 
 up into major Bantha Foodoo. And Last mode but Not Least, SPACE. Now I was ready to trash the hell 
 out of it since I'm a Homeworld fan, and was expecting similar feel, but it is not. It is very 
 different, but in a good way, I was able to get into it and had a whole bunch of Fun moving my 
 units around, it did not feel like a spacemap in place of a Land Mode but had a feel all its own. 
 I think its what makes EAW Stick out along with all the other tidbits of course, but mostly for 
 the Space Battles. Thank You Petroglyph and Lucasarts for a great game, keep em coming, BUT DONT 
 MESS THIS UP. With the geat soundtrack from the Classic STAR WARS MOVIES and the videos betwen the 
 missions i love this game :P
  A MESSEGE FOR Petroglyph KEEP THEM COMEING
  
  respect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rt1701
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best strategy games i've ever played. awhile back i played Star Trek Armada 
 II, and this game reminds of that (but with out the resource gather waste of time) , but that only 
 in the battle parts. in the main part its like playing a Civilaztion game, only this is better, 
 again NO resource gathering to waste your time. 
  Basically the whole game is awesome, i would say buy it. its definetly worth the money. The other 
 great thing is you don't need the worlds greatest computer to play it either (The system reqs. 
 are actually pretty low) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentSmith1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Petroglyph put some very difficult work into this game for a long time. Empire at War was well 
 worth the wait, and Lucas Arts and Petroglyph are paying top notch attention to the game to keep 
 players satisfied. Some screenshots may look bad, but the graphics are just amazing no matter on 
 what setting you're playing on. I recommend this to any Star Wars fan and pretty much anybody else 
 who likes Real Time Strategy games. This is a very strategic game! It's not your average RTS game, 
 it's a new approach at making an RTS. You don't simply build a base and try to defeat your enemy. 
 You use skills, tactics, retreats, bombardments, super weapons, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  After mediocre strategy games based on the Star Wars franchise such as Rebellion or Force Commander, 
 we can finally play a game that is worthy of the name Star Wars. But is this enough to make it 
 a great strategy game?
  
  Gameplay: The game puts you in charge of multiple aspects of the Galactic Civil War. From managing 
 production, placing troops and strategic structures in different planets, to space and ground battles. 
 Different planets offer you different bonuses that will aid you with your conquest. Heroes, such 
 as Darth Vader play an important role in ground battles as they can mean victory or defeat.
  
  Unfortunately the game feels as if it tried too hard to copy from other games that are much 
 more successful in their respective fields. The strategic map is great, but nothing we have not 
 already seen in such games as Rome: Total War. The space battles, while very well presented, leave 
 a lot to be desired if compared with old games like Homeworld, or not so old games like Nexus: 
 The Jupiter Incident. If you expected full 3d space battles, you are in for a disappointment. The 
 game feels too much in that sense like Star Trek: Armada. While it was a good game in its time, 
 now it would be outdated.
  
  The ground battles are decent but the Hero factor seems to be a poor attempt to copy the heroes 
 from Battle For Middle Earth. 
  
  Even though you have two story lines for the two factions, the single player campaign stories leave 
 a lot of holes. Luckily, if you have watched the films, you can piece them together pretty well.
 
  
  Graphics: The space battles, even though are not in real 3d, are a feast to your eyes. The ground 
 battles are mediocre at best, especially when you use the cinematic camera or zoom in to watch 
 your troops closely. Graphics are blocky and the use of bloom is a poor attempt to conceal this 
 problem.
  
  Sound: In this department, the game does a pretty good job. You have all the classic tunes and 
 sound effects from the films as you would expect from any good Star Wars game.
  
  Value: Even though you will have plenty of fun with the fairly long single player campaigns, the 
 fact that the battles are unimpressive will shorten the replay ability.
  
  Tilt: I must confess that if it had not been for the massive hype this game has created, I would 
 have probably rated it higher. Perhaps I expected too much from it. I expected 3d space battles, 
 a meaningful use of heroes and a fresh use of the strategic map in the game. Unfortunately the 
 game came short on those fields. However its still the best strategy game based in the Star Wars 
 franchise and a must have for any Star Wars fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genrallevve
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  absolutley fabules.
  controll everything from a rebelsqad to vader to an x-wing to a stardestroyer to home one to the 
 deathstar itself.
  if you whant to rule a galaxy or destroy planets or just go on killingspree with vader nows your 
 chance. i can't find any problems with the base building or resore gathering it all there just 
 from an outher perspective.
  now ask yourself how important is it that you chose were in your base to place a structure?
  
 and if you sucessfully contoll the space you wont even have a problem with it.
  what more can yo8u ask from a game.
  from my point of wiew this is a perfect rts.
  i am an 
 rts  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnbach
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I am very pleased with EAW. After a couple hours of play, I'm just as addicted to it as I was Rebellion. 
 These games share a lot of similarities, so other than the RTS ground and space battles, a former 
 Rebellion player should be right at home. If you like SW and strategy, pick this up.
  
  The cinematic camera is useless. I used it once in the demo because it said to and never again. 
 It showed me nothing amazing.
  
  For some, Galactic Conquest will be overwhelming -- so much to track. The campaign launches you right 
 into managing multiple fleets, garrisons, and armies. You have to learn fast because even on easy, 
 the enemy snuck behind and took an undefended world. 
  
  Again this is a must-buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Firstly this game has been pretty much hyped for quite awhile with images of large space battles 
 and amazing graphics.
  
  Both those aspects deliver in this game I am happy to say, but firstly lets talk about the game 
 mechanics and why the title of this review refers them to Ages of Empire and Total War.
  
  Firsly as a commander commanding Rebels or The Empire, you get a galactic interface with all the 
 planets under your control. Each planet you own can be zoomed in into to see what troops are there 
 and what space vehicles are patroling the planet itselve.
  
  It also tells you how many building you have on that planet and what you can build from the planet.
 
  
  The Pros and Cons of this is that its very well layed out and each planet enviroment can be fought 
 on and is differant. The Con however is that theres not much emphasis on economic power... its all 
 military, but since this is a war game i guess that makes sense.
  
  So as you can imagine it has a "Total War" type interface with the whole conquest idea of taking 
 over systems (or as in total war, territories) . Each system gives you a new bonus and more resource 
 to make money. 
  
  There is two aspects of battles here, space battles and ground battles. I have to say generally 
 the space battles are more fun because you get a cinematic camera angle to watch your ships tear 
 the enemy apart and its ALMOST just like the actual star wars movies in that aspect.
  
  As for ground battles, its a bit slow moving and quite hectic.... you can only deploy so many units 
 at a time on a planet and the enemy for some reason has tons of units.... very slow moving and frustrating.
 
  
  Soundtrack wise, the whole star wars soundtrack is there in all its glory, the sounds from the 
 menu "blips" and explosions and laser fire in the space battles are excellent!
  
  Graphically, like said before, this game is really impressive space battle wise for graphics.... seeing 
 the detail of the ships getting blown up in certain parts (like its turrets or shield generator) 
 is I think really impressive for an RTS.
  
  Generally a very good effort from LucasArts Entertainment, i think the real fun of this game would 
 kick off on a on-line aspect, but for now the game still stands as a very fun RTS with many possibilities 
 and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonscheiss
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  You can tell just from the very begining that a lot of love has found his way into this game. Those 
 dev's, being mostly former westwood employers (should say enough actually) were obviously on a 
 mission - to create a star wars game that doesn't suck. While there is a rather limited amount 
 of units to chose from (still lots of them are present!) , said units seem to be nicely balanced 
 and geared towards fulfilling their special roles - I'd much rather have that than a game with 
 1000omg!!1 units that are mainly there to give you a feeling of diversity that isn't realy there. 
 The game is very easy to pick up, with an excellent tutorial that won't leave you wondering and 
 a great manual. If you get the ce you will also get the printed techtrees and tactical overviews. 
 Graphicswise I do like what I see, while space is my clear favorite. Groundmaps can feel a bit 
 empty/sterile at times. You will however find wandering banthaas (sp?) and others. 
  Despite being so easy to pick up I am confident that there's a lot more to be discovered and mastered 
 beneath the surface. I like this kind of games, easy to pick up and hard to master (think Blizzard) . 
 Obviously in the short time I posessed it now I've been barely able to scratch the surface. 
  
  Sound is very decent, you'll hear thos ties coming. The music is classic star wars... 'nuff 
 said. 
  
  The game is superb in terms of content. You get 2 big campaigns (I think like 28 missions together) , 
 the calactic conquest mode (should be insanely fun with friends per lan or online) and skirmishes. 
 
  
  Last but not least: If you do a google search for the demo, you may very well notice that there 
 are loads of mods out already... for the demo!
  I think that should realy give us a lot of hope regarding the moding-capabilities and availability 
 in the near future. 
  I'm confident that any features one might miss right now (ssd anyone?) will be added rather sooner 
 than later. 
  
  Oh, and if you happen to be under the impression that the game must be bad because a some people 
 are reporting problems with the game...
  Keep in mind that all those satisfied new galactic comanders are far to busy playing this game 
 and geting theirs skills ready for multiplayer to ramble in game boards right now. 
  
  soooo, in conclusion..
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoShash071
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  It's a good game, fun for a few hours, then gets boring till you play it again next time! It's 
 fun to control all the different units etc but at the same time it's just two sides against each 
 other, no surprises no deviation from the story line plus there's missions like hoth mising/ and 
 endor. why don't we get these missions? so there still isnt a great star wars game strategy wise 
 but i can wait.... just a little more. and the graphics while theyre not killer, theyre not basement 
 garbage graphics either blllllllllllllllllbl a dfds fds fds fds fds fsd fds fds fsd fjust adding 
 to my review : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW_GTR
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about empire at war, i was damn thrilled. I normally dont like rts games except 
 for the C&C and the warcraft games but i was very happy with this announcement because i had always 
 been a star wars fan from the beginning but when i played the demo version ($178) last year, I was 
 thrilled. The graphics is jaw-dropping and the gameplay is simply great. The only problems are, 
 the lack of worthwhile soundtracks and confusing gameplay for the rts beginners but the rest are 
 simply marvelous. The Darth Vader sections are the best because you get bust out the rebel asses 
 with his lightsaber and flatten their tanks and settlement with his force crush power. In the Galactic 
 Conquest mode you are able to change the face of the galaxy making decisions of which galaxy to 
 conquer and which to not. When you roam throughout the galaxy, you might the enemy fleet and go 
 head to head in a space battle. The Jedis are also playable and it is fun too because each hero 
 has a special ability which can aid during battle and is enjoyable to witness. The most interesting 
 part is that all heroes, both Jedi and Sith, has a unique ability along with some common ones. 
 The story starts from galactic era beginning from Episode IV 'A New Hope' and goes on until Episode 
 VI 'Return Of The Jedi'.
  
  In conclusion, I can say that this game is fantastic and it is worth your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobiusxp
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  Simple gameplay and controling everything from ATAT's to Han Solo makes this a perfect game for 
 any star wars fan. if you are realy into your RTS games then you may find this game lacking , they 
 have got rid of resource collecting in favour of resource points , the more planets you control 
 the more you can build but your still limited to how much you can take into battle, though you 
 can still bring in re enforcements you have to ask your self , do you want to waste all your units 
 on a battle that will cost you to lose other planets after the fight is over. overall it has everything 
 a star wars fan could want out of a RTS but would you still buy this game if it wasnt star wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarmelRob
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This real-time Star Wars strategy game demo includes a couple of well put together tutorials and 
 one mission from the Rebellion side involving the recapture of Tatooine from Empirial Forces and 
 an asteroid field space battle. 
  
  It appears that the focus of this game is to take control of the known universe by capturing or 
 colonizing as many planets as possible. Doing so increases your credits, which is the game's currency, 
 and further increases your maximum army size so that you can successfully repeat the process until 
 your dominion is spread throughout the galaxy. Credits allow you to build up your ground and space 
 forces, utilities, and enlist the help of "heros" like Han Solo, Chewbacca, smugglers, bounty hunters, 
 Bobba Fett, etc. Heros have special abilities unlike the regular players. For instance, in space, 
 not only is the Millenium Falcon super fast but can become invunerable for a short period of time. 
 On the ground, Chewie can capture enemy vehicles through brute-strength and Han can set off EMP 
 charges that temporarily disrupt mechchanical devices nearby. A player's special ability can be 
 limited by time, used only once, or just plain selected and always on until you deselect it. After 
 you use an ability that runs out, the icon representing the ability will display an analog timer 
 countdown to let you know when you can use it next, a feature I've always enjoyed in real-time 
 strategy games like Red Alert. Each player in the game has a specific purpose or strength against 
 the enemy player as well as weaknesses that the enemy player can exploit. For instance, Artillary 
 should always be used against AT-ATs and laser cannons (everything else doesn't stand a chance) 
 but should be placed behind your army since they are very vunerable to any sort of attack. Soldiers, 
 on the other hand, are small and difficult to hit (especially when using the special ability "Take 
 Cover") so they can be placed more towards the front of the army. Some special abilities should 
 be used with discretion though. For example, "Take Cover" limits the speed of the soldiers but 
 dramatically improves their abilities to attack and defend. If a speeder bike zips through and 
 drops a thermal detonator, you'll want to deselect "Take Cover" and march your rebel hineys out 
 of there tribletime. Here is a summary of some of the Rebellion players I can remember playing 
 in the demo, along with their special ability in brackets: 
  
  Rebellion Ground: 
  
  Rebel Soliders [take cover] 
  Plex Solider with rocket launchers [take cover] 
  Tanks [Hunt 
 enemies] 
  Artillary [become stationary and extend out rocket grid] 
  Han [Sprint] [EMP blast] 
  Chewie [Sprint] [Capture Vehicle] 
  
  Rebellion Space: 
  
 
  Xwing [Foils inward for speed, extended outward for attack/defense] (notice a pattern emerging 
 here) 
  Y-Wing [Ion Cannons] 
  Nebula B Frigate [Boost shields] 
  Cruisers [Boost engines] 
  Millenium Falcon [Invunerability] 
  
  Each planet you own can 
 be populated with ground forces and special buildings. Barracks allow you to enlist soldiers, space 
 stations allow you to build ships, shield generators protect your base during ground attacks, mining 
 facilities help increase your daily planetary credit income. In order to raid other planets you 
 will need to transport your planet's ground forces and thus leave your planet somewhat vunerable 
 to attack. 
  
  During both ground and space battles, there are always atmospheric factors that either help or 
 hinder your endeavors. For instance, in space there are asteroids, nebulas, and other gassy situations 
 that will increase damage, decrease shields, or temporarily disable weapon function (Ahh, the atmosphere) . 
 On planets like Tatooine, there are wind storms, tuskin raiders, sarlac pits, and rancors running 
 amuck. The jawas and native humans in bathrobes, however, will sometimes agree to support your 
 cause and thus can added to your arsensal even if they do stink since they don't have any special 
 abilities and lack any real defense/offense. The good thing though is that their expendable since 
 certain structures like Sand Crawlers and those stucco-style Skywalker human dwelling holes will 
 regenerate and spawn spanking new jawas and humans as time goes by. A La Red Alertesk. 
  
  During Space battles, you have the option of targeting "hard points" in large structures like Star 
 Destroyers such as Shield Generators, turrents, hangers, and concussion missle launchers like you 
 would expect to in a Star Wars game. There isn't much more to say about space battles except that 
 they basically follow the same real-time format as ground battles so I'll move on to ground battles 
 which are much more involved and take up much more CPU cycles. Ooh Yeahhh. 
  
  During ground battles, if you happen to have Y-Wings in orbit over a planet, you can command them 
 to bomb areas on the ground with a giant crosshairs other than those protected by a shield generator. 
 Of course, once you do this, the timer icon will appear and slowly countdown to when you can bomb 
 again very much like the atom bomb in RA. There are also reinforcement points on the map that once 
 you capture by simply being near, you can call in for additional ground forces that are awaiting 
 you in orbit. Last but not least there are "build pads" that you will encounter while on the ground. 
 True to its name, you can build structures such as infantry turrents, vehicle turrents, anti-aircrafts 
 turrents, beacons (help to improve map visibility) , infantry healing stations, and vehicle repair 
 stations. 
  
  The game also has a unique function called cinematic mode which lets you watch the battle unfold 
 before your eyes like you were watching a movie which is especially fun to do when you're undeniably 
 about to win a battle and can take a moment to rest on your laurels and bask in your achievement. 
 
  
  Now for my favorite part, the critic's corner! One of the biggest flaws in my opinion is the maximum 
 you can zoom out for an aerial shot during ground battles which isn't nearly enough. With everything 
 happening so fast in real-time its important to be able to see a lot of what's going on without 
 having to pause and scroll around like an idiot. The mini-map helps retify the problem by flashing 
 certain areas when you're under attack and taking you directly to the spot you click on but ultimately 
 the game doesn't deliver in this respect. Another noticable flaw is the speed control which only 
 consists of pause, play, and fast which isn't exactly helpful for fine-tuning. After reading the 
 Gamespot review it came to my attention of yet another flaw. The cinematic mode has no camera options 
 so you're really at its mercy as to what its willing to show you and when. (It really is like a 
 movie!) I've noticed that the first few seconds of this mode is usually set at an uneventual angle 
 like the ground but soon thereafter turns to where the action is, hopefully before the interesting 
 stuff is over with. The last flaw is that the game NEEDS to run smooth if you have any real intention 
 of enjoying yourself and making some serious credits. Lags are just not acceptable for this real-time 
 strategy and take away a large chunk of the fun and undermine the strategic element. There are 
 many ways to lower the detail level in order to retify this problem but this could still be a problem 
 for the poor slobs with crappy computers. I guess Empire of Wars just wasn't designed with you, 
 I mean, those people in mind so it pays to download the demo to see whether your computer should 
 be sent to the chop-shop. 
  
  Come to think of it, this game really has a lot going for it. It has the ground battles of Red 
 Alert, the planetary construction and colonization of Master of Orion 2, and a unique real-time 
 space battle which I haven't seen paralleled elsewhere. All of this with a Star Wars theme and 
 very little graphic violence (what Lucasarts calls "fantasy violence") , Empire of War will assuredly 
 continue to get excellence reviews for being the first real Star Wars strategy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemmo_ays
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  
  From the Demo version we see the superb graphics and gameplay of this game, now we have the full 
 version and we just can't wait to see what's comeing next from the Petroglyph Team [THE BEST TEAM 
 EVER] 
  I enjoy the cinematic camera and more otthers cool stuff, the planets are great and the tutorials 
 are verry good for thoes that want to join the strategy type.
  FROM MY POIN OF VIEW STAR WARS EMPIRE AT WAR IT'S A GAME THAT COMES OUT 1 AT 10 YRS.
  The Star 
 Wars univers is one with multiple choices and much to profit from, the units, building, envirement, the 
 finghting in space and on ground are superb done, this games will win the 2006 Best Strategy Games [i 
 hope and i think]
  
  With the geat soundtrack from the Classic STAR WARS MOVIES and the videos betwen the missions i 
 love this game :P
  A MESSEGE FOR Petroglyph KEEP THEM COMEING
  
  I have grow up with Command & Conquer series and Dune and more, today the same team bring me the 
 Star Wars Empire At War, i'm a big fan of Star Wars too, now i have to pass some exams for faculty 
 but in a few days my pc sound sistem will screem MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU :D
  With much respect NemmO
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is a nice looking game with some nice game play aspects however based upon the demo, as 
 the full game is not yet out, I can honestly say that the game mechanics will rapidly bore most 
 RTS gamers. People who gave this game a superb rating without first playing the full game are the 
 kind of people who judge a book by its cover and not by its content. Content being the key issue 
 here where you as a player are limited to only two ways to play. You can play as the Empire, or 
 as the Rebellion. Once you understand what it takes to counter the enemy the game rapidly degenerates 
 into a bore. The only real saving grace for this game might be Multiplayer. However as we have 
 seen with other games, cheating will more likely than not, ruin this.
  
  I have reviewed my comments and decided to that I was a tad bit unfair with some of my scoring. 
 The game is a very good looking game and that should be reflected in my rating. - Edit 3/12/2006 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is great. Even though I just got it yesterday, it's awsome!!!! I've already spent 
 6 hours playing it and I've had it for about 12 hours. I love it. It's just like Battle for Middle 
 Earth except Star Wars Style. The space battles are wicked and the land battles are pretty cool 
 too but the game is extremely hard overall because you have to manage attacks, defends all of your 
 planets (you can contend for up to 50) , manage your money, and the technology you have on each 
 planet. It's so immersive and detailed, but again, it's very difficult. It's a great buy though. 
 Because it's so difficult, it'll take a long time to beat and I guarantee its replayable. The graphics 
 are really good for an RTS but not as good as Battle for Middle Earth 2. This is a good buy and 
 I suggest you add this game to your collection soon!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesFS-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  On playing the demo I must say that the first thing that caught my eye was the space battles. You 
 really do get that feeling of commanding a fleet however ragtag or modern it may be. That's probably 
 the best part However, in ground based battle, I found it to be roughly average and then maybe 
 a little bit more.
  
  Graphics I found to be sufficient enough. In a RTS game I don't expect nor prefer to have exceptional 
 graphics. As long as I can distinguish units, and they look pretty decent from a top-down view, 
 it works fine for me - and Empire at War meets my expectations.
  
  I had no complaints with sound either. I like the Star Wars Soundtrack tho. 
  
  Since I only 
 played the demo, one can only comment so far tho. Specifically I hope that the full version of 
 the game will be able to retain my interest over the course of the entire game. B/c games that 
 have great graphics, etc, yet fail to have that long-term appeal just aren't worth what you pay 
 for. 
  
  Overall, I think this game has sufficient promise in becoming a great game that will last quite 
 a while. Whether this is true shall be seen when the full version comes out. 
  
  Gameplay - 9 since it's pretty good, especially space battles.
  Graphics - 8 enough for my expectations.
 
  Sound - 9 no problem here, but it's not a mind-blowing experience
  Value - 9 I think it'll be worth quite a bit
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10 Me likes RTS and Star Wars. 
 Throw the two together and we have a winning combo!
  
  Overall score: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Hundreds, if not thousands, of Star Wars fans and Real-Time Strategy players have long anticipated 
 the release of Empire At War. The looks of the game alone convinced you that it is a very promising 
 game.
  But, would you like to know what is under the cover? Would you like to know more about the overall 
 gameplay and graphics? Would you like to know about the variety of ships/units are available to 
 you in space/land battles?...
  
  In my opinion, Empire at War is a slightly above average Real-Time Strategy game. There are dozens 
 of planets and systems to fight on and different missions/resources to gather. There is also a 
 variety of units and ships to choose from. 
  
  To me, the graphics are horrible compared to many of the other recently-released RTS games. It 
 seems like the ground units have been molded out of clay. There are no facial expressions/features 
 present. The space ships, however, are spectacular in terms of graphics. You actually feel like 
 you are commanding an Imperial/Rebel star fleet. 
  
  So, overall, Empire at War is an above average RTS game, and an even better Star Wars game. Empire 
 at War's space battles and Galactic Conquest Mode is it's strength and would be nothing if it hadn't 
 been added in. The space battles only could keep a Star Wars fan playing until his/her dying days. 
 On a scale of 1-10, 1 being the worst and 10 being the best:
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toobstake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  My favorites have always been the Warcraft series, Starcraft and Homeworld. I had low expectations 
 going into this game, because of ahem another StarWars RTS which shall remain nameless, TOTALLY 
 Let me down, and with the Bu*****t that happened with Galaxies recently set me on FIRE. Now I have 
 a new LOVE and it is Empire at War.
  
  I'm having a blast as Rebels, haven't tried the Empire yet. I won't say any story details to spoil 
 the fun. Gameplay on Land is Good, it's what I would expect except some things for instance not 
 building anywhere I want, and using certain build points it's different, but it adds to the tactic 
 element. So I like it, as far as building Units YOU DONT. Not on Land anyways, which was strange 
 at first but I dig it since I can build in Galactic Mode and prepare my Fleet, or Raid party. It 
 reminded me of customization in XCOM UFO Defense. OH so many planets to conquer. I took just a 
 quick peek at Galactic Conquest, and I see oodles and oodles of extra content. So once I'm done 
 with my story Campaigns It won't be over. YAY. I also played Skirmish Battles real quick and, I 
 have to say I was pleasently surprised to sit through a 1 hour battle in space and forget the time 
 went by. To ME that is GOLDEN that means I had a great time and played a great game. And that was 
 just Skirmish. I am abstaining from Multiplayer, as I'd like to hone my Jedi Skills before I start 
 beating people up into major Bantha Foodoo. And Last mode but Not Least, SPACE. Now I was ready 
 to trash the hell out of it since I'm a Homeworld fan, and was expecting similar feel, but it is 
 not. It is very different, but in a good way, I was able to get into it and had a whole bunch of 
 Fun moving my units around, it did not feel like a spacemap in place of a Land Mode but had a feel 
 all its own. I think its what makes EAW Stick out along with all the other tidbits of course, but 
 mostly for the Space Battles. Thank You Petroglyph and Lucasarts for a great game, keep em coming, 
 BUT DONT MESS THIS UP.
  
  The only reason I'm not going to give this a perfect 10, is because I'm spoiled in the Graphics 
 Department. WAA WAA tell somebody who cares :-)
  
  OK, Nuff Said.
  
  See you in Multiplayer. :-p 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
