-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Starfleet Academy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/starfleetacademy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 24, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 213 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Aug 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Starfleet Academy looks and plays no better than space combat games from two years ago. 

 I'm not really sure why Interplay decided to start publicizing Starfleet Academy nearly three years 
 before its eventual release, but one thing's for sure: When you start the hype machine that far 
 in advance, the final product had better deliver all the goods as promised, and then some. Unfortunately 
 for Trek fans and gamers whose appetites have been constantly whetted over the past months, Starfleet 
 Academy just isn't up to the task.  

 In all fairness to the folks who worked on Starfleet Academy, part of the reason for the long incubation 
 process was that the project was put on hold while the game's producer worked on other titles. 
 But that doesn't change the fact that Starfleet Academy looks and plays no better than space combat 
 games from two years ago - and when expectations are as high as they were for this game, that's 
 not gonna cut it.  

 Starfleet Academy puts you in the Federation uniform of the sheepish David Forester, who's just 
 arrived at Starfleet Academy's Command College in San Francisco. Forester is the commander of a 
 group of cadets with a lot of potential - and a lot of emotional baggage. Two team members get 
 into a squabble at the very first team meeting, and that's just the first of a series of problems 
 involving each and every member of your crew. Add to this the appearance of a reactionary group 
 at the Academy called the Vanguard, who believe all the Federation's problems with the Klingons 
 and Romulans can be solved through brutal retaliation - and the fact that one of your team members 
 sympathizes with this isolationist group - and you can see these aren't going to be carefree school 
 days.  

 In addition to keeping your cadets on track, you'll also meet Star Trek luminaries such as Hikari 
 Sulu, Pavel Chekhov, and of course the legendary James T. Kirk. All the scenes involving characters 
 at the Academy are handled with full motion video, something of a letdown for those under the impression 
 that the game would give you a chance to move about your quarters or throughout the Academy. And 
 interaction is limited to selecting dialogue responses and then sitting back to see how well you 
 chose.  

 The acting quality ranges from highly polished (Sulu, Chekhov, and Kirk) to competent (Forester 
 and his fellow cadets) to downright uninspired (some of the enemies you face during simulator missions) . 
 There's actually a pretty decent little mystery that unfolds as you progress deeper into the game, 
 but it's just not that compelling a game because the FMV format makes you feel as though you're 
 watching a story rather than taking an active part in its solution.  

 This design probably wouldn't be an issue if the Starship simulator got your blood pumping. But 
 here again Starfleet Academy falls short - and it's not just because all the media hype made gamers 
 expect too much. Interplay was faced with a dilemma here: If the simulator were too "realistic," 
 all the captain could do is bark out orders to his bridge crew - not very exciting stuff. The other 
 option was to go for more of a traditional space combat experience, which puts Starfleet Academy 
 up against games like Wing Commander, Privateer 2, Darklight Conflict, and others. And on that 
 level, Starfleet Academy just doesn't pack much of a punch.  

 For starters, you have to run through the rigmarole of allocating damage control teams and adjusting 
 energy settings in anticipation of combat before every mission. This busywork could have been eliminated 
 easily by giving you the option to save several configurations for damage control and energy allocation 
 (full combat, strong tractor beam, strong sensors, and so forth) and simply load the one you want 
 to use.  

 Once you get into a scrape, you'll find there's no way to look to the left, right, or rear - a serious 
 drawback in a game that's little more than a cosmic dogfight - nor are there any external views. 
 Because you've only got two weapons to work with regardless of which class ship you're given, it 
 doesn't take long for combat to become little more than a routine. About all that breaks up the 
 monotony is the occasional use of the tractor beam or transporter, or the thrill of being able 
 to fire a four-photon spread instead of just two. True, you have to make dialogue choices and command 
 decisions that determine the outcome of the mission, but with very few exceptions the correct responses 
 are pretty obvious. When they're not, don't bother asking your crew for its input - there's no 
 way to query anyone for his opinion unless it's offered as a dialogue selection.  

 Another disappointment comes in the visual department. Graphics for ships and explosions are merely 
 adequate in the non-Direct3D version, and though the Direct3D version looks noticeably better, 
 that's not saying a whole lot. In short, it looks good, but not great.  

 Because this is a Star Trek game, there'll undoubtedly be a few players who'll be more than satisfied 
 with what Starfleet Academy has to offer. But gamers who expect a top-notch game to go along with 
 the Star Trek trimmings are likely to be disappointed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HOMER_SIMPSON
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok first i will get started with bits of the game.
  There is 22 missions one you unlock by doing good.
  The planet system needs to be worked on. 
 sturek says when you go near a star Captain, we are decending to far into this planets gravitational 
 well. all in all it needs a bit of work. in some missions you need to use dialouge choices to get 
 the right choice you need to think like the federation. sometimes in dialouge choices you need 
 to be diplomatic but firm. some missions can be a bit tough and not all missions you need to fight.
 
  summing up this is a great game and i give it 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Starfleet Academy tends to get a bad rap among many Star Trek Gamers these days, though perhaps 
 not as much criticism as some of Activision's contributions.
  
  When Starfleet Academy was first released, many Trek fans were expecting an open-ended experience 
 in the institute where all of Starfleet's legends had their humble beginnings. What they got, however, 
 was a primarily space sim game with a very linear plot to follow via live-action video. Personally, 
 I found SFA to be everything I was looking for, though this may have a lot to do me not following 
 the game before release. It was exhilarating to interact with Captain James T. Kirk and numerous 
 members of his legendary crew. I also enjoyed learning more about the Trek universe and lore through 
 the game's storyline, linear as it might have been.
  
  Of course, there was the main space sim aspect of the game as well. While I found it thrilling 
 to command Starfleet capital ships, I found myself spending more time in the full-screen tactical 
 display during most missions rather than interacting with my 3D live image animated crew, which 
 was disappointing. The encounters with various alien species and the dialogue with them via the 
 viewscreen was a nice touch and really helped make the game "feel Star Trek", in my opinion, and 
 words cannot describe how it felt to undertake the famous Kobashi Maru mission, the "no-win scenario".
 
  
  All in all, while Starfleet Academy may not have been everything the fans and gamers had expected 
 it to be, I still found it a worthwhile experience and would recommend it to anyone wishing to 
 relive the nostalgic original series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
