-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Armada II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekarmada2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 718 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It probably won't completely satisfy those who enjoyed the first Star Trek: Armada, though with 
 that caveat aside, it can still be recommended. 

 Released in early 2000, Star Trek: Armada was a well-built, graphically impressive real-time strategy 
 game that let you command the famous ships of the  Star Trek: The Next Generation  television series. 
 The game wasn't overly complicated as real-time strategy games go -- the object was to quickly try 
 to gather enough resources to field a large fleet of starships powerful enough to dispose of all 
 the enemy forces. Still, Armada was paced well, had some tactical depth, and was essentially fun 
 to play. Some Star Trek fans felt its fairly simple gameplay didn't do justice to the source material, 
 but most found Armada to be a refreshing change from the typically lackluster Star Trek games that 
 had come before it.           The battles in Armada II are even larger-scale than in the first 
 game.    

  At any rate, there was certainly room for a good sequel. Some sequels simply expand on the concepts 
 of the original game -- they introduce new graphics and a few new features. Other sequels are more 
 ambitious in nature, and Star Trek: Armada II is one of these. You can't tell just on first impression -- the 
 look and basic design of the game remain largely identical to its predecessor. However, a number 
 of new complexities have been introduced in Armada II, which make it seem more compelling than 
 the first game from a strategic standpoint. Unfortunately, in practice not all of these new features 
 are successful. In fact, if you enjoyed the original Armada, you might find yourself nostalgic 
 for that game while playing Armada II.   

  Armada II is the first product from Mad Doc Software, a company founded by one of the key individuals 
 behind some of Activision's successful real-time strategy games, including Dark Reign, Battlezone, 
 and the original Star Trek: Armada. On paper, Armada II sounds like a perfect sequel. In addition 
 to the Federation, Klingon, Romulan, and Borg playable factions from the first game, Armada II 
 also lets you play as the cruel Cardassians and the enigmatic yet decidedly hostile Species 8472, 
 though these two are only available in the skirmish and multiplayer modes. New ships and technologies 
 have been added to each of the returning factions. There's a new, linear campaign consisting of 
 30 single-player missions -- 10 for the Federation, 10 for the Klingons, and 10 for the Borg. New 
 tactical options are available -- ships can be set into a number of formations, and battles now play 
 out in true 3D space. By comparison, in the original Armada, battles took place on what was essentially 
 a flat 2D playing field. Armada II also adds more layers to the original game's resource model. 
   

  Not all of Armada II's gameplay additions are effective, even if they sound attractive. For example, 
 the ability to move your ships in a true 3D environment is just the sort of feature that some of 
 Armada's fans hoped to see in a sequel. Unfortunately, the ability to do battle in true 3D space 
 is really of negligible benefit to the game and actually introduces some new problems to how it 
 plays. Though you can zoom the camera in for a close-up view of your ships, you'll spend the vast 
 majority of your time with Armada II looking at your fleet from a top-down perspective, much like 
 you'd find in most any real-time strategy game. Thus having the ability to move ships "up" and 
 "down" relative to this perspective can be a tricky affair. It's easy enough to do -- you use the 
 Shift key, much like in the popular outer-space strategy game Homeworld, to set a destination for 
 your ships along the Z-axis.           New units such as the Borg fusion cubes are impressive and 
 fun to use.    

  The problem is, at a glance, you can't really tell what's where. What looks like space debris might 
 actually be a fleet of powerful starships too far "down" for you to notice. Meanwhile, ships sent 
 all the way "up" can fill the screen. This can be used to devious effect in multiplayer matches -- the 
 relative sizes of your units can be carefully concealed by moving them along the Z-axis, so that 
 even at resolutions exceeding 1024x768, it can be very difficult to tell what sorts of ships you're 
 dealing with. There's a "tactical" view mode that lets you see the action from more of a side angle, 
 which gives a better sense of relative distances between ships, but this view is otherwise disorienting 
 and mostly just adds some cinematic flair to the action. It's not an ideal perspective for actually 
 playing the game. At any rate, the addition of the Z-axis may indeed add a new level of strategy 
 to the combat, but since much of the strategy revolves around taking advantage of flaws in the 
 game's default perspective to trick human opponents, it's not the kind of depth that's entirely 
 welcomed.   

  In any case, battles just don't last long in Armada II. For one thing, you'll find yourself bringing 
 more ships to the fray than you did in the original game. In Armada, a well-balanced fleet of about 
 a dozen ships could easily sweep across the map. In Armada II, most ships are produced very quickly, 
 but also seem to get destroyed more easily, which means you'll use greater numbers of them. It 
 also means you'll probably ignore the weaker ships and try to work your way up to the stronger, 
 sturdier ones as quickly as possible. This isn't really satisfying -- the first Armada gave a pretty 
 good sense that you were indeed commanding powerful starships. When one of your bigger vessels 
 was destroyed, that was a real blow to your force. In Armada II, ships are more expendable. Considering 
 that most of Star Trek is about the drama that takes place aboard these vessels, the idea that 
 they can be thrown wave after wave to their deaths seems misguided.    

 Armada II's ships fire and turn very quickly -- they seem to have little mass -- and their jerky motions 
 further diminish the sense that they're actually huge spacecraft with hundreds or thousands of 
 crewmembers aboard. Ships apparently take damage differently depending on their facing, but in 
 practice this doesn't seem to mean much -- a few ships bearing down on a single target can usually 
 decimate it in no time, regardless of what direction it's pointed in.           The ability to 
 move units in true 3D leads to confusing results.    

  Armada II lets most ships travel at warp speed, another new feature. They'll seem to elongate and 
 will travel at a much faster rate across the map. In this state, ships are more vulnerable and 
 their line of sight is reduced. It's a nice way of balancing out an ability that you'd expect most 
 any Star Trek vessel to have. In practice, it's great for when you need to quickly reinforce a 
 fleet engaged in battle or defend a vulnerable base. Maps in Armada II can be quite large, so being 
 able to traverse them at high speeds is a relief. Actually, warp speed gives you a lot of leeway 
 that you don't get in other real-time strategy games, where you need to have your units in the 
 right place at the right time.   

  Warp speed isn't the only new feature that makes Armada II's combat seem rather forgiving. Since 
 the pacing of Armada II's battles is much quicker than before, the designers added some options 
 for allowing units to autonomously fire their special weapons. The special weapons in the original 
 Armada worked just like those in games such as Warcraft II or Starcraft. Basically, you could spend 
 resources to research special weapons for your individual ship classes, and then you'd need to 
 manually trigger the attack when the time was right. Some have criticized this approach over the 
 years -- the idea being that manual dexterity shouldn't be a factor in a strategy game. At any rate, 
 by giving you the option to let your ships fire off their special weapons autonomously, Armada 
 II makes this hot topic a nonissue. In doing so, it penalizes those players who actually like the 
 challenge of having to manually use these attacks, since the computer will always be quicker on 
 the draw. Then again, the computer will also be prone to wasting the attacks on insignificant targets. 
 Overall, much like the addition of the Z-axis, the option for greater unit autonomy in Armada II 
 is something that's not quite successful in practice. It feels like a compromise, because it is 
 one.   

  The changes to the resource model of Armada II are better than the changes to the tactical combat. 
 The original game featured one basic resource you had to gather -- dilithium -- plus crew, which constantly 
 regenerated and essentially limited the rate at which you could produce ships. Armada II adds the 
 resources of metal and latinum to the mix. Metal is used in conjunction with dilithium to make 
 ships but mostly to make new facilities. It's mined from planets, and most of the factions do this 
 by constructing orbital mining facilities on planets found throughout each map. Latinum is a precious 
 resource gathered from gold-colored nebulas and is mostly used for researching new technology. 
 Also, planets can now be populated using colony ships, and this increases the rate at which you 
 gain more crew. Not all races treat all the resources the same way. The Borg have no need for latinum. 
 Species 8472 need only "bio-matter" and have no use for the basic resources the other races require. 
 Most factions can now build a trading station facility, which can be used to buy or sell the various 
 resources.           Units can now conveniently warp across the map.    

  The more-complicated resource model in Armada II demands that you aggressively expand your territory 
 to gain the funds you'll need to win. It's certainly a more interesting system than that of its 
 predecessor, especially in how the demand for various resources varies somewhat for the different 
 factions. However, once you weigh the resource gathering against the breakneck pacing of the combat, 
 you'll find that the game really boils down to the resource gathering. You need to concentrate 
 on gathering a lot of resources as quickly as possible and then building up a force that can sweep 
 the map and crush the resource-gathering operations of your foes before they can do the same to 
 you. The original Armada's resource system was simplistic -- you just threw a few mining vessels 
 at nearby sources of dilithium -- but it let you concentrate on the tactical combat. The sequel's 
 focus on resource gathering isn't necessarily the best direction it could have gone in.   

  Star Trek: Armada II's single-player campaigns are fairly conventional. There are usually multiple 
 mission objectives in each scenario, and they're not always so basic as having to eliminate all 
 the opposition. Though the Romulans, the Cardassians, and Species 8472 don't get their own campaigns, 
 you'll run into them while playing as the other factions. Unfortunately, you might also run into 
 a few bugs -- the program shut down sporadically on our test systems, and strange things sometimes 
 happened in the game, such as friendly units spontaneously firing on each other. Armada II features 
 original voice-over from Patrick Stewart and a plot that should be satisfying to fans of the television 
 series. These fans will also appreciate that Armada II sounds great -- each of the game's six factions 
 has its own well-done unit acknowledgments and music, although many of the sounds come straight 
 from the original game, and the high-quality music plays in relatively short loops.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nicocee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  Single Player is probably the hardest part of the game, as in Instant Action you can modify the 
 game to suit your self, such as "how long it takes for ships to build" and "Unlimited Resources". 
 You begin with fighting off the "Borg". Which is probably the hardest team to fight, especially 
 for begginers to the game. The missions will last longer if you do not have experience in strategic 
 operations, until eventually the Borg will destroy your base and bang! your gone.
  
  
  Instant Action:
  
  This Mode of the Game, allows players to customize almost anything about 
 the battlefield, espeically in Version 1.1 (Patch found on GameSpot) , you can customize, what enemies 
 your up against, the amount of resources available, the map that you play on or even how long it 
 takes for a ship to come out of the yard. This is personally my favourite game mode. If you are 
 using Modifications, this is the game mode you would use them in.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Multiplayer is similar in every way to instant action mode, with the obvious exception that you 
 can play other people online. (Unless you are using an illegal copy of the game, i. e. a Torrent 
 file.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the RTS genre hit the scene, seems like EVERY gaming company needed to jump on the RTS 
 bandwagon and make their own RTS for their game series. Ever since DUNE : Battle For Arakus came 
 out, more and more games have been starting to follow up as well as make their own style of RTS. 
 WESTWOOD added Command and Conquor, Blizzard came out with War Craft, TSR/SSI made BLOOD MAGIC, 
 an unknown company made a game called ALCHEMIST, there was even a Gameboy version called Warlocked 
 (Somewhat like War Craft) . Now just about every game series has come out with similar RTS games 
 such as STAR WARS GALACTIC BATTLEGROUNDS, AXIS & ALLIES, SOUL CALIBUR III had a somewhat RTS game, 
 Star Trek New Worlds, Dark Riegn, Demon World, and the list goes on. Star Trek now adds Armada 
 to the list and it's fantastic. This is one game that I can totally get into a lot. Mainly becuase 
 you can play as Borg, Cardassian, Spesies 8472, and even Ferangi. There is a lot to do and a lot 
 to upgrade. Just like a lot of other really good RTS games, each race has their own strengths and 
 weaknesses. This is one game you need to add to youer RTS collection...
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Very nice, very good detail to the weapons, explosions, ship designs, starbase designs, 
 and the space anomalies you will run into. Even the ship damage is very well detailed adding the 
 fire and flares when they take damage. You will be very pleased with the detail and design of each 
 and every ship, starbase, and space anomalies.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Just about everything can be controlled with the mouse, one way or another. It does take a while 
 to learn a few things here and there, but once you know them, the gameplay is very good and you 
 will figure it out fast. Especially learning about depth control. Gameplay itself is not that much 
 different from otyher RTS games. Build your first base, get some upgrades, build some ships for 
 defense, collect minerals such as dilithium and latinum for supplies, and then, let the enemies 
 have it when you build your armada to wipe out your opponent. The main thing about this is that 
 there is so much to do during gameplay even before battles happen. You can colonize planets, steal 
 starbases and ships, and don't forget that each race and special abilities that other races don't 
 have so make sure you take advatage of it. Plus, lets not forget multiplayer games and networking.
 
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  I will say that if you are a Star Trek fan, then this game is a must have for your collection. 
 Most of the Star Trek games have been pretty good and have had little disappointments. If you just 
 love a good RTS, then you have little excuses, unless you are into medeval type games. This is 
 one RTS that you can and will get into fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Armada II is like age of empires type, game play but with more stuff and 10 times faster 
 speeds. I played Star Trek: Armada II for at least year off and on. I mostly played instant action 
 allot and I also went into the game files and tweaked how many ships there are and made the cp's 
 super hard. The single player aspect is alright but gets really boring really fast, but it is interesting 
 to see what's going to happen next in the scenario. Multiplayer action was nerve racking because 
 everybody played the Borg and built things very fast. Star Trek: Armada II isn't that good from 
 the first armada that kinds of looks the same Star Trek: Armada II, but has simpler control aspects. 
 One thing they could have built into this game is to add more races like Vulcan's or andorians 
 and e. c. t.; more races the more people will play the game. The good thing about this game is there 
 was allot of modes for it like example armada 3, star wars vs. star trek and temporal empire. Also 
 you could add more maps, ships and stations to the game making it more enjoyable. One thing that 
 lacks in this game is some kind of map editor in which you could create some cool maps. I know 
 there are some map editors for Star Trek: Armada II on the net but either don't work or are too 
 hard to figure out. If the creator's activision added an editor we would have had a fun time messing 
 with that. One thing in the single player of Star Trek: Armada II had me mad was the final level 
 because that was insanely hard and weird because you had no choice working with your enemy the 
 Borg. 
  
  Overall this game is fun to play once and again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  I bought this game fairly soon after it came out, because of I enjoyed the first, but I was severly 
 disapointed.
  
  Gameplay- The interface works well for this game.
  
  Graphics- Good, but not exceptional.
  
  Sound- The background music was OK, but I really enjoyed 
 the sound effects.
  
  As much as I wanted to like this game I just couldn't do it. The early missions of the campaign 
 were just bad and amounted to nothing but building huge fleets of weak ships (as you can't build 
 anything more powerful until late game missions) and then sending them out to get murdered by a 
 few Borg defences. Later missions are the same except that you can now impale bigger ships upon 
 the enemy's defences. It really is a same because I am a Trek fan who really wanted to enjoy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB_E102
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Armada II is really... A great game. It is unconventional, primarily in its curve, but 
 also somewhat in it's game-play. Now, I'm no more or less a Star Trek fan than I am a Star Wars 
 fan. But, in being a completely new RTS experience for me, yes, I said for ME, there are a lot 
 of things that are thrust upon the player. And at first, ya, they're pretty tedious. A lot of, 
 talk, and no walk. And a few races introductions, tutorials, and explanations are sometimes vague, 
 or at times are not fleshed out well enough.
  
  But honestly, that learning curve does this game justice. It is difficult to approach, difficult 
 to master, and just downright difficult to pick the teeth of. And for this game... it works! It 
 really does work. I don't have to talk about graphics. They are not an integral part of Armada 
 II's experience... because the graphics are so stellar for it's time, that they're seamlessly integrated 
 into the game's scope.
  
  Each Race, in and of themselves, without any re-tension as to resources/unit's; are completely 
 the same. They play the same, they move the same, and, and in the gist of it all, they think the 
 same. But they're architecture, they're bonuses, and they're special weapons make each race sinister, 
 malicious, cunning, and devastatingly unique.
  
  Placement of unit's don't just work on a X, Y Axis, like your "conventional" RTS games. There are 
 bonuses to having leveled attacks, and there are even stances, or in other words "unit arrangements", 
 that complement these. And as unit's range from Artillery to up close and down-right bloody close 
 combat, being able to meticulously work the X, Y, AND Z Axis is not only a challenge, but, its 
 a fun one to have the ability to make.
  
  My beef's with the game, are the lack of full and equal intro's, explanations, and tutorials for 
 all the races, and a full race campaign compliment for each galactic power in the Star Trek Universe 
 would have added a lot more sustenance.
  
  Star Trek Armada II - A must play with a steep learning curve, and a bit of "pre-peeled potato" 
 user-intro feel... but, a must play none-the-less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasds
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  When I was installing Star Trek Armada 2 I thought it would be like the first Star Trek Armada, 
 but I was wrong. When I played the tutorials I saw the differences that they put in the game, it 
 haves new ships and new stations and it has new materials that we can get in the game, the materials 
 are metal, dilithium and lathinium. The thing that I don't like is the 3D interface when we use 
 the shift button to put the ship or the construction of a station, but that's my opinion. The game 
 is great on terms of strategy it has new species to play and a great story. I recommend this for 
 the people that like strategy games and Star Trek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun to play, because it has two more races to play and alot of new features 
 in this game. The graphics got worse for me though, but they added the tactical viewer that helped 
 me out alot when I was fighting. I liked the fact that they added the warp drive, which I used 
 to rush people all day. I am glad also that they added the cloaking device to another race besides 
 the klingons and the romulans. I liked the Keldon class ship and the fact that it could cloak, 
 which made it as dangerous as the warbird. The single player campaign disappointed me a little, 
 because they didnt have a campaign for all of the races, but they were all included in the three 
 campaigns. The multiplayer is still solid, with alot of new features added to the mulltiplayer 
 options, including the observer mode, which I really learned alot watching some of the greatest 
 players of this game. Overall, I liked the game alot, but the first one was better. I think you 
 should get this game if your a fan of ship fighting and definitly if you are a Star Trek fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Star trek Armada was a good game to play if rather pointless and frustrated and also limited. Yet 
 it was a good game.
  
  ST: Armada starts off about 6 months on from where you left of after the first one. However the 
 I have to say the Original is far better than it's sequal.
  
  Sloppy graphic glithes spoil a otherwise good game. The new features to the game like the bog mega 
 cube creates new problems for the game to crash. 
  
  The storyline is dry and predictable which you don't want it to be. at least not fully. Activison 
 needs to pick up the phone and talk to the company Westwood makers of Command and conquer. Ask 
 them how to make a RTS game a Legend. like the Command n Conquer series.
  
  The ship details are sloppy and again just like with the first ST: Armade, It is really frustrating 
 that we have to play through the federation and the others just to finally get to play the borg. 
 Instead of at the start allowing the player to play the race they want to from the start and have 
 their own sets of missions.
  
  ST: Armada 2 will pass the time away, Most Star trek fans will be happy with it but nothing to write 
 home about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  Since I have stated this game is Instant Class, as recored by my break down, I will now explain 
 why it is an Instant Classic.
  
  Pros..
  
  1) The game really understands the understanding and fell for the Star Trek Universe. Follows the 
 same physics as the Star Trek: TNG series. Which is a plus if you on deciding on how to send your 
 ships into Warp mode across the map. Beware of the borg :)
  
  2) Being the different races during the single player campaign was interesting. Having each race 
 start and end with a different story line tied the game up in the end.
  
  3) Mulitplayer is a blast. Playing among 8 different people, allied, team combine... multi-race 
 teams... a major plus for any game.
  
  4) Very affordable now. My CD has broke twice while playing this game because of heavy usage and 
 my traveling.
  
  Cons...
  
  1) Activision. They got int he way of this game. With their suit against paramount Pictures, there 
 was only ever one patch released for the game which didn't fix that much.
  
  2) To start a network game, you need connection to Gamespy for easier connection. There should 
 have been a way for a more de-centralized gathering place.
  
  3) Discountined Product. This is a very discontinued product and the source code should be released 
 so fans and programmers alike can take up making this game great by fixing up.
  
  4) Maps. The maps, while great, were to "expanding" at all. Too many bugs in official versions.
 
  
  Other than that this is a great game. Instant Classic as I said before.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fedaykin03
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  With the debut of Star Trek Armada II, the foundation was set to create a epic RTS game in the 
 Star TreK Universe. This sequel adds 2 New Playable Races, the Cardassians and Species 8472. It 
 also adds several needed to updates. Those being increased diversity in ships. Each race averages 
 20 diffrent ship classes and also adds the Warp Drive ability to availble ships. But what really 
 allows STA2 to stand above its forebearer is the 3-D view. This mode allows you to roam the map 
 with a free camera.
  
  This game however is far from perfect. The amount of detail on the starships leave something to 
 be desired. Probably the most noticeable problem is the default weakness of the ships. The capitol 
 ships elimante the cruiser classes in one or two barrages. Making would be epic space battles just 
 a race to the Capitol Ships.
  
  Campaign Mode is a excellent way to both hone your skill and learn how to control your fleet effectively.
 
  
  This game does not begin to reach its peak until you begin modding it with updated ship graphics, 
 sounds, and detail.
  
  Summary: This is probably the best game to mod I have ever played.
  Easy to access information 
 through Notepad. Easy Change.
  Easily an Instant Classic!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  As much as I love Star Trek the thought of a Star Trek based video game sends a chill down my spine 
  mainly due to a slew of mediocre titles released over the years. Once in a while we are surprised 
 such as with the fantastic Star Trek Voyager Elite Force. Luckily, Star Trek Armada II is not a 
 bad game at all  it is pretty fun and enjoyable for the most part.
  
  Star Trek Armada IIs setting is in The Next Generation universe (in many missions you get to control 
 the Enterprise herself) in the Borg are an imminent threat. Most missions require you to set up 
 base, build it up with a streamlined economy, research, defence and a powerful fleet. The economy 
 is easy to set up as there are only metals, dilithium, and latinum  this paves the way for the 
 player to focus more on fleet building. In regards to the fleet, you must colonise planets to get 
 a higher crew pool. Ships each have a special weapon and AI can be instructed on how often it uses 
 these. There are a good number of formations for your fleet and with the hotkeys theyre easy to 
 navigate during battle. After youve finished with the Federation campaign, you can then move on 
 to the Klingon and Borg campaigns. One of the biggest changes since the first instalment was the 
 addition of 3D space; however, this seems to also be the weakest point of the game. I found that 
 this feature was almost superfluous in terms of gameplay.
  
  In the instant battles and multiplayer there are a variety of maps to play with. You can choose 
 to be the Federation, the Klingons, the Cardassians, the Romulans, The Borg, and even Species 8472. 
 Each species plays differently enough and its interesting enough just testing out each of them 
 and playing with their respective fleets.
  
  The graphics are good enough for an RTS and the sound is impressive. The soundtrack is simple and 
 does not take away from the game. It is also important to note that the game runs pretty smooth.
 
  
  Many games that use official licenses (especially the Star Trek license) tend to rely more on their 
 brand appeal than their quality of the product. Fortunately, Star Trek Armada II is a decent 
 RTS game that is definitely worth playing if you like RTS gaming and are a Star Trek fan. Since 
 its a relatively old game it should be quite cheap to pick up so check the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpionfish2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is an RTS game set in the Star Trek universe. It is much like the Command and Conquer 
 games because you build structures and units and attempt to defeat enemy teams. There are three 
 modes of play: single player, instant action and multiplayer. In instant action there are 2-8 armies. 
 In campaign mode there are three campaigns: Federation, Klingon and Borg. You have to complete 
 the Federation campaign to gain access to the Klingon campaign and you have to complete the Klingon 
 campaign to gain access to the Borg campaign. The gameplay and graphics are superb, and the sound 
 is brilliant. Overall this game is an essential purchase for any RTS or Star Trek fans who own 
 a PC that can play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2004 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Activison has done it. They have successfully brought the realm of Star Trek to the PC in the form 
 of a RTS game. This game is great. It brings some of the elements of RTS in general and of Star 
 Trek Armada into a fully 3D world. You can now move your ships and position your starbases in a 
 fully 3D world. You can make your ships fly higher or lower on the plane, adding another element 
 of strategy. You can also opt for a viewing mode which puts you right in the thick with your fleet. 
 That's not all though, there are plenty of big maps to play on, as well as a random map generator 
 for plenty of replayability. In the skirmish mode you can play as the Federation, the Klingons, 
 the Romulans, the Borg, the Cardassians, and Species 8472. In the campaign, you focus on the struggles 
 of the Federation against the Borg, the Klingons against the Cardassians, and the Borg against 
 Species 8472. The cut scenes look alright and the character portraits look choppy but the soundover 
 is of excellent quality as they use real Star Trek actors such as Patrick Stewart and Alice Krige. 
 The campaigns are relatively long and will take some time to complete. In short, Star Trek: Armada 
 II is a great game that any fan of Star Trek and RTS should own. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
