-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/starwarsgalacticb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,000 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 11, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On one hand, it's a derivative real-time strategy game. But on the other, it's a tidy little bundle 
 of escapism that's perfect for a generation of gamers raised on Star Wars. 

 Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds will send Star Wars purists into a tizzy. Tauntauns on Tatooine? 
 Dewbacks in outer space? Naboo Fighters tussling with X-Wings that haven't been invented yet? TIE 
 Fighters with shields? And since when do Wookiees have tanks? The Star Wars universe already requires 
 a willing suspension of disbelief, but most fans at least expect some internal consistency.    
        Galactic Battlegrounds uses the Age of Kings engine suitably well.    

  These are hardly grounds to dismiss LucasArts' latest real-time strategy stab at the most lucrative 
 license of them all. But they are grounds to wonder whether this is just a cheap tug at the pocketbooks 
 of the fans or whether any thought went into this Star Wars adaptation of Ensemble's Age of Empires 
 II engine. Although at times it seems LucasArts was being lazy, this isn't just a slapdash skin 
 job. Rest assured that Galactic Battlegrounds has a relatively deep design with enough twists to 
 distinguish it from Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings.   

  The fundamentals of the Age of Empires II engine are so intact in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds 
 that veterans of that game can jump right in with barely a glance at the manual. So many elements 
 are almost identical -- the interface, the resource management, the upgradeable units, and the unit 
 balance, for starters. The four tech levels are analogous to Age of Kings' four ages. The six sides 
 in Galactic Battlegrounds are the equivalent of the civilizations in Age of Kings, each with minor 
 differences. For instance, in the Age of Kings, the Turks collect gold a little faster, and in 
 Galactic Battlegrounds, the Royal Naboo collect nova crystals a little faster. In the expansion 
 to Age of Empires II, the Huns don't have to build houses, and in Galactic Battlegrounds, the Trade 
 Federation doesn't have to build prefab shelters. As in Age of Kings, in Battlegrounds, each side 
 can build a unique unit. For instance, in Age of Kings, the Teutons get Teutonic knights, and in 
 Galactic Battlegrounds, the Galactic Empire gets dark troopers. Although each side in Battlegrounds 
 has unique graphics for its units and structures, they're all functionally the same. In Age of 
 Kings, each side's infantry, cavalry, archers, and siege engines have the same basic stats, and 
 in Galactic Battlegrounds, each side's troopers, mechs, heavy weapons, and aircraft have the same 
 basic stats. All the units can be upgraded. In Age of Kings, a militia upgrades to a man-at-arms, 
 then to a long swordsman, then to a two-handed swordsman, and finally to a champion. In Galactic 
 Battlegrounds, a trooper recruit upgrades to a trooper, then to a heavy trooper, and finally to 
 a repeater trooper. There are minor exceptions. In Age of Kings, the Persians don't get champions, 
 and in Galactic Battlegrounds, the Trade Federation doesn't get repeater troopers. And so on.  

  At this point, you might think Galactic Battlegrounds is just a Star Wars front end for Age of 
 Kings. But there are some significant differences. Since Battlegrounds deals with science fiction, 
 ranged combat is no longer just the supporting element of an army, as it was in Age of Kings. In 
 Battlegrounds, almost all units have some sort of ranged attack, with the occasional melee fighters 
 serving as supporting elements. One benefit of this is that unit balance is clearly visible by 
 the color of shots. Red laser bolts are good against infantry, blue bolts are good against vehicles, 
 and green bolts are good against buildings. In Age of Kings, it's not immediately clear that pikemen 
 are good against cavalry, but not archers. With ranged combat, Galactic Battlegrounds has a built-in 
 mechanism to show unit balance.   

  Another important difference is the addition of aircraft (oddly enough, the game uses this term 
 for spacecraft like Naboo Fighters, TIE Fighters, and X-Wings) . This sort of maneuverability was 
 never part of Age of Kings, where infantry was slow, cavalry was vulnerable, and walls could be 
 used to shut out invaders long enough to marshal your defenses. But once aircraft are developed 
 in Galactic Battlegrounds, there are no such guarantees. Antiair units come into play one tech 
 level earlier than air units, so there's plenty of time to anticipate an aerial threat. But this 
 adds a whole new layer to the basic mechanics of Age of Kings.           You may not have seen 
 Wookiee armies in the movies, but you will here.    

  Another new layer that doesn't come into play as often is stealth. There are a few units, such 
 as advanced Jedi masters and some Gungan submersible boats, that can't normally be detected. Later 
 in the game, the tide can be turned by sending a stealthy Jedi master into a base to convert a 
 key structure, like the power core that powers a shield generator. It should have made for some 
 very intense moments in the manner of Obi-Wan deactivating the tractor beam on the Death Star in 
 the original  Star Wars  film. However, stealth is easily countered. Turrets can see Jedi, and 
 many boats can see Gungan subs. This makes stealth a feature that looks good on paper but doesn't 
 have much impact on the game.   

  However, shield generators and Jedi are additions with significant impact. The former are clever 
 additions to the Age of Kings gameplay that add a regenerating layer of hit points onto any unit 
 or building within a certain radius. You need a power core near your shield generators in order 
 for them to operate, though. The Gungans actually have a portable shield generator on their unique 
 unit. Some units have built-in shield generators, and other units can research them later in the 
 game. Meanwhile, Jedi aren't just Age of Empires' monks. Although they can convert enemy units 
 to their side like Age of Kings' monks, they're not as frail -- with their lightsabers, they're powerful 
 melee fighters that can easily take on superior numbers. The game counters them with bounty hunters, 
 whose ranged attacks are especially powerful against Jedi. Each of Galactic Battlegrounds' six 
 sides gets Jedi and bounty hunters.    

 Because each side has essentially the same forces, Galactic Battlegrounds sometimes feels like it's 
 not doing justice to the rich potential of the Star Wars universe. Would it have killed LucasArts 
 to make the sides substantially different? In Age of Kings, the Britons don't vary too drastically 
 from the Celts because, well, they're both human civilizations that evolved along similar lines. 
 But the only real excuse for the Gungans and the Galactic Empire being so similar is that this 
 is the way Age of Kings did it.           The Gungans look especially different from the other 
 civilizations.    

  There are other areas where it feels like LucasArts isn't even trying to mask Galactic Battlegrounds' 
 foundation. Although the resources have names like "carbon," "nova crystals," and "ore," they're 
 clearly the counterparts to Age of Kings' wood, gold, and stone. The maps feature suitably Star 
 Wars-sounding muja berries, banthas, and falumpsets, but these are found in environments otherwise 
 covered by pine trees, oaks, and palms. You'll even occasionally hear Age of Empires' chirping 
 cricket effect, which tends to break the mood when you're on the surface of a barren asteroid. 
 Galactic Battlegrounds replaces trebuchets with cannons, but they're the same-old ponderous long-range 
 siege engines. Whereas trebuchets had to be "unpacked" to fire (hotkey U) and "packed" to move 
 (hotkey P) , cannons have to be deployed to fire (hotkey still U) and un-deployed to move (hotkey 
 still P) . Instead of a town bell to call your workers to safety, you use an "alert beacon." Instead 
 of relics that generate gold when carried into a temple, you have "holocrons."The direct similarities 
 to Age of Kings are plentiful. LucasArts has licensed the engine -- it might as well have stirred 
 it up a bit more.   

  There are certain conventions from Age of Kings that don't carry over very well into the Star Wars 
 universe. Instead of peasants, you use worker droids to harvest resources -- but it still costs 50 
 units of food to build one. Food to build a droid? If you read the manual, you'll find some nonsense 
 about having to feed ugnaughts. The way spacecraft are modeled as swarms of hovering flies feels 
 awfully forced. The scale of units is conspicuously off, but this is nothing that doesn't also 
 happen in Age of Kings. Most of the time, LucasArts does a good job filling out the unit roster, 
 even though no one knows what a Wookiee tank, a Gungan bomber, or a Rebel mech looks like. But 
 in some instances, you get the impression that the designers just ran out of ideas.   

  Regardless of the problems in translation from Age of Kings, the bottom line is that Battlegrounds 
 is a far more successful treatment of the subject matter than LucasArts' last attempt, the wretched 
 Force Commander. One of Force Commander's biggest problems was that it was an ugly, clunky engine 
 burdened with a bad interface. This time LucasArts should be applauded for not trying to reinvent 
 the wheel. What a far better idea to license one of the most successful and refined RTS engines 
 ever and just slather on a thick layer of Star Wars stuff!   

  And to be fair, the developers have gone out of their way to sprinkle Galactic Battlegrounds with 
 vivid and surprising touches. The skirmish maps can be randomly generated from generic terrain 
 or from Star Wars locations, each with distinct features. Tatooine maps are seeded with Jawa sandcrawlers 
 that can be captured and used in combat. You'll find Yoda's hovel on Dagobah. The scenario editor 
 gives the game enough flexibility to go wherever you want and bring along "hero" units. Whip up 
 a skirmish game in which Luke and Yoda square off against Darth Vader and the Emperor. Have young 
 Obi-Wan fight old Obi-Wan. Put that annoying Anakin kid on a tiny island all by himself.       
     Star Wars fans should particularly enjoy Battlegrounds.    

  The sound is fantastic, with the exception of an occasional bad voice-over. Leia and Han Solo sound 
 bad enough, but the actor voicing Lando Calrissian seems to think he's been hired to imitate someone 
 from  The Sopranos --Lando sounds like a goodfella. The single-player campaigns are little stories 
 with characters from the movies. The Empire campaign, narrated by Mara Jade, spans the gap between 
 the destruction of the first and second Death Stars as Darth Vader hunts down Luke Skywalker. Wedge 
 Antilles narrates the more desultory Rebel campaign, with Princess Leia enlisting the aid of Wookiees 
 and Jedi in the pursuit of some artifact. The Wookiee campaign follows the continuing adventures 
 of Han and Chewie after the battle of Endor. The Trade Federation campaign details their struggle 
 against the Naboo and the Gungans. Finally, the Gungan campaign is Boss Nass' recollection of his 
 ancestors' campaign to unite the Gungan clans, followed by his own battle against the Trade Federation. 
 Each campaign unlocks bonus missions that let you replay events from the movies. Revise history 
 by holding off the Empire at Hoth, saving the Death Star over Endor, or overruning the Royal Naboo 
 at Theed. Even better, kill some Ewoks or put Jar-Jar Binks at the head of a suicidal charge.  

  When it comes right down to it, the goal of any Star Wars-themed strategy game should be to re-create 
 the epic feel of the battles in the Star Wars movies. We just want to watch AT-ATs lumber through 
 the snow with stormtroopers swarming around their feet. We want to see Rebel soldiers holding the 
 line with snowspeeders coming to the rescue. And we want to hear the Imperial marching theme or 
 that splendid "Duel of the Fates" riff while we do it. When it comes right down to it, most complaints 
 with Battlegrounds are easily forgotten when all this happens. On one hand, sure, it's a derivative 
 real-time strategy game. But on the other hand, it's a tidy little bundle of escapism that's perfect 
 for a generation of gamers raised on Star Wars.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Get this game. It is a ton of fun when you cant think of anything to do on your computer. the graphics 
 are good (not exactly Civ 4 tho) the classes are great, the depth is engaging and the choices are 
 unlimited. any RTS fan or a fan of star wars should get this . Hours and hours of fun. If you get 
 bored of it, give it a break, and when you come back you will enjoy yourself as much as the day 
 you bought it. It should be cheap since it came out like 5 years ago, dont miss this. this was 
 my first RTS and I have been a fan of the genre ever since. And its still just as good as all the 
 other RTS that I have played. Dont miss out on this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianguy7
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Since StarCraft, fans have been wishing for a Star War RTS. Seeing big fleets of Terran Wraiths 
 swarming over Zerg Hives, we all imagined X-Wings making attack runs on entrenched Imperials.
 
  
  Sadly, the Age of Kings engine was a poor choice with which to attempt delivering this kind of 
 battle. 
  
  Let's start with the the foundation: Age of Empires is NOT remembered for the kind of epic space 
 battles that StarCraft delivered. For that matter, there is no "space" at all! This is the game 
 where I remember having to keep a close eye on my peasants to be sure they are picking enough berries 
 or finishing collecting enough meat from the deer they just speared. WAY too much micromanagment 
 in my opinion. it also used diagonal tiles to map out the terrain -- a very Sim City-like decision. 
 It is again, more sim than battle.
  
  So, patch over graphics and sounds from Star Wars and the result is... mediocre at best. AT-AT's 
 are tiny enough that you get no satisfaction unleashing them on foes. And your army will look just 
 silly -- try the demo. You'll see an unorganized herd of Vader, droids, speeder bikes outrunning 
 foot soldiers, stormtroopers mounted on lizards, and so on. I am sorry to say that while they tried, 
 this game just does not work. Moreso, it is a cheap way for Lucas to grab money -- after years of 
 fans asking for a legit RTS, he authorizes A GRAPHICS CONVERSION of ANOTHER GAME? No thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  SWGB is just an incredible game. Reviewing it now ,4 years after I had stopped playing it, brings 
 back nostalgic memories. SWGB was an overall very fun and enjoyable game, the single-player campaign 
 was great, you got to play as every faction available and expand it's own story. After completing 
 all the single-player campaigns you'd thing that they would be nothing else to do. Well, thanks 
 to the awesome support of zone. com, you could go online and with ease, find a match in an instant. 
 The community was great, there were many clans and you could meet a whole lot of people. There 
 were many scenario player-made maps as well. 
  
  An example would be Hero/Bounty/Jedi Fest, these are maps with a small base all around the centre 
 of the map, these would be fortified with laser turrets and could be upgraded in the latter versions. 
 In the middle of the map, would normally have super-units that could be captured if the middle 
 was occupied by one side for a prolonged period of time. These units would be a decided factor 
 in the match, and this normally prevented other players from base raping/camping. 
  
  Another would be City-Build, a brilliant scenario in which there would be plots of land that would 
 be of different terrain and be separated by outer-space. There would be a huge area in the middle 
 for the host of the match to control, this would normally be known as the senate and controlled 
 the most powerful units and had admin controls. This is comparable to God & Jesus from StarCraft.
 
  
  So you put in the great engine, graphics for it's time, gameplay and wonderful community and you 
 got yourself a great game.
  
  I would like to extend this message to LucasArts. Please make a next-gen sequel to this game, you 
 would have my fullest support. I hope you already have this in the making. It's truly an awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Think of Age of Empires but add in all your favorite Star Wars characters and even units from the 
 expanded universe and you have Stars Wars Galactic Battlegrounds. The graphics are fairly nice 
 for a game that is 7 years old and the sound effects sound great. All factions are well balanced 
 and have their advantages. Like most other RTS games, Galactic Battlegrounds mainly consist of 
 the same formula of capturing as many resource points as possible, build your up your defenses 
 and army, create as many high damage top tier units as possible (ATAT for example) and then send 
 them out after the enemy and destroy them in one sweep. It is never the less still fun and is actually 
 one of the few RTS's that I enjoyed playing multiplayer MORE than regular single player. The multiplayer 
 maps are just a blast and add a new level to the game that just made it that much more enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds is a great experience for those who love Star Wars and Age of 
 Empires. The campaigns are great fun, and will have you forgetting plans you made and then you 
 won't feel bad because you can say that you were playing Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds. The 
 system handles like the classic Age of Empires, but the races are as diverse as you could expect 
 from the Star wars universe, with each of them having special abilities and drawbacks. The skirmishes 
 are fun, you can play them for ages as each race different times, and they never get boring. The 
 controls are easy, and you can play loads of different missions. The controls are a lot like Age 
 of Empires, except with a few tweaks, so this doesn't make it that difficult to pick up that game 
 and play no matter how often you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I first played this years ago, and i really want to play it again, but i no longer have it. I decided 
 to write a review about a great, but not very popular Star wars RTS
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  i was addicted to this game like crazy (the days before I found FF obviously) . It had everything 
 for me. It was a RTS which involved building a civilization, while completing missions. You could 
 play as 7 races from the SW universe. There were varying missions, such as the campaign mode, which 
 saw you controlling a group of famous characters from SW, such as Darth Vader, Darth Maul, Obi 
 Wan Kenobi e. t. c. Missions ranged from defeating an army, to capturing a city, to building the 
 starters of a civilization.
  Then there is the deeper Quick game mode (this is a joke, they took hours) , in which you pick your 
 own objectives and civiliaztion. You also pick your enemies and ally players. Then you played the 
 game. The best was Deathmatch. This involved building a civilization, while destroying your opponents 
 with troopers, sith/jedi (depending on race) , mechs, assualt weaponry e. t. c. This was the most 
 fun and time consuming as you had to destroy every single unit the enemy had including buildings, 
 and it was hard if you set 7 civilizations to be enemies with you. This way of creating your own 
 games led to a lot of variation.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Great for when it was released, the units look good, and the buildings and environments are well 
 presented. There isnt really a lot to say, just your typical RTS game really. Not Amazing, but 
 no pushover either.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Typical star wars noises, with the Screech of TIE fighters, and the clash of lightsabers, it really 
 immeresed you into the SW universe. However some of the noises were a bit cheesy
  
  lifespan: 30 hours plus.
  What you make of it really, If you just like doing the Campaign missions 
 dont buy it, because there is only about 10 hours here, but the Custom game settings allow you 
 to make games that can take upto 3 hours to play, and you can save whenever you want
  
  Overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds is an awesome game filled with fun campaigns and cool options 
 to choose from like Creating your own scenarios and story mode. You can have fun with all of these 
 options and play for hours and hours. You start out with a Command Center and three worjers and 
 have to build everthing up from there, workers gather Carbon, Nova, Food, and Ore which can be 
 spent on Troop Centers, Troops, walls and more to help build your base. It is wicked fun to gather 
 a huge army up and send them out to battle with one of your enemy's. The difficulty isn't that 
 bad, you get to pick your own which basically just has the computer attack you or not attack you. 
 I always like to play everything on hard and it isn't that bad, but you can't expect to win every 
 time when playing on hard. You can choose from a countless number of maps when playing on standard 
 game and that makes it a lot of fun you can send ships over water to attack troops by foot or aircrafts 
 by air to try and take you enemy out. The game doesn't really have anything wrong with it but you 
 run out of features to play after awhile and it starts to get repetitive.
  
  I highly recommend this game, it was a must-buy game for me and if you like Star Wars you should 
 enjoy playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thawitsri
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I like this game It very Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy I try to fine a chat because It play very hard 
 -*- This will be displayed on the community reviews index, so make it snappy!
  All its new features combine and I will buy Stage 2 of this game too lots of challenges and variety 
 for real-time strategy players of all skill levels, and it'll be particularly fun for fans of previous 
 Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds Too. And this game it have many Chat ^^/ ... (~ ) ~You speak 
 of the day we met just like speaking of scenery Here is the gateway to summer at duskBecause when 
 you feel the windOn the slopes you dash on when flipped by the bells
  You can laugh away even the things you worry about
  Tomorrow will be sunny day, okay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a real big fan of RTS's, but Galactic Battlegrounds was a much different experience for 
 me. I'll admit that it's likely due to the Star Wars lincense attached to it. I found the license 
 itself was used very well. The sound is classic Star Wars, and they've made lots of Characters 
 and Vehicles from the universe available to the players. There are also a number of building and 
 unit upgrades to set your sights on. The graphics are clear, and do the job. Although they still 
 serve their purpose, they have aged well when you compare it to the RTS's that have followed it.
 
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, I found it very addictive. Not so much the main game mind you. I barely 
 played the campaigns included in the game. It was the map creation mode that kept me up to 3am 
 on more than one occassion. Building then playing my own maps was fun, easy, and intutive. I fought 
 the battles I wanted to fight. I loved every minute of it. And there was an abundance of those 
 minutes. Online play is also available to take your gameplay even further.
  
  Still a joy to get into, I would recommend it to RTS and Star Wars fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondragon55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a long time ago, back when it cost $30. After all those years it is one of my favorites. 
 Ok, first, the gameplay: Awesome, using the AoE engine was great (I've only played AoE III, but 
 at the time I had no clue what an engine was) You get to play as a number of different side; Wookie, 
 Trade Federation, Gun Gans, Rebel, Empire, and Naboo. What more could a Star Wars fan ask for? 
 Graphics, at the time, I'm sure they were good. But I wouldn't compare them to any current ones. 
 But Graphics are only icing on the cake. But, I'll give it a good graphics rating cuz of the date 
 it was made. You can't ask for Gears of War looks on an 6 year old game.
  
  Sound, typical Star Wars stuff. Blasters rifles, units screaming when they die, stuff exploding, 
 all done very well.
  
  Value, I played this game from the time I got it, till my little bro destroyed it only a two years 
 ago. If they updated this game with new graphics and added a few new some of the features from 
 Star Wars Empire at War, you'd have the ultimate Star Wars RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds takes place during the 1st, 4th, 5th, and 6th episodes. This 
 game is pretty much Age of Empires: Age of Kings with guns and tanks instead of swords and cavalry. 
 Most units can be upgraded like the troops. They start out as recruits, then regular, then heavy, 
 then repeater. Even though the 6 factions being quite similar there are still minor differences. 
 For example, the Trade Federation doesn't need to build prefab shelters (houses) . But they can 
 only upgrade their troops to heavy troopers. Despite some of the campaigns being lame there are 
 a few fun ones. The graphics are okay but nothing to rave about. Even though this is a great SW 
 strategy game, I am seriously looking into Empire at War. Anyways if you get this game I am sure 
 you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was a fun game on the PC. It put the player in control of all 
 land, sea, and air assets of one of six political groups from the Star Wars universe: the Rebellion, 
 the Empire, the Wookies, the Naboo, the Trade Federation, or the Gungans.
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was very similar to the Warcraft series of games, in that the 
 player was required to mine various resources (nova crystals, Carbonite, and wood) which were then 
 used to create everything from buildings, to soldiers, to ships. Just like in Warcraft, the player 
 would use the mouse to select offensive forces, then click the map to direct the movement of the 
 forces, or click on enemy forces to engage.
  
  The player could increase his level by creating specific structures. As the levels increased, the 
 player's technological edge would also increase, allowing weapons systems to become more powerful.
 
  
  There were two primary options within the game, the player could play the story mode which would 
 pit the player against increasingly difficult enemies in his quest to rid the galaxy of the Empire, 
 or quell the Rebellion, dependent on who the player was playing as. The second option was an open-ended 
 campaign where the player was given resources, and had to establish a base of operations from which 
 war could be waged against the enemy. In this campaign mode, alliances could be established in 
 order to overwhelm the common enemy.
  
  Since Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was a Star Wars game, favorite characters such as Luke Skywalker, 
 Han Solo, Princess Leia, and Darth Vader were playable, among many others from across the Star 
 Wars universe. Additionally, recognizable buildings including Jedi temples were available, as were 
 vehicles from the series, including X-Wings, TIE Fighters, the Millennium Falcon, AT-ATs, and AT-STs 
 among many others.
  
  Since Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was licensed through LucasArts, all the music and sound 
 effects mirrored those from the films.
  
  Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was a fun game, which was very easy to become immersed in, providing 
 hour after hour of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Okay I got this game back when it first released, and I loved it, it was a SW RTS that used the 
 Age of Empires II Engine, for the most part it was pretty good and fun for awhile, however, playing 
 singleplayer and muiltplayer really have its differences. While the AI in both modes can be some 
 what, weak, its forgiveable. 
  
  However, The AI Enemies if you want to play Singleplayer are just slightly too weak on the Easiest 
 setting, Medium it gets alittle better not much, Hard is a hundred times better than Medium and 
 even more so than easy, if you want to have some what of a challenge with AI players then you g 
 otta have aleast 3 maybe 4 AI factions to give yourself somewhat of a challenge. However, if you 
 truely want to enjoy this game, outside of story mode/campains, You have to play Muiltplayer with 
 some friends/strangers and use the Map Editor for Customized Game play. 
  
  This is the core root of enjoyment with this game its basically the reason to purchase this product, 
 so you can play with Die Hard SW fans across the nations of the globe. and with people who aren't 
 the biggest SW fans. can get some enjoyment of playing this game over muiltplayer with their friends. 
 with this experience. What saves this game from being medicore is the Muiltplayer, Map Editor, 
 and Other Customizable atributes to this game.
  
  Basically its a Age of Empires game, only SW style, its got the same feel to it, the same building 
 structure to the game. Its a huge improvement, over the dissappointing Force Commander RTS game. 
 but its not revolutionary, its just a Okay SW game thats worth playing. Nothing too Good, Nothing 
 too Bad, Nothing too boring.
  
  Its very much a Medicore game, thats it.
  
  Worth playing, however, If you want something better, I recommend, Empire at War, and Age of Empires 
 II & III. 
  
  7.1 out of 10. good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Initial reports of Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds was that it was going to use the Age of Empires 
 II engine to create a Star Wars real time strategy game. Being that AoE II was brilliantly executed, 
 it seemed like such a great idea. Clearly the developers thought so as well.
  
  The real problem is that they did exactly what they promised: They made a Star Wars RTS out of 
 AoE II. When you really think about that, you may realize that it makes a lot less sense than it 
 seems on the surface. What fans may have been clamoring for in fact was more along the lines of 
 "A Star Wars RTS that is as good for that setting as AoE II was for its historical setting." That's 
 a much less specific desire but one that may have made for a better game.
  
  When you play SW: GB it doesn't take long to figure out that you're playing AoE II with sprite replacement. 
 The sense of scale introduced by lumbering AT-ATs and the scarcely controllable quickness of the 
 Speeder Bikes are necessarily dialed back in order to both fit the engine and maintain balance 
 and presentability. But while the technical limitations of the engine may make these shortcomings 
 understandable, they don't make them forgivable when the end result is a bland gaming experience.
 
  
  The carefully crafted balance of the different selectable armies in AoE II is tossed aside for 
 a short list of tacked on armies in addition to the obvious Rebellion and Imperial forces. Playing 
 as either of the main factions has its moments of enjoyment, but trying to compete as the Trade 
 Federation ragdolls or the bizarrely included Wookiees whose unit types are pulled from thin air 
 rather than from any existing Star Wars fiction is pointless.
  
  The limitations of the AoE II to Star Wars translation becomes pretty apparent when you see how 
 the designers struggled to include X-Wings and TIE Fighters into a primarily terrestrial-based 
 campaign. Adding as many flying units to the game as they did unbalances a lot of games as building 
 defenses for both ground-based and airborne attacks can be frustrating and when one lucky raid 
 by an opponent can set you up for a long but ultimately futile fight to catch up with your enemy's 
 progress. Other aspects like resource mining is poorly translated as well since it appears almost 
 unchanged from the AoE II incarnation (save for some perfunctory name changes) and after a few 
 rounds you may find yourself thinking, "Why do I need to manually mine Ore when I'm the fracking 
 Empire for Pete's sake?" And such a question would deserve a decent answer; none is provided.
 
  
  Not to say that Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds is all bad. If you can forgive the rough translation 
 issues, on its own there is a relatively decent amount of standard RTS-style fun to be had. After 
 all, this is AoE II with Star Wars sprites so as long as you stick to Rebellion or Imperial forces 
 you can enjoy a few rounds of AoE II without all that annoying realism. That may be worth a dozen 
 hours or so for novelty but don't bother trying to play as Gungans or any of the other cheesy races.
 
  
  In the end the problem seems to be that the designers never got past the "It's Age of Empires... 
 but Star Wars!" pitch line. The inspiration and dedication to the license seemingly stopped at 
 that point as they didn't seem to try very hard to really bring a sense of the Star Wars universe 
 into the game, thinking two proven entities melded together would equal something twice as good 
 naturally. Unfortunately they didn't account for the limitations or the design focuses of either 
 property and the match ended up being less than perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERDUELIST50
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  For those who are star wars fans you might notice that some of the game does not align with the 
 story of the movies. If you have played age of empires you notice right away that there are a lot 
 of similarities between them. Galactic Battlegrounds still uses the Age of Empires engine suitably 
 well. It is a very amusing game especially if your going to play with your buddies online. The 
 game takes the technology of the movies and turns it into an understandable thing. The units are 
 quite accurate to the movies. It is a must buy game. Great Game to buy and play for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alizhd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  it is a crazy game in the world. play on line is the best. If you wonna play a good strategy play 
 this one. the game play of this game is good because the clicking is not good at all but the sound 
 is good. the jedi's are not good at all, one time i was playing it online. i lost because of jedi. the 
 are not good at killing people. but overall the game is fun. who those love strategy games like age 
 of empire 3 they will love this game tooo. althought there are some stuff that are not good. i like 
 the gameplay because how you move people is fun however the clicking is not fun at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaguies
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game, I said to my self "this is probably the best starwars game i ever 
 played. I loved the gameplay, the graphics. but I specialy liked the map editor. i could just be 
 crazy creating new maps. It really gave me the experience of creating a large and powerful empire. 
 But sadly the sounds were just recorded and were played over and over again. There was no emotional 
 intensity to it. And there was no uniqueness in the units. the biuldings would just follow a pattern 
 and the units looked different bu in truth they all looked disame. i just wish they would create 
 Galactic battle grounds II with a more unique sense. I don't want it to be another age of empire 
 or age of mythology copy. i want it to be unique in its own sense. But still a great game. I could 
 just play it for ever and ever and ever.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Fun RTS game, but exactly like the Age of Empires franchise. If you liked Age of Empires you'd 
 like this, if you're also a Star Wars fan you'll love it. The game has plenty of factions to play 
 as, plenty of varying maps to play on, and dozens of units, including infantry, tanks, vehicles, 
 ships, and of course the space ships that give the franchise the name. It also has 2 story modes, 
 where you can either play as the rebels, commanding such as Luke and CHUBACA LALALAAAAAA! Or play 
 as the Empire commanding guys like Vader LA.... Overall the game was pretty good and offers hours 
 of fun, though i was never able to get the multiplayer running, it was still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  The previous two Star Wars RTS games Rebellion and Force Commander left a lot to be desired; so 
 Lucasarts decided to license the game engine of one of the more popular RTS series' and create 
 a flawless masterpiece. Did they succeed? Perhaps if you liked Age of Empires they did.
  
  There is no real consistant storyline in Galactic Battlegrounds to speak of. There are a few campaigns 
 that follow certain characters through "historic campaigns" a lot like the AoE series. Each campaign 
 features a different plot and is in no way connected to the other ones (directly anyway) .
  
  The gameplay in GB is exactly the same as the AoE series right down to the lack of any real 
 difference between the factions. There are fishing ships, a form of farms, droids picking berries 
 from bushes... it's all here. This may be a Star Wars gamer's fantasy come true if they loved Age 
 of Empires, however; the slow paced gameplay and the utterly bizzarre fact the droids require food 
 to be built, and that they have to chop wood is a turn off for me. GB feels more like a large AoE 
 II mod rather than a professional Star Wars game since the developers didn't seem to try to alter 
 any gameplay elements. In GB you're still required to advance through tech levels (known as Ages 
 in the AoE series) to upgrade units and research new technology to advance your faction, and increase 
 their power.
  
  The graphics in GB are both similar and different to those in AoE II. The unit and building art 
 is of course more sci-fi, and more unique between factions compared to the AoE series. The forest 
 maps look like they were taken right out of AoE II, however; fortunately most of the map tile sets 
 seem to be somewhat original. This doesn't change the fact that GB feels more like an AoE II mod, 
 however.
  
  The audio is satisfactory; there are classic Star Wars blaster sounds and explosions as well as 
 decent voice acting (though some of the character stand ins sound lousy; especially Lando, Han 
 and Leia) . The music is taken from both the original trilogy and Episode I, but I personally turned 
 the music off since I got tired of hearing Duel of the Fates every time I started a new map.
  
  Galactic Battlegrounds is suitable for Star Wars fans or general RTS gamers who loved AoE II, 
 but at its core it is nothing more than a glorified mod, and quite frankly the AoE II engine doesn't 
 mix well with the Star Wars settings. At least not a version that is barely modified at all. Try 
 the demo if you must, but if you've played Age of Empires II then there's nothing to see here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds is a great buy for anyone who loves Star Wars and is familiar 
 to the controls of Age of Empires 2. 
  
  Galactic Battlegrounds gets you involved in the plot of the Star Wars saga and shows you the missions 
 from the expanded universe that will please you no matter how much game experience you have. 
 
  
  You will be able to control favourite ships and units such as the Super battle droid and the classic 
 Tantive IV. All of which will come in useful at one point. But what if you don't want to play the 
 campaign? Well don't worry, they have a Skirmish mode where you can choose whatever civilisation 
 you want and whatever map you want. Even maps that aren't even mentioned in the saga. 
  
  You don't even have to wait for loading sceens either. The closesed thing to a loading screen what 
 you will get is a screen that says 'modifying map' even then it only stays on for 5 seconds. 
 
  
  Okay, the graphics are a bit outdated today but what does graphics matter when you have the classic 
 soundtrack and great missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someotherguy654
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the highest "addictive ratings" for me. Even though the graphics aren't top 
 of the line, it is still fun. It's a real time strategy game (with the overhead view) it makes 
 you feel like a general or a master strategist (that means you should get the game if you have 
 inferiority problems) . This game has good computer AI for both your enemies and allies. The sound 
 is STAR WARS with all the cool sound effects and music. 
  I think there are six factions ( let's see if I can remember each one) there is the Trade Federation, 
 the Rebels, the Empire, the Royal Naboo Army, the Gungans, and the Wookiees. Each faction has their 
 strengths and weaknesses. There are six campaigns for the six factions with bonus missions and 
 instant play options there are online options also. If you like Star Wars, or you like real time 
 strategy games, or you want an addictive PC game, this is the game for you. There is an expansion 
 pack which introduces the republic army and the confederacy of independent systems, and their campaigns. 
 There is a combo pack which has this game AND the expansion pack. 
  
  I'm hungry (end of review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: africkinbaboon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I have played some of the age of empires games and this is a perfect 
 fit for the series. 
  
  If you are a fan of the series Age of Empires and you like star wars well then this is the perfect 
 game for you. It has all the Star Wars classic units and vehicles. 
  
  Gameplay: extremely fun and versatile, play as multiple factions, by yourself with friends or even 
 against computers name your game and you can play it with this game. 
  
  Graphics: well lets just say they aren't the best ever but still very good and the unit movements 
 are still very good even with 40 to 50 units on the screen.
  
  Sound: like all Star Wars related games or movies the soundtracks are always extremely good.
 
  
  Value: The value is admirable. if you like solo pick it up, and if you like multiplayer get your 
 friends to get it. anyway you look at it this game is great for hours of fun and exciting battles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game but nothing to brag about. It is Age of Empires in Star Wars form. But Age of 
 Empires is much better. This game has a lot of different view points. Some say its great others 
 say it is horrible. Now this is what I think. The game play is good and fun. During the campaign 
 mode it is very fun. The graphics are kind of lousy and are the low point of this game. The sound 
 is pretty good and accurate with the Star Wars movies. The value is also pretty good. After you 
 beat the game there is things to do. This is a good but nothing special game. Before you buy it 
 ask and see if any of your friends have at and ask to borough it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Movieguy152
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  All right, being a huge age of empires fan and an even bigger star wars fan, I have to say I love 
 this game. It is baisically the same thing as age of empires except with star wars resorces and 
 units. The jedi are a really cool unit to use. I had ten hero units... all jedi... kill about 80 
 storm troopers. It was so sick. One major difference between battlegrounds and age of empires, 
 is that battlegrounds is based on ranged weapons were as age of empires is more about the swords 
 and close combat. But other than that its pretty much the same. Worth while for any star wars fan 
 or someone who doesn't have age of empires, but if you have age of empires and don't like star 
 wars... don't bother. I personally LOVE it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scraggsy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This is an ok game, but every race is the same, just different skin, i mean, would it kill them 
 to make up some names?
  The gameplay is good enough, but there isnt any substance, i mean, beacause its all "Trooper recruit" 
 instead of battle droid, or something, it doesnt really put you in the star wars universe, more 
 aoe with a new look.
  
  Ill have to admit it is fun crushing enemies with ATAT's, but hang on, there not ATAT's, their 
 Assault mechs, just like every other race.
  
  The campaign is quite good, but a little tiresome, really, its multiplayer only really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jr9119
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Good, but hi is just an "Age of Empires" with a Star Wars skin.
  I like because the game explain more about the Star Wars universe.
  I hope that expansion "Clone 
 wars" have some more innovation.
  and the force be always with you.
  Long live for George Lucas, Master Yoda, all Skywalker family, C3-PO,  
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew21nz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  This games is basically Age of Empires, Star Wars syle, you build armies, attack your enemies and 
 try and take dominance of the map, all in the normal strategy game format.
  
  The best part of single player though is the campaigns, where you can take control of the Galactic 
 Empire, Naboo, Rebels, Gungans, Wookies, or droid armies and in the expansion the clones and CIS.
 
  
  But the best part of this game is the online gaming on the zone. com, where you don't play the building 
 part, you just play the attacking with interesting games such as Jedi Fest where you control Jedi 
 and you attack other Jedi from the other team and the more kills you get the better Jedi you receive 
 to use to attack.
  
  If you are interested in a good online Star Wars game this is for you, although before you buy 
 it check out zone. com and see how many people still play it, I haven't played for a while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 3, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when I first obtained Star Wars: Battlegrounds. You could control many races 
 and teams, such as the Empire, the Trade Federation, the Rebel Alliance and the Gungans! You could 
 relive many great battles! You could control AT-STs and AT-ATs! The possibilities seemed endless!
 
  
  However, the game I played was not what I was expecting.
  
  Firstly, Star Wars: Battlegrounds is much too similar to Age of Empires 2 for a co-incidence, I 
 think. The style of gameplay is similar, buildings are the same in principle, but with some different 
 names, and units and combat all closely resemble Age of Empires 2, just in the Star Wars universe. 
 The menus even have the same font and layout!!
  
  Campaigns were uninspired and lifeless, and they didn't thrill me as I thought they would. Combat 
 was drab. Nothing really excited me in Star Wars: Battlegrounds. I had seen it all before, nothing 
 was revolutionary.
  
  I am sure that there are many people would enjoy this game, but even I, who am an avid Star Wars 
 fan, was disappointed. If you are looking for a great RTS game, look else where. You'll have more 
 fun with Age of Empires 2.
  
  It could have been great. Too bad. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  If you like Star Wars you'll love this RTS. It's got a lot of great features and boasts some great 
 linear movie elements too. The ability to controly many different factions is a nice little thing 
 too.
  
  Graphics: Not as great as other RTS' but still awesome. The ATAT's and the like move amazingly 
 well with alot of stuff going on on screens so props to the developers on that one.
  
  Sound: Can't have a Star Wars game without the awesome dramatic music and laser sounds. And by 
 golly, you've got as much as you could want here.
  
  Gameplay: Real good single player believe it or not. I find in this game that the single player 
 is much more fun than the multiplayer. A majority of the time I set up a little LAN game for myself 
 with computers set on hard difficulty and go for hours.
  
  Value: Simplay amazing. Pick it up if your a fan of STW or if your not. Either way it will hold 
 you voer until the next Star Wars RTS comes out. Should be soon I think? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Ubergeek-
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 7, 2003 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a Age of Kings clone, plain and simple. It uses the same engine. The EXACT same engine. 
 Says right there on the box. 
  You're probably staring at my review score, saying "How can a game as good as AoK get so, well, 
 mediocre?" I guess part of it is the universe itself. See, AoK had the perfect background. Games 
 that are medieval probobly won't encounter any problems with the background there. But, you see, 
 Star Wars is hard for a strategy game to use. Especially since Lucasarts tries to use the AoK engine. 
 It falls flat. Who's heard of Wookie tanks? Gungan aircraft? People have to really use their imagination 
 on some of these units.
  Call me crazy, but aircraft combat SUCKS! The aircraft approach each other, appear to hover while 
 shooting laser bolts no stronger that troopers' guns, and ALL explosions are the same.
  Graphics: AoK style. Lasers look "just" ok.
  Sound: Star wars sound. Tell me if that's good or 
 bad. Don't like it? turn it down.
  Worth it? Not really. It requires 400 something of disc space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2003 8:51 am PT
Review:  Ok. This is a truly superb RTSwhich, with patience, determination and skill, is quite possibly 
 the most addictive game you will play. Unique units, which are featured in the Films all have different 
 strengths and weaknesses. The mixture of fighting forces is second to none. You have air units 
 such as starfighters and x-wings. Also walkers, artillery, pummels, an array of different troops 
 and need I say it JEDI. This game is a must for any Starwars fan. 
  The people who have dissed this game in my opinion havent given it a chance because compared to 
 most RTS engines its built on the best. 
  
  From NL_Ackbar of the Lucasforums 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
