-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Voyager Elite Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/startrekvoyagereliteforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,005 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 20, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Trek fans shouldn't be alone in experiencing the game's exciting story-driven single-player 
 campaign, as well as its solid multiplayer mode. 

 Star Trek: Voyager Elite Force is an outstanding first-person shooter based on the most recent Star 
 Trek TV series. Star Trek fans shouldn't be alone in experiencing the game's exciting story-driven 
 single-player campaign that pits the Voyager crew against Klingon scavengers, the Borg menace, 
 and other sinister forces - as well as its solid multiplayer mode.   

  Elite Force is consistently action-packed, but nevertheless, it features a variety of settings 
 that will challenge and impress even some of the most experienced first-person shooter enthusiasts. 
 Best of all, these encounters are linked together seamlessly - in fact, there hasn't been a shooter 
 with such a well-designed, albeit short, single-player mode since Opposing Force, Gearbox's great 
 expansion to Valve Software's groundbreaking 1998 game, Half-Life. Comparing Half-Life and Opposing 
 Force to Elite Force is an obvious gesture, mostly because the older games' influence is so evident 
 in Elite Force's level design. Elite Force borrows Half-Life's convention of placing health and 
 energy stations throughout the course of the game; and more significantly, the main character in 
 Elite Force wears a special hazard suit much like the one that Half-Life protagonist Gordon Freeman 
 wears. Just as in Valve's game, this hazard suit - standard issue for each member of Lieutenant 
 Tuvok's special forces team in Elite Force - helps you suspend disbelief as it absorbs damage and 
 reports health and ammunition ratings. It's the reason your enemies can't just kill you in one 
 hit; meanwhile, your powerful energy weapons can literally disintegrate most of your foes on contact. 
   

  The arsenal in Elite Force consists of nine different good-looking, powerful weapons, each of which 
 has two distinct modes of fire. The weapons range from the standard-issue Federation phaser and 
 compression rifle to the devastating photon burst, whose explosive photon-torpedo-like attack can 
 reduce your enemies to dust. All the weapons in Elite Force are high tech, and each produce bright, 
 impressive effects, though the weapon models themselves don't look especially interesting. But 
 the weapons sound good, and their alternate modes of fire either give them additional functionality 
 (as with the grenade launcher, which can alternatively launch a sticky proximity mine) or more 
 deadly attack modes that cost proportionally more energy or ammunition. Some veterans of first-person 
 shooters - particularly fans of Raven Software's own Soldier of Fortune - might initially believe 
 that the arsenal in Elite Force lacks weapons that have the same sort of satisfying impact as the 
 shotguns and chainguns of classic shooters like Doom and Quake. Meanwhile, die-hard Star Trek fans 
 may be reluctant to accept some of Elite Force's heavy-duty weapons as definitive Star Trek technology. 
 In any case, on closer inspection, you'll certainly agree that the game's weapon designs are well 
 designed - they each seem strong and useful, and yet all the guns are sufficiently elegant or alien 
 that they do seem as if they're suitable to the Star Trek universe.   

  Some of the battles in Elite Force are particularly intense, because you're not the only one shooting 
 the bad guys. Oftentimes you'll have one or more crewmates in tow, who will help you out in battle. 
 In the interest of gameplay, they don't do too much of the real work, just as your enemies will 
 be much more inclined to fire on you than at your squad. But these characters are surprisingly 
 responsive, and they really give you the sense that you're not doing all the fighting by yourself. 
 This is especially true when their special skills come into play in the game's many scripted sequences 
 - you may have to provide cover for an engineer as he hacks into a heavily defended security system 
 or complete a multitiered objective simultaneously with several crewmembers as you keep in contact 
 via your communicators.   

  The crewmembers are a welcome asset in some of the game's large-scale battles. In one early sequence, 
 you burst through a doorway to take part in a pitched gunfight that involves several of your crew 
 and a host of Klingon foes who fire at each other from behind barricades. This is a memorable but 
 not uncommon type of sequence in Elite Force - the game seems to use an ideal combination of scene 
 scripting and artificial intelligence routines to create unique fights that play out differently 
 on multiple trials. Elite Force even has several scenes in between the main combat missions in 
 which you're aboard the Voyager to recuperate, rearm yourself, and discuss the situation with your 
 crew. These parts of the game not only do a great job of modeling the deck of the Voyager, but 
 also help make the game seem consistent and realistic, rather than merely like a series of shooter 
 levels. Being able to chat with the Voyager's crew in between missions, either before a briefing 
 or in the locker room, lends the game a personal touch.    

 Unfortunately, these sequences do point to a few shortcomings that are particularly problematic 
 in light of how good the game is in general. Specifically, the enemy artificial intelligence in 
 Elite Force is sometimes lacking. Some of your foes might stand idle as you fire on them, while 
 others might move in nonsensical patterns as soon as they notice you. In addition, over the course 
 of Elite Force you'll face several encounters in which your enemies will instantly beam into the 
 area, a device that the designers sometimes seem to use a little too frequently. Although teleportation 
 is certainly plausible in the context of Star Trek, it can get frustrating to have to constantly 
 contend with enemies that materialize out of thin air.   

  Any such frustration won't last long, because most of the missions in Elite Force are paced very 
 briskly. You'll face new foes, find new weapons, encounter new challenges, and uncover new elements 
 of the plot frequently yet unpredictably enough. The game pits you against some of the most popular 
 Star Trek villains, including the Klingons and the Borg - along with several interesting new additions 
 to the Star Trek mythos. Unfortunately, the campaign is fairly short and won't be very difficult 
 for shooter veterans; and all the action takes place in rather close quarters. It's disappointing 
 that the campaign is so short because it's generally so well done. Clearly, the designers' time 
 went into creating high-quality action sequences, rather than just a lot of them - but you'll still 
 wish there were more.   

  Throughout the game, the highly detailed 3D characters, including all the regular cast of the show, 
 are easily distinguishable and also have fairly articulate facial expressions as they speak their 
 lines convincingly. Elite Force even gives you the option to play as either a male or a female 
 character - Alexander or Alexandria Munro, both "Alex" for short. Both the male and female alter 
 egos are confident and charismatic characters, and the game's dialogue changes slightly depending 
 on which of the characters you choose. Elite Force also features a great interactive tutorial that 
 takes place in the Voyager's holodeck, whose realistic holographic projections create a makeshift 
 obstacle course that you're instructed on how to traverse.   

  The holodeck is also prominent in Elite Force's multiplayer mode, which is in many ways just as 
 impressive, and as clever, as the game's single-player mode. Dubbed the holomatch, this mode is 
 presented as a combat-training simulation aboard the Voyager's holodeck. As such, the designers 
 have been able to take some liberties in creating themed levels that you might not expect from 
 a Star Trek game - among these are a medieval castle and an Old West ghost town, in addition to 
 the more typical settings like Borg and Klingon ships. You can square off in the multiplayer levels 
 against computer-controlled bots of variable skill levels, or against human opponents in deathmatch, 
 capture-the-flag, or other standard multiplayer action modes.   

  Since the game uses id Software's state-of-the-art Quake III: Arena engine, the multiplayer combat 
 in Elite Force is predictably smooth and fast - and it's also a lot of fun because of the good 
 graphics and diverse levels and character models, as well as the game's fairly distinct emphasis 
 on focused energy weapons, which require precise accuracy. The holomatch does have some problems 
 - it's somewhat cumbersome to have to load a separate executable file to play the multiplayer game, 
 but apparently this is because some of the game's 3D architecture is streamlined in multiplayer. 
 Likewise, the game's multiplayer weapon balance seems skewed in favor of the rapid-firing guns 
 like the tetryon pulse distruper, since players can move and dodge about so quickly; and some of 
 the maps are noticeably more interesting and more complex than others.   

  But such criticisms are presented largely to convey the sense that, in a perfect world, Elite Force 
 would have been better. However, given that most Star Trek games - and, in fact, most first-person 
 shooters - aren't actually very good, then it's easy to see all of what makes Elite Force so special. 
 It's undoubtedly one of the best Star Trek games to date, and its only rival in its genre so far 
 this year is, unsurprisingly, Raven's own shooter, Soldier of Fortune.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  
  I loved this game to bits, even though I'm only playing it some nine years after it's release. 
 I brought this from a bargain bin just to see what it was like. I guess I never got this on release 
 because I was probably playing strategy and RPG titles at the time! Being a trekkie however and 
 seeing it for a pound, I thought I'd give it a go. 
  
  It really is a blast. Very old-skool, in this day and age. Lets face it the graphics are really 
 dated. The gameplay limited. The actual combat is abysmal. I had to play it with my CPU slowed 
 to 30% to actually get a challenge from the game. It should really score at max a 5 productwise. 
 However, the chance to become immersed in the ST: V which is priceless in my opion warrants another 
 2 points. To be fair the story could have been ripped from a good TV episode. The dialogue is cheesy 
 at best. Voice acting is good in parts, but corny in other parts. OVerall though it does a good 
 job of bringing the story to life. Moreover, it is the script that really builds a sense of cameraderie 
 between you and the AI controlled members of the hazard team. The disparate races that join you 
 on the sequence of levels combine well, and each has a uniqueness that adds to the ambiance.
  
  Level are well designed. Short compared to some better games today, but that is to be expected. 
 The combat though is rather poor, most of which descends in a strafe-a-thon to avoid being hit, 
 while the hapless AI bots do an incredibly poor job of helping you out in a most of the tight spots. 
 
  
  The ending is.... well I wont spoil it. I dare say though its accurate to label it as the best 
 part of the game, though I really did enjoy the puzzle solving aspect in most of the levels. While 
 the chance to battle borg with Seven-of-Nine is one of those gaming experiences that rank up there 
 with finishing all Half-Life games and expansion from both the original and sequences.
  
  Just don't expect too much from this game now. If you can get it to run and you are a trekkie at 
 heart, this game is still worth a whirl. And for a change you get to play a real square jawed hero, 
 in the original American sense of what a hero is. Or of course play as a female if you want.
  
  Ill be looking out for the sequel, if I can get my hands on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdilly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Some Trek games have let me down in the past but this one I can play over 
 and over and I still can't get enough. Need to play EF II and am hoping for a third entry. If you 
 have not tried it, don't walk, run to your nearest outlet and get this game. You will not be sorry.
 
  
  Great story and good graphics. Excellent. I hope EF 2 is as good. I know this game has been out 
 for a long time. But I really need to add my 2 cents worth.
  
  I would even like to see a EF set in Enterprise Era. Kicking old school. You could Even call it 
 Ef: MACO.
  Or is it MAKO, can't remember. Hey, even Kirk needed Red Shirts. Terran Ground pounders. Make it 
 Mirror Universe, that would seriously Rock! Long live the Terran Empire!!
  
  The best part of this game is the mess of Klingon, Imperial Terran and what have you stage of the 
 game. This level alone is worth the price of admission. 
  
  The Graphics are a bit dated now, but I still play it on a regular basis 'cause it is just that 
 good.
  
  Hope this review helps anyone wanting an exciting and immersive look into the Trek universe. 
 
  
  Even the Voyager haters out there would have fun with this great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michygeorg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force is a great game, and if you at all like FPS you should buy it.
 
  Not only is the multiplayer the best out of any game i've ever played (with very nice options 
 too) but it even has offline Holo-Match against bots. The graphics are pretty good considering 
 the games age, and its still fun to play even after 3 or so years, although I highly recommend 
 buying the Exspansion Pack.
  Comparing it to Elite Force 2: Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force, Singleplayer 8.0 - Multiplayer 10.
 
  Star Trek Elite Force 2, Singleplayer 8.4 - Multiplayer 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I may be quite biased, and I admit it freely. But I love Star trek, and when this game came 
 out I bought it almost immediately. 
  
  Based on the Quake III engine, this game is an awesome first person shooter. To have star trek 
 characters and story places me nearly in heaven. The story is consistent and as good as any start 
 trek movie. The cut scenes are well done and lend nicely to the story. Each character from start 
 trek voyager has the voice of the television actor with exception to 7 of 9 (who is added later 
 in the expansion pack.) . The weapons are quite nice throughout the game and you will have endless 
 pleasure kicking ass in each level. The story takes you throughout the Voyager space ship, alien 
 ships as well as some rich alien environments. The story has some twists and turns and will surprise 
 you in that apparent enemies will actually become allies. 
  
  I honestly cant think of a negative thing to say about this game, except I was a tad disappointed 
 when 7 of 9s voice turned out not to be the actual screen characters voice. This was corrected 
 with the release of the expansion pack, which actually is probably the only reason to buy the expansion 
 pack.
  
  I give this one a biased 10 out of 10. (Check out the sequel, it is awesome as well)
  
  Mike
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game so makes you think of those sad people who have to travel to other vessels and usually 
 comeback half eaten or dead!!
  
  This game is so amazing and is very fun. You start off as ensign monroe forced to lead your elite 
 force team to whatever cercumstances you must fine. But you start off in a borg ship chased around 
 you must fine your crewmembers. Along the way you find a rather straveging member who is likely 
 one of the most cockiest members you might ever find. You go through finding all you can from weapons 
 to health packs... Later you find your team trapped in cells which you help'em release, but the 
 ship blows up and mission is over. Thank god that was a simulation program. This was a program 
 to show you how you will go through your missions and live as a leader to your team. you must go 
 over 12 missions and amazing obstacle courses before you end this game. Yes, you will dread lots 
 of these missions as so I did. Yes, you will cuss many times at the screen cause you got assimulated 
 and Yes, you will enjoy every minute of this game as much as the next person. 
  
  The weapons are very unique in this game as you get to pick between your Phaser all the way up 
 towards a Projectile launcher. 
  
  The alien ships are very awesome and you will love lookin in em from time to time. You also have 
 many parts where you are walking on Voyager finding what you need. You will be able to look at 
 pads and be able to do some fun stuff. You can also talk to members of your crew as you pass by.
 
  
  Multiplayer: There is a very fun mulitplayer mode you get to play online with a couple other people. 
 No doubt this is very fun and doesn't get that boring. You will get to choose a person you want 
 and be able to find weapons you want. 
  
  If i was you, i would pick this game up... You could easily pick it up for 19.99 or even 10 bucks 
 at some stores...
  
  Strenghts::
  -Unleashes the stuff you don't see in star trek
  -Is very new and innovative
  -Weapon models and characters are very sweet
  -No doubt having 
 members to kick aliens butts are always fun.
  
  Weaknesses:
  -DREADED MISSIONS
  -A. I. Can be very hard or very fun....
  
  Question:
  
  "Why don't they bring a game like 
 this to the next gen consoles?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is responsible for countless nights that I have watched slip by and I wonder where they 
 go to when I am done playing. I am already a star trek fan, so that was a huge plus for this game 
 to begin with. I enjoy first person shooter games like halo and unreal tournament, and this game 
 was very similar to both of them and that was also a plus for me. The single player mode is fun 
 to play and in the expansion pack you could explore the entire ship and learn about the crew and 
 read their journals. I really enjoyed that experience, and you could also access the ships library 
 and I gained alot of knowledge about real life stuff that happened plus the futuristic stuff of 
 star trek. I liked the enemies and the missions that you went through, as they were all challenging 
 and entertaining. I liked the scavenger mission the most, where you had to do alot of sneaking 
 around. I am a big fan of stealth type stuff, thats why I play metal gear solid 3 subsistance right 
 now. I like the multiplayer mode the best, there are alot of characters to choose from, and capture 
 the flag mode and you could play against other people online, and when they pass out from lack 
 of sleep, continue the action with a maximum setting on the comps keeps me busy for the rest of 
 the night and late into the morning. I like the levels in the game and the graphics and sound effects. 
 The weapons are nice too, from the scavenger rifle to the photon burst, which is the best weapon 
 in my opinion. Overall, this is a superb game to have for anyone, and If you havent played this 
 game yet, you dont know what your missing, Well maybe you do now, because you read this review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Like many Star Trek gamers I could hardly wait for this, the first true Star Trek First Person 
 Shooter (FPS) to arrive on store shelfs since the last EF. Like most I was not dissappointed by 
 it either accept to say that there was a lot of SOS. The game was everything that it was cracked 
 up to be and it was cracked up to be a lot. From the first time you face a borg drone to accidently 
 killing a ship mate, not really an accident was it, to the first time you get to walk about the 
 decks and bridge of the very limited map of the voyager, your hooked. The multiplayer features 
 were good and I often always held the top spot when playing. The problem was, games like TRIBES, 
 spoiled me to multiplayer. TRIBES did it so well that all other games were just boring to play 
 in multiplayer mod. 
  
  The single player game was good but very short. The bad guy at the end took some work to kill, 
 too much work in my fair opinion, and there were a lot of bugs that seemed to never be addressed. 
 
  
  However, overall, the game was a very good game and it really did give us what we wanted, a chance 
 to use a phaser to frag Tom Paris! Thank you very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This is another time when I am dusting off the old memory cells to bring out a review of a game 
 from years ago. Let me also say that I am not sure what Gamespot reviewer Greg Kasavin was on when 
 he played this game but I found his review to be that of a different game not of Elite Force. Same 
 goes for many of the user reviews. I must have played a different version and below you will see 
 why.
  
  1) Graphics: The graphics in Elite Force were good but nothing gamers haven't seen before. You 
 will get the usual look and feel of Star Trek Voyager in this game and they do a good job of keeping 
 the artwork in line with Trek. The weapons and effects are good. Character models could be better 
 but certainly the genre at that time had a lot worse.
  
  2) Star Trek: It's trek and chances are if you're playing this game you're a fan of the franchise. 
 Now if you're a pretty demanding fan than you're probably not a fan of Star Trek Voyager but you 
 played this game anyways. A FPS in the realm of Trek is not something you can pass up. Simply being 
 Trek gives this game a positive.
  
  3) Story: The story in this game was very well done. Most episodes of Voyager were far worse than 
 the story presented here. The story developers can easily stick their chests out on this one. You 
 will feel involved and eager to see what happens next.
  
  The Bad:
  
  1) Time played: The story is excellent in Elite Force but the story is over in a blink of an eye. 
 This is another example of a great story cut way too short. You will have this game beat in under 
 8 hours.
  
  2) AI: Star Trek: Voyager Elite Force has possibly the worst AI I have played in a modern era FPS. 
 You will be bored to death by the bland battles that feature nothing but hoards of enemies coming 
 at you, directly at you, staring you down and coming right the BLEEP at you. You get squad mates 
 in this game but they are pretty useless as the enemy does not recognize them and only focuses 
 on you. You will be the only one taking damage 99% of the time, the remaining 1% is the minor splash 
 damage they may take or wild fire. Entering a Borg cube means prepare for 100 borg charging at 
 you at speeds that rival an race car as opposed to the typically slow Borg you'd expect. Horrible.
 
  
  3) Difficulty: The game does offer a high level of difficulty due to the fact you're presented 
 with wave upon wave of mobs hitting you and possessing an uncanny level of aggression. But this 
 is no way adds to the fun of this game. You will eventually get frustrated having to play even 
 one battle over again due to death since the battles are all too similar.
  
  4) Squad mates: Useless entities in this game. They offer little in support on defense and only 
 succeed in minor offensive usefulness. Elite Force fails considerably in this aspect.
  
  5) Multiplayer: The multiplayer had very few servers running the several times I logged on. Finding 
 a decent game was difficult at times and the games them selves were not all that enjoyable. When 
 compared to games of it's time like Unreal, Tribes, and CS Elite Force falls short.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  1) Pathing: There are so many mobs in some points of the game they can get bunched 
 up causing issues. Also the characters can get stuck from time to time. Nothing major though.
 
  
  Overall: A game I'd never suggest to anyone. I did not play the sequel. The reviews show it to 
 be a pretty average game but the reviews show this game to be great. Not sure what to make of that. 
 If you find this game for $5 ask for a $10 mail-in rebate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjjjjj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I just wish I had more time to play it. 
  
  The community of players is pretty amazing too. There aren't too many wackos and most people will 
 chat with you and give you tips. 
  
  Most of the maps are pretty cool. I just don't like the castle one too much. My favorite map is 
 the dark one and it is fun to play steal the flag. 
  
  There are a lot of fun tricks like taking the cannon gun, pointing it down and shooting it so you 
 jump real high. 
  
  There are a lot of different web sites to go to for more tips etc. 
  
  I have to be real careful because my bf gets real mad because I can play this for hours and 
 if I have the speakers up forget it!
  
  Look forward to playing with you! 
  
  Live long and prosper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  At first, I would like to tell that this is a great change over the other Star-Trek games. This 
 is a game, that a lot of people were waiting for. An exellent storyline, great graphics and sounds 
 mark this game.
  You take role as Lt. Alexander Munro, leader of heavily armed and armored Hazard Team, that is 
 sent on most dangerous missions. This game in overall gives you an opprotunity to understand, what 
 for example Borgs are and their behaviour as well as their technology - there are also a lot of 
 other enemies as well. Another thing that I Iike about this game is in fact that events are realistic 
 - you will make various alliances and decisions thorought the game, that will somewhat affect the 
 game.
  Weapons are plenty in this game - from Federation to aliens weapons (all of them also have alt 
 fire) . I must say that AI is quite good, althought sometimes when you lead the team, they seem 
 like they haven` t trained with weapons for a long time - to be more specific, they shoot one or 
 few rounds into enemy and kill one enemy while you kill at least 5 enemies - even in hard mode; 
 and their responding reflexes are little bad --  but anyway, you will need them for different situations.
 
  Graphics are very good with one of the latest graphics technology avaible. Especially the enviroment 
 looks more alive - many good effects...
  Sounds are perfect - an added bonus for fans is that the actors from TV series have provided the 
 voices for characters.
  in the end, I would like to say, that this is must have for every Star-Trek fan. But I`m also sure, 
 that FPS gamers will also enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of UT2004 more than likely you love this game also. this game has a huge support 
 system i. e. maps and mods like ut2004. when i installed this game i played the deathmatch protion 
 of the game for 2 weeks before i even got to the actual game play. i started the game in training 
 mode and learned how to use everything and started the first level. got to the middle of the first 
 level in the borg ship before i had to reformat my PC. So to make a long story short i had more 
 fun playing the deathmatch's than i did the actual game. this game plays just like ut2004 and the 
 learning curve is minimal. after you learn how to use the tricorder your pretty much good to go. 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hush404
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2005 3:38 am PT
Review:  You wouldn't think that a FPS (First Person Shooter) would be the genre to make a trek game great, 
 but this is exactly what Elite Force does. A stellar amount of effort was put into every aspect 
 of this game; be it the superb audio with actual voice work from most of the cast of the television 
 series (Jeri Ryan aka 7of9 on the TV series is absent, an adequate substitute did her lines) grouped 
 with great ambiance and musical score or the amazing face modeling capturing the [TV series] actors 
 qualities almost exactly (with the exception of Garret Wang aka Harry Kim) matched with the attention 
 to detail in the ships interiors and it's inhabitants.
  
  What about the game play you ask. Game play is the most important thing in a video game and Elite 
 force doesn't disappoint. The single player experience plays out like an episode from the series 
 where you play an ensign by the name of Alex Munro (male or female, your choice) . Dropping you 
 right into the action inside a Borg Cube armed only with phaser and compression rifle, you must 
 find out what happened to your team mates while trying not to cause a disturbance which will alert 
 the Borg. Without giving too much away, you manage to get back to normal duties on the Voyager 
 star ship, and are treated to a lavishly beautiful cinematic of the TV series opening redone for 
 the game. Shortly after Voyager is attacked and becomes trapped in the "Void" a desolate junk yard 
 plagued with scavengers of many races who all look out for number one. This is where the rest of 
 the single player adventure plays out, taking place on various ships, space stations and even some 
 brief outer space areas. Included in these levels is a good portion of the Voyager ship where you 
 can interact with both your surroundings and the NPCs that populate it.
  
  Elite Force would be a great game if it's single player experience was all it offered. This is 
 not the case because Elite Force comes with a full blown multiplayer mode similar the game play 
 in a Quake 3 (EF is built with the quake3 engine) or an Unreal Tournament. Embodied with all the 
 classic multiplayer modes including death match, team death match, capture the flag and more; Holomatch 
 (what Elite Force's multiplayer is called) can be played online, on a LAN or even on a single machine 
 because it has built in Bot support. Packed with 9 weapons (all of which have alternative fire 
 options) , character models from every character in the game, a large selection of maps and a large 
 amount of great power ups Holomatch could be a stand alone game and still worth the price of admission.
 
  
  All this being said, Elite force will run decently on most PCs. I ran it fine on a 733Mhz tower 
 with an 8mb video card (for the technically illiterate: you can get computers with 3 times that 
 power for a few hundred dollars nowadays) .
  
  In conclusion, the game is a great piece of work. It's presentation is through the roof in all 
 areas and it's game play shines through even that. A Must have for Star Trek Voyager and FPS fans 
 alike. 
  
  **As a side note, if you are a true hardcore Voyager fan then you'll be happy to know that Jeri 
 Ryan later recorded her voice for all of the lines 7of9 had in the Elite Force game. This Sound 
 pack is available as a download on the official site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 3:58 am PT
Review:  Ironically though, Star Trek Voyager, which this game is based on, is my least favourite Star Trek 
 show. Nonetheless, this is a great game whether you are a trekkie or not. It is not exactly fashioned 
 in a perfect Star Trek setting as Star Trek is more known for diplomacy and exploration than outright 
 fragging enemies which you do in this game. This game is basically a rock solid FPS that is alluring 
 to the last minute with great graphics, sound, level design, and a fantastic story. The story is 
 loosely based on a particular episode in which Voyager is trapped in a void and must fend of 
 hostile aliens. And the premise for all the shooting as opposed to the classic Star Trek diplomacy 
 is that due to Voyager being lost in the uncharted Delta quadrant, special measures are required: 
 thus the Elite Force squad was born. The characters are all displayed in great detail and the weapons 
 such as the phaser and compression rifle all seem to handle as the way you would expect them to 
 from watching the shows. It is also fun to just walk around the ship as you will get the chance.
 
  
  A bonus with this game is that the multiplayer is well done. The holo-matches can be both fun and 
 entertaining. Although an unorthodox one, its great to finally have a terrific game under the 
 name of Star Trek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2004 7:32 pm PT
Review:  While the single player for this game is merely not bad, it's in the multiplayer where V: EF really 
 shines. You have a vast array of Trek related models to choose from, some really great levels that 
 vary wildly and create interesting strategic points, and a plethora of interesting, balanced weapons 
 and ingenious power-ups that make every online gaming experience an exciting one. Along for the 
 ride is great sound design with the actual actors cutting up (Chikotay: "Now you know why they 
 call me Number 1!") and meaty weapon effects, and crisp responsive controls. It's a testiment to 
 the multiplay that the servers are still full of players long after the game's release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2003 6:41 am PT
Review:  I recently completed this fine game. Normally, I avoid licensed games, other than Star Wars, like 
 the plague as they usually stink up my gaming room. I also have avoided Voyager after suffering 
 through the awful first season. However, the price was right and several reviewers liked it. So 
 I figured, "what the heck" and picked it up.
  
  This game is excellent. It's like being in an episode of Voyager that doesn't suck! The voices 
 are supplied by the actors from the series, but the nicest touch is the near-perfect recreation 
 of all the Star Trek sound effects, from phasers to locked doors, it's all there. Soundwise, this 
 is perhaps the best game I've played and Raven is to be commended for their attention to detail.
 
  
  The graphics show their age, but were state of the art when this game was released and are still 
 very passable. The game also runs well on lower end PCs making this game a budget gamer's dream. 
 Again, Raven's attention to detail is evident in little details like fine transporter animations, 
 bodies dissolving when hit by high-powered phaser bursts, and twitching Borg parts scattered about 
 in one level.
  
  The gameplay is standard 3-D shooter with user definable controls. Jump, crawl, use/talk, look, 
 sidestep, etc. are all implemented flawlessly. To keep the feel of a Voyager episode, you will 
 spend some time wandering about talking to your peers and visiting the lounge and other noteworthy 
 points on Voyager. Even the annoying Neelix puts in a (thankfully) brief appearance. Occasionally, 
 it is not clear who you have to talk to to advance the plot, but this is the biggest complaint 
 about gameplay and it's very minor at worst.
  
  Overall, my ratings are not excessive. This game really is that good. Fans of Star Trek, 3-D shooters, 
 and Half-Life type 3-D RPGs will thoroughly enjoy this benchmark of licensed game excellence. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
