-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Klingon Academy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/startrekklingonacademy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 193 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: 14 Degrees
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Jun 21, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an extremely ambitious simulation that provides plenty of original gameplay but fails to adequately 
 refine its presentation. 

 Aside from Particle Systems' Independence War, there hasn't been a well-crafted and enjoyable space-combat 
 simulation that focuses on ships larger than X-wing fighters. Other capital-ship space simulations 
 have either been too aspiring and failed to provide well-polished gameplay, or they've too closely 
 emulated fighter sims and failed to provide an experience that logically reflects the more formidable 
 size of the craft being simulated. Unfortunately, that trend continues with Star Trek Klingon Academy, 
 an extremely ambitious simulation that provides plenty of original gameplay but fails to adequately 
 refine its presentation.   

  Klingon Academy is the long-delayed sequel to Starfleet Academy, a capital-ship space sim that 
 was maligned for essentially just being a remarkably cumbersome fighter sim. Although the Star 
 Trek television series frequently featured large starships maneuvering almost leisurely while attacking 
 enemies approaching from a variety of angles, Starfleet Academy required would-be Captain Kirks 
 to swiftly track enemies and attack using solely forward-facing weapons, effectively transforming 
 the dreadnoughts into bloated fighters. Game players have clamored for a simulation that more closely 
 emulates the slower-paced strategic conflicts that have been depicted in the Star Trek shows, but 
 it was questionable whether or not those battles could be accurately translated into a compelling 
 computer-gaming experience, given gaming's more interactive nature. After all, those battles often 
 unfolded preposterously slowly, given the apparent speed and weaponry of the combatants. Cast members 
 had to issue verbal commands that were comprehensible to an audience, and ample time was allocated 
 to witty retorts. Klingon Academy's developers had the unenviable task of trying to make the spacecraft 
 perform more like the vessels in the series while, paradoxically, ensuring that the battles retained 
 enough action to be interesting.   

  The developers opted to create a unique style of gameplay that is slower paced than in a typical 
 space sim. Larger ships are still appropriately difficult to maneuver, but it's now easier to deploy 
 a ship's side- or rear-firing weapons. Using a series of extensive keyboard-accessed menus, you 
 can issue appropriate commands for each of the nine ships' command systems. Several key systems 
 can also be individually controlled by abandoning the main viewscreen and pulling up separate command-station 
 screens, permitting you to extensively micromanage craft performance. Not even Independence War 
 provided such an intricate control system, which suitably reflects the complex nature of the enormous 
 capital ships. The space-combat-simulation genre has finally produced a game that grants the same 
 detailed level of ship control that military-flight-sim fans have enjoyed for years through hard-core 
 simulations like Falcon 4.0.   

  In addition to creating a complex control system, Klingon Academy's developers have created a number 
 of original tactical options. Instead of being forced to bludgeon enemy craft by firing round after 
 round of phasers and photon torpedoes, you can immobilize ships with tractor beams and more exotic 
 weaponry, or capture vessels by transporting marines on board. If you encounter overwhelming odds, 
 you can steer your vehicle into planetary rings or near other interstellar phenomena to encumber 
 your pursuers with various debilitating effects. Other than Derek Smart's problematic opus, Battlecruiser 
 3000, no space sim has purported to offer as many tactical features as Klingon Academy.   

  Unfortunately, in practice, control of your ship is too unmanageable to permit you to effectively 
 use all of the potential battlefield options. Although more convenient hotkeys can be set for frequently 
 chosen commands, the keyboard control system still often requires you to tap through a series of 
 menus to issue relatively basic commands. Since you have to simultaneously maintain control of 
 your ship's flight and watch the action onscreen while you're navigating menu options, it's far 
 too easy to erroneously issue the wrong command with disastrous consequences. Inexplicably, the 
 game's interface also prevents you from using a joystick's throttle or rudder function, or more 
 than four joystick buttons, which needlessly complicates ship control. While you may be able to 
 externally program your gaming peripherals to add additional functionality, the action still unfolds 
 too quickly, and the game's artificial intelligence is too inadequate, to permit you to conveniently 
 access all potentially available commands.   

  Furthermore, while the individual station screens provide the ability to directly tweak the performance 
 of your ship's systems, it's difficult to continue to fly your ship while doing so, and handing 
 helm command over to the computer usually just speeds your ship's destruction. While the developers 
 attempted to compensate for these problems by providing options to further slow the speed of the 
 game (either generally or just when you access the separate station screens) , the pace of the game 
 is still too fast. As a result, battles seem to devolve into cumbersome turning matches that are 
 made even more annoying by the tendency of computer-controlled ships to collide with virtually 
 any nearby ship or obstacle.    

 Collisions in Klingon Academy are extremely damaging, which is actually refreshing considering how 
 inconsequential they are in some space sims, but the computer opponents seem incapable of navigating 
 around other ships or objects. It's ridiculous how easy it is to destroy enemy ships by luring 
 them near an asteroid belt and infuriating how similarly vulnerable your escort ships are when 
 encountering comparable impediments. Since ships in the Star Trek series almost never meandered 
 close enough to each other to collide, voluntarily or otherwise, it's ludicrous how Klingon Academy's 
 computer-controlled vessels seem primarily motivated to play bumper cars with each other. While 
 battles occasionally unfold in a satisfying manner similar to those depicted in the Star Trek movies 
 or shows, they are just as likely to devolve into a farcical interstellar demolition derby.   

 
  Few quality Star Trek games have been developed, and even some of those, such as Starfleet Command, 
 haven't really offered any interesting new fiction for fans of the series. Fortunately, in spite 
 of its flaws, Klingon Academy is a great game for Star Trek fans. Klingon Academy is set immediately 
 prior to Star Trek VI, and both Christopher Plummer (General Chang) and David Warner (Chancellor 
 Gorkon) reprise their roles from that movie, while Michael Dorn (playing as a relative of his series 
 alter ego, Worf) lends his distinctive voice to the mission briefings. Through its abundant and 
 well-produced full-motion-video cutscenes and effective use of scripted sequences within missions 
 (which can conveniently be skipped) , Klingon Academy provides an entertaining examination of Klingon 
 culture and motivations. The game also lets you replay just the video clips if you would like to 
 peruse the entire tale at once. In addition, virtually every type of ship that appeared in the 
 original TV series or the movies featuring the original cast reappears during the course of the 
 game, including Gorn, Romulan, and Tholian vessels. Klingon Academy not only adapts its licensed 
 setting relatively faithfully but also offers a plausible and entertaining contribution to Star 
 Trek lore.   

  The 25-mission campaign eventually expands beyond the academy setting and into Klingon political 
 intrigue. While the game doesn't include a mission editor, the multiplayer skirmish feature lets 
 teams of players fly any of the ships deployed by the six races in the game in either small-scale 
 battles or more strategic base-defense engagements. The campaign is also relatively lengthy, as 
 most missions are divided into different stages, and individual starship battles tend to be drawn-out 
 affairs. Devastating a Starfleet battle cruiser isn't quite as simple as incinerating a fragile 
 TIE fighter.   

  Campaign mission goals are varied and interesting, and although there are some quirks in the mission 
 scripting, the game rewards curious commanders who explore beyond established mission paths. To 
 succeed, you can't just passively listen to the full-motion-video lectures about Klingon virtues 
 - you have to learn to apply such values during the course of combat missions.   

  The game's sound and music effectively re-create the mood of the series, even though they don't 
 sound identical to their series counterparts, and the thunderous collision effects are particularly 
 distinctive. The graphics depict damage modeling extremely well, as components can be blown off 
 and hulls shatter into pieces. But the interface graphics are rudimentary, and while ship textures 
 look recognizable up close, they resemble fuzzy 2D bitmaps at greater distances, even at the highest 
 graphic settings. Similarly, while there are some effective nebula effects, asteroid belts and 
 most of the other space phenomena look obtrusively ugly. While most of the graphics appear simplistic 
 compared with recent games in the genre, the engine still occasionally stutters to an unplayable 
 crawl during even relatively small-scale battles.   

  The interface, pacing, and artificial intelligence make the game needlessly difficult, which is 
 reflected by the fact that the easiest difficulty level is the game's default setting. Those problems 
 are compounded by a poor tutorial and inaccessible manual, neither of which adequately teaches 
 fundamental combat maneuvers, such as when to switch to a ship's gunnery chair or when to use tractor 
 beams or marines. While it's definitely more satisfying and appropriate for you to discover a game's 
 nuances by yourself, the developers should have done a better job describing typical battle tactics 
 and ship operations.   

  Klingon Academy's developers created a space-combat simulation of unparalleled depth but failed 
 to ensure that the basic control scheme, artificial intelligence, and flight models functioned 
 adequately. The elation of discovering additional gameplay depth through acquiring an elite officer 
 or being sent on a planetary bombardment mission is quickly dispersed when you witness unthreatened 
 enemy vessels taking suicidal plunges into asteroid belts, like moths to a flame. Klingon Academy 
 advances the genre by providing a number of original gameplay ideas, but its creativity is sabotaged 
 by inadequate implementation.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KorAq78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:17 am PT
Review:  
  One of the reviews, by lhoswald, said 
  "The very best Star Trek game out there, period."
  And I think it said everything a true Trekkie 
 should say about this game.
  
  I'd played it with my friend, I was responsible for most of the stations (basically, I controlled 
 the keyboard) , while he was responsible for navigation and tactical (the joystick and steering) , 
 in addition of being the Captain.
  
  We spent about three years playing it, as I was out of town most of the year (at my college) and 
 my friend refused to continue alone. Thus we had played it only during my "shore leaves", ;-)
 
  
  Playing as a Captain and Number One was marvelous, especially if you are a real Trekkie and you 
 are obsessed by the way Captain Jun-Luc Picard commanded the Enterprise. We had the best game in 
 our life and the best time.
  
  Up to date, I can't find another game to give me the excitement that I felt during playing this 
 game.
  
  "Star Trek: Klingon Academy" is how a real Start Trek game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archbuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Klingon Academy is by far one of the most complex games I have ever played. 14 Degrees went all 
 out on this game to give you the player the feel of actually commanding a starship. The depth and 
 complexity of controlling the multiple stations on-board has been met by no game before or after 
 Klingon Academy. 
  
  Environment:
  The Open-Maps are unique and the systems are infinite in size. If you want to pick the second star 
 to the right and fly on through morning you can. Where the systems are not 'life-like' in size, 
 they do allow you to travel from planet to planet, exploring places like gas giants (where you 
 can fly through them) , planetary rings (good for hiding or running) , black holes (disable your 
 enemy and watch them slowly get sucked in) , nebulas, planets, or stars. The environment is completely 
 3-D, so you can fly/fight in any of the 6 directions.
  
  Controls:
  To start with you can control you entire ship, from the six shield and weapon arcs, to your internal 
 security systems. For the most part you control everything through a series of menus accessed by 
 numbers on your keyboard. They take a significant amount of time to get good with, but there are 
 many ways to setup "power allocations" that allow for fast transfer of power to key systems depending 
 on the situation. Beyond the menu system you can also enter each station and control them directly. 
 Most commonly used will be your engineering and damage control stations, where you will setup power 
 allocations and concentrate repairs. Otherwise the game plays like a slow dogfight, with your ship 
 responding like a 'real' starship, slowly. Skill comes with power allocations and maneuvering to 
 allow you to keep the enemy on their weakest side while you keep up your strongest side.
  
  Combat:
  As mentioned above you have six shield arcs and six weapon arcs (although most ships 
 only use 4 of those arcs for weapons) . Damage taken affects systems in those areas of the ship... 
 aka if you take a hit in the engines, your engines will produce less power and your speed will 
 be limited. Repairs are a constant fact of combat and can be increased in effectiveness by allocating 
 repair teams more power. In cases where your ship has taken significant damage to particular areas, 
 you will loose the ability to completely repair certain systems... at times you may not be able 
 to repair them at all. Placing more power into your shields or weapons will assist with your combat... 
 while having marines and security systems in place allow you to repel boarding parties. You have 
 complete control on your ship, so at times you may completely shut down non-essential systems for 
 others that are more pressing. I found fun in "toying" with enemy ships, tractor beams, boarding 
 parties, all are great fun.
  
  Single-Player:
  For its time (and even now) the storyline cut scenes are very good and make for a very fun single 
 player which will take you some time to complete. One negative is some missions take some time 
 to figure out, meaning you may be forced to re-start several times for several missions.
  
  System Requirements:
  For their time the graphics were incredible. By todays standards they are 
 still pretty good, but nothing To be amazed over... One of the largest problems is that as you 
 increase your resolution your UI can become screwed up. Also, Klingon Academy has glitches and 
 problems with XP and does not run at all on Vista so for many of Today's players, the game is obsolete. 
 It is also advisable that you have a joystick for controlling your ship as that will work much 
 better then mouse or keyboard.
  
  Wrap Up:
  Personally I found this to be one of the best games I have ever played. Despite what my below comments 
 seem to say, I have given this game a 9.0 score and still have one of my old computers around specifically 
 to play this game. 
  
  
  The Good:
  High Complexity, Deep Storyline, Immense Space, Real Space Ship Control Feel (it isn't a fighter) , 
 Excellent Star Trek Lore Built Into the Game. 
  
  The Bad:
  High Learning Curve, Bad Compatibility with Newer Operating Systems, High Complexity Can Make Play 
 Very Difficult (personally I have found that running with a co-pilot controlling your systems / 
 keyboard works very well) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tolwan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Klingon Academy is a classic game with great complexity and depth and an excellent story to boot. 
 It is also one of those rare gems with excellent FMV cutscenes with a great cast; akin to the old 
 Wing Commander games. The gameplay wasnt just great in Singleplayer, but it also carried over into 
 multiplayer as well with a multitude of approaches to defeating your enemies. The environment in 
 this game was excellent with greatly designed levels and a multitude of unique environments to 
 fight in.
  
  Klingon Academy's story is underappreciated and suprisingly well written. It takes place just before 
 the movie Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country. You are a raw cadet in the Klingon Academy training 
 to become captain aboard your own starship. Your teacher is General Chang, one of the main Antagonist 
 klingon's in The Undiscovered Country. As you progress along the story, you begin to see Chang's 
 Paranoa and hatred towards the Federation. The entire campaign that is played out while you are 
 in the Academy is to destroy the entire federation, with a huge climax of destruction at the end 
 of the academy tour. The campaign doesnt end at the academy however, you eventually graduate and 
 move on into the real world, fighting real battles. As the Klingon government continues to push 
 for Peace with the federation, Changs plot unfolds as he attempts to start a war himself. And this 
 is all portrayed with the actual actors from the Star Trek movie including some guest appearences 
 that will be easily recognizable.
  
  The gameplay in this game is excellent, it is very complex, though it may not appear so right away. 
 Think bridge commander time 100. or 1000. One of the first things you learn in the Academy during 
 singleplayer is that you can USE your environment. Most maps in singleplayer and multiplayer are 
 HUGE, including multiple star systems and many different environments within them. This includes 
 Gas Giants, planets, Black holes, and stars. Each with their own unique effects. Gas Giants and 
 Nebulea both have an adverse effect on Shields and sensors. Your view is hampered and raught with 
 static, and your shields fail while your hull takes damage the longer you are in it. This is however 
 perfect for fending off persuers when outnumbered. It also masks you from their sensors, so they 
 can't pinpoint your location. Not good enough? Fly into an asteroid belt! You can fly in and dodge 
 moving asteroids at full impulse while your pursuers slam face first into a rock. Black holes also 
 present Gravity as an effect. Not only must you dodge debris in the black holes cumulative disk, 
 but if you get too close, the gravity will be stronger than your engines and your ship will be 
 pulled right into the black hole, crushing your ship.
  
  The environment isnt the only thing that is great in this game, but the features of your ship. 
 You have a lot of control and options to your ship. Sure, you can easily stick to flying around 
 and shooting, but your battles will be a lot harder and mutliplayer battles near impossible. You 
 have your standard energy management, where you can move energy to shields, weapons, or ECM's to 
 avoid detection, or improve your cloaking device to become nearly indetectable by even sensors 
 with boosted power. Tractor beams can be a useful weapon. Give them enough power and you can lock 
 on to almost any target. Most will hit you with a counter tractor beam or boost power to engines, 
 but even if you only get 3 seconds, it could be enough to slam your enemy into an asteroid field 
 or another enemy, or even just hold them in place long enough to get a torpedo off into their impulse 
 engines. Transporters are also available. If you disable a ships shields, you can transport troops 
 over to an enemy ship to sabatouge enemy components or even capture the enemy ship!
  
  You can also damage subsystems, which is generally standard in most simulators. Destroy the engines, 
 or the warp drive. However the damage modeling in this game is top notch. Wherever your shots hit, 
 that section of the ship is visibly damaged or even destroyed, as chunkes fly off. It isnt lame 
 where only 2 or 3 sections can come off after taking 40 hits. 1-3 good hits or a torpedo can tear 
 a hole right through the saucer section of a federation starship. In the end of a firefight ships 
 can be so visibly damaged, missing 1 and a half nacells, engines completely gone, half the saucer 
 section of your once beautifal Enterprise destroyed.
  
  Which brings up graphics. This game has not exactly aged well, and even in it's day it had problems. 
 Many cards back in the day had trouble displaying smoke trails on damaged ship engines, and backgrounds 
 could be distorted. Ship models are good but could have been better. Many boxy designs and poor 
 textures really hurt the game in the graphics department. However the graphics are decent enough 
 and the gameplay and singleplayer remain remarkable. With so many different ways to approach a 
 battle, excellent features and abilities, excellent environment and map design, and great acting 
 and singleplayer, this game remains a classic that if you can find it, you should definetly give 
 it a purchase to hold a spot next to games such as Freespace 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  First of all I wanted to say that this is game that I played some years ago. But still I believe 
 it's top on its kind.
  First of all technical issues. Graphics are very good for its time. Music great. Sounds and voice 
 effects brilliant. Cinematics awesome. Now regarding the mechanics of the game.
  I don't remember a moment in my life that I have been so excited with a single game. When I bought 
 the 6-pack CD, I was only waiting to play another Star Trek game. And this game blew me to the 
 stars. At first I started tutorial. It is true that it only has the basics but there are plenty 
 of forums and sites with the appropriate info regarding equipment - tactics etc. Although I prefer 
 finding them myself. The one and only essential accessory is the keyboard guide.
  All the commands you'll ever need are on it. The shortcuts on the keyboards. Quite easy to learn 
 as it used Num Pad mostly. Imagine being in a fight issuing commands with Num Pad and at the same 
 time navigating the ship through an asteroid belt and periodically taking up the position of gunner, 
 firing at a DIvI' may'Duj. I just can't describe it with words... :)
  
  The game has 2 patches which are essential to enjoy it better and there is a dedicated site for 
 Klingon Academy.
  
  Qa'pla! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhoswald
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  It's been 6 years and here we are, still playing it, for the millionth time. It's a masterpiece, 
 the atmosphere is so immersing, the music is great, the game play is stunning. There really is 
 not that much bad that can be said about this one. Besides the annoying planet surface targeting 
 bug and the fact that sometimes it's a little pain to get it running flawlessly on modern systems, 
 it's the all-time greatest game for any devoted Star Trek fan. And I'm saying this after playing 
 them all. The only ones that come close (but still fall way short in game play, in my opinion) - 
 are the SFC III and the Bridge Commander. For people who missed this title for one reason or another 
 - grab it while you can, you'll be asking for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Phax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Star Trek game dealing with ship to ship combat out there. That includes Bridge 
 Commander and Star Trek Legacy. It's rare for a game to have such replay capacity. This is because 
 you can control so many of the ship's functions. You have to think. The person who knows more about 
 tweaking the various systems in combat has an advantage. You can use tractor beams, jammers and 
 transporters to gain an advantage and win. The multiplayer is excellent as well as the story line 
 of the game. This game is so good they need to make a sequel but make it bigger with more ships 
 and more races. Klingon Academy is very underrated and overlooked. Its a real shame too because 
 only Bridge Commander comes close to it.
  
  Shadow-Phax 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMER_SIMPSON
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. it has anything you would want in a space sim game. it can be quite hard to 
 get used if but when you do it is great. now i use windows XP and i got this just last year. With 
 XP it is VERY unstable. sometimes it crashes with a KA. ICD error which i understand as a disk manager. 
 i also see some KA. EXE crashes. Running the KA DVD kit allows all 6 cds to go on 1 dvd and eliminates 
 the ka icd error but not the exe error as it doesn't use the KA. ICD file. Now for my ratings:
 
  
  GAME-PLAY:9/10 Great but unstable
  
  GRAPHICS:8/10 For some reason it is stable at higher graphic modes
  
  SOUND:10/10 Great sounds. 
 when i first heard the assault phaser i thought what the-?
  
  VALUE:9/10 I like this game and it mod-ability is worth playing.
  
  TILT:8/10 The tilt score 
 is low because of the stability. i don't play it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand why this game did not score higher, this is a great game to play. The 
 campaign is awsome, which you control a klingon who is trying to graduate from the klingon acadamy 
 which is taught by by Chang. You learn alot of history about the Klingons in this game, including 
 the statement made by chang that kirk is part klingon, and thats why he is able to fight so well. 
 But I liked the ship combat, the photons and phasers looked really good and the space environment 
 had nice graphics for its time. The ship selections are nice, and the ships themselves are very 
 well detailed. The Klingon ships can cloak (well most of them can) and they can move at warp speed 
 if necessary (as do all of the other races ships do) . There are a good number of enemies you can 
 fight, of course the Federation with their balanced ships, the Gorn, the romulans, the tholians, 
 and a few others I cant remember, but I know that all of their ships were well detailed and fun 
 to play. I really wish that I had all of this game, I only have 3 disks to it still, which is one 
 negative for me, the game had 7 disks to it, which made it hard for me to keep track of. The combat 
 simulations are great, you can pick any race and any ship and up to 3 other ships to help you and 
 then you fight against the enemies of your choice. Then when you think your done, you can go to 
 warp and fight as many enemies as you want in different worlds. The cutscenes are brilliant and 
 you learn why the klingons act the way they do. Overall this is a great game that I think should 
 be considered one the of best star trek games of all time, and certainly the best Klingon game 
 of all time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
